DRN-3994190
The complaint
Mr M complains that National Westminster Bank Plc has added a marker about him at 
CIFAS, the national fraud database.
What happened
NatWest said it added a marker and decided to close Mr Ms account when it received 
information that hed been in receipt of fraudulent funds.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that there had been 
two reports of Mr M receiving fraudulent payments. The first related to a payment of £478 on 
2 March 2022 and the second to one for £500 on 7 March 2022. He noted that the funds had 
quickly been withdrawn each time. While Mr M had provided some information about having 
goods for sale at this time, there wasnt sufficient evidence to show that these had been 
shipped successfully in relation to these payments. And so, he didnt think that NatWest had 
made a mistake.
Mr M didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He sent in further information 
showing some tracking information. And an original receipt for his purchase of the items he 
said he was selling. The money was withdrawn quickly as he and his partner were moving 
abroad, and he needed to pay bills. He said that the transactions were completely legitimate 
and above board and that he was now unable to open a bank account which was having a 
significant effect on his family.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, NatWest 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted. 
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered the consumers account, whether they are retained or pass through the 
account. Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer 
was deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might 
be, an illegitimate payment. This can include allowing someone else to use their account in 
order to receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against 
someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate 
complicity.
To meet the standard of proof required to register a CIFAS marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving 
the account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to 
understand their level of knowledge and intention.
Mr M has accepted that the information he has about these payments is limited and says 
that he cant access the online marketplace where he was selling the goods. Hes provided 
some information with an invoice for what he says is his purchase of those goods in 
November 2021. And tracking information relating to two deliveries he says of goods he 
sent on 8 March 2022 and one it seems relating to a dispatch of a parcel on 9 March 2022. 
And the latter which from publicly available website information from the courier company 
appears to have been delivered on 11 March 2022. He has two messages from the 
marketplace  one dated 28 February 2022 from someone enquiring about purchase and 
the other dated 11 March 2022 from someone else asking if an item had been posted. 
There are no follow ups to either that Ive seen. I note that our investigator, despite an 
attempt, wasnt able to obtain any information from that marketplace.
I note from the information provided by NatWest that Mr Ms account used here had been 
opened in November 2021 and it seems had limited use including these credits and two 
other very similar ones in March 2022. The money received was withdrawn in cash with 
£300 generally taken each day when it was available.
Ive looked at what Mr M has provided carefully. His invoice from November 2021 indicates 
he had two relevant items at that time which seemed to have cost £624.50 each (£1,249 
divided by two). The narrative shown on his statement entered by the senders with the 
payments appears to be consistent with these items. Ive not been able to relate the 
tracking information to any specific payment. And I note that the first reported fraudulent 
payment was dated 2 March 2022 and Mr M doesnt provide any tracking receipt before 8 
March 2022. And that on 11 March 2022 as I referred to above there was a message from 
someone saying they hadnt received an item and asking for a tracking number indicating 
Mr M would then have been aware of an issue.
I take into account that there were two separate reports of very similar fraudulent payments 
received within days of each other. And that Mr M had taken all the money out as quickly 
as possible in cash from an account he hadnt otherwise been using. While he may have 
been sending items at this time Im not persuaded on balance that the payments reported 
as fraudulent were in fact legitimately obtained. And it seems that at best on Mr Ms 
explanation these fraud reports were both mistakes. But I dont consider hes shown that 
was most likely here. So, I find on balance that he was complicit in receiving fraudulently 
obtained funds.
NatWest says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr M received fraudulent funds into 
his account. So, Ive looked at whether NatWest was fair to apply the marker, based on the 
evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business must 
have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. This 
essentially means that NatWest needs to have enough information to make a formal report 
to the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable grounds to 
believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mr Ms account of events and the evidence he has provided, Im satisfied 
that NatWest had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In coming to this 
view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Mr M received fraudulent funds into his account and didnt report this to NatWest at 
the time.
- Mr M authorised the withdrawal of the funds and so was in control of who had the 
benefit of this money.
- NatWest had grounds to believe that Mr M had used fraudulently obtained funds 
based on the evidence it had.So, Im afraid I wont be asking it to do anything further. I note that NatWest gave him notice 
that it would close his account under the terms and conditions and that after some delay this 
was done. I appreciate what Mr M says about the impact of the marker for him and that hell 
be disappointed by this outcome.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman