DRN-3018143
The complaint
Mr H complains about British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) who declined a claim under his 
home emergency policy. 
What happened
Mr H contacted BG as his boiler had lost heating and hot water. It told him that it couldnt 
send an engineer for a few weeks partly due to industrial action and the pandemic. So, it 
advised Mr H to get a third-party engineer to carry out the repair and to send in the invoice 
for reimbursement. 
Mr H instructed a third-party engineer who found several issues with the boiler and advised 
that it needed to be replaced. Mr H replaced the boiler at a cost of £2800. He sent the 
invoice to BG to be reimbursed. 
BG didnt agree to pay the invoice. It said that replacement of the boiler wasnt covered 
under the terms and conditions of the policy. That the boiler was over 10 years old and that it 
had previously advised Mr H to replace the boiler, which he had refused to do. 
Mr H complained to BG given the advice it gave to him. In its final response, it said that it 
was unable to reimburse the cost of the boiler as this wasnt covered under the policy. But it 
recognised that the advisor couldve been clearer in explaining what BG would pay for. For 
the inconvenience this caused, it offered compensation of £150 as a goodwill gesture. 
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr H referred his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. His view was that 
BG had applied the policy terms fairly. He appreciated that Mr H acted on the advice of BG 
and that BG ought to have made things clearer. But he concluded that the £150 
compensation offered was fair in the circumstances. So, there was nothing further he could 
reasonably ask BG to do. 
Mr H didnt agree with our investigator. He said that his boiler was installed in 2008 and 
provided evidence to support this. He said that he acted on the advice that BG had given 
him, and it wasnt acceptable that BG couldnt send an engineer when a reputable third-party 
engineer, could attend much sooner. So, he asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment to 
Mr H, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
I should point out that we look at the evidence provided by both parties, to give an answer to 
the complaint, that is both fair and impartial. I think the main issues with this complaint is 
whether Mr H wouldve been entitled to a new boiler under the terms and conditions of the 
policy. And whether BG couldve been clearer with what it communicated to Mr H. 
I have considered the terms and conditions of the policy and I accept Mr Hs evidence that 
the boiler was around 12 years old at the time. In addition, I note that Mr H has had a home 
emergency policy with boiler cover for several years with BG. 
Having reviewed the renewal documents as well as the terms and conditions of the policy, all 
the documents show that there is no provision for the replacement of a boiler that was over 
10 years old. I have thought about what this would mean for Mr H and whether he would be 
entitled to a replacement boiler. And, I think it means that Mr H would not be entitled to a 
new boiler under the policy, given the age of the boiler at the time. 
BG couldnt send an engineer out sooner. However, it offered Mr H the alternative of getting 
a third-party engineer to repair the boiler. I have looked at the contact notes and the call 
record. Both indicate that BG authorised Mr H to get a third-party engineer to get the work 
done and we will reimburse you. Nonetheless, given the policy terms, I dont think this 
meant that it would replace the boiler and therefore be liable to reimburse the cost of this to 
Mr H. 
I think it was more likely than not that BG gave Mr H the authority for the third-party engineer 
to have carried out a repair of the boiler. Had Mr H contacted BG once the third-party 
engineer had attended and advised the replacement of the boiler, I think BG wouldve more 
likely than not, told Mr H that the policy wouldnt cover a boiler replacement. So, I dont think 
that BG were unreasonable to refuse to reimburse the cost of the replacement boiler.
Whilst I understand that Mr H followed the instructions, he was given by BG. BG accepted 
that the advice it gave to Mr H couldve been clearer and that there would be a delay in 
sending an engineer to assist Mr H. So, I think its offer of £150 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused was fair. I say this because the policy didnt cover Mr H to have a 
replacement boiler, given the age of his previous boiler. But also, because if I directed BG to 
reimburse the cost of the replacement boiler, this would mean that Mr H would benefit from 
receiving a new boiler that he wasnt entitled to, and this wouldnt be fair. 
Taking everything into account, whilst I understand how disappointed Mr H will be, Im not 
satisfied that BG acted unreasonably by not reimbursing the cost of the replacement boiler. 
And I think the £150 compensation that BG paid for the inconvenience it caused is fair. So, I 
wont be asking BG to do anything more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons I explained, I think the compensation of £150 that British Gas Insurance 
Limited has already paid, for the inconvenience it caused, is fair and reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Ayisha SavageOmbudsman