DRN-4412348
The complaint
Mr S complains about the delays and service he experienced when attempting to take his 
pension benefits held with Scottish Widows Limited, trading as Clerical Medical (CM).
Mr S says that had it not been for CMs delays, his two annuities wouldve been set up by 
August rather than December 2022  hed now like CM to recompense him for the income 
payments he says hes missed out on because of their maladministration.
What happened
In June 2022, Mr Ss independent financial adviser (IFA), sent an instruction to CM, asking 
to be added onto Mr Ss existing two personal pensions as his servicing adviser. At the same 
time, Mr Ss IFA asked CM to supply details of the two policies to them.
In September 2022, as Mr Ss IFA hadnt heard anything back from CM, they chased them 
for an update. At that same time, his IFA also highlighted that Mr S wanted to explore taking 
his benefits from the two plans.
Having still not heard anything back by the following month, Mr S decided to formally 
complain to CM. In summary, he said that hed wanted to take his retirement benefits in 
August 2022, when hed reached his 71st birthday. Mr S went on to say that his IFA had 
attempted to contact CM on multiple occasions but without success, having spent many 
hours on hold, only to not get through.
Following the complaint, CM provided annuity quotations, which his IFA responded to shortly 
thereafter, requesting more tailored income terms. CM provided the updated annuity 
quotations to Mr S shortly after. In November 2022, Mr S decided which annuity option he 
wanted and the completed application forms were submitted to CM. As Mr S didnt initially 
hear anything back, CM were chased at the beginning of December 2022 for an update. 
Several weeks later, CM responded, paying Mr S his tax-free cash and then subsequent to 
that, his annuity payments. 
In January 2023, Mr S heard back from CM about his complaint. After reviewing Mr Ss 
concerns, CM apologised to him for not adding his IFA to the plan back in June 2022 when 
originally asked. They also said, in summary, that they should have responded more 
promptly to the annuity forms he sent into them in November 2022. In addition, CM said that 
theyd also backdated the annuities to October 2022 and offered him £100 for the trouble 
theyd caused.
Mr S was unhappy with CMs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. In 
summary, he said that CM shouldve backdated his annuities to when hed originally 
intended to take the benefits from his plans, which was in August 2022. In addition, he didnt 
think that the £100 that CM had offered reflected the amount of hassle and inconvenience 
hed suffered as a consequence of their delays.
The complaint was then considered by one of our Investigators. He concluded that CM 
hadnt treated Mr S fairly, but given his IFA hadnt emailed CM until September 2022 to 
advise them that he wished to take benefits, thats the point at which CM should base their 
redress calculations from. In addition, our Investigator felt that the £100 that CM had offered 
Mr S for the trouble that theyd caused was fair.
Mr S, however, disagreed with our Investigators findings. In summary, he explained that his 
IFA had telephoned CM multiple times since sending the original June 2022 email but could 
never get through. He didnt think it was reasonable to ignore those attempts. In addition, he 
didnt think that the £100 that CM had offered for the trouble that theyd caused was 
reasonable, particularly in light of the amount of delays that hed suffered. 
Our Investigator was not persuaded to change his view as he didnt believe that Mr S had 
presented any new arguments that hed not already considered or responded to. Mr S then 
asked the Investigator to pass the case to an Ombudsman to review that outcome.
After considering the complaint, I issued a provisional decision on this case because, whilst I 
reached the same outcome as our Investigator, I made a small revision to the redress and 
updated the amount that the business should pay to Mr S for the trouble and upset that 
theyd caused him. Therefore, I wanted to give both sides the opportunity to respond before 
reaching a final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Im mindful of the fact that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than Mr S and 
his IFA have done. However, the purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point 
raised. My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr S, his IFA and CM to reach 
what I think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but it is for me to decide, based on the available information that I've been 
given, what's more likely than not to have happened. And, having done so, whilst Im 
upholding Mr Ss complaint, I wont be asking CM to backdate his annuity to August as hes 
asked, but I will be asking them to backdate it further than they have. Whilst Im not sure I 
can add a great deal more than our Investigator has already set out, Ill explain why.
It seems to me that CM have already conceded that the service they provided to Mr S 
wasnt delivered to the standard that theyd typically aim for. Therefore, the issue at the 
heart of this complaint is at what point, based on the information provided to them, should 
CM have converted Mr Ss two pensions into an annuity for him. As part of this complaint, 
Mr S and his IFA, along with CM, have provided detailed timelines of what happened and 
when. As the facts of the case are well known to both parties, I dont intend to repeat that 
timeline here.
Ive thought about the IFAs request to CM to add themselves onto Mr Ss two pensions as 
the servicing agent. The IFA has said that he spent many hours waiting on the telephone 
trying to get through to CM to chase up his original (June 2022) email request, but without 
success. Ive looked at CMs website, and aside from their telephone helpline, they also 
offer other ways to reach them: theres an online web contact option, an address to send 
letters to and also, a general email address. I think the latter is important because from 
what Ive seen, Mr Ss IFA sent his original instruction to add themselves as servicing agent 
to an individual at CM rather than a general customer service inbox. Whilst it wasnt 
unreasonable for Mr Ss IFA to think that his instructions would be acted upon, sending an 
email to an individual rather than a general inbox isnt without risks, particularly if that 
person is on holiday or long-term sick. Mr Ss IFA asked CM to confirm back to him once 
theyd been added as the servicing agent on his plans. So, I think that having not heard anything back from CM for several weeks and then not being able to reach them on the 
telephone shouldve prompted Mr S and his adviser to explore other contact routes. And, 
given other contact options were well publicised and readily available that werent utilised, I 
think that there was a missed opportunity to resolve this issue much earlier.
Theres evidence that Mr Ss IFA emailed CM for a second time on 14 September 2022, but 
they dont appear to have received a response to that note. Mr S then telephoned CM on 3 
October 2022 to raise his complaint. At the same time, he asked CM to provide annuity 
quotations which were then issued to him two days later. It wasnt until two weeks later (19 
October 2022) that CM heard back from Mr Ss IFA, requesting differing quotes to the ones 
sent. And, a week later (on 26 October 2022), CM responded, providing the illustrations 
that Mr S had requested. Finally, on 8 November 2022, CM received Mr Ss completed 
annuity application forms from his IFA via email (I note that Mr S states that the annuity 
application form was submitted on 1 November 2022, but from what Ive seen, it seems that 
CM only acknowledged that theyd received the email application from his IFA on 8 
November).
As the IFA hadnt heard anything back 10 days later (18 November 2022), he telephoned 
CM for an update. He was assured that the application was being processed, but two 
weeks later, CM still hadnt provided an update  so the IFA called in again (2 December 
2022). CM paid Mr S his tax-free cash on 15 December 2022 and finally settled the claim 
on 22 and 23 December 2022, when his first annuity payments were made. CM have 
explained that as they received Mr Ss completed annuity application forms on 8 November 
2022, the annuity was backdated to a start date of 27 October 2022.
Mr S wanted his annuity payable monthly, in arrears. That means, he says, had CM carried 
out his instructions in a timely manner, his first annuity payment wouldve been paid at the 
end of September 2022, rather than the end of December. Whilst Mr S says that he 
planned to take his benefits by his 71st birthday (August 2022), it seems to me that the first 
mention of him wishing to extract monies from his pension wasnt highlighted to CM until 14 
September 2022. His IFAs email of June 2022 made no reference at that point to Mr S 
wanting to take an income from his pension. Whilst Ive no reason to doubt the IFAs claims 
that he tried to telephone CM on several occasions after his June 2022 email, as Ive 
already explained, given CM provided other alternative pathways to reach them, I think 
given the urgency of Mr Ss desire to start his income by his 71st birthday in August 2022, 
leaving the email chase until 14 September 2022 doesnt seem particularly prudent. 
Particularly, in light of the fact that the IFA didnt undertake further email chases prior to 
then, or make his clients wishes known sooner in light of the pending retirement date. So, 
whilst Im of the view that CMs service was lacking in part, I dont believe that the blame for 
all the delays Mr S experienced is fully attributable to them.
With this in mind Ive thought very carefully about how CM should put things right for Mr S 
and Ive decided that they must use the 14 September 2022 as his claim date. I think, had 
the IFA explained sooner than his September 2022 email to CM, that Mr S wanted to take 
an income from his plan, I may have been inclined to use an earlier start date than that. 
But, thats the first point at which CM were advised that Mr S wanted to start taking benefits 
from his pensions and the point at which I think CM needs to base its redress calculations 
from. What that means is, had it not been for CMs delays, I think it more likely than not, 
that they would have issued the respective annuity quotations to Mr Ss IFA two days later, 
on 16 September 2022. The IFA would then have asked CM to tailor the annuity quotations 
for Mr S two weeks later, on 30 September 2022. CM wouldve then provided the revised 
annuity quotations to him on 7 October 2022 and finally, I believe the completed application 
form would have been received by CM 9 working days later on 20 October 2022. However, 
as the total pension fund is guaranteed for 30 days from the date of the annuity quotation, 
CM should base the claim date as 7 October 2022.So in summary, CM have acknowledged that they failed to action the IFAs request to 
update the agency on Mr Ss policy in June 2022, they didnt respond to follow up 
messages, and theyve also acknowledged the fact that having received the annuity 
application on 8 November 2022, it then took them 46 days to make his first income 
payment on 22 December 2022  thats despite Mr S telephoning them and then being 
passed around various departments who seemed unable to help him.
Ive also thought carefully about the £100 that CM have offered to Mr S for the trouble that 
theyve caused him. Using financial services wont always be hassle free and mistakes do 
happen from time to time. When determining the level of award for the trouble firms have 
caused consumers, we take account of a wide number of factors, and these include the 
time taken to put things right and the level and amount of effort that the consumer needed 
to make, as well as the impact that they tell us the error has had on them. Ive listened 
carefully to what Mr S has told our Investigator and I dont think that the £100 that CM have 
offered to him is reasonable in light of CMs delays and actions. Therefore, I require CM to 
pay Mr S £350 for the trouble theyve caused him, which I feel better reflects the 
inconvenience that CM have caused.
Mr S has explained that for a large part of the time, he was abroad (from 14 November to 23 
December 2022), making the whole situation of trying to resolve the issue even more 
challenging for him.
Responses to my provisional decision
After reviewing my provisional decision, both Mr S and CM responded, explaining that they 
had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party added any further comment to my provisional decision, it therefore 
follows that I have reached the same outcome for the same reasons that I have already set 
out above. As such, I require CM to take the following steps to put things right for Mr S:
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think that CM treated Mr S fairly when setting up 
his annuity. Therefore, I require CM to take the following steps to put things right for him:
Annuity / income payments
1. Determine the value of Mr Ss pension fund using a claim date of 7 October 2022.
2. Calculate the annuity that would have been payable to Mr S based on the new claim 
date.
3. CM should compare that income to what Mr S has been paid based on the original claim 
date (26 October 2022).
4. If the calculations show that Mr S has been disadvantaged by CM using the later date, CM should:
a. Pay to Mr S the difference that he has received, compared to what he shouldve 
received - CM should also add 8% simple interest p.a. on that amount from the 
date that the income wouldve fallen due to the date of my final decision.
b. CM should also update Mr Ss future income payments to reflect the higher 
income that he would now be entitled to.
CM can take account of any interest that theyve already paid to Mr S in their original redress 
calculations.
Tax free cash
CM should determine whether, as a consequence of their delays, Mr S wouldve been 
entitled to a higher amount of tax-free cash: 
1. CM should calculate the amount of tax-free cash Mr S would have received as of the 
new claim date (7 October 2022).
2. They should then compare that to what Mr S actually received in December 2022.
3. If Mr S would have received more tax-free cash as of the 7 October 2022 claim date, CM 
should pay him the difference. CM should also add 8% simple interest p.a. from the date 
that the tax-free cash shouldve been paid to the date of my final decision.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If CM deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr S how much has been taken off. CM should give Mr S a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr S asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Trouble and upset
Pay Mr S £350 for the trouble and upset caused. If CM have already paid the £100 that 
theyd offered earlier, that can be deducted from the £350.
My final decision
Pay Mr S £350 for the trouble and upset caused. If CM have already paid the £100 that 
theyd offered earlier, that can be deducted from the £350.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2023.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman