DRN-2365506
The complaint
Mrs C says her mobile phone was damaged when she sent it for repairs under her insurance 
policy with Great Lakes Insurance SE.
What happened
Mrs C has mobile phone insurance with Great Lakes, which covers her for accidental 
damage to her phone, amongst other things.
She noticed a scratch or dent on the home button of her iPhone and sent it in for repair, in 
line with the terms of her policy.
Great Lakes engineers couldnt find a fault in the functionality of the phone  the home 
button still worked as far as they could see. So, they sent it back. Cosmetic damage isnt 
covered under the policy. And they returned her £50 excess payment.
Mrs C didnt take issue with that, but she says the phone was more damaged when it was 
returned to her. She says there are scratches on the back of the phone that werent there 
when she sent it in to Great Lakes.
Mrs C complained to Great Lakes, but they said the damage was unlikely to have been 
caused by them. So, Mrs C brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think Great Lakes had done anything wrong.
Mrs C disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. She says she originally 
wanted Great Lakes to replace the back of her phone, but she now thinks they should 
replace the phone altogether, given the trouble and upset shes suffered as a result of this 
incident.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute about the terms of the policy here  or about Great Lakes decision not to 
carry out what they saw as cosmetic repairs. Im aware they offered to re-consider if Mrs C 
could demonstrate any loss of functionality in the phone.
So, my decision is entirely about whether Great Lakes were likely responsible for the 
scratches on the back of Mrs Cs phone  and, if so, what they should do about it.
Mrs C has sent us a number of photographs which she says show the phone before and 
after it was sent to Great Lakes.
Most of those photographs arent date-stamped in any way, so its impossible to know 
whether they were taken before or after the phone was sent to Great Lakes. 
Many of them are taken from some distance. Many of them show only the side of the phone 
 which appears not to be damaged. And its impossible to tell from those photographs 
whether this is the phone that was sent to Great Lakes.
When the phone was sent to Great Lakes - and when it was sent back  it was packaged 
securely, and the packaging wasnt damaged on arrival  at either end of its journey. So, its 
very unlikely it was damaged in transit.
Great Lakes have explained that phones sent in to their facility are handled with gloves, in a 
laboratory environment, with rubberised flooring. And they have their engineers carry out a 
quality check before the goods are returned to the customer. In this case, no damage was 
noted.
Mrs C has suggested the phone might have been inspected using sharp tools or devices, 
which caused the scratches. I think thats unlikely given the nature of the reported issue. The 
engineers presumably simply had to turn the phone on and see if the home button worked, 
despite the scratch / dent.
I also note that when Mrs C reported the damage to the home button, she said shed put the 
phone in her pocket with a set of keys, which she said had presumably caused the scratch / 
dent.
I cant be absolutely certain what happened to Mrs Cs phone. I simply have to decide what 
think is most likely. And taking all of the evidence into account, Im satisfied on balance its 
more likely than not that Great Lakes werent responsible for any damage to the phone 
during the short time they had it in their possession.
So, I wont be asking them to either repair or replace Mrs Cs phone.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman