DRN-2201494
The complaint
Mr T says Western Circle Ltd, trading as Cashfloat, irresponsibly lent to him. Mr T has said 
the loans were not affordable for him and he had to borrow further which led to a cycle of 
debt. Mr T has said the lending had a significant impact on his personal life. 
What happened
This complaint is about seven payday loans Cashfloat provided to Mr T between July 2017 
and March 2019. Mr Ts borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
 1  16/07/2017 28/09/2017  2  £400  £296.61
 2  08/11/2017 28/12/2017  2  £350  £225.00
 3  31/12/2017 28/02/2018  2  £400  £274.53
 4  06/06/2018 20/08/2018  2  £300  £194.33
 5  25/09/2018 28/10/2018  2  £300  £212.25
 6  18/11/2018 21/01/2019  3  £750  £404.10
 7  17/03/2019 30/04/2019  1  £200  £272.00
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ts complaint. They thought the information gathered by 
Cashfloat before it agreed to the lending showed that Mr T was having problems managing 
his money and that it should have realised it was unlikely Mr T would have been able to 
sustainably repay the loans. 
Cashfloat disagreed with the adjudicator. It said that there were gaps in the lending and the 
value of the loans was relatively low in comparison to Mr Ts income. Mr T was living with his 
parents and so his contractual or statutory outgoings for living expenses would be minimal.
While the complaint was waiting to be reviewed by an ombudsman a second of our 
adjudicators wrote to the parties and confirmed it was likely that the ombudsman would 
uphold loans five to seven for persistent borrowing behaviour. 
Cashfloat replied to the adjudicator saying it didnt agree it had lent irresponsibly but would 
accept the persistent borrowing reason for upholding loans five to seven. 
As the remainder of the complaint could not be resolved informally, it has been passed to me 
for decision in my role as ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr T 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to establish 
whether Mr T could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ts complaint. After doing so Ive decided to uphold 
the complaint in full.
Cashfloat has referred to the gaps in lending and I note the following and have taken this 
into account in my decision:
A six-week gap between loan one being paid off and loan two being taken;
Just over three months between loan three being repaid and loan four being 
taken;
Just over one month between loan four being repaid and loan five being 
taken;A gap of three weeks between loan five being repaid and loan six being 
taken;
A three-month gap between loan six being repaid and loan seven being 
taken.
I have also borne in mind the amount of time Mr T was actually borrowing money and 
making repayments as well as the length of the borrowing relationship itself. 
Cashfloat has told us about the checks it carried out before approving any of the borrowing. 
For loan one  and all subsequent loans  Cashfloat asked about Mr Ts income and 
expenditure. At loan one Mr T confirmed he was employed full-time and his net income was 
£2,100 and outgoings were recorded as £1,130. This left Mr T with a disposable income of 
£970, so the loan repayments of £296.61 would seem affordable on a pounds and pence 
basis.
Cashfloat has confirmed that it used its own underwriting tool and external agency data for 
checks for affordability and creditworthiness. This included a full credit report and it has 
given us copies of those reports for each of the loans. 
I think if Cashfloat had taken notice of the information given in those credit reports it would 
have seen Mr T was having problems managing his money and concluded that it shouldnt 
lend to him. 
I say this because when Mr T applied for loan one the credit report showed that he was a 
regular user of short-term credit providers and had at least three other loans at the time. I 
also note that Mr T had 11 active accounts of which five had been opened in the previous six 
months. I think Cashfloat should have concluded that it was unlikely Mr T would be able to 
make the loan repayments on loan one and the subsequent lending. 
And I note that Mr Ts financial circumstances did not improve. For loan two the credit report 
showed that Mr T had three more active accounts than at loan one and it was recorded that 
13 of those had been opened in the previous six months. This further shows that Mr Ts 
financial problems were not improving. 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Cashfloats lending history with Mr T, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Cashfloat should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Cashfloat should have realised that 
it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ts case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
five. (Cashfloat has already accepted the uphold for loans five to seven because of 
persistent borrowing behaviour but I include it here for completeness.) I say this because:
At this point Cashfloat ought to have realised Mr T was not managing to repay his 
loans sustainably. Mr T had been a customer of Cashfloats for around 13 months 
and had been in debt for nine of those months. Cashfloat ought to have realised it 
was more likely than not Mr T was having to borrow further to cover the hole repaying 
his previous loan was leaving in his finances and that Mr Ts indebtedness was 
increasing unsustainably.
Cashfloat has said that loans five and six were repaid before the term agreed at the 
outset so would indicate Mr T was not in financial distress. But early repayment can 
equally be an indication of someone who is juggling with their finances which would seem to be the case here as we know Mr T borrowed from other short-term credit 
providers. 
I think that Mr T lost out because Cashfloat continued to provide borrowing from loan five 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ts indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the length of time over which Mr T borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mr Ts ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding the complaint about all of the lending and Cashfloat should put things 
right.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Cashfloat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it not lent to Mr T, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question
. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr T may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, they may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr T in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr T would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Cashfloats liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
refund all interest and charges Mr T paid on loans one to seven;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about one to four from Mr Ts credit file;
the number of loans taken from loan five onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. So, all entries about loans five to seven should be removed 
from Mr Ts credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat 
must give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Ts complaint. Western Circle Ltd should put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman