DRN-3182197
The complaint
Mr K complains that, in 2018, Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAM) 
failed to reconcile an inbound payment in a timely manner. As a result he says the addition 
of those funds to his account was delayed, with a corresponding delay to the further 
investment of those monies.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in October 2021. In that decision I explained 
why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Both parties have received a copy of the 
provisional decision but, for completeness, I include some extracts from it below. In my 
decision I said;
Mr K holds pension savings with an occupational pension scheme (OPS). On an 
annual basis he would transfer those pension savings from the OPS to a 
self-invested personal pension (SIPP) that he holds with HLAM. He says he did this 
to gain greater control over the investment approach being taken with his pension 
savings.
HLAM says that when it received the transfer on 4 July 2018 it contained an invalid 
reference. So it wasnt able to immediately apply the monies to Mr Ks SIPP using its 
automated systems. The OPS administrator sent a written confirmation of the 
transfer that was received by HLAM on 13 July. That letter allowed the payment to be 
reconciled and it was added to Mr Ks SIPP on 17 July. Mr K instructed the 
investment of those funds on 8 August 2018.
I can see that similar problems were faced in the reconciliation of a similar payment 
sent to HLAM by the OPS in 2019. I understand that HLAM has accepted that it failed 
to reconcile that transfer in sufficient time and has agreed compensation for that 
delay with Mr K. So I will not be considering what happened in 2019 any further in 
this decision.
I think I should first reflect on the scope of my investigations into this complaint. As 
I have said I consider the similar problems that occurred in 2019 to have been 
resolved to the satisfaction of Mr K and HLAM  so I wont be looking at what 
happened at that time in this decision. And I should also be clear that in this decision 
I am only looking at the actions of HLAM. There were other parties involved in the 
funds transfer  most notably the OPS administrator and the sending and receiving 
banks. My powers do not extend to me looking at the involvement by those third 
parties in what happened.
Before a transfer of this nature is started, HLAM issues a document to the sending 
pension scheme providing details of its bank account, and the reference that should 
be used to support the payment. If a payment is sent using that information it can be 
reconciled automatically and applied immediately to the correct client account. I can 
see that HLAM sent such a letter to the OPS administrator in June 2018.
From the information I have seen, the OPS administrator did include the correct 
reference on the payment it sent to HLAM. However the payment also contained 
other references, including a faster payments reference. It appears to be that 
reference that was made available to HLAM by the banking systems when it started 
its reconciliation activities. I do not know why that happened. HLAM says that it 
receives a large number of payments, including payments from the OPS 
administrator on behalf of other schemes it manages, that do not face that problem. 
But I dont need to make any findings on why the problem occurred to reach my 
conclusion. I am satisfied that, by the time the payment reached HLAM, the core 
payment information it received didnt allow for the automatic processing of the funds.
So on that basis, I do not think HLAM did anything wrong by failing to immediately 
apply the transferred funds to Mr Ks SIPP.
But that isnt the end of the matter. HLAM held unreconciled funds that it needed to 
either apply to the correct client account, or return to the sender if the correct 
recipient couldnt be identified. And so I need to decide whether the time it took for 
that process to be completed was reasonable.
 
As a starting point I think it is right that I consider the guidance provided by the 
regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The relevant regulations can be 
found in the FCAs Client Assets Sourcebook (CASS). In particular I refer to section 
7.13.36 that says;
1) A firm must allocate any client money it receives to an individual client 
promptly and, in any case, no later than ten business days following the 
receipt (or where subsequent to the receipt of money it has identified that the 
money, or part of it, is client money under CASS 7.13.37 R, no later than 
ten business days following that identification).
So from that guidance I think it would be reasonable to conclude that a firm such as 
HLAM should take a maximum of ten business days to reconcile and apply any client 
funds that it receives.
But of course that regulation looks at a maximum period  I dont think it was ever 
intended by the regulator to be used as a target, or service standard that should be 
applied  the regulations require the allocation to be made promptly. The primary 
purpose of the CASS regulations is to keep client money and assets safe if firms fail 
and exit the market. So those dont replace any expectations that a firm should also 
treat customers fairly in any dealings it has with them.
Here, I can see that the funds were received by HLAM on 4 July 2018. So, HLAM 
needed to complete its reconciliation activities by 18 July at the latest. Since the 
funds were credited to Mr Ks SIPP on 17 July, I think HLAM met its basic regulatory 
obligations.
But, as our investigator pointed out, HLAM doesnt appear to have actively chased 
the information it needed to reconcile the funds before it received the supporting 
letter from the OPS administrator on 13 July. I think it acted promptly following the 
receipt of that letter  but I do need to consider whether its actions between 4 July 
and 13 July were reasonable.
From my experience, although a large number of payments can be processed 
automatically, there remain a not insignificant number that require manual 
intervention. And I think it reasonable that those payments should be handled in an order of priority that ensures that, at the bare minimum, a firm meets its regulatory 
obligations. So I accept that it might not always be possible for reconciliation 
activities to take place immediately on receipt of unallocated funds.
I am satisfied that, from the information HLAM has provided, it could not, without 
further investigation, immediately allocate the transferred funds to Mr Ks SIPP. 
I have noted that HLAM has said that, by using other processing systems, it would 
have been able to identify the additional reference information the OPS administrator 
had sent. But I dont think it reasonable to conclude those investigations, however 
simple, should have been carried out immediately.
On balance I dont currently think that the time HLAM took to apply the funds to 
Mr Ks account was unreasonable.
But for the period those funds remained unreconciled they were not available for 
Mr K to invest within his SIPP. It might be reasonable to conclude, should there be a 
predetermined investment approach, any investments should be backdated to the 
receipt of the funds. However here, Mr K has told us that he needs to seek authority 
from his employer before making any new investments. And he has said that at times 
that permission might be delayed by the unavailability of the relevant manager. I can 
see that there was a delay of more than three weeks between the funds being added 
to Mr Ks SIPP, and him giving an investment instruction. So I cannot reasonably 
conclude that he has lost out through what I consider to be the reasonable time it 
took for the transfer to be reconciled.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr K, but I dont currently think 
the time it took HLAM to add the transferred funds to his SIPP was unreasonable or 
in breach of the relevant regulations. I cannot say that Mr K has lost out as a result of 
the time it took for those funds to be made available to him.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. HLAM has said that it has nothing further to add. Mr K has provided 
some additional comments. Although I am only summarising here what Mr K has said, I want 
to reassure him that I have carefully read and considered his entire response.
Mr K has expressed his disappointment with my provisional decision. He says that the 
payment was issued with the correct reference however it was HLAMs systems that were 
unable to correctly interpret that information. He says that HLAM were aware the funds were 
due, and failed to check their receipt.
Mr K has also explained about some more recent problems he has faced with a payment 
made in September of this year. He has asked that I consider those issues too in my 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not persuaded that I should change the conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision. But I would like to comment further on the matters that Mr K has raised 
in his response.
As I explained in my provisional decision I cannot determine, nor would it be right for me to 
do so, why the reference information on the payment that was sent by the OPS appeared in the format it did. But I havent seen anything that suggests that was as a result of the design 
of HLAMs systems. Those systems simply act on the information that is provided by the 
banking systems when sending the payments on. So I remain satisfied that HLAM wasnt at 
fault for the payment failing to be processed automatically.
It is true that HLAM was aware that a payment would be due from the OPS  it had sent the 
payment reference information to the OPS. But that payment would have been one of many 
that HLAM received on that day  and there was also no agreement that the OPS 
administrator would send it on a particular day. So I dont think the sort of manual processing 
that Mr K is suggesting  HLAM actively looking for the payment and applying it on receipt  
is reasonable in these circumstances.
Instead, as I have previously explained, HLAM needed to process this payment manually. 
And that would be done alongside other affected payments. I cant consider it reasonable 
that Mr Ks payment should have been prioritised above any others. And I think the time that 
HLAM took to undertake the manual processing was reasonable.
I was very sorry to hear about the further problems Mr K has said occurred earlier this year. 
But for similar reasons to those I explained when considering the payment made in 2019, it 
isnt appropriate for me to deal with those matters in this decision. If Mr K remains unhappy 
with HLAMs actions  or its explanation about what has happened  he would need to raise 
the matter as a separate complaint.
I appreciate the disappointment that my findings have caused to Mr K. But I dont think the 
time it took HLAM to add the transferred funds to his SIPP was unreasonable or in breach of 
the relevant regulations. I cannot say that Mr K has lost out as a result of the time it took for 
those funds to be made available to him.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold the complaint or 
make any award against Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021. 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman