DRN-1276139
 
The complaint
Mr I and Ms L are unhappy that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) rejected 
their claim under their buildings insurance for storm damage to their retaining wall. 
What happened
Mr I and Ms L had buildings insurance including accidental damage with LV. They made a 
claim for the repair of a retaining wall which collapsed during a storm. LVs surveyor 
inspected the damage and reported that it was gradual damage not caused by the storm. LV 
rejected the claim. The surveyor reporting on behalf of Mr I and Ms L said the wall collapse 
was caused by the storm.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She agreed with LV that it was unusual for a storm to 
cause damage to a retaining wall but she was persuaded by the surveyors report supporting 
Mr Is and Ms Ls claim. The report explained that the 70mph winds couldve caused root 
plate movement which in turn caused the wall to collapse. So our investigator felt that the 
damage was consistent with that caused by a storm.
When considering whether the storm was the main cause of the damage, our investigator 
felt that LVs report made observations about the surrounding area but it didnt provide 
evidence to support its view that the storm didnt cause the damage. For example, LV stated 
that the wall was old and covered in ivy which was a well-documented cause of wall 
collapse. But our investigator pointed out that the ivy was only growing on top and the wall 
collapsed at a lower level. On balance, our investigator felt that it was more likely that the 
storm caused root plate movement which in turn caused the wall to collapse. 
Our investigator noted that LV paid Mr I and Ms L £200 compensation because it hadnt kept 
them fully informed throughout the claims process and its response on one occasion was 
unprofessional. However, she didnt think it was sufficient compensation to address the 
overall shortfall in service. In particular she noted that LV hadnt properly explained its 
reason for rejecting Mr Is and Ms L's claim. For this reason she thought an additional 
payment of £100 was warranted.
Our investigator thought LV should pay £7270 which was the cost of repair, 8% simple 
interest from the date Mr I and Ms L paid for the repair, and £100 in recognition of LV not 
fairly deciding on the claim outcome.
LV didnt agree with our investigator. It made a further point that if root plate movement 
caused the wall to collapse, it was likely that the movement was gradual rather than the 
result of a single storm. Mr Is and Ms Ls buildings insurance had an exclusion clause 
stating it didnt cover for gradual damage. Our investigator agreed that the damage couldve 
been due to movement over time. However, she explained that as root plate movement 
happens beneath the surface, Mr I and Ms L wouldnt have known about it, and they 
wouldnt have been in a position to prevent the damage. So she thought it was unfair for LV 
to rely on that exclusion clause. The complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think it was fair for LV to decline Mr Is and Ms Ls claim so Ive decided to uphold 
their complaint. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I should make it clear that both parties agree there was storm.
The next thing for me to consider is whether the collapsed retaining wall was typical of storm 
damage. Theres agreement that its not typical so I need to think about whether its possible 
and, if it is, whether the storm was the main cause of the damage. In this case, each party 
has provided expert reports which show conflicting opinions and its my role to decide which 
report provides the most persuasive opinion. To do this Ive thought about whether the report 
was prepared by someone suitably qualified, whether they gave a reasoned opinion, and 
whether there was an in-depth investigation. 
Having considered the reports, its possible that either party could be correct but Mr Is and 
Ms Ls qualified surveyor provided a thorough report of his investigation and gave a much 
clearer and persuasive explanation for the wall collapse. The surveyor explained that the 
70mph winds likely caused the trees root plate to move which in turn caused the wall to 
collapse. He referenced several studies explaining the effect of root plate movement in 
support of his opinion. LVs report gave examples of factors which can affect the stability of a 
wall but didnt make a clear causal link with the damage in the circumstances of this case. 
Theres no indication that the wall was in a poor state of repair so its reasonable to expect 
the buildings insurance to cover the cost of repair.
Ive noted LVs point that if root plate movement caused the wall to collapse, then its likely to 
have been damage which happened over time. The policy excludes cover for gradual 
damage. If I accept LVs point, then I need to think about whether Mr I and Ms L could 
reasonably have known about the gradual damage. The retaining wall was below the ground 
level of their garden. Any root plate movement wouldve been below their garden. So its 
reasonable to assume that they wouldnt have been aware of any gradual damage. For that 
reason, I dont think LV should rely on the gradual damage exclusion clause and it should 
treat the claim as if Mr I and Ms L hadnt been aware of gradual damage.
In summary, regardless of whether the root plate movement caused the damage during the 
storm or gradually, I think its fair and reasonable for LV to accept the claim.
In light of my decision about the claim, I looked at the way LV handled the claim and how it 
reached its outcome. LV paid Mr I and Ms L £200 in recognition of service shortfalls during 
its investigation of their claim. It recognised that it hadnt responded professionally on one 
occasion or kept them up to date. LV also accepted that it hadnt provided an adequate 
explanation of how it handles storm claims. I think it was a fair payment to address those 
shortfalls but I dont think its adequate for the overall shortfalls. LV gave its reasons for 
rejecting the claim but it didnt acknowledge the detailed expert opinion in Mr Is and Ms Ls 
surveyor report. So, while it has already compensated Mr I and Ms L for how it handled the 
claim, I dont think it acted fairly when reaching its decision. In recognition of this shortfall, 
Im satisfied that a further £100 by way of an apology is fair and reasonable.  
In conclusion, I think LV should pay the cost of the claim less the policy excess, plus 8% 
simple interest from the date Mr I and Ms L settled the bill for the repairs to the wall, and £100 in recognition of the inconvenience caused by reaching an unfair outcome on their 
claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that the complaint is upheld and Liverpool 
Victoria Insurance Company Limited should:
pay the claim, less the policy excess;
pay 8% simple interest from the date Mr I and Ms L settled the repair bill 
oif Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell 
Mr I and Ms L how much its taken off. It should also give them a certificate 
showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate, and
pay £100 for the inconvenience caused by reaching an unfair outcome. 
oLiverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation 
within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr I and Ms L accept my final 
decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I and Ms L to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 May 2020.
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman