DRN-3686674
The complaint
Mr W1 complains Santander UK Plc (Santander) terminated access to his accounts 
following the registration of an Enduring Power of Attorney (EPA). Mr W1 is assisted in 
bringing this case by his Attorney, Mr W2.
What happened
Mr W1 made an EPA on 19 September 2007. It appointed Mr W2, his son, as sole attorney. 
The EPA had a restriction that it shall come into effect when the attorney had reason to 
believe the donor had become or was becoming mentally incapable. In October 2021 Mr W2 
registered this EPA at the Office of the Public Guardian (OPG) as he believed Mr W1 was 
becoming mentally incapable.
On 17 October 2021 Mr W2 registered the EPA with Santander online. He received written 
confirmation of its completion on 27 October 2021. This confirmation also stated all Mr W1s 
bank cards had been cancelled to prevent his use of the account. Mr W2 spoke to Santander 
that day - and on multiple occasions thereafter - to ask for reinstatement of his fathers 
access.
In their Final Response Letter Santander told Mr W2 they had to adhere to the EPA that had 
been registered and were unable to reinstate Mr W1s access. They said once an EPA had 
been registered with the OPG this confirmed the donor is becoming or has become mentally 
incapable. And the OPGs guidance notes EPA101 confirmed if the donor becomes mentally 
incapable the EPA must be registered with the OPG before it can be used.
 
Our investigator thought there was a discrepancy between what Santander said and both 
their own and the OPGs guidance. He thought, due to that discrepancy, Santander ought to 
act in line with its own guidance and reinstate Mr W1s access to the account.
Santander didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsman to review 
the matter. It told us they thought the confusion was as an EPA was registered rather than a 
Lasting Power of Attorney. And they highlighted extracts from EPA101 and gave details of 
Lasting Powers from the gov.uk website. They said it wasnt possible to reinstate Mr W1s 
access whilst the EPA was registered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain my reasons 
for that.
Mr W1s EPA specifically provided in the restrictions and conditions that the power shall 
come into effect when his attorney has reason to believe that I have become or am 
becoming mentally incapable. Mr W2 told us Mr W1 was becoming incapable of managing 
his affairs. I cant see thats ever been disputed by Santander.
Just because an EPA has to be registered with the OPG when a donor is becoming or has 
become mentally incapable doesnt exclude the possibility of the donor and the attorney 
agreeing that donor will manage some aspects of their affairs. The notes EPA101 provide 
guidance on this under the heading Can the Donor still manage their own affairs?. 
Santander are familiar with this guidance and refer to it in when responding to the view. 
Its correct that on registration of the EPA Mr W2 takes over full responsibility from his father 
for managing his property and affairs and Mr W1 as donor is considered unable to manage 
them. But it seems to me, Santander havent considered the actual situation here, namely 
theyre told  and dont dispute - Mr W1 is becoming incapable but is not yet incapable. So, 
Mr W1 remains capable of managing some elements of his affairs as agreed with his 
attorney Mr W2. 
In addition to the OPGs EPA101 note Santanders own guidance to customers supports 
retaining access where capacity remains. In the customer advice sheet titled Registering a 
Power of Attorney or a Court of Protection, Guardianship or Controllership Order with 
Santander it states Account holder access If the account holder has mental capacity, they 
will still be able to operate their account(s). The account holders access to their account(s) 
(including cards and online access) will be cancelled when a court appointed deputy is 
registered or were made aware that the account holder lacks the mental capacity to manage 
their own finances. Santander were told Mr W1 is becoming incapable and later sent the 
OPG guidance by Mr W2. There is no deputyship here or notification Mr W1 lacked the 
mental capacity to manage his account at that point. So, it seems to me, Santander 
disregarded Mr W1 requests and instructions on the EPA and how it should work, in line with 
his wishes. 
If Mr W2 and Mr W1 - as a donor who is becoming mentally incapable - are of the view Mr 
W1 should continue to have access, I think its unreasonable for Santander to remove this 
and to refuse to reinstate it. So, I think it should be reinstated with new debit cards issued to 
Mr W1, as appropriate, to ensure he has access whilst he retains some capacity.
Mr W2 recently told us this complaint was brought more on of principle as Santander were 
the only financial institution, on notification of the registered EPA, to completely remove Mr 
W1s access. In terms of compensation, for the same reason explained by the investigator, I 
can only look at Mr W1. 
Its my role to put Mr W1 back in the position he was before the mistake was made. But its 
not to punish the business. So punitive damages arent something I can consider. 
Reinstatement of Mr W1s access to the account for will put him back in the position he was 
before the mistake was made. Im told Mr W1 had accounts with other banks so hes been 
able to visit local branches to withdraw cash. Also, direct debit payments were unaffected 
and Mr W2s been able to act as attorney on the account throughout, so, Mr W1 has suffered 
little impact. And where thats the case I wouldnt consider an award of compensation 
appropriate. 
Putting things right
Santander should reinstate Mr W1s access to this account and reissue any debit cards 
withdrawn when this attorney was registered
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Santander should reinstate Mr W1s access 
to this account and reissue any debit cards withdrawn when this attorney was registered.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W1 to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman