DRN-3450189
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans (EDL) 
was irresponsible to have agreed credit for him.
Mr M has brought his complaint to us via a representative. For simplicity, I will refer to 
him throughout.
What happened
EDL provided Mr M with a loan of £2,500 in May 2018. The total amount of £7,128, 
including interest and charges, was to be repaid in 30 monthly instalments of £238 
(figures rounded). I understand that Mr M made his repayments on time and the loan was 
repaid before term in December 2018.
Mr M says that EDL was irresponsible to lend to him because the loan was unaffordable 
for him and it would have learnt this through proportionate affordability checks.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ms complaint not because they found the loan to have been 
unaffordable but because they found Mr M was reliant on credit. For example, Mr M was 
borrowing from short term lenders at the time and had credit cards with balances close 
to their limits. Our investigator concluded that Mr M was likely to have difficulty meeting 
his repayments sustainably and would end up in debt for longer. So agreeing further 
credit for Mr M under these circumstances was irresponsible.
EDL didnt accept this conclusion. It said that its assessment showed that Mr M could 
comfortably afford to meet the loan repayments and there was no evidence to suggest 
that he was in financial difficulty. EDL says that the loan was to be used to clear Mr Ms 
short term loan balances and reduce any reliance he might have had on this type of 
lending. EDL asked for the complaint to come to an ombudsman to review and resolve.
The complaint came to me and I issued a provisional decision on the 11 March 2022 
explaining why I didnt plan to uphold Mr Ms complaint. I allowed both parties four weeks 
to let me have any comments or new information they wished me to consider when 
making my final decision on the matter. Neither party has provided anything further for 
consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed this complaint again and, having received no new information to 
consider, my provisional conclusion remains unchanged. I am not upholding Mr Ms 
complaint and will explain again how Ive reached that outcome. 
As Id said in my provisional decision, EDL will be aware of the relevant regulations so I 
will briefly summarise. EDL needed to check that Mr M could afford to meet his loan 
repayments sustainably, in other words out of his usual means without having to borrow 
further and without experiencing financial difficulty or other adverse consequences. The 
checks needed to be proportionate to the nature of the credit and to Mr Ms circumstances, 
and EDL needed to take proper account of the information it gathered.
The overarching requirement was that EDL needed to pay due regard to Mr Ms interests 
and treat him fairly. CONC 2.2.2G(1) gave an example of contravening this requirement as 
targeting customers with regulated credit agreements which are unsuitable for them by 
virtue of their indebtedness, poor credit history, age, health, disability or any other reason.
With this in mind, my main considerations are did EDL complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ms application to satisfy itself that he would be 
able to make his repayments sustainably? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate 
checks have shown and, ultimately, did EDL make a fair lending decision?
EDL provided this Service with the information it relied on. This included what Mr M said 
about his income and expenditure, bank statements for the month prior to the lending and 
Mr Ms credit file. It seems on the face of it that the assessment EDL carried out was 
proportionate  it asked Mr M about his finances and verified what hed said by checking 
his bank statements and his credit file. However, this doesnt automatically mean EDLs 
lending decision was fair and Ive gone on to consider this.
Mr M gave his income as £3,940 a month and his rent as £700. Taking other living costs 
and his debt repayments into account, EDL concluded that Mr M had a monthly surplus of
£1,084. Ive reviewed the bank statements provided by EDL. It seems to me that Mr Ms 
costs were higher than EDL estimated and he would have closer to £500 left each month 
after meeting his loan repayments. Nevertheless, it seems the loan was likely to have 
been affordable for Mr M on a pounds and pence basis.
Ive also considered whether there were any indications in the information EDL had that
Mr M might not be able to meet his repayments out of his usual means without 
experiencing financial difficulty.
EDL compiled a list of Mr Ms debts as part of its assessment which included car 
finance, a guarantor loan, three credit cards and short term loans. Mr M was at the limit 
of two of his cards, and it seems had defaulted on the third in 2013 and was repaying 
the balance of £2,450 via a debt management plan. Ive noted two other defaulted 
accounts, one from 2013 and another from 2015. Mr M owed almost £15,000 of 
unsecured credit and, including his car finance, paid about £930 a month in repayments.
The purpose of this loan (stated in the customer notes) was to consolidate Mr Ms short 
term loans and other debts (a total of £1,700) and to make pre-payments for an upcoming 
event. Mr M was taking on more debt (a net of £800) and it seems his monthly payment 
total would increase to about £980, or a quarter of his monthly income. So I dont think its 
reasonable to say that Mr M benefited from taking out this loan in that his overall debt 
increased as did his monthly repayments.
Mr Ms credit file shows hed taken out three short term loans in the previous six months 
and, as mentioned, had some old defaults. I can see that his bank account was kept in 
credit, which included deposits from his partner and a recent short term loan, which he 
was to consolidate. He had no returned direct debits or unauthorised overdraft charges, for 
example. And I cant say that Mr M was showing indications of ongoing financial difficulty 
to the extent that he wasnt managing to keep on top of his debt repayments, wasnt 
making inroads into his debts or was falling behind on priority bills. Ive noted that he made 
his repayments for this loan on time and until he repaid it in full before the end of the year.While I dont think this loan benefited Mr M and he remained paying a relatively large 
amount of his monthly wage on debt, having considered everything carefully, I dont think 
EDL was irresponsible to lend to him on the basis of the information it had. I appreciate 
this will be disappointing for Mr M and I hope Ive clearly explained why Ive reached my 
conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I am not upholding Mr Ms complaint about Everyday 
Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman