DRN-1950574
The complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
taken out in 2000 in connection with a credit card. Mrs E says Bank of Scotland plc (trading 
as Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI. 
What happened
Mrs E complains that PPI was added to her credit card account without her knowledge. She 
also said nothing was explained about her right to cancel. Our adjudicator thought the 
complaint should not be upheld. Mrs E disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for 
the matter to be looked at again. 
Mrs E added she did not know she would have to be claiming unemployment benefit from 
the State before she could claim the unemployment cover on the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Es case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I know this will be a disappointing result for her, so Ill 
explain why. 
Firstly, Bank of Scotland needed to show PPI was an optional product. I think Bank of 
Scotland made it clear that Mrs E didnt have to take out the PPI and yet she chose to take it 
out. I say this because I have seen her credit card application form. There is a section 
showing the products sold with the card  and one of them is for PPI. The box for PPI has 
been ticked and other offers have been declined. So I think it was probably clear enough on 
the application form that PPI was an optional product because she could have declined it. 
Mrs E also signed the application form, so I can reasonably assume she read the form and 
checked the contents before signing. I also think her signature was her consent to have PPI 
added to her credit card account. 
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mrs E, so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover, she 
seems to have had a need for the cover and it was affordable.  
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mrs E about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong  I say 
this because she had limited sick pay from her employer and some savings. It also looks like 
it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off 
taking out the cover. 
Mrs E said she had two other life insurance policies  but those policies would only cover her 
on death. The PPI could give her life cover and accident, sickness and unemployment cover. 
So I dont think her other policies made the PPI unsuitable.
Mrs E said she didnt know she had to be claiming unemployment benefit from the State 
before she could make a claim on the policy. However, it should be fairly clear that 
unemployment cover could only be paid if a consumer was unemployed  and any business 
would probably need proof of unemployment, such as the payment of unemployment benefit 
from the State, before it paid out on a claim. So I dont think this requirement makes the 
policy unsuitable for Mrs E.
Mrs E said she could rely on her family and husband to pay her credit card repayments. I 
understand the point she is making, but there was no guarantee that she could still rely on 
this support at some unknown point in the future. So I dont think this makes the PPI 
unsuitable for her.
All of the above means Bank of Scotland doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI 
to Mrs E.
But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs E because: 
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs E about that. Because Bank of Scotland didnt 
tell Mrs E, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs E has said - including what she said about her other 
policies, her employment benefits and other funds and support. But these points dont 
change my decision.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs E.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back to Mrs E any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman