DRN-3312257
The complaint
Mr P complains Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) failed to remove a block on his 
debit card for transactions to a catalogue retailer he wanted to transact with. 
What happened
Mr P says he spoke to Nationwide in mid-February 2021 to block future transactions on his 
debit card for a catalogue retailer. Mr P says he then called Nationwide again in early March 
2021 and requested for the block to be removed and was told it would take 24 hours to do 
so. 
Mr P says he wasnt able to make a payment to the catalogue retailer as the block hadnt 
been removed and he contacted Nationwide again to complain and was awarded £55 for 
compensation and costs, as he should have been told it took 48 hours to remove the block. 
Mr P says he was still unable to make any transactions with the retailer and this has caused 
him considerable inconvenience. Mr P wants Nationwide to pay him £170 by way of 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Nationwide says the block was removed from his debit card in March 2021 and it is possible 
the issue lies with the retailer. Nationwide says its records show no payments were 
attempted in April or May 2021 to the retailer who was initially blocked and suggested 
alternative methods of payments and offered to order a cheque book and new debit card. 
Nationwide felt the issue lie with the retailer and not them.
Mr P wasnt happy with Nationwides response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt Nationwide had provided evidence to show it had removed the block on Mr 
Ps debit card. The Investigator says although not part of Mr Ps initial complaint, there was 
no evidence to support an earlier payment to the retailer was taken illegally from his debit 
card as Mr P claimed. The investigator felt as Nationwide had provided a new debit card and 
cheque book for Mr P it had taken adequate steps to resolve the complaint. Additionally, the 
investigator felt the compensation offered by Nationwide was adequate. 
Mr P didnt agree with the investigator and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would have been frustrating for Mr P to have requested a block be 
removed from his debit card to a particular catalogue retailer, only to find he was unable to 
make payments to them going forward.
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Nationwide could have done more when it 
was asked to remove a block on Mr Ps debit card for the retailer he wanted to transact with. 
Mr Ps complaint centres around the fact he couldnt use his Nationwide debit card with a 
particular catalogue retailer even though he had told Nationwide the initial block to that 
retailer was to be removed. 
I understand the points Mr P has made and although Mr P feels Nationwide didnt correctly 
remove the block to the catalogue retailer on his debit card when he asked in early March 
2021, Im not persuaded by his argument. I can see that Mr P spoke to Nationwide in March 
2021 and from what he initially told this service, he had settled his issues with the retailer 
and wanted to remove any block on his debit card so he could continue transacting with 
them. 
In a subsequent discussion Mr P told this service he never authorised a payment to the 
catalogue retailer in January 2021 and it shouldnt have been taken from his bank account. 
Nationwide have confirmed to this service the payment was made by the card details being 
entered and authorised in line with the terms and conditions of the account. Mr P hasnt 
provided this service with any other supporting evidence to suggest this payment wasnt 
authorised by him and so I cant make any further comment on this, other than to say as this 
wasnt part of his original complaint, if he has some further information about this he should 
present this to Nationwide as a separate complaint. 
Its worth saying Nationwide have provided evidence to show from their records the block 
initially placed on Mr Ps debit card for this retailer at his request in February 2021, was 
removed in early March 2021. Where it did make a mistake, which Nationwide have 
accepted, was to tell Mr P the block would be lifted within 24 hours, when in fact the process 
took 48 hours. So, its fair to say if Mr P had attempted to use his debit card with that retailer 
over this time, he wouldnt have been able to. But here Nationwide have apologised to Mr P 
and paid him £55 to cover any costs and inconvenience caused and Im satisfied that is 
reasonable here. 
Mr P suggests he continued to experience issues when trying to make payments to the 
same catalogue retailer using his debit card, but from the information I have seen and from 
what Nationwide has told this service, there is no record of other payment attempts to that 
retailer using the debit card during April and May 2021. Mr P hasnt provided this service 
with any evidence to show these payment attempts either and without it, I cant say with any 
certainty that any transactions Mr P attempted to make were blocked. 
What is clear is that Nationwide did offer alternative solutions to Mr P, suggesting he tried to 
use another bank card he held. Nationwide also arranged for a new debit card and cheque 
book on Mr Ps bank account so he could then transact with the catalogue retailer, which 
from the information I have seen, he did that from June 2021. From what I can see when Mr 
P visited his local branch a member of staff did try to help by calling the catalogue retailer 
but was unsuccessful because of long waiting times. So here, I cant say that Nationwide 
havent tried to help Mr P and on balance I cant say they are at fault here.
While Mr P will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Nationwide 
here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman