DRN-4060144
The complaint
Mr K complains that Coventry Building Society (CBS) closed his account. They recorded a 
marker with the fraud prevention agency CIFAS. Hed like the marker removed.
What happened
Mr K held an account with CBS. In April 2021 he found that his account had been restricted, 
and he wasnt able to transact on it. Later in May 2021 CBS wrote to him to say they would 
be closing his account. They sent a cheque for the closing balance. He complained about 
this, but CBS replied to say that as a result of an investigation they had decided to close his 
accounts. This reply gave Mr K six months to refer his complaint to our service.
In May 2022 Mr K found that CBS had recorded a marker against him with the fraud 
prevention agency CIFAS, alleging he had used his account for financial crime. After 
speaking to CBS he sent them documents from a sale of land that he says showed he had 
sold property, and that was the source of the funds in his account when it was restricted. But 
CBS declined to remove the marker.
Mr K then referred his complaint to our service. He said the police had investigated him, but 
it hadnt gone any further. One of our investigators looked into it but didnt think CBS needed 
to do anything further. They were satisfied the society had enough evidence to meet the 
standard set out by CIFAS to record a marker.
This wasnt accepted by Mr K. As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide. After review I wrote to both parties to explain that I thought the 
complaint about the block and closure was referred to us out of time, so I would not be 
commenting on this in the decision. I also requested information from both parties, which has 
now been received.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, to cover off in full my thinking on our jurisdiction to consider this complaint, I can see 
that CBS responded to Mr Ks complaint about the block and closure of his account in June 
2021  and this response said that if Mr K remained unhappy, he could refer his complaint to 
our service, but had six months to do so. If he didnt then they wouldnt consent to us looking 
into the complaint. This is in line with the time limits for our service, as set down in the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys Dispute Resolution (DISP) rulebook. The first contact our 
service had from Mr K was in June 2022  which was outside the six-month time limit. And 
Ive no indication of any exceptional circumstances that would allow me to set aside this time 
limit. As its outside the time limit, I cannot consider the relative merits of the decision to 
block and subsequently close Mr Ks account. But I do consider it relevant background to the 
complaint Mr K did refer to us in time, which is about the CIFAS marker. 
To record a marker with CIFAS the financial business involved needs to have met the 
standard of proof laid out by the agency. I wont detail the standards in full here, but the 
general principle is that the business needs to have sufficient evidence that fraud or financial 
crime has been committed and that the consumer was a participant in this. They need to 
have carried out sufficient checks to satisfy themselves this is the case, and the evidence 
needs to be clear and rigorous.
In this case the CIFAS marker concerns several payments into Mr Ks account. CBS have 
concluded that these were paid in fraudulently. Theyve not discussed their exact reasons for 
this conclusion with Mr K, so it wouldnt be appropriate for me to detail them here. But Im 
satisfied they are genuine concerns.
Mr K has said the funds paid in were for the sale of his property abroad, and he has provided 
some documentation that he says demonstrated a sale was agreed. But I note that the name 
on documentation is different from Mr K, and Im not persuaded by his explanation that his 
broth was acting on his behalf. There also isnt a clear explanation of why these funds were 
then paid into Mr Ks account over several days  the first payment is made the day before 
the date on the documents, the rest are made over a month later. This seems a highly 
unusual way for payments to be structured. Nor has Mr K provided any documentation to 
show the payment instructions given to the buyer. It also conflicts with the payment 
references to Family support.
Overall, Im not persuaded by that Mr K has demonstrated his entitlement to the funds paid 
into the account. Taking everything that is available to me in to account Im satisfied that 
CBS have met the standard of proof required by CIFAS. Im sorry to hear how this has 
affected Mr K. But Im minded that its not unreasonable for CBS to have recorded the 
marker with CIFAS, so Im not directing them to remove it.
My final decision
My decision is our service does not have the power to consider the block and closure of Mr 
Ks account as it was referred to us out of time. And I do not see that Coventry Building 
Society should remove the CIFAS marker.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman