DRN-2900616
The complaint
Mr A complained because he was given the wrong information about repairs to his car by 
Admiral Insurance Company Ltd. in October 2019.
What happened
In August 2019 Mr As car was damaged. Its understood this incident was not Mr As fault 
and didnt impact his no claims bonus. Mr A reported the incident to his insurance company, 
Admiral, and arrangements were made for the repair of his car.
Before the repairs were completed Mr A contacted Admiral (in October 2019) to report new 
damage to his car. At this point he said he didnt know when or how the damage had come 
about but suggested he had been parked in various areas and the damage must have been 
caused then and without his knowledge.
Mr A reported there was damage to the left front passenger door. He told the representative 
from Admiral this was further damage to an area that had been damaged in the first incident 
in August 2019. The Admiral representative told Mr A not to worry as the door was going to 
be replaced in any event due to the first incident. 
Admiral say their representative gave Mr A the wrong information as the door was not due to 
be replaced. Theyve referred to the repair estimate for the first incident not including a 
replacement. The repairers queried the replacement of the door with Mr A. He told them to 
contact Admiral. Its agreed further communications between Mr A and Admiral followed.
In January 2020 the door was replaced. Shortly after Admiral were informed a third-party 
had made claim against Mr A for being at fault in a motor incident and causing damage. This 
incident had happened in October 2019. Mr A initially said he didnt recall an incident, he 
went on to accept he did, and it was his fault.
Its said by Admiral it was the second incident that caused the damage requiring the 
replacement of the car door. Mr As comments on this dont make it clear whether he 
accepts the October incident caused further damage. Some information suggests he does, 
whilst other information suggests he thinks it caused negligible or no damage to his car. For 
example, he told Admiral in March 2020 he didnt think his car had been damaged in the 
October 2019 incident, and all damage had arisen in August 2019. However in October 2019 
he contacted Admiral to report new damage said to have been caused by the second 
incident.
Mr A was informed there was likely to be an impact on his premiums and no claims bonus. 
He told Admiral he wanted to be informed of the third-partys claim and costs as he might 
want to pay them. 
Mr A complained. He was unhappy about the repairers and their charges. He says he was in 
repeated contact with Admiral about repairs and the costs involved. He says he agrees with 
Admiral that hed discussed potentially paying a contribution so he didnt lose his no claims 
bonus, and he thought that might be more cost effective for him. He was also unhappy about 
being given the wrong information in relation to the door replacement. 
In March 2020 he told Admiral he was unhappy with his new renewal quote and he wanted 
to discuss paying back the claim and getting a new renewal quote with his no claims bonus 
reinstated and not impacted. Mr A wasnt happy with what he was told about what was paid 
to the repairers and he wanted a sum deducted before considering paying Admiral back for 
the claim.
Overall Admiral apologized for Mr A being given the wrong information about the door 
replacement. They said theyd provided feedback to the representative. They felt theyd 
addressed the matters Mr A had raised about the sums hed been quoted regarding repairs 
and provided the sum hed need to pay for reinstatement of his no claims bonus.
Admiral offered Mr A £100 to address matters. This comprised of £50 for his distress and 
inconvenience and £50 to represent delay.
Mr A didnt think Admiral had offered enough. He told us it was the claim by the third-party 
that caused him to lose his no claims bonus. He was unhappy he didnt get the opportunity 
to pay any costs towards the repairs. Mr A says his complaint about that was upheld by 
Admiral. He told us Admirals offer in relation to being mis-informed about the replacement of 
the car door was inadequate. He thought the costs involved ought to be split three ways and 
his no claims discount reinstated. He told us he was unhappy with Admiral and the repair 
company.
An investigator didnt agree with Mr As complaint. She thought Admirals offer had been fair 
in the circumstances. Mr A doesnt agree and has told us in summary:
Their offer was insufficient due to the increased insurance premiums hes paying.
Admiral would recoup the costs of the repairs within several years which is 
disproportionate and unfair given the grossness of their error.
Admiral ought to have replied to his queries and complaints more promptly. 
£100 was so small as to be considered derisory and wouldnt teach Admiral anything.
The investigator responded to what Mr A said. Mr A didnt accept her view. He thinks the 
investigator was wrong to consider what he might have done if hed been given the right 
information as he wasnt. He stressed hed made many calls to Admiral to ask about paying 
a proportion of the costs of the second accident as he didnt want to lose his no claims 
bonus. He also thinks we ought to question Admiral about the quote and costs of the repairs. 
He considers the damage to the door to have been only additional to the damage from the 
first incident, which he considers to have been more substantial.
Provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 27 May 2021. In it I indicated I didnt intend to 
uphold Mr As complaint, but I wanted to give all parties the opportunity to respond to my 
thinking.
Mr A continued to think Admiral ought to be required to answer further questions around 
repairs to the car. He also continued to be unhappy as he feels Admiral havent challenged 
the repair company around their invoices, work and other information. Mr A felt there was too 
much speculation around what he might have done against what he considers to be known 
facts.Mr A thinks the most important detail remains that he was incorrectly told his door would be 
repaired.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont uphold Mr As complaint. I think Admirals original offer was sufficient 
in the circumstances. Mr A says the most important thing is that he was wrongly told his car 
door would be repaired when he reported a second incident involving damage to his car in 
October 2019. 
The information that Mr As door would be replaced as part of the first claim repairs was 
wrong and this is the complaint Ive primarily considered. Its accepted Mr A was given the 
wrong information. But Ive need to look at what followed and any loss and impact on Mr A. 
Here I think the mis-information was quickly identified and Mr A was told the replacement 
door was queried as part of the first claim repairs, and so by implication was considered to 
be the result of new damage. I appreciate the matter took some time to resolve, but Mr A 
received a query about the door replacement soon after the car was taken in for repair. So I 
think he was reasonably made aware it might not be accepted as damage arising from part 
of the first claim.
I explained before that although Mr A says his complaint is about being given the wrong 
information in October 2019, I dont think thats at the centre of what hes unhappy about. I 
think Mr A is primarily unhappy he lost his no claims bonus, and he is unhappy about the 
effect this had on his renewal quote and the amount he was told hed need to pay to 
reinstate the bonus and the costs in relation to the repairs to his car. 
Ive seen Mr A thinks this is supposition on my part. But overall I am left with the impression 
Mr A is linking the things hes unhappy about to the wrong information he was given in 
October 2019. I dont think these things followed as a consequence of being given the wrong 
information, and I dont think they can reasonably be considered losses incurred by Mr A 
linked to this error.
Although Admiral say Mr A was given the wrong information in October 2019, Ive previously 
explained there appeared to be some lingering uncertainty for Mr A, about whether it was the 
wrong information. I said this because there were suggestions he didnt think there was any 
real new damage in October 2019. This made me think Mr A was saying the door ought to 
have been replaced as part of the repairs to the damage sustained in August 2019. Mr A has 
let me know this isnt what he means. 
Did the door need to be replaced after the incident in August 2019?
I dont think so, nor do I think it was due to be. I accept this door wasnt damaged sufficiently 
to require replacement until the October 2019 incident. Ive seen Mr A accepts responsibility 
for this second incident, but that doesnt mean Im not able to consider everything provided 
when looking at whether the door needed to be replaced after the first incident. Mr A didnt 
provide a consistent or persuasive account around the second incident. And I accept it 
wasnt until after the second incident the repairers and Admiral considered replacing the 
door, and this indicates sufficiently it was the second incident that caused damage to require 
replacement.
The wrong information given in October 2019The complaint I am looking at here is that Mr A lost out as a consequence of being given the 
wrong information by Admirals representative in the phone call in October 2019. I hope Mr A 
appreciates I am only looking at a complaint against Admiral and not against the repairers. 
Ive seen he is unhappy with their quotes and work. But that isnt something Im able to look 
at.
Admiral accept Mr A was given the wrong information in October 2019 and they apologized. 
So the main thing Ive needed to consider is whether Admirals offer was enough to address 
this mistake. In considering this, I looked at what loss, if any, was caused to Mr A as a result 
of being wrongly told his door would be replaced under work already agreed for the first 
incident.
Loss of expectation
Primarily I think Mr A had, at most, a loss of his expectation the car door was going to be 
replaced under the claim work already agreed. Even if I was persuaded Mr A didnt think the 
damage to the door caused in October 2019 was significantly new, which Im not, its 
reasonable to conclude he was made aware it was unlikely the door would be replaced as 
part of the first claim once the car went to the repairers. This happened shortly after Mr A 
spoke to Admiral in October 2019. I accept there were ongoing discussions around this for 
an extended period, but I think the issue was identified fairly quickly. Ive seen Mr A doesnt 
think he was aware. But I think the repairers and Admiral identified and raised sufficient 
questions about work replacing the car door once the car was taken in for repair, such as 
ought to have made Mr A aware that the door was not being accepted as needing to be 
replaced as part of the first claim. 
I think Admirals offer is enough to recognise their mistake and its impact. Mr A wasnt 
entitled to a new door under the first claim. 
No claims bonus
Mr A appears to suggest the loss of his no claims discount can be linked to the wrong 
information he was given in October 2019. As such he says this is causing him an ongoing 
financial burden. But I dont think thats right.
Mr A made personal claims and had a third-party claim made against his policy during the 
year 2019-2020. In the first instance in August 2019 I explained in my provisional decision I 
didnt have enough information to understand whether a claim was made on the policy at the 
time. Id understood damage was reported to Admiral, and this incident was not the fault of 
Mr A. But that didnt mean a claim might not have been made on the policy for repair. It 
wouldnt be unusual for there to be an impact on any no claims bonus or renewal quote.
In response to my provisional decision Mr A says Admiral recovered the £300 excess charge 
from the third party in relation to the August 2019 incident. He suggests the lack of 
knowledge and investigation around this worries him and thinks it led to unfair conclusions. I 
am sorry he was concerned but I hope to reassure him that I had drawn no conclusions from 
this. It was mentioned to assist and for completeness, I dont consider it an area I needed to 
know more about to reach my decision here.
Whats more relevant to this complaint about the wrong information being provided, is the 
incident in October 2019. Mr A initially reported damage on a no-fault basis to Admiral, 
however I think he contacted Admiral wanting further repair work to be done. Ive heard he 
stressed in the phone call in October 2019 that this had been damage on top of previous 
damage. The conversation about damage to his car, suggests to me Mr A wanted to make a claim against his cover for repair in October 2019. It wouldnt be unusual for such a step to 
impact on a no claims bonus and any future renewal quote.
In any event in January 2020 a third-party made a claim against Mr As insurance policy for 
damage to their car. It became clear Mr A had been at fault for the October 2019 incident. As 
such Id expect to see an impact on Mr As no claims bonus at this point, even if there had 
been no personal claim made by Mr A in October 2019 against the policy.
A no claims bonus operates very much as an offer or bonus available between an insurer 
and a customer. Such a bonus provides a discount in the cost of insurance. A no claims 
discount on premiums, may reflect that the insurer has not paid out on any claims during a 
period, but this might not mean there havent been any incidents reported or that the cost of 
insurance wont rise. There is no duty upon an insurer to provide a bonus and the cost of 
having one reinstated is very much a business decision for the insurer. The existence of 
such a bonus doesnt mean there wont be a potential rise in premiums in any event.
I dont think it was unusual for Mr As no claims bonus to be adjusted or even removed 
following the events in 2019-2020. The operation of such a bonus scheme remains very 
much a matter for the business. As it happens here it appears Admiral did offer Mr A the 
opportunity to pay a sum to reinstate the bonus. 
I dont accept the loss of Mr As no claims bonus is reasonably linked to the wrong 
information provided in the phone call in October 2019. Its more likely to have been linked to 
the incidents and claims made in relation to his policy during the cover year. The need and 
cost to replace the car door was also a consequence of an incident.
Mr A wanted to explore the possibility of paying for the claims made against the policy to 
preserve his no claims bonus. Ive seen he wasnt happy with some of the information he 
was given around the cost of repairs and this appears to have caused some delay. Ive seen 
he says Ive paid scant regard to the delays he feels were involved and has suggested what 
further steps could be undertaken. Id like to reassure Mr A I have looked at the chronology, 
contact and what happened; and I accepted there were some delays. However, I am not 
persuaded Admiral might be said to be responsible for all the delays, and more than that, Im 
not persuaded that any delay they may have occasioned is something they ought to be 
required to do anything further to address.
Ultimately Admiral have been satisfied with the information provided by the repairers and 
chosen to pay them. I appreciate Mr A doesnt think they have challenged or questioned the 
repairers sufficiently. But I dont think its necessary for me to seek more information around 
what may or may not have been sought to decide this case. I havent seen anything that 
makes me think this was not Admirals decision to make. Mr A thinks there ought to be 
greater scrutiny applied to repairs and information relating to the repairers, but I dont think 
this is a matter for me here, as I am considering this complaint against Admiral.
Admiral went on to provide detail to Mr A who was able to decide if he wanted to pay the 
sum Admiral provided for reinstatement of his no claims bonus, and he apparently decided 
not to. Mr A says this was because he expected Admiral to pay what he considers a fair 
share. I am sorry but I dont agree with his thinking here. I dont accept they ought to be 
paying anything towards any increased cost of cover arising from the October 2019 incident.
As Ive said, its for Admiral here if they wanted to offer Mr A the opportunity to reinstate a 
bonus and for them to decide the cost of this for Mr A. Its a bonus they may choose to make 
available. I appreciate Mr A thinks Admiral can recoup the cost of repairs from him by way of 
premiums in the next few years. But that doesnt mean Admiral ought to be required to do 
anything, or that they have done anything unreasonable or wrong in what they asked Mr A to pay. Its worth reflecting there is no guarantee for Admiral Mr A will continue to be insured by 
them or that he wont have any further incidents or claims.
Further matters
Mr A also complained he would have paid for the replacement to the door himself had he 
known it wasnt going to be replaced under the repairs being made in relation to the first 
incident and claim. Mr A appears to think that if hed done this, he wouldnt have lost his no 
claims discount. I dont agree this is a natural conclusion. I also agree with the investigator in 
any event, the evidence suggests Mr A would have sought to claim the cost of the door 
replacement against his policy insurance.
It appears Mr A previously complained he wasnt given the opportunity to pay the third-party 
claim to ensure his no claims bonus wasnt lost. I can see this was explored, but I previously 
explained it appeared to me this complaint may have already been addressed. I invited 
further clarification if it hadnt and received nothing on this issue.
In relation to what Mr A appears to be suggesting about unfairness in the sum Admiral 
required to reinstate the bonus and how this fits with the claim and repairs completed, Im 
not persuaded it would be reasonable for me to require Admiral to do anything further. Ive 
seen there was potentially a small overcharge between the repair quotes, but Admiral have 
fairly considered this and taken it into account when they offered Mr A the chance to 
reinstate. 
In summary I dont accept that if Mr A had been given the right information about the 
authorized repairs to his car from the August 2019 incident when he called Admiral in 
October 2019, he would have chosen to pay for the repairs including the door replacement 
himself. In any event he would still have been in the position of a valid claim being made 
against his car insurance cover in January 2020 by a third-party. I dont think its unusual that 
the incidents and events in 2019- 2020 impacted Mr As no claims bonus or premiums. I 
dont follow the logic this was a consequence of being given the wrong information for a 
short time in October 2019. So I dont agree Mr A ought to be compensated for any 
reduction to or loss of his no claims discount now, or that it ought to be reinstated. Whilst 
there may have been some delay, frustration and some potential loss of expectation, I think 
Admirals original offer sufficiently addresses this; it isnt the role of this service to punish a 
business for any mistakes. Mr A has let us know he has already received the payment of 
£100 provided by Admiral.
My final decision
So for the reasons given I dont uphold Mr As complaint against Admiral Insurance 
Company Ltd. Under our rules, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision 
before 27 July 2021.
 
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman