DRN-3844168
The complaint
Ms C complains Sainsburys Bank Plc have unfairly charged her interest on her credit card 
account.
What happened
In June 2018, Ms C took out a Sainsburys credit card. At some point, Ms C applied for 0% 
interest on purchases for 27 months, ending on 5 February 2023.
In March 2022, Ms C says she went over her credit limit of £9,500  Ms C said the amount 
outstanding was £9,668.51. Ms C says she was made aware she needed to make a 
payment to avoid further charges and later that month, she made a payment of around £380 
to bring her under her credit limit.
Ms C says that between April 2022 to August 2022, the only transaction made on her card 
was for £22.25. Then, after having made regular payments to the outstanding balance during 
this period of around £300 to £400, Ms C says she made a further purchase of £118 in 
August 2022. After this purchase, Ms C checked her credit card statement and noticed 
Sainsburys had charged her £993 in interest on the outstanding balance as a result of going 
over her limit in March 2022. Ms C says she as she hadnt made any purchases since 11 
April 2022, she hadnt checked her bank statement as she thought the account had the 0% 
promotional interest rate. Ms C says she didnt know interest was being charged from March 
2022 and that if she was made aware of this, she would have acted differently when going 
over her credit limit in March 2022.
Ms C says she thinks it was fair for Sainsburys to charge interest while over her credit limit 
from 17 March to 30 March 2022, but she says the fact that she was only over her credit limit 
for 13 days, resulting in £993 in interest being charged doesnt seem fair. Ms C has asked 
for a refund of the interest charged from 30 March 2022 onwards, as she says Sainsburys 
acted unfairly in charging interest after shed made a payment at the end of March 2022, as 
instructed by Sainsburys.
Sainsburys recognised Ms C made a payment to bring her account back under her credit 
limit, but they said that once Ms Cs account went overlimit, she lost the 0% interest 
promotion on purchases as this was a breach of the accounts terms and conditions. 
Sainsburys say they made Ms C aware the outstanding balance would continue to attract 
interest at the standard rate until it was paid off in full. Sainsburys also said there is a new 
offer on the account for 0% interest on new purchases, only valid until 11 June 2024, 
providing the account is maintained in line with account terms and conditions.
Our Investigator looked into Ms Cs concerns. In summary, she said that as a result of Ms C 
going over her credit limit, Sainsburys terms and conditions state that promotional rates of 
interest, like the one Ms C had, can be removed. To assist Ms C, our Investigator said 
Sainsburys applied a waiver for the interest for two months, to give Ms C time to decide 
what she wanted to do. Overall, our Investigator didnt think Sainsburys had acted unfairly in 
removing the 0% promotional interest rate and charging Ms C interest on the outstanding 
balance.
Ms C disagreed. She said she wasnt told the 0% promotional interest rate could be removed 
and also wasnt made aware of the consequences of the rate being removed. Because of 
the lack of information from Sainsburys, Ms C reiterated they had acted unfairly towards her. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sainsburys have provided us with a copy of the terms and conditions which sets out 
promotional rates and I havent seen any evidence to suggest these werent provided to Ms 
C when the rate was introduced. Having read the terms, they explain that if an account goes 
over the agreed credit limit, they may apply an over limit fee and will remove any promotional 
offers. Any balance left will be charged at the contractual rate of interest. Its not in dispute 
Ms C went over her credit limit of £9,500 in March 2022 and Ive seen a copy of the bank 
statement from this period which shows this was the case. Having considered the terms and 
conditions, alongside the fact that Ms C went over her limit, I dont think Sainsburys acted 
unfairly in removing the promotional rate and charging Ms C interest on the outstanding 
balance. Ms C needed to clear the balance entirely after going over her credit limit to avoid 
being charged any interest at all, but I cant see from the statements that this happened.
Sainsburys have provided us with a copy of Ms Cs credit card application from 2018 and I 
can see the terms and conditions on the application explain that where promotional rates are 
applied to an account, they may apply the standard interest rate before the end of the 
promotional period in any month if the credit limit is exceeded. Ms C signed a copy of this 
agreement at the time, so I think Sainsburys made her aware of the terms. However, I 
realise the promotional rate Ms C had in place may not have started at the time she applied 
for the card in 2018 as Sainsburys have said the rate was for 27 months ending in February 
2023  which implies the promotional rate started in or around November 2020. 
Sainsburys told Ms C on her March 2022 statement that as she was over her credit limit, 
she needed to make a payment of around £168 and that any promotional offers she had on 
her account have stopped with effect from the statement date  this was highlighted in a 
separate box on Ms Cs statement. So, I think its fair to say Sainsburys have done what 
they were required to do by notifying Ms C on her statement  and I cant hold Sainsburys 
responsible for Ms C not checking her statement sooner.
I appreciate Ms Cs point that she feels the terms were poorly communicated and I note Ms 
C says she would have acted differently when going over her credit limit in March 2022, had 
she known interest was being charged. But Ms C hasnt expanded further on what she would 
have done differently. Nonetheless, I can only hold Sainsburys responsible if I find that they 
did something wrong. And I dont think they did. Ultimately, Ms C said she didnt check her 
statements, so she didnt realise the promotional rate had ended until five months later in 
August 2022. So, even if I accept the promotional rate terms were communicated poorly at 
the time the rate was applied as Ms C has suggested (which, to be clear, Ive seen no 
evidence to suggest is the case), Im not persuaded shed be in a different position. I say this 
because by Ms Cs acknowledgement, she didnt check her bank statements, so I dont think 
she would have acted differently when going over her credit limit. Overall, I dont think 
Sainsburys acted unfairly so I wont be asking them to refund Ms C the interest charged on 
the outstanding balance.My final decision
For reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman