DRN-4438864
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs M have complained about the handling of a claim under their annual travel 
insurance policy by AWP P&C SA.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so I wont repeat it again here. 
In summary Mr H became very unwell on a family holiday and after some days was admitted 
to hospital. Mrs M complained on behalf herself and Mr H about the service received and 
asked for outstanding costs and compensation for the stress and inconvenience caused. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint was upheld. She recommended that AWP 
pay the costs of the additional seat on the flight home, baggage and transfer costs. She also 
recommended that that compensation was paid to Mr H and Mrs M in the sum of £200. AWP 
accepted this, but Mrs M appealed.
As no agreement was reached the matter was passed to me to determine. I issued a 
provisional decision on x October 2023. I said as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Im aware Ive summarised the 
background and the sensitive medical details. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, 
Ive focused on what I find are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to take this approach. 
It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If 
theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Ive reviewed the 
complete file and considered the representations made after our investigators view. Im 
satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I 
think is the right outcome. For the following reasons I agree with the conclusion reached by 
our investigator save for re-payment for the blood tests and the amount of compensation 
recommended. Ill explain my reasons below:
AWP paid for the medical treatment Mr H had, except for three blood tests for which 
Mrs M wasnt able to provide receipts. Mrs M said that she wasnt able to provide 
receipts as she had to give the receipts to the hospital for them to release the blood 
test results. Although I understand why AWP requires receipts, but as there is no 
dispute that Mr H had those blood tests (8 August, 16 August, 24 August), I am 
minded to conclude that it would be fair and reasonable for AWP to reimburse Mr H 
and Mrs M.
Mrs M has reiterated her complaint regarding the service they received. She feels 
that AWP didnt follow the policy terms and conditions. She says that AWP should 
have paid the medical expenses directly to the hospital, but as it didnt do so she had 
to borrow money from her father-in-law. I can see that this would have been stressful 
and embarrassing. I find that compensation is merited.
I note the comments Mrs M has made about the poor communication she received 
from AWP. She says it was difficult to get through to the case manager and the call 
operators were not often able to assist. Calls backs were promised, but often didnt 
happen. She received emails giving her incorrect information. AWP said that it would 
provide a local agent to assist but didnt do so. Again, I find that this would have been 
very stressful for Mrs M and compensation is merited.
Im satisfied that Mr H and Mrs M received poor customer service at a time when 
they needed it most  Mr H was very unwell, and they were with their young family in 
a foreign country. There was general confusion about whether Mr H would be 
repatriated. AWP accepted that the service it provided was poor and apologised. 
Taking all the service failures together I find that this impacted not only Mrs M and Mr 
H but the whole family, which added to Mrs Ms distress. I agree that compensation is 
due and I find that a total sum of £500 is fair in the circumstances.
Mrs M feels that AWP should pay the medical confinement benefit for the period of 
time that Mr H was at the holiday accommodation having been released from hospital 
and this should also be paid to their children who were also confined to the 
accommodation. Im satisfied that the benefit was correctly paid for the period that Mr 
H was in hospital. I dont find that because he had to keep his leg elevated on his 
return and was in bed meant he was confined to his accommodation on the advice of 
a doctor. Nor do I find the children were confined to the accommodation. So Im not 
minded to require AWP to pay any further payment here. 
Although Mr H (snr) and Mrs Ms daughter (under 18) returned home early, the policy 
only provides for cover in the circumstances where there is no other responsible 
adult to supervise. As this wasnt the case here, Im not minded to require AWP to 
make any payment in this regard.
I agree it would be fair for AWP to pay the costs Mrs M reasonably incurred for the 
journey home. These were for the extra seat, baggage and transfer costs.
I said Id look at any more comments and evidence that I received, but unless the 
information changes my mind, my final decision was likely to be along the lines of my 
provisional decision.
AWP didnt respond. Mrs M, on behalf of herself and Mr H remained unhappy. 
In summary she said that the familys holiday was cut short. She didnt understand how 
on the one hand AWP were willing to repatriate Mr H but on the other were saying that 
he was able to complete is holiday activities with the family. She said this was not so and 
found my comment that he had to keep his leg elevated very inconsiderate. She said it 
was also inconsiderate to suggest that the family could leave Mr H alone and carry on 
with their holiday.
Mrs M also reiterated what she considered were failings of AWP which caused her and 
her family, in particular her son, stress and financial loss. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful to Mrs M for her further submissions which I have considered with care. But 
having done so, Im not persuaded to change my provisional findings which I adopt here.Sadly this holiday didnt go as planned and when Mr H became ill the family werent able to 
enjoy it at all. It was a very difficult time for all the family. But I need to consider the policy 
terms and what cover is offered. I dont find AWP was saying Mr H was able to complete his 
holiday activities with the family, clearly he wasnt able to do so. However, for the reason 
given in my provisional decision Im not persuaded that it was wrong to conclude cover didnt 
extend to these circumstances. 
Im sorry if Mrs M and Mr H found my comment regarding the elevation of Mr Hs leg 
inconsiderate, this was not my intention. I did say that sensitive medical details had been 
summarised and acknowledged that Mr H had been very ill. 
I recognise, as did AWP, that there were failings in the service it provided. I felt that greater 
compensation was merited than originally offered, but I remain persuaded that £500 is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Putting things right
I require AWP P&C SA to:
Reimburse Mr H and Mrs M for the costs of the three outstanding blood tests
Reimburse Mr H and Mrs M for the additional seat, baggage and transfer costs
Add simple interest at 8% from the date the costs were paid until settlement
Pay Mr H and Mrs M £500 in compensation 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AWP P&C SA to put things right as 
Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman