DRN-2944282
The complaint
Mr P complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited (t/a Hastings Direct) 
(Advantage) settled a third party claim after an accident. He argues there was no damage to 
the third-party vehicle and Advantages investigation was not sufficient. 
What happened
Mrs P (who is named on the policy) collided with another vehicle while driving. Mrs P said 
she had tried to get into the inside lane and clipped the wing mirror of the car that was on the 
inside lane. After stopping she said she saw that there was no damage to the car she was 
driving or the wing mirror of the third-party car. She did notice however that the wing mirror 
on the third-party car had folded back. The third party said there was damage to the side of 
the car and it had been caused by Mrs P. Mr and Mrs P accepted Mrs P was at fault, but 
they disputed the damage the third party had highlighted and so said Advantage shouldnt 
have paid the claim. They said the damage on the third-party car had a different colour paint 
on it. Also, their car had no damage so it would be impossible for it to have caused damage 
to another car without their car being damaged.
An investigator at our service considered all the evidence and said she thought Advantage 
acted fairly in investigating and settling the third-party claim. Mr P didnt agree- he said he 
understood by notifying Advantage of a claim that his future premiums would likely increase, 
but he didnt think any damage was caused to the third-party vehicle and so the value of the 
claim ought to be nil. As Mr P didnt agree the decision has come to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding it.
This service doesnt decide whos at fault for an incident. Thats the role of the courts. 
Instead, we look at whether the insurer acted in line with the policy terms and made a fair 
and reasonable decision. Under Mr Ps policy Advantage has the right to defend or settle 
any claim on his behalf. That means it might make a decision Mr P disagrees with but the 
policy allows it to do so. I can consider whether its decision to do so was reasonable. 
Its not unreasonable for an insurer to step in and settle a claim. Insurers usually do this to 
save costs involved in the case going to court. For me to conclude Advantage acted 
unreasonably in settling the third-party claim, Id need to be satisfied its decision was most 
likely unfair or unreasonable. By this I mean Id need to be satisfied Advantage settled a 
claim that could probably have been successfully defended (likely in court), or that it paid 
more than would have been due if the case had gone to court.
The third party said Mrs P was at fault for the damage to their vehicle. Mrs P says she was 
not. I accept both accounts are possible. But Advantage paid the claim because Mrs P had 
already accepted liability for the accident, an engineer had considered the damage and 
Advantage didnt have strong evidence to suggest it was pre-existing. Having considered all 
of the evidence Advantage had available to it, I think it made a reasonable decision. Its 
acted in line with the policy terms and I think its done this in a fair and reasonable way. So, 
Im not going to ask it to do anything differently. 
I appreciate Mr P feels Advantage didnt carry out an adequate investigation into the third-
party claim. Mr P thinks it ought to have inspected Mr Ps car to see there was no damage to 
it and that the paint on his car was a different colour than that on the third-party vehicle. 
Rather than visiting the vehicle, Advantage relied on a picture of Mr Ps car that he provided. 
I cant see Advantage disputed these two facts- that there was no damage to Mr Ps car or 
the colour of his car. So, I dont think it would have made a difference whether it visited or 
not. I think its decision to settle the claim on the existing information was reasonable. So, Im 
not going to require it to do more investigation.
So, I think Advantages decision to pay the third partys claim was reasonable. And I dont 
think Advantage unfairly prejudiced Mr Ps position.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint. Under the rules 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my 
decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Kinjal Vadgama
Ombudsman