DRN-2285252
The complaint
Mr H complains that IGO4 Limited trading as WiseDriving cancelled his motor insurance 
after a payment wasnt made.
What happened
Mr H took out a motor insurance policy through WiseDriving in 2018 and renewed the cover 
in December 2019. The policy premiums were financed through a lender who Ill refer to as 
C.
In March 2020, Mr H got in touch with WiseDriving to say that he wasnt able to make the 
payment that was due. WiseDriving responded to say that Mr H would need to contact C and 
provided Mr H information about the next steps if a payment wasnt made.
Mr H contacted C on 1 April 2020 by phone. He told the representative that he wasnt able to 
make a payment that month. C and Mr H came to an arrangement that Mr H would make a 
payment on 30 April 2020, then the arrears would be spread across future months  starting 
June 2020. Mr H also reset his direct debit for future payments to be collected. 
Then on 1 May 2020, Mr H received an email from WiseDriving to say that his policy had 
been cancelled because he hadnt made a payment on 30 April 2020. Mr H says he was 
surprised by this as he was expecting the payment to be collected by direct debit. 
Mr H contacted WiseDriving to try and resolve the issue, but it said that it wouldnt reinstate 
the policy once it had been cancelled. 
Mr H was unhappy with what had happened. He says that WiseDriving havent treated him 
fairly in cancelling his policy. He says that the policy cancellation was due him being given 
incorrect and misleading information from C about how the payment due on 30 April 2020 
was going to be collected. Hes said that due to the policy being cancelled, and him having 
to find a new policy elsewhere, this has led to additional pressure on his finances. Hes also 
said that WiseDriving havent considered his mental health issues when dealing with him. 
WiseDriving responded to Mr Hs complaint to say that it hadnt done anything wrong. It said 
that it followed its normal procedure and cancelled Mr Hs policy after it hadnt received a 
payment for the cover. It also said that it wouldnt look to reinstate a policy that had been 
cancelled. 
Our investigator also looked into things for Mr H. While he empathised with Mr Hs situation, 
he didnt find that WiseDriving had done anything wrong when it cancelled Mr Hs policy. He 
felt that WiseDriving provided Mr H with sufficient notice as to what might happen if he didnt 
make a payment by 30 April 2020. 
Mr H disagreed with the findings of our investigator. He said that he felt the cancellation of 
the policy was due to poor communication by C. But he says that WiseDiving didnt take into 
account the severity of the situation and it didnt consider his concerns relating to Covid-19 
or his mental health conditions. 
Because Mr H didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the 
matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided that I wont be upholding Mr Hs complaint. And Ill explain my 
reasons for doing this below.
Firstly, Id like to express my empathy for Mr Hs situation. Its clear that hes been going 
through a difficult time. In reaching my conclusion, I dont wish in any way to downplay
or disregard the situation Mr H has found himself in. Ive no doubt that finding out his motor 
insurance policy had been cancelled made an already difficult situation worse.
But being independent means, I have to take a step back and consider what both parties
have said. And I have to look to see if WiseDriving has acted fairly and reasonably when
cancelling Mr Hs policy  and I think it has.
The terms and conditions of the policy say:
We or iGO4 may cancel Your policy at any time if there are valid grounds for doing so. 
Except in the event of fraud or other exceptional circumstances, We will provide You 7 days 
notice of cancellation in writing by e-mail or letter. Reasons for cancellation may include but 
are not limited to:
.on non-payment of premium. Where iGO4 or Your premium finance provider has been 
unable to collect a premium payment they will contact You to request payment. If payment is 
not received as required, the policy will be cancelled;
Mr H contacted WiseDriving on 23 March 2020 to let it know he wouldnt be able to make a 
payment for his premium that month. WiseDriving responded saying that:
As your car insurance is still a legal requirement the direct debits will still be collected as 
normal. Our procedure is if a payment is missed, C will re-apply for this payment which will 
include a default fee of £30. If this 2nd attempt is missed, we will then issue a 7 day 
cancellation notice for payment to be made by card. This will mean you need to call us or C 
to make payment before the cancellation date to avoid the policy being cancelled.
WiseDriving then contacted Mr H again on 23 April 2020 to let it know that it still hadnt 
received a payment, and if it didnt receive a payment by 30 April 2020, it would cancel Mr 
Hs policy. 
Based on what Ive said above, I think WiseDriving were acting in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy by cancelling the cover due to non-payment of premiums. And I think 
it did enough to notify Mr H that his policy would be cancelled if a payment wasnt made by 
30 April 2020.
Mr H says that the non-payment was due to a miscommunication about how a payment 
should be made  he says he thought it was going to be taken by direct debit. Ive thought 
carefully about this point, because it might seem unfair for a policy to be cancelled in this way if Mr H had been given incorrect or misleading information. Ive requested the call 
recording from when Mr H contacted C on 1 April 2020 about making a deferred payment. 
During the call Mr H was told that he would need to call C on 30 April 2020 to make a 
manual payment by debit card. Mr H acknowledged that he understood. Mr H then set up a 
direct debit for future payments to be taken. After this, before the call ended, the advisor at C 
reconfirmed that Mr H would need to call on 30 April 2020 to make the payment manually by 
debit card. Based on this, I dont think I can conclude that the non-payment of premiums was 
as a result of Mr H not being given clear information about what he needed to do. 
Mr H has provided evidence of communications he had with WiseDriving about payment of 
the policy. I dont think any of these communications undermine the agreement for Mr H to 
make a payment on 30 April 2020. So these dont change my opinion that WiseDriving were 
fair to cancel the policy when it did.
Mr H has said hes unhappy about the customer service he received from WiseDriving  as 
he says it didnt take into account his concerns relating to his mental health. Ive listened to 
all the calls Mr H had with WiseDriving. And having done so, I cant agree that  Mr H wasnt 
treated fairly. Mr H hadnt mentioned anything about his concerns during the calls, and 
having listened back to these, while I dont dispute that he might have felt very distressed, I 
didn't hear this translate on the phone calls - so I can't reasonably say WiseDriving should 
have dealt with his calls differently and I don't think it could have realised how Mr H was 
feeling.
Based on all the information Ive seen, I think that WiseDriving fairly cancelled Mr Hs policy. 
And I cant agree that it didnt treat him fairly when it communicated with him. So I wont be 
asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman