DRN-3874192
The complaint
Mr W complains about how UK Insurance Limited (UKI) handled a claim under his motor 
insurance policy for further damage to his car.
What happened
Mr W had a motor insurance policy with UKI. He was involved in a non-fault incident in 
August 2022 and made a claim from UKI. His car had suffered damage to the rear bumper.
The car was taken to UKIs approved repairer who repaired the damage rather than by 
replacing the parts.
The car was returned to Mr W and he found within a few days that that there was a leak from 
a washer pipe, the engine was stalling and there was a clanking noise from the rear.
Mr W complained to UKI. It agreed to investigate the car further. UKIs repairer then had Mr 
Ws car for about 26 days whilst it says it was carrying out the inspection. UKI looked into his 
complaint and said it thought the stalling and washer leak were due to the cars age and 
mileage.
It said Mr W could pay for further investigation and UKI would refund the cost if the 
investigation linked the further issues to the incident.
UKI agreed that its repairer had kept Mr Ws car for too long and caused him inconvenience. 
It paid him £150 compensation.  In UKIs response it didnt mention the clanking noise from 
the rear.
Mr W took his car to a manufacturers garage, who Ill refer to as B, which provided him 
with a report that said:
In our opinion on inspection of the vehicle we believe the damage [to the shock 
absorber] was caused by impact and not by mechanical failure.
Mr W says he paid a total of £655 for the inspection and repairs to the shock absorber.
He maintains that the washer leak and stalling were also related to the incident and says UKI 
should repair them. He asks for £1,200 for the cost of hiring a car during the period UKI had 
his car, and he also asks that UKI pay for other repairs hes had done to his car totalling 
£2,789.89 as compensation and to act as a deterrent so UKI doesnt take this position in 
future. 
UKI said it thought the clanking noise was also because of the cars age and mileage. It 
looked at photos provided by B and said it thought they showed general wear and tear. It 
asked whether B had been made aware of the nature of the incident when it made its 
assessment about the cause of the damage.
Mr W brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into it and didnt uphold it. 
He thought it was reasonable for UKI to say that the incident was a low impact and so 
probably wouldnt have caused damage to components at the front of the car. And he 
thought that UKIs position on general wear and tear was also reasonable.
Mr W didnt agree with the view and asked that his complaint was reviewed by an 
ombudsman. So, it has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I appreciate this will be a disappointment for Mr 
W and Ill explain why. 
Ive looked at Mr Ws comments about the amount he wants UKI to pay for repairs to his car. 
He has said he wants this service to award an amount to act as a deterrent to UKI. But thats 
not our role. We make awards to recognise the impact of a mistake made by UKI on a 
complainant. We dont award amounts to punish either side. 
The cause of the damage
Ive thought carefully about the non-fault incident suffered by Mr W. I can see from the file 
the pictures of the damage to his cars rear bumper, on which the damage is shown by being 
marked out by UKIs garage. 
Ive looked at UKIs repair invoice which shows me that the work done to repair the bumper 
was primarily cosmetic, with a new mounting part required to refit the bumper. The damage 
is shown as being across the whole bumper rather than being to one side or the other. 
Theres no information about damage to the cars bodywork or structure apart from the 
bumper.
In Mr Ws description of the incident he said:
[the third party] said he hit me at such a slow speed he didn't think he had caused 
any damage. I pointed him towards some slight damage he'd caused. He denied that 
his van had caused that damage. His argument was that the impact was at such a 
low speed he couldn't have caused the relevant damage.
Using Mr Ws own words, that the damage was slight and disputed immediately by the third 
party, it seems to me that UKIs contention that the impact didnt reasonably cause the 
washer leak and stalling, because of their location in the car, is on the balance of 
probabilities correct. 
Mr W has said B didnt link the incident with either the leaking washer pipe or the engine 
stalling. I havent seen further evidence from Mr W about this, so I dont think its reasonable 
for me to connect the incident to either of these faults.
Bs report
Ive looked carefully at the report provided by Mr W from B about the damage to the shock 
absorber. The report provided is a series of photos of the part and a statement Ive included 
in the What happened section above. The shock absorber in question is located to the rear of the car, therefore nearer to the site 
of the impact damage. Its Mr Ws position that UKI said it would pay for the cost of him 
getting a report carried out, and the subsequent rectification work done, if the report showed 
that the incident was the cause of the damage to the shock absorber.
Our investigator considered that B talked about damage being caused by AN impact [my 
emphasis] rather than the incident in question. Its Mr Ws position that he thinks B has done 
this in its report and there is no reasonable basis for rejecting Bs opinion.
The wording used by B doesnt directly connect the shock absorber to the incident in 
question, and UKI has asked whether the garage was aware of the nature of the incident 
when it carried out the inspection. I dont think its unreasonable of UKI to ask this, and I 
havent seen evidence that B was aware of it, or if it was considered it in its response.
When Im provided with expert reports they are usually considerably more in-depth than this 
one, so I dont think I can reasonably rely on it for definitive or even persuasive reasoning.
Mr W also says that all of the faults with the car happened within days of the car being 
returned to him and he says this means they must have been caused by the incident. 
In my role I must explore, using the balance of probabilities, whether the incident directly 
connects to the damage alleged by Mr W. 
So, in this case Ive considered the age and mileage of the car and Mr Ws description of the 
incident. Ive thought about Mr Ws description of his car, and the report provided by UKIs 
engineers about its condition.
Taking everything into account, I dont think Mr W has reasonably shown theres a 
connection between the incident and the damage to the shock absorber. I know Mr W will 
find my decision disappointing having paid for a report into the damage, but I dont find the 
report hes provided persuasive. So, I dont think UKI should refund him the cost of it, or the 
repairs to the car.
UKIs service
Ive considered UKIs service during the time it retained Mr Ws car for its inspection. I can 
see in the file there was some confusion internally which meant the car wasnt returned to 
him as quickly as it should have been. I dont think UKIs service was very good during this 
period and I can see Mr W was chasing up UKI regularly for updates.
I can also see in his later correspondence that Mr W asked for £40 per day for car hire while 
UKI had his car for inspection. I can see that our investigator has asked for evidence that Mr 
W incurred these costs and he confirmed he didnt hire a car for the period in question.
I cant see further evidence of Mr Ws inconvenience, so I dont think I can fairly award 
compensation for a hire car during this period. 
But I have said that I think UKIs service wasnt as good as it should have been. Ive thought 
about this in line with the guidelines this service has for complaints like Mr Ws. I can see 
UKI offered Mr W £150 compensation for the delay, which hes accepted. This amount is in 
line with this services guidelines, so I find UKIs payment fair and reasonable and Im not 
going to ask it to pay more.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman