DRN-2798043
The complaint
Mr Fs complaint concerns a failure in the functionality of Digital Moneybox Limiteds (DML)
investment app. He says he requested a reduction in the risk level for his ISA, but it wasnt
implemented, and this led to him incurring a loss.
What happened
Mr F held an ISA with DML in which he had about £1,500 invested at the highest risk level.
He was intending to transfer the ISA to a new provider but wanted to first ensure he made
his full ISA contribution for tax year 2019/20. So, he added £18,500 to the ISA in early March
2020, after using the app to reduce the ISAs risk level to the lowest available.
When he later checked the ISA, he discovered that the risk reduction hadnt been
implemented, meaning that the full amount of £20,000 had been left exposed to the highest
risk level. As a result, the value of Mr Fs ISA had fallen by £2,000.
Mr F complained to DML, but it said it had no record of him making the change to the risk
level. Mr F said that his request clearly hadnt worked and therefore it was not surprising that
DML had no record. And he felt the failure was a result of him using an older version of the
app. He said DML shouldve made app updates mandatory to avoid this sort of issue.
DML said that its records showed thered been no technical issues around the time Mr F had
said hed tried to make the change. And further, other users had completed risk level
changes around the same time using the older version of the app.
Mr F referred his complaint to this service, but our investigator reached broadly the same
conclusion as DML. She said, in brief:
There was no record of a change or attempted change showing on DMLs logs.
DMLs technical team had confirmed that there were no issues with the version of the
app that Mr F had used and that other users of it had been able to make successful
changes.
It wasnt mandatory for the app to be upgraded, but Mr F had been sent a push
notification in September 2019 reminding him to do so.
She couldnt hold DML responsible for the loss as there was no evidence that Mr F
had made the change, and other users had been able to do so.
Mr F didnt accept the investigators view. He reiterated that it was to be expected that there
was no record of the change in DMLs logs, as it clearly hadnt worked. He felt this absence
of a confirmation was as much evidence of the change not working as it was evidence of him
not making the change.
Mr F noted that DML had made updating the app mandatory since his experience, which
indicated that it had realised it was wrong to have not done so before. And these mandatory
updates also prevented him from being able to try to replicate his experience. Mr F
questioned why DMLs initial response to his complaint had been to query the version of the
app hed used if it didnt have reason for thinking the use of the older version of the app
could be a problem.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, so the matter was referred to me
to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr F feels very strongly that DML has failed him and I understand his points
about the lack of any record of an attempted change to the risk level being evidence for a
failure of the DML app as much as it is evidence that the change wasnt actually requested.
But I must balance all the evidence in reaching what I consider to be a fair conclusion. And
this includes the evidence provided by DML that shows that the version of the app
Mr F used was functional in respect of the risk level changes, as other users with the same
version were able to successfully complete risk level changes.
And further to this, I also think its important to note that Mr F has said that when he
requested the change, he was not provided with any confirmation that it had been
successfully completed. I appreciate that, equally, he says there was no error message or
other indication that the process hadnt worked. But its usual for some form of confirmation
to be given when making this type of important change to an account. And, as such, I think
its reasonable to expect Mr F to have double-checked that his request had been successful
when no such confirmation was received.
In respect of DML having introduced mandatory updates since Mr Fs experience, I can see
why he feels this suggests that DML accepts his point about the issue being related to the
version of the app he was using. But DML has explained that it needed to make the change
for reasons unconnected to Mr Fs experience. And in any event, as Ive said, it doesnt
appear that, on balance, use of the older version of the app caused any issue.
In respect of DML questioning which version of the app was being used when Mr F first
raised the issue, I dont think its unusual for this type of response to be given when a
potential problem with an app is raised. I dont think doing so necessarily means that a
conclusion is being drawn that the app version is the cause of the problem. Rather, its
simply a standard initial question when investigating what might, if anything, have gone
wrong.
I recognise that Mr F will be very disappointed that Ive reached the same conclusion as the
investigator. But in all the circumstances, while Ive carefully noted Mr Fs recollections of
what happened, I dont think, on balance, that there is sufficient evidence to support a finding
that DML acted incorrectly or that its systems failed.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman