DRN-4126402
The complaint
Mrs W complains about errors by Tesco Personal Finance PLC when she closed her credit 
card. 
What happened
Mrs W had a credit card with Tesco. In April 2022 Mrs W made a payment of £200 towards 
the outstanding balance and in May 2022 she made a final payment of £172.38. The credit 
card was closed but as interest of £2.81 had accrued. Tescos advised it made a mistake 
and failed to send Mrs W a closing statement so she was unaware of the outstanding 
payment. 
Mrs W has told us she received arrears letters from Tesco in July 2022. Mrs W complained 
and Tesco sent her a final response explaining a mistake had been made. Tesco said it had 
arranged for the £2.81 owing to be refunded and paid Mrs W £25 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. Tesco also confirmed the issue wouldnt impact Mrs Ws credit file. 
In September 2022 Mrs W received further arrears correspondence from Tesco. Mrs W has 
explained that at this point the account incorrectly appeared to be three months behind and 
was concerned about the effect on her credit file. 
Mrs W complained again and Tesco has advised that the refund of interest promised in its 
previous final response hadnt been processed. Tesco arranged for the refund to be applied 
and again confirmed there would be no impact to Mrs Ws credit file. Tesco also paid Mrs W 
a further £25 to apologise for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mrs Ws complaint. They asked Tesco to increase 
the compensation to £100 in respect of the distress and inconvenience caused. Whilst Mrs 
W was willing to accept, Tesco didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
As all parties broadly agree about the circumstances of Mrs Ws complaint Ive focused on 
the impact to her and whether the compensation recommended by the investigator is fair. 
Mrs Ws told us she thought her account had been closed and all funds owing repaid. Tesco 
has confirmed it didnt send a final statement to Mrs W so she was unaware of the 
outstanding interest. I can understand why Mrs W was upset at receiving an arrears letter 
from Tesco and concerned about the potential impact to her credit file. 
Mrs W raised the issue with Tesco and was assured it had been resolved. But despite the 
information provided in Tescos final response letter, Mrs W continued to receive arrears 
warnings from Tesco. Im pleased that once Mrs W brought the issue up with Tesco again it 
was able to resolve the problem. And Ive seen evidence from Mrs Ws credit file that the 
account is now closed and no arrears were recorded. But Im not persuaded that the £50 
compensation Tesco paid across both instances fairly reflects what happened and the 
inconvenience caused to Mrs W. 
Ive considered the investigators recommendation and note Mrs W has told us she agrees 
the modest increase in compensation is a fair way to resolve her case. In my view, £100 
more fairly reflects what happened and the level of distress and inconvenience caused to 
Mrs W. To put it another way, £100 is very much in line with what I wouldve told Tesco to 
pay, had no settlement been recommended already. So Im going to proceed on that basis 
and uphold Mrs Ws complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs Ws complaint and direct Tesco Personal Finance PLC to 
pay her a total of £100 (less compensation already paid). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman