DRN-2495580
The complaint
Mr D complains that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on his behalf by a claims management 
company.
What happened
In December 1991 Mr D took out a mortgage with Nationwide in one of its branches and 
during the meeting he was sold PPI.
The policy covered him against accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr Ds 
representative didnt agree so the complaint was passed to me.
My provisional decision
I was minded to uphold the complaint and I explained why. I said:
There was a 90-day deferred period in the PPI policy, during which Mr D wouldnt get 
any money if he needed to make a claim. Mr D told us he wouldnt have received any 
sick pay if he couldnt work due to sickness or an accident and that he didnt have 
any other means, such as savings, to meet his mortgage payments. In the 
circumstances, I think Mr D might have struggled to pay his mortgage for that 90-day 
period.
Nationwide told us the 90-day deferral period wouldnt have caused a problem 
because it would have offered Mr D a formal or informal payment concession if he 
couldnt pay his mortgage during this period. But Mr D couldnt have relied on this at 
the point of sale. The purpose of the policy was to provide peace of mind that his 
mortgage repayments would be met if he couldnt work. Given the 90-day deferred 
period, Mr D may have missed three months of mortgage payments and gone into 
arrears, possibly with negative information added to his credit file, before the policy 
began to pay out.
Nationwide didnt recommend the policy to Mr D. But it still needed to ensure that it 
provided clear information to him and I cant say for sure that it did. Nationwide has 
given us examples of the paperwork Mr D was likely to have seen. But I cant be sure 
what was discussed in the meeting about this, or that Mr D was given the time to 
read the paperwork so that he could understand what the deferral period meant 
before he chose to have the PPI policy.
In conclusion, I think Nationwide should have clearly made Mr D aware of the 
deferral period and, from looking at the information provided and for the reasons 
given, I cannot say that it did. I think this would have made a difference to Mr Ds 
decision about whether to take out the policy or not. If the deferral period had been 
made clear, I think this would have made the policy less attractive, to the point that 
he wouldnt have taken it out. So I think it was mis sold.
I thought Nationwide should pay compensation to put Mr D back in the position hed be in 
now if he hadnt taken PPI.
Mr Ds representative agreed with my provisional decision. Nationwide didnt agree. It replied 
in some detail to say, in summary, that:
Having no cover in place would have had a greater impact on Mr Ds credit file if he 
couldnt make his payments. The PPI would have covered him for up to 24 months after 
the deferral period.
This was the only policy being offered by Nationwide at the time and there was no 
obligation on it to advise Mr D about policies that may have been available without a 
deferral period from other providers.
Nationwide outlined the sales process which it says was most likely to have taken place, 
including the fact that the member of staff would have mentioned the 90-day deferral 
period when they described the product.
The mortgage payment cover leaflet included prominent reference to the deferral period.
The policy document mentions the deferral period on five separate occasions.
Mr D didnt mention the deferral period when he complained, so he doesnt seem to have 
had any concerns about it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ds case.
Ive considered the arguments Nationwide has set out in response to my provisional 
decision. But I cant see that its provided any new evidence or information which would lead 
me to conclude that I should depart from my earlier conclusions. I will however respond to 
the main points that Nationwide has raised.
This complaint is about whether Nationwide mis-sold this particular PPI policy to Mr D. I do 
not need to consider what alternative arrangements he may have made if he hadnt taken 
out this policy or whether this would have left him in a better or worse position.
It was Nationwides responsibility to make sure it gave Mr D enough clear information about 
the policy so that he could decide whether it was right for him. Its outlined its usual sales 
process from 1991 and what was probably discussed and what paperwork Mr D probably 
received. (Noting that the policy document would have been provided after the sale had 
taken place.) And I have not dismissed this as Nationwide has suggested. I have considered 
very carefully what, in all likelihood, happened. 
Mr D would not have received any sick pay from his employer, and he didnt have any other 
means to make his mortgage payments. So, having paid for this policy, for the first three months of sickness or unemployment, he would not have been able to meet his mortgage 
payments. If he had known this, I think it more likely than not that he wouldnt have taken the 
policy. Whether he then would have shopped around for a more appropriate policy isnt 
known, but that doesnt make a difference to what Nationwide should and should not have 
done at the time. 
I cant be sure what was discussed and what paperwork Mr D would have seen before he 
agreed to take the policy. As I think Mr D would not have taken the policy had he understood 
the deferral period, it follows that I dont conclude the deferral period can have been 
adequately explained or brought to his attention.
It is the role of this service to fully investigate all aspects of a complaint that is referred to us. 
Mr D did not specifically complain about the 90-day deferral period. But this doesnt mean 
that I cant uphold the complaint for this reason. Its possible Mr D was still not fully aware of 
the deferral period when he brought his complaint to us.
Having reconsidered the evidence and information about this complaint, I think the PPI was 
mis-sold.
Putting things right
Nationwide should put Mr D in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out the PPI.
Nationwide should:
Pay Mr D the amount he paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on. 
If Mr D made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide can take off what he 
got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
Nationwide has paid some of the cost of the PPI back to Mr D  because it received a 
high level of commission and profit share. It can take off what it paid Mr D from the 
amount it owes him.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide 
must give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Nationwide Building Society should pay 
compensation as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman