DRN-2501128
The complaint
Mr T complains Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) unfairly declined a claim for damage to 
his roof under a buildings insurance policy.
Mr T has a representative in this complaint. For ease of reference Ive only referred to Mr T 
throughout my decision.  
What happened
Around April 2019, Mr T noticed water coming into his property. A roofer inspected the roof 
and told him some of the tiles at the back of the chimney stack had been blown off. The 
roofer completed a repair before Mr T went abroad.
Mr T returned home in June 2019 and found there had been further water ingress around the 
chimney and into one of the bedrooms. Mr T contacted Ageas to raise a claim, informing 
them the damage had happened that month. Ageas considered the claim under the storm 
section of his policy. They said there werent any storm conditions in the time leading up to 
the claim, and so there hadnt been an insured event. Ageas declined the claim. 
Mr T disputed this, and Ageas appointed a surveyor to investigate further. The surveyor 
visited the property and said there was no evidence of storm damage to the roof. Several 
broken slates that had previously been repaired were noted however it wasnt clear what the 
most recent repairs were. The surveyor asked Mr Ts roofer for a summary of the repairs 
completed.
The roofer confirmed several slates from behind the chimney had been dislodged and 
broken and he had carried out remedial works. However further works were needed to stop 
leaking into the bedroom and around the chimney. Following another review of the claim, 
Ageas said the cause of the water ingress was due to wear and tear to the roof. They said 
wear and tear wasnt covered under the policy and so they maintained their decision to 
decline the claim.
Mr T complained and Ageas considered whether the damage may have occurred in April 
2019.  They checked the weather records around this date but didnt find any evidence of 
storm conditions  so they told Mr T the claim was still declined. Mr T disagreed and referred 
the complaint to us.
An investigator didnt think Ageas had acted unfairly. She explained the weather records in 
Mr Ts area in both April and June 2019 didnt show any storm conditions and so there 
wasnt an insured event. Mr T disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ts policy includes cover for damage caused by a storm. Ive carefully considered the 
policy terms and our approach in order to determine whether Ageas were fair to decline the 
claim under this part of the policy.
Our approach to storm claims is to consider the following three questions:
1. Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the event? 
2. Is the damage typical for storm damage?
3. Is the storm the cause of the damage?
If I find the answer to any of these questions is no then Im likely to agree the claim isnt 
covered by this part of the policy. 
Was there a storm
Mr Ts policy defines a storm as: strong winds of over 55mph, or damage by extreme rain or 
snow. Rainfall is extreme if more than an inch falls in an hour. Snowfall is extreme if 12 
inches or more falls in a 24-hour period 
This means Ageas only need to consider the damage under this part of the policy if the 
weather conditions fit this description of a storm. 
Ive carefully considered the weather records in Mr Ts area throughout April and June. I can 
see in both months there were some high winds recorded (peak gust 46mph) and 
occasionally there was some heavy rainfall. But neither wind speed or rainfall met a single 
identifiable storm as defined in the policy. 
Im satisfied the answer to this first question is no and so the other questions dont need to 
be considered. My finding is that Ageas were fair to decline the claim under this part of the 
policy. 
Other cover under the policy
Mr T has accidental damage cover under the policy. So, Ive thought about whether this or 
any other cover under the policy should apply, taking into account the policy terms and any 
exclusions. 
Accidental damage is defined as: damage that is unexpected and unintended, caused by 
something sudden which is not deliberate. Its not clear whether Ageas considered if the 
damage to the roof met the definition of accidental damage. 
But Ageas have said the damage was due to wear and tear. And under the terms of the 
policy there is an exclusion that says they wont cover damage thats wear and tear. This is a 
common exclusion in buildings insurance policies, and Ive considered whether Ageas have 
been fair to apply this exclusion.  
A surveyor inspected the roof and considered the photos of the damage provided by Mr Ts 
roofer. They noted there were several cracked tiles and previously repaired slates on the 
roof, and the lead valley on the roof needed to be replaced as it was in poor condition with 
numerous patch repairs. There were also images of cracked tiles near where the water 
ingress had occurred that had been covered by adhesive prior to the most recent repair. 
On balance, Im persuaded the damage wasnt sudden but occurred over time, and therefore 
more likely to be wear and tear. And I havent seen any evidence that persuades me that the damage occurred due to a sudden event. So, Im satisfied Ageas have applied this exclusion 
fairly. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr T, but having carefully considered all 
aspects of cover under the policy I think Ageas have responded fairly by declining the claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman