DRN-3319342
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Acromas Insurance Company Limited unfairly increased his 
motor insurance premium.
Mr Ls policy is branded in the name of, and administered by, another company. But as 
the underwriter of the policy it is Acromas that sets the base premium that Mr L is 
complaining about. I understand that the force of Mr Ls discontent is geared towards the 
company in whose name the policy is branded. But as Acromas is responsible for setting 
the premium, which is what Mr L is complaining about, in this decision I will only refer to 
Acromas. 
What happened
Mr L insured his car with policies underwritten by Acromas from 2014 to 2020. When his 
policy was due to renew in 2021 the premium increased. Mr L complained. He said that, 
given that he rarely used his car because of the situation with the pandemic, he would have 
expected a reduction NOT A 22% increase. Acromas didnt uphold his complaint. It said his 
premium was dependent on the underwriters assessment of risk. It said it had priced his 
premium correctly.
Mr L brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. She didnt think 
Acromas had done anything wrong. Mr L didnt agree, so his complaint's been passed to me 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
I can understand why Mr Ls not happy. Hes been a loyal customer of Acromas for many 
years. And, after a year in which he feels the risks he might have presented as a driver have 
actually decreased, hes seen a particularly steep increase in his premium. But while I can 
understand his unhappiness, that doesn't mean Acromas has done anything wrong.
As Mr L is aware, insurance is essentially an assessment of risk. When deciding how much 
to charge for their policies insurers will assess the likelihood that their policyholders will 
make a claim and how much they might have to pay out for those. Insurers will consider a 
number of different factors when deciding what to charge for insurance. And if the insurers 
assessment of risk increases, it may decide to increase the premium. Thats something that 
insurers are allowed to do.
I need to be absolutely clear that were not the industry regulator; the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) is. That means its not my role to tell an insurer how much it can charge for 
its policies. Neither is it my role to tell an insurer what factors it should consider when 
assessing risk. Different insurers will have different views on what presents a risk and the 
extent of those. Thats essentially a matter of commercial judgement and not something we 
would usually think is fair to interfere with.
Also, like any business, an insurer has to think about its costs and profit margins to remain 
sustainable. A consumer may think the risk they present has decreased and so their 
premium should decrease. But for an insurer, there may be hundreds of variables it has to 
consider when setting a premium  including its own commercial requirements and its desire 
to make a profit as a business. And we generally take the view that, providing they treat 
people fairly  that is they treat customers with similar circumstances in the same way  
insurers are entitled to charge what they feel they need to in order to cover a risk.
Im aware that Mr L thinks his risk factors have decreased. So he doesn't think the steep rise 
in premium is fair. But insurers will re-rate the risks they consider regularly. And many 
insurers will do this on a daily basis. So the quotes an insurer provides will vary from day-to-
day as well as year-to-year as their assessment of those risk factors and their commercial 
requirements change. And that can, perfectly fairly, result in an increase in premiums.
In Mr Ls case, Acromas told us that it had made a pricing decision that has affected the 
premium it offers to customers like Mr L. So, while I can understand that Mr L doesn't think 
thats fair on him personally, given that Acromas hasnt singled him out and has treated him 
as it would other consumers with similar circumstances, I dont think its dealt with him 
unreasonably. 
Im aware Mr L moved his motor insurance to another provider who offered a cheaper 
premium. I havent looked into how Mr Ls new insurer calculated his premium. But motor 
insurance is an extremely competitive market. And as I've said above, every insurer Im 
aware of assesses risk differently. That means each insurer makes their own assessment of 
the risks its asked to cover and each will return a different premium. So the fact that one 
insurer might rate a risk as being higher than another doesn't automatically mean that the 
insurer who charges a higher premium has acted unfairly. 
Also, as Mr L is aware, he wasn't under any obligation to renew with Acromas. Thats the 
way the market operates, he didnt like Acromas' new premium so he voted with his feet 
(and his wallet) and moved his business elsewhere. So he is isnt out of pocket because of 
Acromas proposed price increase. It follows that I dont think it treated him unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman