DRN-3401443
The complaint
Mr B complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) unfairly declined his 
claim for water damage under his home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr B has home insurance with Admiral. In July 2021 he discovered that the floorboards in 
the under stairs room had given way. He said it looked like the joist had collapsed. Mr B said 
that the area appeared wet. He felt that as hed recently had the stop cock  which is next to 
the damage - repaired that was where the issue mustve occurred.
Mr B reported the damage to Admiral, who agreed to investigate. He said Admiral sent an 
expert leak detection service who found an issue with the drainage seep that they felt had 
happened over time. Mr B said he was told in an email dated 6 September 2021 that if he 
had this repaired, Admiral would then carry out the work on the floorboards and joists. 
Mr B said he got a quote from a builder. And paid £470 to have the required work done. He 
said that after hed done this, Admiral then told him that as the damage had happened over 
time, he wasnt covered for the damage under his insurance. 
Mr B complained to Admiral at the end of September 2021. In their October 2021 final 
response letter, Admiral upheld part of Mr Bs complaint. They agreed that hed been 
incorrectly advised that he would be covered. But they didnt agree that they should cover 
the costs of the damage, as they felt thered been no insurable peril. They felt that the 
floorboards and joists had become rotten due to a wear and tear issue. Admiral offered Mr B 
£100 compensation in recognition of their error. 
Mr B didnt think the compensation was enough. He said he wouldnt have paid the £470 to 
have the work done if hed known he wasnt covered. He said he wouldve had the required 
work done at the same time as the required repairs on the floorboards and joists. He also felt 
the damage had been caused by an original tap leak that had been repaired, but 
acknowledged he had no way of proving this. Mr B also said that Admirals contractors had 
caused further damage to the floor. He felt that his home had been left in a dangerous 
condition, which was a lot worse than when the investigation work started - by Admirals 
contractors. So he brought his complaint to this service. He wanted Admiral to either repair 
the damage or offer more compensation.
Our investigator didnt think that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. He acknowledged that 
Admirals contractor had incorrectly told him he was covered under his policy. So he could 
understand why Mr B had then arranged for the required work to be carried out so that the 
rest of the work would be covered under his policy. But he considered that Admiral were 
correct to decline the claim due to wear and tear. He didnt consider that Admirals error had 
caused Mr B to spend more money on repairs than he wouldve otherwise had to. And hed 
seen no evidence of the damage Mr B said Admirals contractors had caused. So he felt that 
Admirals offer of £100 compensation was fair under the circumstances. 
Our investigator acknowledged that Mr B didnt consider that the damage had been caused 
by the drainage system outside. But noted that the expert report stated that the drainage 
system was in need of repair. Therefore he felt that Mr B wouldve needed to get those 
repairs done regardless of whether he was covered under his insurance or not. So he didnt 
agree that the incorrect advice had caused Mr B to spend money he didnt need to spend. 
Mr B didnt agree with our investigator. He didnt think it was fair for an insurance company 
to leave a property in a worse state then when the claim started. And while he said he 
agreed with the wear and tear clause in his policy, he couldnt see how a homeowner could 
be expected to check things that were out of sight. He still felt he should be further 
compensated for the further damage to the floorboards he said Admirals contractors had 
caused.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at all the evidence, I reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill 
explain why.
Its not in dispute that Admirals contractor made a mistake when they told him the damage 
he was claiming for would be covered. What is in dispute is:
- if the damage should be covered under Mr Bs policy
- if Admirals error has cost Mr B more in repairs than he wouldve otherwise spent, 
and
- if Admirals contractors caused further damage to Mr Bs property when they 
investigated the source of that damage.
Ill consider each of these points in my decision. 
Should the damage be covered under Mr Bs policy?
In their 6 September 2021 email, Admirals contractors told Mr B that the internal works will 
be covered (points 3 and 4).
These were:
3. An approved building contractor should be appointed to inspect the water damaged joists 
and floor boarding and carry out any necessary repairs
4. Once all causes of the water damage have been repaired and the necessary corrective 
works undertaken a suitable drying program should be put in place for the affected area
But 3 days later, Admirals claim notes record that the claim wasnt valid, as thered been no 
insurable peril in operation. Instead, the cause of the damage was recorded as gradual 
causes.
From what Ive seen, it was only after the Admiral received the report from the leak 
assessment, which showed that no active leak had been found, that they could see that the 
claim wasnt covered. The report confirmed that rainwater and grey water had ingressed 
over time. And wasnt the result of a one-off event. The policys terms and conditions contain general exceptions to Mr Bs Home Insurance 
cover. One of these is:
10. Gradual causes
Any loss or damage caused by anything that happens gradually, including wear and tear, 
wet and dry rot, or damage due to exposure to sunlight or atmospheric conditions, 
settlement, milder, rust or corrosion.
Mr Bs claim was in the end declined on the basis that the expert leak assessment found that 
the cause of the damage was gradual causes, which are excluded from cover under the 
policy.
From what Ive seen, Admiral fairly applied the terms and conditions of the policy when 
declining the claim. Therefore it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to ask Admiral to cover 
the claim.
Did Admirals error cause Mr B to spend more on repairs than needed?
The 6 September 2021 email from Admirals contractor told Mr B that if he arranged for 
certain repairs to be carried out, Admiral would cover the remaining damage. 
The email said:
We would recommend arranging repairs/improvements as per points 1 and 2 meaning no 
more water can enter the property, at which point we can instruct repairs contractors to 
inspect the internal damages.
The repairs suggested were:
1. An approved building/plumbing contractor should be appointed to inspect the drainage 
outlets and carry out any necessary repairs/improvements. The works required were to 
include re direction of the grey waste from the rainwater hopper to a strap on boss on the 
soil stack. Re directing/controlling the flow of rainwater discharge and the kitchen waste 
discharge.
2. The gaps around the gullies and pointing were also works required to prevent water 
escaping and affecting the property
Mr B said he arranged for this work to be done on the basis that the rest of his claim would 
then be covered. This cost him £470. But he said that if hed known the rest of the required 
work wouldnt be covered by Admiral, hed have arranged to have it all done at the same 
time. He felt this wouldve saved him money.
Mr B has provided his detailed invoice for the work he initially had carried out. And the quote 
he received for the remaining work. From what Ive seen, theres no interaction with the two 
quotes. So it doesnt appear that any of the work he had done wouldve been affected in any 
way by the work he still needed to be done. I do acknowledge that theres an argument that 
Mr B could potentially have got a discount for asking the same company to do all the work, 
but Ive seen no evidence that this is the case. 
From what Ive seen, all of the repairs were needed in order to avoid potential further 
damage. And, as Ive seen no evidence that Mr B couldve got all the work done more 
cheaply if hed had it all done at the same time, Im not persuaded that Admirals error 
caused Mr B to spend more than he otherwise needed to. So I dont uphold this part of the complaint.
Did Admirals contactors cause further damage?
Mr B feels its unfair that Admirals contractor left his property in a worse state then when the 
claim started. He told this service that hes been left with his house in danger of collapsing. 
And that the environment is causing health issues for his family. 
Our investigator asked Mr B to provide evidence showing that Admirals contractors had 
caused further damage. Mr B was unable to provide such evidence. So Ive had to decide 
this part of the complaint based on the information on the file.
Im sorry that Mr B has been left concerned by the state of his flooring after Admirals 
contractors investigation. But I agree with our investigator that they wouldve needed to 
investigate the area. And its likely that further damage may have been impossible to avoid, 
given the weakened state of the flooring.  
I can see that the loss assessment report states that: 
The PH reported that a section/area of suspended timber floor has partially collapsed.
So its apparent that the flooring had already partially collapsed before their investigation 
started. And as its been impossible to provide before and after pictures, Ive seen no 
evidence that the assessment made the damage worse. 
Therefore, I cant fairly say that Admiral are responsible for any further damage to Mr Bs 
flooring.
Compensation
Ive also considered the compensation Admiral have offered Mr B. He doesnt consider that 
the £100 offered is sufficient for the error they made. 
From what Ive seen, Mr B was caused inconvenience by Admirals error. Hes had to make 
additional phone calls to find out what was happening with his claim. And hes been 
disappointed by Admirals changed decision on his claim. Hes also had to make 
arrangements for two different sets of works to be carried out. I consider £100 is fair 
compensation under the circumstances. 
Although Admiral did make a mistake which caused Mr B inconvenience, I consider that they 
took reasonable steps to put things right when they offered him £100 compensation. 
Therefore I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman