DRN-2421536
The complaint
 Ms C complains Lex Autolease Ltd trading as Lex Autolease (Lex) supplied her with a car of 
unsatisfactory quality. She asks to reject it.
What happened
 I set out the background to this complaint in my earlier provisional decision. For clarity I 
repeat it here.
On 4 November 2019, Ms C took receipt of a brand-new car supplied by Lex by way of a hire 
agreement. The agreement was to last 36 months with one initial rental payment of 
£1,366.99 followed by 35 monthly repayments of £455.66.
On 8 November 2019 Ms C said a warning light illuminated in relation to tyre pressure, when 
she checked the PSI on her tyres it was showing as per the handbook, but the light 
remained present.
On 19 November 2019, Ms C contacted the broker who confirmed it would contact Lex. It 
confirmed the dealership would be in touch with Ms C. But the dealer didnt get in touch, so 
Ms C resolved the issue with her local garage. Ms C says there were other noticeable 
issues. The Fuel MPG seemed to have discrepancies in miles in relation to the fuel tank and 
the use of fuel. 
On 12 December 2019 Ms C said the car went into limp mode whilst driving at 60mph and 
noted the car was sluggish when attempting to shift from 3rd through to 6th gears. Ms C 
added this issue seems to be intermittent but happened more frequently than not. Again, Ms 
C noticed further issues such as problems to the handbrake button, the car pulling to the 
side when driving and more pressingly an issue with the braking system.
On 3 January 2020, Ms C said while driving on a clear road at 40mph the braking system 
stopped the car abruptly, this caused her to almost crash. This caused Ms C a great deal of 
upset. It was a very frightening experience and she had her son in the car with her at the 
time. She noted there was no discernible reason for the pre-sense system to kick in and she 
felt very unsafe in the car. She called a third-party road assistance provider who confirmed 
she would need to take the car in for investigation.
The car was inspected by the dealer, who found no reported issues. Ms C didnt
agree so Lex appointed DEKRA, an independent body to inspect the car. It did so on 13
January 2020 and found no issues. 
On 16 January 2020, Lex issued its final response. It didnt uphold Ms Cs complaint. It said 
no faults were found on either inspection and as such it didnt agree to allow Ms C to reject 
the car.
Ms C continued to experience issues with the car and so brought her complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator looked into things for Ms C. She found it more likely than not that there were 
faults present when the car was supplied and so she asked Lex Autolease to:
End the agreement with nothing further for Ms C to pay.
Collect the vehicle without cost to Ms C.
Refund Ms Cs initial payment of £1,366.99 and pay 8% simple interest from
the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Clear all information regarding the agreement from Ms Cs credit file.
Considering Ms Cs has had use of the car from finance inception barring the
time a courtesy car was supplied, I think its fair for Lex Autolease to keep
repayments made.
Pay Ms C £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused to her by having
a faulty car.
Ms C accepted the investigators findings but also explained she couldnt contemplate 
retaining the car for the period of the hire agreement. So, she had agreed to reduce the term 
with Lex from 36 months to 24 months. She explained she still felt the car to be very unsafe 
and shed experienced poor customer service whilst attempting to resolve the issues shed 
experienced.
Lex didnt accept the investigators findings and raised further points it asked her to consider. 
The investigator considered all the information again. She remained of the view that it was 
more likely than not faults were present at the point the car was supplied. She noted this was 
a brand-new car and so Ms C shouldnt have been experiencing the kind of faults she 
described throughout the time shed had the car. She asked Lex to undertake the actions 
she set out in her initial view.
Ms C accepted the investigators findings. 
Lex didnt accept the investigators findings. It said it disagreed with the findings and felt the 
customer should in any event only be entitled to a pro-rata proportion of the initial payment. 
It said it was an advance rental payment and not a deposit. This had resulted in Ms C 
benefitting from reduced monthly payments and to refund it all would put Ms C in a more 
favourable position. It asked for an ombudsman review.
I considered all the information from both parties afresh. Having done so, I reached the 
same view as the investigator, but I reached a different view on how Lex should put things 
right, so I issued a provisional decision to allow both parties an opportunity to provide any 
further information they wished me to consider.
I explained where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is 
here), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider having been good industry practice at the time.
I said the finance agreement, that is the hire agreement, in this case is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement. As such this service can consider complaints relating to it. Lex is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about 
their quality. 
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory. The relevant law says that the quality of the goods 
is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
considering any description of the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. 
So, I said it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances 
might include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history. 
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
In this case Ms C took out a hire agreement for a brand-new car. I said I dont think its unfair 
to suggest that a reasonable person would expect a car of this type and cost to meet high 
standards of performance and durability. It should also be free from defects for a 
considerable period of time.
Unfortunately, that hasnt been Ms Cs experience. She started reporting faults within the 
first 30 days and she has consistently complained about these faults and reports they 
continue intermittently still. I appreciate that Lex has carried out an inspection that was 
unable to replicate these faults, but that doesnt mean they arent present. 
The nature of the faults Ms C told us about would not have prevented her from driving the 
car but as she has said, she felt it was unsafe. The frightening episode on a country lane 
also left her young son to afraid to travel in the car. I dont agree that just because Ms C was 
able to drive the car, at times, undermines her submission that the car was not of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied. I find it striking that Ms C has provided consistent 
testimony throughout her complaint about what is a brand-new car. She requires it for her 
occupation and moreover, is used to driving high quality cars for sustained distances. So, Im 
bound to ask why she would continue to complain if she wasnt experiencing all these 
issues, in particular, the safety issues. Even if Im wrong, I think Ms C should be allowed to 
reject the car on the basis that it hasnt proved durable enough. When considering whether a 
car was satisfactory at the point of supply this is an issue that the relevant legislation 
suggests is an important factor. This is a brand-new car and as such Ms C should not have 
experienced these kinds of issues consistently from inception. 
I said on balance I find it more likely than not the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it 
was supplied, and Ms C should be allowed to reject it.
I explained in terms of redress my starting point would be to put Ms C back in the position 
she would have been in had she not taken out the hire agreement. I have considered Lexs 
position about the initial payment and its assertion that the upfront rental payment reduced 
the monthly payments. It says as Ms C has had use of the car and the monthly repayments 
are not being refunded, nor should the initial payment. It says in doing so Ms C would 
somehow be in a more favourable position. It also points to other decisions where it says the 
initial payment hasnt been refunded.
I pointed out this service considers each complaint on its individual merits. Although Ms C 
has had use of the car, and for that reason the monthly payments arent being refunded, she 
has suffered an impaired use of the car. As Ms C rightly points out she was paying £455 
each month for a brand-new car.  This resulted in her feeling anxious whilst driving, her son 
ultimately refusing to travel in the car meant in the end she left it on the drive and used her partners car. She also had to take it in for repair and investigation, she was put in a worrying 
and unsafe position whilst driving the car once on her own and once with her son in the car 
and so Im persuaded although shes had some use, she had had impaired use of a brand 
new car and a significant loss of expectation of what she should have had with a brand new 
car.  I said I dont agree that in refunding the initial monthly rental payment she made puts 
Ms C at an advantage. In my view not only should the initial payment be refunded but I 
intend to make an award for the impaired use Ms C has experienced.
I said for the reasons I have given I intended to direct Lex Autolease Ltd trading as Lex 
Autolease to:
End the agreement with nothing further for Ms C to pay.
Collect the vehicle without cost to Ms C.
Refund Ms Cs initial payment of £1,366.99 and pay 8% simple interest from the date 
of payment until the date of settlement.
Clear all information regarding the agreement from Ms Cs credit file.
Although Ms C has had use of the car from inception barring the
time a courtesy car was supplied, she has impaired use and so Lex should refund 
10% of all the monthly payments made by Ms C and Lex Autolease may retain the 
remaining 90% for Ms Cs use of the car.
Pay Ms C £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused to her by having
a faulty car.
I invited both parties to make any further submissions for my consideration before I issue my 
final decision.
Ms C accepted my provisional decision.
Lex didnt accept all my findings in my provisional decision.
It accepted my direction to end the agreement with no further costs to pay. But it asks that 
any charges which arise due to the vehicle exceeding its agreed mileage allowance and/or 
being returned in a damaged state (fair wear and tear excluded) as outlined in the hire 
agreement should be payable by Ms C.
It said it didnt agree to refund the initial monthly payment. It said  of the £1,366.99 Ms C 
paid towards the first rental, £455.66 would cover the first month of use and the remaining 
£911.33 is spread over the full term of the agreement (36
months). So, by paying that £911.33 upfront, the monthly rentals reduced from £480.95 to 
£455.66. It said it retains the first months use (£455.66) plus £25.29 for each month the 
vehicle has been with Ms C, returning the remainder. If the entire first rental is returned to 
Ms C it would mean Ms C had free use of the vehicle for the first month and would have 
underpaid the monthly instalments by £25.29 each subsequent month 
It disagreed it should remove any information from Ms Cs credit file, as though the 
agreement hadnt been entered into as it says that would be a false record. Instead it 
proposes to mark the agreement as settled.
It made no comment on refunding Ms C 10% of all the finance payments made nor the 
suggested £200 redress for trouble and upset this matter has caused.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I thank both parties for their submissions. I have reconsidered all the available information 
including the additional information provided. Having done so, I havent been persuaded to 
depart from my earlier view. Ill explain why.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Lex has now accepted it should end the agreement but disputes the suggested redress so I 
dont intend to repeat my reason finding the car not be of a satisfactory quality, instead I will 
focus on my reasons for how I think Lex should put this matter right.
Firstly, I re-iterate the point that this service considers each complaint on its individual 
merits. In this case, I have reached a decision, based upon a balance of probabilities that the 
car Lex supplied was not of a satisfactory quality and as such Ms C should be allowed to 
reject it. As such my starting point for redress is to put Ms C back in the position, she 
wouldve been in had the hire agreement not been incepted.
Lex has agreed to end the agreement, as such it should collect it at no cost to Ms C. If, on 
inspection, the car has exceeded the mileage permitted in the hire agreement or deems 
there are refurbishment costs outside fair wear and tear, it is within its rights to make 
appropriate charges. If Ms C feels these are unfair, this decision does not affect her right to 
make a separate complaint in this respect.
With regard to the credit agreement, because the car wasnt of satisfactory quality the 
redress includes removing the agreement as though it hadnt been incepted. This is 
relatively standard where a vehicle has been rejected but equally, Im satisfied that removing 
any adverse information from Ms Cs credit file and marking the account as settled will also 
ensure her credit file isnt impacted by this agreement.
In terms of the refund of the initial payment. I have considered the submission by Lex. It has 
given a detailed breakdown of the payment profile running in the background. Where 
rejection of the car has been agreed, we would also usually ask the business to return the 
deposit but here Lex has explained that its not a deposit but an initial payment thats 
spread across the lease period. It argues any refund should be on a pro-rata basis. So, Ive 
considered both Ms Cs and Lexs arguments in this respect. Theres no part of the 
agreement which talks about this being a deposit but rental. Lex has argued this should only 
be refunded on a pro-rata basis as this payment meant Ms Cs monthly payments were 
subsequently reduced. But Ive seen no other evidence  nor is there anything written in the 
hire agreement  that backs this up nor how any reduced payments work.
The original agreement was for 36 months, Ms C has reduced this to 24 months. But as 
were now just over 12 months through the hire agreement, I believe its fair and reasonable to ask Lex to repay half of that initial rental to Ms C plus 8% simple interest per year on the 
from the date it was paid to the date of settlement. 
I note the monthly instalments are also made up of a hire element and a service element. I 
havent distinguished between them, but rather I find it fair and reasonable that Lex refund 
10% of the monthly instalments for the impaired use Ms C has encountered. I appreciate Ms 
C would like a higher percentage refunded but after considering her use of the car I find this 
fair and reasonable to reflect her impaired use.
I remain of the view that Ms C has suffered significant trouble and upset, and I have 
awarded £200 in recognition of this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold Ms Cs complaint and direct Lex Autolease Ltd to: 
end the agreement with no further sums to pay except for mileage and refurbishment 
charges that may be applicable 
remove any adverse information regarding the agreement from Ms Cs credit file. 
refund half the initial payment of £1,366.99 paid on 4 November 2019 and add 8% simple 
interest from the time of payment to the date of settlement 
refund 10% of the monthly instalments that have been paid by Ms C and add 8% simple 
interest from the time of payment to the time of settlement 
collect the vehicle at no cost to Ms C
pay Ms C £200 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes suffered
Lex Autolease must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Ms 
C accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the £200 
from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If Lex Autolease considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Ms C how much its taken off. It should also give Ms C a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 January 2021.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman