DRN-3268698
The complaint
Mr T complains about Domestic & General Insurance Plcs (D&G) handling of his claim 
under his home contents insurance policy.  
Mr T is represented in his complaint, but I will refer to Mr T in my decision for ease of 
reading.
What happened
Mr Ts TV developed a fault. He made a claim to D&G, which it accepted and supplied a 
replacement TV to Mr Ts home in December 2020. 
Mr T says he couldnt arrange for someone to install the new TV until April 2021, because of 
the pandemic. He says the TV remained in its packaging untouched until this time. In April, 
when the box was opened, he noticed significant damage to one corner of the TV. 
Mr T reported this to D&G. It says because of the time he had taken to report the damage 
there was nothing it could do. It says its supplier needs to be informed within 48 hours of 
delivery of any problem. Mr T says he had no need to inspect the TV as it was wall mounted 
and he had no way of installing it. He says the TV is very heavy and its not reasonable to 
expect a 65-year-old man to be able to inspect for damage. 
D&G says as Mr T knew he wouldnt be using the TV for a prolonged period, this was more 
of a reason to have inspected it. It says it was Mr Ts responsibility to check the condition of 
the TV within a reasonable timeframe of it being delivered. Because of the significant period 
from delivery of the TV to damage being noticed, D&G says it cant replace the damaged TV.
Mr T wasnt happy with this outcome and referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He didnt think it was fair to hold D&G responsible 
for the damage when the TV had been in Mr Ts possession for over four months. He 
thought it was reasonable to expect Mr T to have opened the packaging and checked for 
damage much earlier.
Mr T disagreed but our investigator didnt change his view. Because of this Mr T asked for 
an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
Its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint. I appreciate this will be 
disappointing for him. But I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Mr T describes the TV having been delivered by two people in December 2020. They carried 
the box upstairs leaving the package on his landing. Because of its weight, and because no 
installer was available, Mr T says it remained in the same place until April 2021 when an 
installer did become available. 
I acknowledge Mr Ts comments that he didnt open the packaging because it was too 
heavy. And he had no need to do so until an installer was arranged in April 2021. But this did 
mean the damage to the TV wasnt identified for over four months.
I dont dispute Mr Ts account of events. But I must also consider that as the TV remained in 
his possession for a significant period, its possible the damage couldve occurred whilst he 
had it. D&G says its supplier requires any damage to be reported within 48 hours of delivery. 
Ive read through Mr Ts policy terms. I cant find reference to a timeframe within which 
damage goods should be reported. But I do think its reasonable for a customer to check a 
delivery so any damage can be identified and reported in a reasonable timeframe.  
If damage is reported within a short period of a delivery taking place then, in general, Id 
expect the business to accept responsibility. The longer the timeframe from delivery to 
damage being noticed, the more likely it is that damage couldve occurred whilst the goods 
were in the possession of the customer.
I have thought about Mr Ts explanation of why he didnt inspect the TV. He gives two 
reasons. Firstly, that there was no need, because he couldnt install the TV on its wall mount 
until an installer could be arranged. The other reason being that it was too heavy for him to 
be able to inspect. Whilst I acknowledge his reasons, I dont think its reasonable to expect 
D&G to provide a replacement TV. 
D&G doesnt have any evidence that the TV was damaged during the delivery and, as the 
damage wasnt discovered until over four months later, I think it was reasonable for it to 
reject Mr Ts claim.  
Essentially neither party can prove when or how the TV was damaged. But had Mr T 
inspected the TV, which I think is a reasonable expectation, within a reasonable timeframe 
he couldve identified any damage and D&G couldve arranged for a replacement. I 
acknowledge Mr T doesnt appear to have been made aware of the suppliers 48-hour 
timeframe for reporting damage. But regardless, the damage wasnt reported for over four 
months. I dont think its reasonable to hold D&G responsible for the damage given the long 
period the TV was in Mr Ts possession.  
Whilst I understand this will be disappointing for Mr T, I dont think D&G has behaved 
unreasonably. So, I wont be asking it to replace the TV.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman