DRN-3167407
The complaint
Miss R has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss R took out two loans with Barclays. The first was in August 2015 and was for £9,400. 
The second was in December 2017 for £14,700. But shes explained that she struggled to 
meet repayments, and felt Barclays lent to her irresponsibly  in particular, with the second 
loan.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened, but didnt agree that the lending 
was irresponsible. 
As regards the first loan, this had monthly repayments of £253.23. Miss Rs bank statements 
for the three months prior to taking out the loan show her salary was around £1,400 a month 
Her expenses were around £240, with around £50 being transferred to another account in 
her name. Accordingly, our investigator thought that Miss R had enough disposable income 
left to make the repayments comfortably.
Unfortunately, Miss R later became unemployed, and struggled to meet the repayments 
between February 2016 and August 2016. However, it seems this was an unexpected 
change in circumstances, which Barclays wouldnt have known about in advance. So, our 
investigator still felt the loan was affordable at the time it was taken out. 
As regards the second loan, this had monthly repayments of £378.29. Our investigator 
looked at Miss Rs bank statements for the three months before it was taken out. These 
showed she received an average of £1,462 from her employer. Her monthly expenses were 
around £212, and £300 was transferred into another account. So, our investigator was 
satisfied that Miss R had enough disposable income to meet the repayments. 
Our investigator also considered whether Barclays should have granted the second loan, 
given that Miss R had struggled with some repayments on the first. But she was satisfied the 
lending was reasonable, given that Miss R had maintained her repayments from August 
2016 onwards. Miss R also explained that she was on maternity leave when she made her 
second loan application, and Barclays should have realised this. Our investigator disagreed, 
as she didnt think Barclays could have known Miss R was going to go on maternity leave, 
unless shed told it. As the loan application was made online, a standard question regards 
any upcoming or recent changes in circumstances. 
In summary, our investigator was satisfied that proportionate checks would not have given 
Barclays any reason for concern. 
Miss R disagreed. She said that her husband covered most of her expenses, so her bank 
statements arent a true reflection. But our investigator said she didnt think this was 
relevant, as that was a private arrangement between Miss R and her husband.
The complaints now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator. Ill explain why.
Looking first at the first loan, Im satisfied that proportionate checks would have shown that 
Miss R had sufficient disposable income to meet the repayments. Barclays could not have 
known that Miss R would subsequently become unemployed, as it appears to have been an 
unexpected event. Accordingly, this would be later financial difficulty, rather than affordability 
issues at the time the loan was taken out. Further, Miss R was able to meet her repayments 
soon after, when she regained employment. As regards how Miss R and her husband 
divided expenses, this is a private arrangement. In the circumstances, I cant see any reason 
for Barclays to have had any concerns, and it would have been entitled to rely on what 
Miss Rs account showed.
Turning to the second loan, Im also satisfied that Barclays was reasonable to consider it 
affordable. As our investigator explained, Barclays would have had no reason to know about 
the maternity leave, as Miss R didnt declare any change in circumstances, from the 
evidence Ive seen. And although shed struggled with some repayments on the previous 
loan, that had been remedied well over a year before. So, I dont think it would have 
reasonably affected the second lending decision. Finally, again, any arrangement as to 
expenses was a private matter.
For these reasons, I dont consider that Barclays lent irresponsibly, based on appropriate 
checks. That said, if Miss R is experiencing financial difficulties, I would urge her to discuss 
this with Barclays, and I would expect it to respond positively and sympathetically.
My final decision
It is my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman