DRN-1741477
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them two payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies alongside their mortgages.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out a PPI policy alongside their mortgage in 1991. Mr and Mrs S paid for 
the PPI with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered both of them 
for accident, sickness and unemployment. The benefit was split 70:30 in Mr Ss favour.
Mr and Mrs S took out a new mortgage and a new PPI policy in 1999. This policy again 
covered accident, sickness and unemployment, but this time only Mr S was covered under 
the policy.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. They said they had excellent 
work benefits and savings, so wouldnt have taken PPI if given the choice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ss case.
I am not upholding Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why:
1991 PPI
This sale occurred nearly 30 years ago and the accounts involved have long since closed, 
so I think its understandable that neither Halifax nor Mr and Mrs S have the original 
paperwork going back that far.
Mr and Mrs S said they werent told that PPI was optional. I cant know what was discussed 
at the time. Ive taken into account what Mr and Mrs S recall about the circumstances of the 
sales. But I also need to be conscious that memories can, and do, fade over time, that 
PPI was sold a particularly long time ago, and that the sale of insurance is not often 
memorable. Ive thought carefully about whats most likely to have happened on each 
occasion based on the limited information I have.
It would have been a very serious failing for Halifax to have added the PPI without Mr 
and Mrs Ss permission, or to have misled them into thinking it was compulsory. But I dont 
have enough evidence to show thats what Halifax did here. Nor have I seen any wider 
problems with its sales process from around this time. It was too long ago for me to 
reasonably expect Halifax to be able to produce the documents from 1991 to defend itself 
now. So, I dont think I have a fair basis on which to conclude that Halifax misled Mr and    Mrs S. I think its more likely that it followed a relatively standard sales process, gave them a 
choice, and that they chose PPI at the time deciding to split the cover 70:30 between them 
as suited their needs even if, understandably, they no longer recall doing so after so long.
1999 PPI
Ive seen the separate PPI agreement Mr and Mrs S signed to take out PPI. This time only 
Mr S was covered under the policy, even though this was a joint mortgage. Also, I can see 
that they didnt select the other optional insurances, only PPI. So, I think it more likely that 
they decided to take out cover in the way that best suited their needs at the time of sale. 
Was PPI recommended to Mr and Mrs S?
On both occasions I think Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs S. That means 
Halifax had to check the policies were right for them. Halifax also had to give them enough 
clear and fair information to enable them to make an informed choice and decide whether 
they wanted to buy PPI. 
Based on what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances at the time, I think 
both PPI policies were suitable for them. Although only Mr S was covered under the 1999 
policy, as this was a joint mortgage, Ive taken into account Mrs S circumstances too when 
deciding if that policy was also suitable for both of their needs. Ill say why.
They were both eligible to take out PPI given their circumstances.
I cant see that either of them was affected by the main limitations or policy 
exclusions. So, as they couldve benefited from everything offered I cant see that 
having clearer information about the things the policies didnt cover wouldve affected 
their decision to buy PPI.
Mr S said he was entitled to the same amount of sick pay from his employer at the 
time both policies were sold; that was six months at full pay and six months at half 
pay. Mrs S said she couldnt remember how much sick pay she wouldve got in 1991, 
but by 1999 she was working for a different employer and was also eligible to get six 
months worth of pay at full pay and six months at half pay. The PPI wouldve paid 
out on top of their work benefits. The 1991 policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 
months per successful claim. The 1999 policy wouldve paid out for up to 24 months, 
which was considerably longer than Mr Ss work benefits wouldve covered him for. 
The policies also provided cover for involuntarily loss of employment. As a mortgage 
is a long term commitment, I think the PPI couldve provided them with useful 
protection in their circumstances as they could've made repeated claims on the 
policies. 
They said they had savings. PPI wouldve enabled them to use these to meet their 
other household expenses, particularly if one or both of them was receiving half pay 
or no pay at all.
They said their family wouldve helped out if they needed it. Whilst, I accept they may 
have wanted to assist, help of this kind cant always be guaranteed when the time 
comes, so I havent placed any reliance on this.
The policies appeared affordable. The first policy cost £12 per month for £400 per 
month of cover. The second cost £12.37 per month for £233.44 per month of cover. 
The separate cost of PPI was set out in the paperwork when they took out the 1999 
policy. I cant know what they were told about the costs and benefits in 1991, when 
they took out the first policy. The PPI was paid for monthly and it didnt attract 
interest. Also, Mr and Mrs S couldve cancelled the policy at any time without losing 
out financially. I can't see that the way they decided to split the cover was unsuitable 
for their needs.
 Its possible that the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs S about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. But as I explained above, they werent affected by any of the main 
things the policies didnt cover, and PPI couldve really been useful for them in case 
something went wrong. The policies were competitively priced given how much they would 
pay out in a claim. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr and Mrs S could 
cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely 
to have put them off taking out the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman