DRN-2535292
The complaint
Mr B complained that TM Advances Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr B took out a single loan from TM Advances in November 2017. He borrowed £1,500 and 
he agreed to pay the loan by making 36 monthly instalments of £152.92.
The loan was repaid in November 2020.
Mr B brought his complaint to us when he wasnt able to resolve it with TM Advances. 
In summary, Mr B didnt think that TM Advances had lent to him responsibly, taking account 
of his income and expenditure at the time and his financial history showing he wasnt 
creditworthy.
  
One of our adjudicators looked at what had happened. 
Our adjudicator thought that information TM Advances gathered about Mr Bs financial 
situation, which included a credit report, showed that Mr B was having problems managing 
his money. So our adjudicator thought it was unlikely he would be able to sustainably repay 
this loan.
Our adjudicator set out detailed directions indicating what TM Advances needed to do to put 
things right. 
TM Advances disagreed with our adjudicators view. It said that Mr Bs use of credit showed 
a clear reliance on high cost short term credit and that repeatedly using that type of credit 
leads to a cycle of taking loans, paying them off and then having to borrow again. 
TM Advances said the loan it provided wasnt a high cost short term credit loan. And the loan 
it provided was designed to help Mr B break that cycle by taking a loan over a longer term 
thus reducing his monthly credit commitment. 
TM Advances said it was almost impossible to break out of a cycle of high cost short term 
borrowing without using a loan of the type it provided to Mr B. And whilst it appreciated the 
number of loans Mr B had taken out and settled, that was more the result of him using high 
cost short term credit.
TM Advances asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint and so it comes to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can 
sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account things like the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, 
a proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done.
If proportionate checks were done and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think 
about whether theres any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For 
example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Ive kept all these things in mind and Ive thought carefully about the information TM 
Advances relied on when it decided to lend to Mr B. 
what checks did TM Advances do before agreeing to lend to Mr B?
TM Advances asked Mr B about his income and expenses and carried out credit checks -
and it sent this information to us. So Ive been able to see information that TM Advances 
relied on when it agreed to provide this loan to Mr B. 
TM Advances recorded Mr Bs income as £2,550 per month. When looking at what he could 
afford, TM Advances included an amount for his rent and other main living costs and allowed 
for Mr B spending £431 on other credit. Overall, TM Advances calculated Mr B shouldve 
had around £385 still available. 
On these figures, after paying his TM Advances loan, this meant that Mr B should still have 
had around £232 left to spend and available to cover other unexpected costs arising. 
So TM Advances felt this loan was affordable for Mr B.
what did the checks show? 
Like our adjudicator, I dont think that TM Advances properly took into account the 
information it was able to see on the credit checks it carried out when thinking about whether 
Mr B would be able to repay this loan in a way that was sustainable. 
I think that TM Advances could see from its credit check that Mr B had taken out at least five 
loans since the start of 2017  the majority of these in the last four or five months running up 
to this loan application. I think there was a clear pattern showing M B was borrowing from 
one lender to repay others, then shortly after taking further loans before attempting to consolidate again. Historic loan information showed this was an established borrowing 
pattern over a number of years. 
In addition, the credit checks showed Mr B had two credit cards both over their limit  the 
combined balance outstanding was more than £1,800. And he also had a mail order account 
with a credit limit of £575 with very little credit still available. 
I think all this information painted a picture of someone struggling to manage money 
problems effectively and it included clear warning signs that Mr B might be experiencing 
financial difficulty. 
I've taken into account that Mr B said the purpose of the TM Advances loan was to 
consolidate some loans  in other words, to pay off other debt in order to help reduce his 
monthly outgoings. 
And TM Advances told us that in discussions with Mr B it stressed to him the importance of 
his other loans being paid and not taken out again.
But Mr Bs recent borrowing track record suggested he was repeatedly borrowing  which 
TM Advances acknowledges. The fact Mr B had taken out several recent loans within the 
last 3 months looks to me like a sign he was having serious problems managing his money 
when he applied for this loan.
Although I accept that his TM Advances loan was repayable over a longer term than his 
other short term high cost credit loans, this isnt enough for me to say that it would likely be 
sustainably affordable for him.  
Mr Bs track record of borrowing suggested that debt consolidation couldnt be a guaranteed 
outcome of any lending  and TM Advances didnt take any steps to ensure that the loan it 
provided would be used for this purpose. 
It was paid direct to Mr B  so TM Advances had no control over what it was used for. 
And given his recent borrowing, TM Advances could see there was a real risk that Mr B 
might use this loan to help him meet his immediate needs, including loan repayments and 
not to repay loan balances with the risk that this loan would simply add to his existing debt.
Even if Mr B had used this loan to fully repay some existing debt, I dont think TM Advances 
had sufficient reason to think this wouldve improved his overall position sufficiently to 
achieve a significant and sustainable improvement in his financial situation  given his 
outstanding indebtedness overall. 
Based on all the information TM Advances had gathered, I dont think it was reasonably able 
to say that the loan was likely to be sustainable affordable for Mr B.
did TM Advances do proportionate checks? 
Ive explained why I think TM Advances shouldve realised that this loan wasnt likely to be 
sustainably affordable for Mr B and Ive concluded that. based on the information it could 
already see, TM Advances shouldnt have lent to him. 
Although it doesnt make a difference to my conclusions, I also think TM Advances provided 
this loan to Mr B without finding out information it shouldve done to check that it had a 
proper understanding of Mr Bs financial situation  given the discrepancy between what 
Mr B had said (or omitted to say) to TM Advances and what his credit report showed.The concerns Ive mentioned about this loan not being sustainably affordable are borne out 
by other information I've seen on bank statements Mr B sent to us showing that he was 
spending significantly on gambling transactions - and it looked to me like his reliance on 
short term high cost credit could be funding loans used to cover those payments. This is 
information which I think TM Advances couldve found out itself if it had done proportionate 
checks before agreeing to lend. And I think if it had sought a fuller picture of Mr Bs financial 
situation it wasnt likely to have been reassured that the loan would be sustainable for him. 
So for all these reasons, Im upholding this complaint.  
In coming to my decision Ive thought about Mr Bs request for an additional payment for 
distress and inconvenience. But, like our adjudicator, I think the steps I've set out below fairly 
and reasonably provide redress for his complaint. It appears that Mr B hasnt objected to 
what our adjudicator said about this so I dont think I need to say more. 
I've set out below what TM Advances should now do to put things right for Mr B.
Putting things right
TM Advances should take the following steps: 
A) refund everything Mr B paid over the principal loan amount and repay this to Mr B 
with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled
B) remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file in relation to the 
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TM Advances to deduct tax from this interest. 
TM Advances should give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he 
asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct TM Advances Limited to take the steps set out above to 
put things right for Mr B. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021. 
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman