DRN-3814498
The complaint
Mr G1 and Mr G2 complain that Vitality Health Limited (Vitality) unfairly refused to let Mr G 
use a practitioner of his choice when he needed treatment. They want Vitality to pay them 
higher compensation than Vitality has offered. 
What happened
This complaint largely concerns Mr G1. For ease of reading Ill refer to Mr G  but any 
references include Mr G2 as well.
Mr G holds an insurance policy that provides him with access to private medical treatment in 
certain circumstances.
Mr G had previously had some physiotherapy treatment. When he needed some more 
treatment, he contacted Vitality to get this authorised with the practitioner of his choice  the 
same physiotherapist hed used before. Vitality mistakenly told him he couldnt do that, but 
offered to source treatment from a different physiotherapist instead. Mr G had the treatment 
but complained about the way hed been treated  he says he was caused inconvenience 
and distress by having to use a different practitioner.
Vitality acknowledged it had made a mistake and offered to allow Mr G to have any further 
treatment with his physiotherapist of choice  and said it could authorise additional sessions 
if they were required. It offered to pay Mr G £25 to make up for its mistake.
Mr G says its too late to now offer him treatment with the original physiotherapist as hes 
part way through treatment.
Mr G doesnt think £25 is enough to make up for the way hes been treated, and refused this.  
We were asked to review his complaint.
Our investigator concluded that £25 was a fair offer given the circumstances. He noted that 
although Vitality did make a mistake, it didnt delay authorising treatment, even if it wasnt 
with Mr Gs preferred practitioner. He noted that Vitality had acknowledged its mistake and 
offered to put things right as well as offering the compensation. He thought that Vitality had 
made a fair offer given the level of inconvenience Mr G says hes suffered. 
Mr G doesnt agree so Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im going to uphold this complaint  but only for the purposes of asking Vitality to pay the 
£25 its already offered. Apart from that, I think Vitality did enough to correct its mistake.
Mr G says Vitality made a fundamental mistake and should know how to interpret its own 
policies. I have some sympathy with this view, but Im also aware that mistakes do happen, 
and how this one has been put right is important too.
Vitality acknowledged it gave Mr G the wrong information and that he should have been able 
to use the physiotherapist of his choice. To put matters right it apologised and offered to 
transfer him to his preferred physiotherapist. Mr G turned that offer down. I understand why 
he chose to do that as he was part way through treatment  but it was still what Id expect 
Vitality to do in these circumstances.
Im also satisfied that £25 is fair compensation for the trouble Mr G was put to. His treatment 
wasnt delayed even if it was with a practitioner he didnt know, and Ive seen no suggestion 
that his treatment has been inferior. Theres no guarantee in the policy that the same 
practitioner can be used every time theres a need for treatment, and I wouldnt expect there 
to be, as that could always be affected by circumstances outside Vitalitys control. 
I appreciate Mr G was inconvenienced by Vitalitys actions, but taking everything into 
account I think the offer of £25 is fair.
Putting things right
Mr G told us he hasnt been affected financially. So to complete putting things right Vitality 
should pay Mr G the £25 its already offered.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint, and I ask Vitality Health Limited to pay Mr G and 
Mr G £25
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman