DRN-2473925
The complaint
Mr W complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (Royal) wouldnt 
let him switch his stakeholder pension funds into the investment fund he wanted. He said he 
had lost out financially.
What happened
Mr W said he took out a pension policy in 2010. From the start all the correspondence was 
from the Royal. When the stock market began to fall in 2020, he phoned to change his 
investments. He wanted to invest in a gold fund but was told this wasnt available. He would 
need to change policy to access more funds than his policy offered but would need financial 
advice before making such a change. He was frustrated and didnt see why he couldnt have 
access to the same funds as other Royal pension holders. He said he had lost out financially 
because he couldnt invest in gold at that time. He was unhappy Royal didnt use live pricing 
for his funds and that his policy wasnt available online.
Royal said that Mr W had taken out a policy with a financial business, but it was 
administered by it. Itd bought this policy from them and now ran the policy, but the original 
policy terms were provided by that business and remained unchanged. The policy wasnt 
available to view online and had a limited number of fund choices which didnt include the 
fund Mr W wished to invest in. Mr W was referring to options available under another of its 
policies which was shown on its website, but he wasnt a member of that type of policy. This 
meant he couldnt access the broader selection of funds which included the one he wished 
to move into. If he wished to gain a broader range of pension options, he would need to 
transfer his policy to one that offered a broader range of choices. But he would need to take 
financial advice about that change.
The investigator said she didnt think Royal had acted unfairly. The original policy was not 
sold by Royal but another financial business so she couldnt hold it responsible for what he 
may have been told when he decided to take out the policy and any concern about that sale 
would need to be taken up with that business. 
Shed seen a copy of the key features and policy information he wouldve been given at the 
time of the sale which made clear there were only three funds to pick from. 
While Mr W was a Royal customer his policy terms werent the same as the example on their 
website. She could understand he felt he was a Royal member but his welcome letter from 
2010 made clear the policy was that of the business that sold it to him and not Royal. With 
respect to the need for financial advice, as he noted he didnt need advice to switch between 
the three funds, but he did if he wished to change policy. So Royal hadnt acted unfairly in 
refusing to allow him to switch to a fund not offered by his policy.
Mr W didnt agree. He felt the policy was mis sold and Royal had continued that mis selling. 
He felt the funds were quite narrow and left investors vulnerable to losses. 
He felt Royal shouldve been more transparent from the start, but they withheld information. 
He thought Royal acted unethically because he was led to believe he was a Royal customer 
and it should make sure he had access to all the funds its other members could use. Royal 
shouldve reminded him every year that he only had access to three funds. 
He felt mislead and was told he was a member and then told he wasnt. He felt deceived and 
that Royal hid behind a smokescreen. He didnt think the original three funds were stated in 
his original contract. He felt as though they wanted him to be financially ruined with such a 
narrow choice of funds. He felt that when Royal took over this contract the original became 
null and void. A mutual had to treat all customers equally but was blatantly discriminating 
against him. 
The investigator responded that any issues related to the original sale needed to be taken up 
with the financial business that sold it to him. They were not a party to this dispute. She 
couldnt consider any issues related to the sale as Royal wasnt involved in the sale. There 
was no evidence the plan terms had changed since they were issued and administered by 
Royal, but she invited Mr W to submit any evidence he had of this.
Mr W remained unhappy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are several issues that are being considered and I have considered each.
Who sold the original policy?
I have seen a copy of Mr Ws welcome letter for his new Stakeholder Pension Plan. It is 
dated in November 2010 and is on Royal notepaper. It confirms hed joined a Stakeholder 
Pension scheme, but it is in the name of another financial business. The papers I have seen 
say the Stakeholder Pension Plan is provided by Royal but brought to him in association with 
the other financial business. This explains why Royal are running the plan but didnt sell it to 
him.
It is clear from this that the policy wasnt sold to Mr W by Royal and any issues he has 
regarding the sale of that policy and any continued mis-selling that he believes is happening 
need to be taken up with that financial business and not Royal. 
However Royal is providing the pension scheme so it is involved in running it in accordance 
with the contract terms. It is for this reason it corresponds with Mr W rather than the 
business that sold the policy.
Mr W said he assumed he had joined the Royal and was a member because of the 
notepaper. He said all money went to the Royal. I can understand Mr Ws view as the 
communications sent to him are sent by Royal, but that doesnt change the fact the policy 
was sold to him by another business but operated by Royal. I have considered his point 
about being a Royal member in further detail below.
What the policy terms provide
Royal is responsible for providing the policy in accordance with the terms Mr W accepted 
when he took out the pension plan with the other business.I have seen a pension plan booklet which clearly sets out the investment choices. As Mr W 
says this is limited to three funds. I think Royal is operating the policy in accordance with the 
terms Mr W accepted. These terms didnt include the option of other investments such as he 
gold fund Mr W wished to use.
Mr W says he doesnt recall being told there were only three investment fund choices. I 
cannot comment on what Mr W was told at the time of the original sale. That is a matter that 
needs to be taken up with that business. But from the papers I have seen and were sent to 
Mr W there were only ever three funds on offer.
I can understand that Mr W would like to access his policy on line and have live prices, but it 
does not seem that this has been required for this policy. Provision of these services is a 
commercial decision for Royal and I cannot direct it to make Mr Ws policy available on line 
nor offer live prices.
Mr W also says that when Royal took over the policy the original shouldve become null and 
void. However, as I have said the pension policy was set up and provided by Royal, so its 
obligations under the policy have not changed and I dont think the policy is null and void.
Membership
Mr W says he is a member of the society so should get equal treatment. Mr W seems to be a 
member of Royal and a member of the pension scheme. 
I say Mr W seems to be a member of Royal because he supplied a copy letter from Royal 
confirming he would get a share of profit added to his policy. This seems to confirm that Mr 
W is a member of Royal. 
But which funds he can invest in is determined by the contractual terms of his policy. 
Membership of Royal doesnt mean that Mr W is entitled to the same contractual terms and 
investment choices offered to different members of different policies.
Royal like many other financial businesses providing pension policies will offer and have 
offered different types of policy over time. Each policy will have their individual terms set out 
in their policy documents. It is the original terms set out in the policy or scheme documents 
that determine what is offered. 
As Royal said if Mr W doesnt like the terms that limits the funds he can use, he has the 
option to change and take another policy with it or another financial business.
So, I dont think Royal has discriminated against Mr W by not allowing Mr W access to a 
fund which isnt offered under the contractual terms of his policy. Instead it has offered what 
was contractually agreed from the outset.
So, I dont think Royal has treated Mr W unfairly
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
 
Colette BewleyOmbudsman