The complaint
Miss J complains that Calpe Insurance Company Limited settled another drivers claim made 
on her motor insurance policy and wants her to pay these costs.
What happened
Miss J said her car tapped the rear of another car, but she said no damage was caused to 
either car and she took photographs at the time. She reported the incident to Calpe and it 
arranged for her car to be inspected. This confirmed that no damage was evident. Miss J 
said Calpe said if the other driver claimed, it would have his car inspected. 
But Miss J then found that Calpe had settled the other drivers claim for repairs to the 
bumper and hire costs. Calpe wanted her to pay for these costs as they were less than her 
£3,000 policy excess. Miss J was unhappy that Calpe hadnt contacted her about the claim 
and she refused to pay the policy excess. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought hidden 
damage could have been caused to the other car by the incident. He thought Calpe wasnt 
required to inspect the other drivers car. Miss J had admitted liability. So he thought Calpe 
was entitled to settle the claim to minimise costs. And he thought the policy excess was the 
first part of a claim to be paid, so Miss J should pay Calpes costs.
Miss J replied asking for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me 
for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Miss J feels frustrated that Calpe paid a claim when she thought no 
damage had been caused. As the investigator has explained, Calpe is entitled under the 
terms and conditions of its policy with Miss J to take over, defend, or settle a claim as it sees 
fit. Miss J has to follow its advice in connection with the settlement of a claim, whether she 
agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in motor insurance policies and I 
dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial decision about whether it is 
reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to compromise.
Miss J told Calpe that she rolled into the back of the other drivers car at very low speed. She 
said the driver had been driving erratically. But I think its reasonable for Calpe to consider 
the liability would still be with Miss J as she had to maintain a reasonable stopping distance 
between the cars.  
DRN-1273573Miss J thought Calpe should have inspected the other drivers car. She thought the damage 
claimed for may have been pre-existing, but I havent seen any evidence to show this. I can 
see from Calpes notes that when the hire provider for the other drivers insurer first notified it 
of the claim it asked to inspect the car. But this company didnt have authority to allow this. 
I can see that Calpe then received a repairs report from the repairing garage carried out the 
day following the incident. This didnt comment on the age or cause of the damage to the 
car. As the investigator explained, rear impacts can lead to hidden damage. 
But Calpe had its own engineer review the damage and costs before approving the repairs. 
It also reviewed the photographs Miss J provided. So I think its reasonable for Calpe to rely 
on this engineers report which shows damage consistent with the accident circumstances. 
As Calpe explained to Miss J, it then had no option but to settle the claim. The alternative 
would have been a dispute which may have incurred further costs. 
I think Calpes entitled to decide to settle the claim by the policy terms and conditions. I think 
it reasonably considered the evidence available before making its decision. So I cant say it 
acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
Having settled the claim, Calpe was entitled by the policy terms and conditions to ask Miss J 
to pay her policy excess. This was greater than Calpes outlay. So I cant say that its unfair 
or unreasonable for Calpe to ask Miss J to repay the full claim costs. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17July2020.
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman