DRN-2080261
The complaint
Miss P says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
Miss P bought the policy in 2000 at the same time as taking out a store card.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ps case.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ps complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Miss P says she doesnt remember agreeing to buy the PPI and she doesnt consider 
the person who sold it to her was qualified to sell it. The store assistant was acting on 
AXAs behalf which means AXA is responsible for the sale. 
Ive noted everything Miss P has said. The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what 
was discussed between Miss P and AXA when the policy was sold. Im also mindful 
that these events took place many years ago, and that exact recollections of what 
happened can fade over time. 
But I note that the credit agreement Miss P signed was completed to show that she 
wanted the PPI. I accept its possible PPI wasnt discussed when Miss P took out her 
store card, but its equally likely that it was  although I can understand why Miss P 
may no longer remember this.
Without anything else to support what Miss P has told me, I dont think I can fairly or 
reasonably say that AXA didnt make her aware the PPI was optional. 
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Miss P so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
her. That means it didnt have to ask about any other means Miss P might have had to 
cover her repayments.
But even if AXA had recommended the policy, it doesnt look as though it was 
unsuitable for Miss P based on what Ive seen on her circumstances at the time. Miss 
P has said she was entitled to sick pay from her employer, but the policy wouldve paid 
out in addition to those benefits and would do so, it seems, for longer. 
Miss P has also mentioned savings that she and her partner had. But I understand 
they were saving for their first home, so I cant be sure this money wouldve been 
readily available to Miss P if things went wrong.
So on balance, I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Miss P despite 
her existing arrangements.
Its possible the information AXA gave Miss P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But its unlikely Miss P would have been affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a 
reasonable benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped her buying it. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman