DRN-3312867
The complaint
Mr S has complained that a car he acquired using finance from RCI Financial Services 
Limited (RCI) is not of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In November 2020, Mr S entered into a finance agreement for a second-hand car, with 
around 5,000 miles on the clock. But hes explained that after four months the car wouldnt 
start, and he was told by the breakdown service that there was an electrical fault. However, 
when the car was taken to the dealership, no faults were found. This then happened again, 
and Mr S provided a video recording of it. But again, the dealership couldnt find an issue.
Mr S wanted to reject the car, as he says he cant trust it will start, so has little use of it. 
Unhappy with RCIs response, he complained to our service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. In summary, she considered it was 
likely there was a fault with the car. When it was supplied to Mr S, it was around eight 
months old and had travelled about 5,000 miles. He has supplied a number of breakdown 
reports, diagnostic tests, videos and photos of warning lights. These included:
a report dated 11 February 2021, showing Mr S had covered around 600 miles in 
three months. Although the engineer could start the car, there were multiple fault 
codes;
a video of the car not recognising the key and failing to start, dated 26 February 
2021;
a breakdown report dated 27 February 2021, saying there was an intermittent fault, 
and which highlighted numerous faults; and
photos of numerous dashboard warning lights timestamped 27 February 2021.
RCIs position was that the dealership hadnt found any faults. Instead, it said the fault codes 
related to historic faults. It also said that once the battery had been charged, it had corrected 
the battery fault.
Mr S then provided a diagnostic report, dated 29 September 2021, which found numerous 
fault codes. Mr S also said the car had often been cutting out in stationary traffic.
RCIs response to this was, in summary, that the report was provided from a hand-held 
diagnostic tool, not used by an authorised dealership. It didnt think the report was 
sufficiently specific, or that it ruled out historic fault codes. It felt the issues were likely due to 
Mr S not using the car enough, so the battery wasnt charged.
The investigator considered this. But she thought that, on balance, there was an intermittent 
fault with the car. She thought this because in February 2021, Mr S had to call breakdown 
services twice. He'd covered 600 miles in the three months of having the car, and although 
this is lower than average, she wouldn't expect the battery to die within three months on a 
fairly new car. Further, the second time it broke down in February, Mr S had covered another 
100 miles within a few weeks. 
As the investigator didnt think the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied, she 
considered what the impact of this was  and what should happen next. She recommended 
that RCI:
end the agreement with nothing further to pay;
collect the car (if this has not been done already) at no further cost to Mr S;
refund Mr Ss deposit/part exchange contribution of £750;
refund one monthly repayment to account for the period March 2021 to April 2021, 
when the car was in the dealership;
refund 20% of the monthly repayments made from February 2021 (excluding the 
month set out above), to the date of settlement, to reflect impaired use of the car;
pay 8% simple yearly interest on all refunded amounts from the date of payment until 
the date of settlement;
pay a further amount of £250 for distress or inconvenience; and
remove any adverse information from Mr Ss credit file in relation to the agreement.
Subsequently, the investigator also recommended that RCI:
refund the cost of the diagnostic report Mr S had carried out, if any, plus 8% simple 
yearly interest, from the date Mr S paid until the date of settlement; and
refund any admin cost Mr S incurs for cancelling his car insurance policy, or moving it 
to a different vehicle.
RCI disagreed. It maintained that the issues were caused by Mr Ss low mileage, resulting in 
the battery not being sufficiently charged. It said this could generate multiple fault codes, and 
that the codes were historic.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator. Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute that there are issues with the car. Rather, it boils down to whether the 
issues are caused by a fault (or faults) with the car  or by Mr Ss low mileage, meaning the 
battery is not fully charged. RCI has said this could create multiple fault codes.
Like the investigator, I am not persuaded, on balance, that a low battery is the problem. 
Although Mr Ss mileage was below average, I dont think it was particularly low. Ive seen 
nothing to persuade me that a relatively new car would experience such issues, simply because mileage is lower than average. Further, when the faults occurred for the second 
time, it was very shortly after the first and Mr S had covered around 100 miles in that time, 
which isnt insignificant. RCI says that the issues were corrected after the battery was 
charged. If that were the case, Id not have expected them to recur so soon after, when Mr S 
had driven around 100 miles.
Given that the faults happened so soon after Mr S took possession of the car, it is for RCI to 
show that it was of satisfactory quality when supplied. Im not satisfied it has shown this. As 
explained, I do not find the explanation regarding the battery persuasive.
Putting things right
For the reasons given above, Im satisfied that Mr S should have been allowed to reject the 
car. Therefore, I agree with the redress the investigator suggested, which aims  as far as 
possible  to put Mr S in the position hed have been in, had the agreement not been 
entered into.
I am also satisfied that RCI was unfair in not allowing him to reject the car. This caused 
distress and inconvenience, as Mr S has felt unable to trust using the car as hed have 
wanted. Im satisfied that £250 compensation fairly reflects this.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint. I require RCI Financial Services Limited to:
end the agreement with no further instalments to pay;
collect the car at no further cost to Mr S;
refund Mr Ss deposit/part exchange contribution of £750;
refund one monthly repayment to account for the period March 2021 to April 2021, 
when the car was in the dealership;
refund 20% of the monthly repayments made from February 2021 (excluding the 
month set out above), to the date of settlement, to reflect impaired use of the car;
refund the cost of the diagnostic report Mr S had carried out, if any, upon him 
providing evidence of this payment;
pay 8% simple yearly interest on all refunded amounts from the date of payment until 
the date of settlement;
pay a further amount of £250 for distress or inconvenience; 
remove any adverse information from Mr Ss credit file in relation to the agreement; 
and
refund any admin cost Mr S incurs for cancelling his car insurance policy, or moving it 
to a different vehicle. Mr S should provide evidence of the charge if/when he incurs it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman