DRN-2732379
The complaint
Mr B has complained about Berkshire Hathaway International Insurance Ltds (BHII) 
handling of a claim on his motor insurance policy.
Reference to BHII includes its agents.
What happened
In April 2020 Mr Bs car was damaged in what appeared to be an attempted theft of it or from 
it outside his home in the early hours of the morning. Mr B said he saw people interfering 
with his car but they ran away when a light came on. He said he put his porch light on and 
looked outside. He said the car looked OK and the alarm hadn't gone off. So he didn't take 
any action at that time. But in the morning a significant amount of damage to his car became 
apparent.
Mr B claimed on his policy. BHII said the car was a total loss. It initially told Mr B it would 
settle his claim for the cars market value of £11,350.09. It later told him that it was refusing 
to pay the claim. However, as it had already sold the cars salvage, it paid him the £6,408.17 
it had received for that.
Mr B brought his complaint about  BHIIs handling of the claim to us. One of our  
investigators looked into it. She didn't think BHII had dealt with Mr B fairly. So she said it 
should:
settle the claim for the market value of the car, less the amount BHII had already 
paid to Mr B for the salvage;
add simple interest to its settlement;
pay Mr B £200 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
Mr B accepted our investigators assessment of the complaint, BHII didn't so it's been 
passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm going to uphold it. 
Mr B's claim and complaint has been ongoing for some considerable time. And during that 
period many detailed points have been raised by both sides. But in this decision I don't 
intend to address each and every issue raised. Instead I will focus on what I see as being 
the key outstanding issues following BHIIs reply to our investigators assessment of the 
complaint.
When and where did Mr B buy the car?
When it was looking into Mr Bs claim BHII noted some inconsistencies in relation to who the   
registered keeper of the car was. And it believed Mr Bs answers to its questions indicated 
that Mr B was lying about his claim.
Mr B had insured the car with BHII in September 2019 but the registration documents 
showed Mr B hadnt become its registered keeper until January 2020. Mr B said this was 
because the seller of the car hadn't sent off the V5 (the log book) details to DVLA. Mr B said 
hed had to apply for the V5 himself. And when DVLA had sent this to him it had recorded 
the change of keeper date as the date of application rather than the date he bought it. BHII 
didn't believe Mr B and thought he was lying about when hed acquired the car.
I can see why the difference in date on the V5 might have caused BHII to want to know if 
Mr B had been the registered keeper of the car at the date he took out the policy. Although 
theres no doubt he was its registered keeper at the date of claim. Similarly theres no doubt 
that Mr B had paid his premium since September 2019 when he says he bought the car. So 
Its reasonable to conclude that he had use of the car since then. 
Mr B has provided other evidence that he owned the car since September 2019. Some of 
this would be easy to fabricate, such as a hand-written receipt for the cars sale. But that 
doesn't mean Mr B didn't actually buy the car when he said he did. Private sales of cars 
don't usually come with a formal invoice, so a hand-written sale note isnt unusual. 
Mr B also had a receipt showing hed paid to tax the car in September 2019. BHII has 
suggested that as the taxation receipt doesn't show Mr Bs name someone else could have 
taxed it. But, the car was clearly in Mr Bs possession, otherwise he had no reason to insure 
it (and BHII accepted the premium and the risk for that); he had a receipt showing it had 
been taxed, and while this didn't give his name if it wasn't his (bearing in mind he was driving 
the car and had the benefit of it), why should someone else tax the car? So I'm satisfied that 
this is evidence that Mr B had bought the car as he said he did in September 2019.
Further, while weve been considering the complaint, Mr Bs provided letters from DVLA 
which show that hed been the cars registered keeper from September 2019 and the car has 
been taxed until his claim. Mr Bs told us that he had problems getting DVLA to answer his 
queries and he had to write to it on a number of occasions, which is why he couldn't provide 
that information sooner. I think Mr Bs account is entirely plausible. And whether or not he 
followed the correct DVLA process in having the car registered in his name is immaterial as 
to whether or not his claim was genuine. So I don't think the V5 discrepancy was any reason 
for BHII to decline Mr Bs claim.
BHII also asked Mr B who he bought his car from. Mr B said he saw an advert online for it 
and a man, who I'll refer to as Mr A, sold him the car and took Mr Bs old car as part 
exchange. Mr B provided Mr As address. BHII said that one of its agents had visited the 
address Mr B had given but the residents of that address said that they didn't know Mr A and 
he hasn't ever lived there. BHII says this means that Mr B misled it as to who had sold him 
the car and he hadn't provided an explanation for this. 
However, I think theres likely to be a very simple - and perhaps obvious - explanation. For 
example Mr B, or BHII, might have simply made a mistake with the number of Mr As house. 
I think its worth noting that the address BHII visited had a house number ending in a 2. 
However, Mr B had kept a section of the V5 for the car he part-exchanged, which gives Mr 
As address, but that seems to show the house number ends in a 7 not a 2. So it's 
possible BHII visited the wrong address. And in any event it's not in doubt that Mr B was the registered keeper of the car at the time of the incident or that he'd paid a premium to insure it 
since September 2019. So where the seller of the car lived isn't material to the 
circumstances of Mr Bs claim.
Further, BHII noted that, some five months before the claim, Mr Bs car had failed its MOT. 
BHII said Mr B hadn't provided evidence of the repairs to the significant engine damage 
required to get the car through its MOT. BHII said that could call into question the cars 
valuation, which would be a motive for fraud.
I dont agree. The car failed its MOT because its check engine warning light was on. This is 
a straightforward MOT fail. But a check engine warning light can appear for numerous 
reasons and it doesn't automatically mean that a car has suffered significant engine 
damage. Indeed the light can come on because of some fairly minor issues. And Mr Bs 
explained that he took the car to a garage which diagnosed a sensor issue, which was then 
replaced. That seems an adequate explanation.
Further, the cars MOT history shows it passed its test a couple of weeks after initially failing 
it. So clearly, at the time of the second test, the engine warning light was no longer showing. 
In other words the problem had been fixed. So BHII was fully aware that the car had been 
repaired before the claim. And if it had any doubts about that it could have asked its 
engineers to examine the car when it took it in to be assessed and decided it was a total 
loss. Theres simply no evidence that the car had suffered some calamitous engine damage 
that would motivate Mr B to make a fraudulent damage or theft claim. 
Mr Bs account of the incident
BHII said there have been inconsistencies in Mr B's account of the incident. For example it 
said that in a phone call with it Mr B said there had been four people involved in the 
attempted theft. But at other times hes said there were only two individuals involved. I 
haven't listened to the call in which BHII recorded that Mr B said there were four individuals 
involved in the theft to see if that's been accurately reported. But assuming that it is I don't 
find this inconsistency to be damning evidence that Mr B has made up the entire story. The 
incident took place late at night and in the dark and in those circumstances there might 
always be scope to have doubts about exactly whats been witnessed. And some 
inconsistencies in accounts over time is to be expected. 
Also, BHII said that information Mr Bs wife gave to us about the theft circumstances don't 
include all the detail that Mr B had referred to. For example things like a thief standing on the 
cars bonnet or having a crowbar. BHII said this is a glaring inconsistency. But I disagree. 
We didn't ask Mr Bs wife to give us a blow-by-blow account of what happened. We simply 
asked Mr B for an explanation of why he didn't call the police immediately. And in answering 
that point his wife explained to us why she didn't want Mr B to go outside. She added that 
she didn't think the police would be interested in attending. So I'm simply not persuaded that 
any omissions from anything Mr Bs wife said to us is a glaring inconsistency that merits 
Mr B's claim being declined. The fact that Mr B and his wife chose not to call the police at 
the time of the incident might not have been everyones choice of action, but I don't find it 
was so unreasonable as to call into question the circumstances of the claim.
Similarly, BHII said it would have expected Mr B to check for damage to his car immediately 
but he didn't do so. But BHII seems to be comparing what its staff would do with what Mr B 
chose to do at the time. And it seems to think any difference in actions from what its own 
staff would do means that Mr B isn't telling the truth. However, Mr Bs explained that he 
looked out of the window, and, at that time - late at night - the car looked OK and the alarm hadnt gone off. And his wife didn't want him to go outside in the middle of the night. So he 
didn't go. I don't find anything untoward about Mr Bs version of events. 
Equally, BHII has noted that Mr Bs wife told us that theyd been through some troubling 
times which was why she didn't want him to go outside. BHII has said if it had known about  
these troubling times it would have investigated those. We haven't explored with Mr B what 
these troubling times actually were. Mr B has told us about some personal heartaches he 
and his wife have suffered prior to the claim, which have no bearing whatsoever on the 
circumstances of it. So I wouldn't have expected him to share that information with BHII. In 
contrast BHII has said that Mr Bs withholding of this information has denied it the 
opportunity to investigate the information withheld. I don't know what information BHII thinks 
Mr B has withheld, or why that might be relevant to his claim. But, as I've said above, I don't 
think there was any reason for Mr B to share his personal issues with BHII. So I don't agree 
that hes withheld information.
BHII has said that its concerns are linked to the actual damage to the car. As the thieves 
have damaged large parts of it. I accept the motivation for the damage to the car might not 
have been theft but something malicious like vandalism. But Mr Bs policy also covers 
vandalism claims. So if Mr Bs car was damaged by vandals rather than thieves BHII would 
be in the same position of paying Mr Bs claim for his damaged car. And the question of why 
someone would want to damage Mr Bs car as they did could only be answered by the 
people who inflicted the damage. I don't think Mr B can be expected to know what the 
motivation for that was anymore than BHII can. I certainly don't think that because the nature 
of the damage isn't consistent with a straightforward attempted theft means that the claim 
isn't genuine. 
It follows that I don't think it was fair for BHII to decline Mr Bs claim. So I think it should pay 
him the cars market value which was £11,350.09, less the amount it paid him for the 
salvage - £6,408.17, which leaves a balance owing of £4,991.92. It should add simple 
interest to that sum, at a rate of 8% a year, from the date of claim to the date it pays him.
Selling the salvage and compensation
After BHII decided Mr Bs car was a total loss BHIIs salvage agents sold it. BHII has 
acknowledged this shouldn't have happened. The car wasn't theirs to sell, so this wasnt fair.  
And, as BHIIs handling of the complaint has been a source of distress and inconvenience 
for Mr B, I think it should pay him £200 compensation.    
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Berkshire Hathaway 
International Insurance Ltd to:
Pay Mr B £4,991.92 to settle his claim for the loss of his car. It should add simple 
interest to that sum at a rate of 8% a year, from the date of claim to the date it pays 
him1.
Pay Mr B £200 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
1 If BHII considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give him a certificate showing this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman