DRN-1974850
 
The complaint
Mrs and Mr D complain that Northern Bank Limited trading as Danske Bank (Danske Bank) 
has asked them to open a business account, which they will need to pay a fee for. Mrs and 
Mr D feel this goes against a previous agreement they had with the bank about not having to 
pay fees.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mrs and Mr D run a business and were receiving payments for it into their personal 
account. The terms of that account do not allow it to be operated in such a manner 
and therefore Mrs and Mr D were asked to open a business banking account.  I dont 
think this was an unreasonable action for Danske Bank to take. However, the issue 
here is the business account incurs a fee where the personal account does not.
Mrs and Mr D say the agreement they wouldnt pay any fees for the rest of their lives 
was made verbally, but they dont have any written confirmation of this. Danske Bank 
has said it has no record of such an agreement and the person Mrs D says she 
spoke to in 2004, no longer works for the bank. It has also said that any such 
agreement would require a multi-level approval and would be confirmed in writing.  
Mrs D used to work for Danske Bank and is noted on its system as being staff as she 
is still entitled to staff benefits. One of which is fee free package accounts. Danske 
Bank have said staff benefits dont extend to business accounts. 
Based on the evidence available to me, I think there may have been a conversation 
about not paying fees. But I cant say with any certainty to what extent that was and 
there is no evidence available from the time which confirms it went further than the 
staff benefits Mrs D was entitled to receive. Danske Bank acted reasonably in asking 
Mrs and Mr D to open a business bank account. And, as that type of account doesnt 
form part of the staff benefits package, I dont think Danske Bank have done anything 
wrong in charging Mrs and Mr D a fee for it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I reject Mrs and Mr Ds complaint against Northern Bank Limited 
trading as Danske Bank.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 July 2020.
 

Alison Gore
Ombudsman