DRN-3865208
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) restricted his accounts which 
meant he couldnt access the funds contained within them. During this time NatWest 
wouldnt give him any indication as to what was happening and why it had done this.
 
This decision focuses on Mr Hs sole accounts. Im aware Mr H also had joint accounts 
impacted by this same matter and this will be addressed in a separate decision. 
What happened
Mr Hs accounts were blocked on 6 October 2021. 
Following the block Mr H couldnt access his accounts online and see the balances and 
transactions on his accounts. When calling NatWest to query what was going on he was told 
they couldnt discuss the matter with him, and hed need to wait for a call from the central 
office to find out more. He says he wasnt given a timeframe for this. 
Mr H complained straight away, and NatWest issued a final response on 11 October 2021. 
In this it confirmed it hadnt made an error in blocking Mr Hs accounts and it had followed all 
its internal processes and procedures correctly. It explained it didnt have to share its 
reasons for blocking his accounts with him. It told him the block would remain in place for 
now and it would be in touch in due course but couldnt provide a timescale for this. 
The account restriction was lifted on 14 October 2021 and Mr H was able to access his 
accounts and money after this date.
Mr H referred his complaint to our service explaining that the block had left his family 
destitute with no money to buy food or pay bills as money was stuck in the blocked 
accounts. When asked about the impact, he explained that he didnt have any substantial 
losses to recover but was more aggravated by how NatWest could do this to customers and 
would want to prevent it happening to anyone else.
Our investigator upheld Mr Hs complaint. She explained that NatWest hadnt provided 
enough information for her to conclude it had blocked Mr Hs accounts fairly on this 
occasion. She recommended it pay Mr H £50 in recognition of the impact the block had on 
him. Despite NatWest not agreeing with the investigators findings, it agreed to pay the £50. 
However, Mr H remained unhappy. He explained the amount doesnt reflect the stress and 
damage caused to him. 
Because Mr H disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest has a wide range of legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when providing
account services to its customers. These obligations are ongoing so dont just apply at
account opening stage. To comply with these obligations, it may need to review accounts
and the activity taking place on them. Sometimes these reviews will lead to the accounts
being blocked. If NatWest didnt do this, it could risk serious sanction. 
NatWest isnt under any obligation to reveal to a customer why it blocked an account. This 
information is often commercially sensitive. So, I dont think NatWest did anything wrong in 
not communicating its reasons for blocking the accounts to Mr H at the time of the block, or 
since. 
However, NatWest does need to provide information to this service so we can fairly decide a 
complaint. NatWest hasnt done so on this occasion, and it means I cant fairly and 
reasonably conclude it has complied with the legal and regulatory obligations when blocking 
Mr Hs accounts. 
Ive considered what NatWest has said about why it wont provide further information to our 
service about the reasons for the block on Mr Hs accounts. This service has the power to 
request evidence of this nature under the dispute resolution rules (DISP) and Im not 
persuaded the reasons given by NatWest exclude it from complying with these rules.  
Taking this into account, I agree NatWest should pay Mr H compensation for the trouble and 
upset he faced by having his accounts blocked. 
NatWest agreed to pay £50 as recommended by our investigator. Whilst I appreciate Mr H 
thinks he should receive more; I dont feel this would be warranted in the circumstances. I 
dont dispute being unable to access or view his accounts for just over a week wouldve 
been distressing, but Mr H himself has said he didnt suffer any substantial losses as a result 
of the block, and I can see from the statements Ive reviewed that these accounts werent 
used for everyday expenses. Instead, Mr H is frustrated that NatWest would do this to a 
customer and so I feel for this frustration and the worry caused, £50 is fair and reasonable.  
Putting things right
I direct NatWest to pay Mr H £50 for the worry and frustration caused by blocking his 
accounts.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint against National Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Sarah Brimacombe
Ombudsman