DRN-2726964
The complaint
Mr M complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as Very refused his 
application for a credit account, having initially approved it. He wants compensation and
reports of the credit checks to be removed from his credit file.
What happened
Mr M tells us that on 27 October 2020 he made application to open a credit account with 
Very. And that he was initially approved for a credit limit of £750. Mr M explains that the 
account was opened and he ordered some Christmas presents. He says later that day he 
received a phone call from Very regarding enhanced security checks. And that he was then 
advised that his application had been declined. Mr M says his credit record has been 
adversely affected by the checks.
Very told us that during enhanced security checks it had come to light that there was a 
CIFAS marker on Mr Ms credit record. And that hed been told that this would need to be 
resolved before Very could look at his application again. It suggested he should make a 
Subject Access Request (SAR) to CIFAS.
 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said that Very 
had explained to Mr M why it had declined his application. And had informed him that if hes 
able to resolve the issue with the CIFAS marker then it would reconsider his application. He 
said that as the application had been made, Very was entitled to report this to the Credit 
Reference Agencies (CRA) as it was an accurate statement.
Mr M didnt agree with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr M would be disappointed when he discovered that his application for 
credit had been refused. And particularly so when it had at first seemed to be accepted.
Just as consumers are able to choose which business to use, so lenders have the discretion 
to accept or decline applications for credit from potential borrowers. And they dont always 
have to offer a reason if an application is declined.
Here, Very explained to Mr M that his credit record contained a CIFAS marker and that this 
was why his application had failed. Briefly summarised, CIFAS is an agency that seeks to 
protect both businesses and consumers against fraud. Theres a large number of reasons 
why a marker might be applied. And Ive not been informed why it was in this case. But I 
understand that Mr M has made a SAR. And once hes received the information, he may be 
able to take steps to resolve it.
In terms of the effect on Mr Ms credit file I dont find that Very has done anything wrong. A 
business which reports to CRAs must ensure that it reports fair and accurate information. 
And that includes the details of checks that were made.
I appreciate that Mr M believes that it shouldve been highlighted before he made the 
application that credit could be revoked at any time.  But Ive checked the Very website and 
Ive seen that on the webpage at the start of the application process it states that credit is 
provided subject to credit and account status. 
And the credit agreement which Mr M electronically signed did set out  particularly at 
clauses 18 and 19  that Very could suspend or terminate the agreement.
So Im satisfied that Mr M knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that the account could 
be terminated at Verys discretion at any time.
Finally, Im aware there was a degree of uncertainty caused as confirmation emails and 
letters were sent even after the application had been declined. And I asked our investigator 
to get Very to explain why these were sent. Very have replied and said that this resulted 
from an automated process following an account application. 
In summary, I empathise with Mr M and his disappointment in having his application refused 
in these circumstances. But I dont find that Very has done anything wrong. And its advised 
Mr M on what steps he can take which might allow a future application to proceed. 
Accordingly, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman