DRN-1765121
 
The complaint
Mrs C says Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 2001. Mrs C recalls she applied on the 
phone but the bank's records show it was online. The policy was taken out at the same time 
as Mrs C applied for an Egg credit card. It gave her accident, sickness and unemployment 
cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagreed so the complaint was passed 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs C says she didn't request or consent to PPI being added to her account.  Mrs C applied 
for the PPI online, there's no record that she had any direct contact with the bank. Canada 
Square Operations has provided Mrs C's application report. This shows the answers she 
gave and the choices she made when she applied for the Egg credit card online. It shows 
she ticked the box on the screen indicating she wanted to take out PPI, agreeing with the 
statement that by ticking the box she was confirming shed read and agreed to the terms and 
conditions of the PPI. The option to decline PPI was set out with equal prominence on the 
screen.
I have thought about Mrs C's comments carefully, but overall I think the balance of evidence 
shows Canada Square Operations made it clear the PPI was optional, and Mrs C agreed to 
take it out. I can understand she might not recall this given how long ago the sale was. 
Canada Square Operations didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs C, so it didnt have to check if 
it was suitable for her. It was up to Mrs C to decide whether the policy was right for her, 
bearing in mind her ability to make her credit card repayments if she was sick or lost her job.
Its possible Canada Square Operations didnt give Mrs C all the information about the PPI 
that she needed before she made her decision. But Mrs C chose to take out the policy and 
so appears to have wanted this type of cover. It seems she wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations. The policy was fairly priced in the market and offered a competitive 
benefit level. If Mrs C was sick the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 months for all 
successful claims, and she's told us she was only entitled to statutory sick pay. It also gave her up to 12 months' redundancy cover. She said her husband could have helped, and she 
could've returned to her previous job, but that's not suitable alternative protection. It's not 
guaranteed and circumstances can change. The credit card was in her name, so she was 
solely responsible for the debt. Overall, I think it unlikely Mrs C wouldve made a different 
decision if better information had been provided.
It follows I don't think Mrs C has lost out because of any problems with the sale.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman