DRN-4095079
The complaint
Mr I complains about how esure Insurance Limited handled his claim on his home insurance 
policy. 
What happened
Mr I had a home insurance policy that was underwritten by esure. In February 2022 he made 
a claim after a survey of the property had identified subsidence. 
esure set up a video call with Mr I and accepted the claim. However it said as the trees that 
were likely causing the issue had already been removed and there seemed to be no signs of 
further movement, then they could move straight to remedial repairs.
However Mr I had concerns about some drains near the property, as his survey had 
recommended they were inspected as another possible cause of the issues. He asked esure 
to inspect these but it declined. 
Due to this Mr I instructed his own experts to do the work but he was unhappy with the 
standard. He contacted esure again and it agreed to cover the costs of the work hed had 
done and to attend to the property to review the outstanding work. It sent a contractor in 
August 2022.
However by December 2022 no progress had been made and Mr I made a complaint. In 
response, esure offered £200 compensation to apologise for some delays. Mr I was unhappy 
with this and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. She said 
she thought esure had done very little to assist Mr I and this has caused him unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience. She thought it should pay an additional £550 compensation to 
apologise for this. She also thought it should reimburse him for the work hed had completed 
so far and pay 8% simple interest to make up for time hed been without the funds.
Mr I accepted our investigators outcome. However esure didnt. It said it would pay a total of 
£500 compensation but said Mr I had caused some delays himself so didnt think it should 
be held responsible for these. It asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When an insurance claim is made, its first for the insured to show that theres been an 
insured peril  thats something thats covered by the insurance policy. Its then for the 
insurer to either accept the claim or show an exclusion applies.
Here Mr I provided his own report that showed there was an insured peril  subsidence. And 
esure subsequently accepted the claim. 
Subsidence is a complex issue and can be due to a number of different factors that influence 
the soil. On accepting a claim for subsidence wed expect an insurer to first identify the 
cause of the damage and remove or mitigate it. Wed then expect it to check this had solved 
the issue  this is usually done by carrying out a minimum of six months monitoring.
Here, esure carried out a video call to look at the damage. As well as reviewing the report 
from Mr Is expert. It noted some nearby trees had already been removed and Mr I said he 
didnt think thered been further movement. 
However movement of a property isnt always visible to a customer from just observing the 
cracks.  In order to be sure a property has stopped moving, proper monitoring for a good 
period of time is required. So I dont think esure did enough at this stage.
Further Mr Is report stated as follows:
Repairs are likely to include some underpinning, although this should be a last resort. A 
period of monitoring is likely to be required to see if the issue is progressive.
So it was clear that monitoring should take place in order to check the problem had been 
mitigated. The report also said:
The condition of this drain should be investigated. Any drains to the rear should also be 
included in this investigation as they may have been damaged by tree roots.
As well as influence from vegetation, leaking drains can also be a cause of subsidence. And 
as the report made clear that these should also be investigated, its unclear why esure 
thought it suitable to move straight to remedial repairs without exploring this. Or why it 
declined to investigate the drains even when Mr I asked it to. 
Mr I has said that since the complaint has come to this service esure is now carrying our 
further investigations. But this has to wait until monitoring of the property has been 
completed. While Im pleased to hear proper checks are now being carried out on the 
property, if monitoring had been instructed straight away in February 2022 the claim would 
be much further forward at this stage. And its unclear why esure didnt take this action at the 
time. 
Due to this, it has caused a delay to the claim of many months. While progress was made, 
this was only due to Mr I instructing his own contractors and his constant chasing of esure. 
This has been both distressing and inconvenient for him and has likely added at least six 
months onto a subsidence claim that could have been avoided. 
Due to this, I agree with our investigator that esure should pay Mr I an additional £550 to 
make a total of £750 compensation to apologise for the poor service and subsequent delays 
it has caused. 
I also agree that it should reimburse Mr I for all claim related costs he has incurred on receipt 
of proof of these costs. And it should pay 8% simple interest from the date he paid for these 
until the date settlement is paid.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Is complaint and direct esure Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mr I a total of £750 compensation.Reimburse Mr I for claim related costs he has incurred adding 8% simple interest to 
the amounts from the date he paid for them until the date settlement is paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman