DRN-2658659
The complaint
Mr A is complaining about the mis-sale of an over-50s life assurance policy by Liverpool 
Victoria Life Company Limited (LV).
What happened
Mr A says he was working for a national retailer when he was approached to discuss life 
insurance. He was in his late seventies at the time. He thought the policy sounded good and 
applied for it. The application was approved and Mr A began paying a premium of £23 per 
month. 
Mr A thought the sum assured on the policy was £150,000 and that it had a savings element 
so hed be able to cash it in at any time. When he phoned LV in mid-2020 to cash the policy 
in, he found out that the policy wasnt what hed thought it was so cancelled it and 
complained about the policy.
LV say the policy application was handled by their direct marketing team. They said they 
didnt provide any advice as to the suitability of the product. Instead, they said all relevant 
information was provided to Mr A at the time of the application so that he could make an 
informed decision. They said their direct marketing team would have been available to 
answer questions and dealt with completed applications and correspondence.
Mr A asked a representative to bring his complaint to our service. The representative said 
Mr As policy was unsuitable because it would have been better to save the premiums in a 
bank account than to pay into the policy. She said LV and the retailer have provided very 
little documentation about the sale of the policy, and that Mr As understanding of the plan 
was very different from the reality of it. She added that its not fit for purpose as the sum 
assured wont even cover the costs of a funeral.
Our investigator looked into Mr As complaint but didnt uphold it. He said LV had provided 
enough information for Mr A to make an informed decision. As it was a non-advised sale, he 
said he couldnt expect them to have done any more. As Mr A and his representative were 
unhappy about this outcome, the matters come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I appreciate Mr A and his representative will be disappointed, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
This was a non-advised sale. That means LV werent required to check whether the policy 
was suitable for Mr A  they only needed to provide enough information for Mr A to make an 
informed decision.
The exact circumstances surrounding the sale arent clear. It seems one of LVs 
representatives spoke with Mr A and completed the application on his behalf. I appreciate 
Mr As representative believes that Mr A was misled by the representative, and that Mr A 
may have felt under some pressure to take out the policy. She says Mr A wouldnt have 
taken it out of hed known that it was a £1,500 policy with no possibility of cashing it in, and 
that he might pay more into the policy than would be paid out on his death.
Given that the complaint arose because Mr A had tried to cash in the policy in mid-2020, its 
clear that Mr A didnt fully understand what he had signed up for. But with no evidence of 
what took place at the time of the sale, I cant say thats LVs fault.
I can see LV sent Mr A a letter shortly after he applied for the policy. This attached the policy 
schedule, policy summary, and the full terms and conditions. The letter explained that Mr A 
could cancel the policy within 30 days of the letter and any premiums paid would be 
refunded. It also gave Mr A contact details if he had any questions.
I know Mr As representative said it was unlikely Mr A would have read the information he 
was sent in any detail because he would have trusted what he was told on the day. But I 
think he had some responsibility to check that the policy matched his expectations and 
understanding.
Ive looked at the policy schedule that was sent to Mr A. This is just one page and sets out 
what Mr A was entitled to and what he needed to pay. This clearly states the amount of 
cover was £1,500. The policy schedule also says, in bold font:
If you pay all monthly premiums for 5 years, the cost would be £1,380. In the event of 
claim your plan will end, and the premiums you pay for it will stop. Depending on how 
long you live you could pay more in premiums than the amount of cover shown above. 
So Im satisfied the policy schedule clearly set out the sum assured and the risk that Mr A 
would pay more in premiums than would be paid out. The policy schedule doesnt talk about 
any cash-in value, but the terms and conditions make it clear that if a policyholder stops 
paying premiums, or cancels the policy, then they wont get anything back.
I appreciate Mr As representative thought the policy provided very little benefit. This type of 
policy is an inexpensive way to access some life assurance without providing any medical 
information. It can give the policy holder reassurance that theyll get a fixed amount of 
money when they die, even if they only have the plan for a short time. By comparison, a 
savings account  while it could end up holding more than the life policy will pay  takes time 
to gain its value. Im happy the information provided to Mr A made it clear that these were 
the main benefits of the policy.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr As complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 
22 April 2021.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman