DRN-4042548
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Klarna Bank AB (publ) Klarna declined his application for a running 
credit account and hasnt told him the main reason why. 
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional
decision. I said:
In January 2021, Mr R was trying to make a purchase from a retailer I shall call P. Mr R has 
explained that due to Klarnas marketing, he applied for a running credit account that offered 
0% interest. Upon applying however, his application was declined. 
Unhappy with this, Mr R contacted Klarna to enquire why he had been declined. Klarnas 
initial final response from April 2021 advised it couldnt locate a rejected application on its 
system. It went on to explain that its running credit account is a unique service that isnt 
universally available, and applications are assessed on a number of factors. This included 
things like previous order history, amount of the order and external credit rating. 
After some further email correspondence, Klarna was able to locate Mr Rs application and 
issued a second final response in May 2021. In this, Klarna advised it couldnt give Mr R a 
specific reason for his unsuccessful application. It did confirm that the application wasnt 
declined due to a technical error, but due to not passing Klarnas eligibility assessment. 
Mr R remained unhappy and referred his complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
considered the complaint and recommended Klarna pay Mr R £50 for the inconvenience 
caused by its conflicting information. This was mainly in relation to Klarnas initial inability to 
locate Mr Rs declined application. 
Mr R replied and said the principal issue is that despite his excellent credit rating, Klarna has 
still failed to provide the reason for its rejection. After some further investigation, the 
investigator explained that the decline was due to Mr R not meeting Klarnas internal lending 
criteria. Mr R still didnt agree and maintained that Klarna should give him the main reason. 
He said that without this, the basis of the rejection might be inaccurate, and he has a right to 
ensure this isnt the case. The complaint was therefore passed to me to decide. 
I requested further information from Klarna regarding its reasons for declining Mr R, as the 
information provided prior had been conflicting. Klarna responded to my additional requests 
for more clarification and each time it provided more inconsistent explanations.
Given this, I asked if Klarna would be willing to remove the declined application from Mr Rs 
credit file. Klarna agreed. Mr R however didnt accept this and again reiterated that he 
wanted to know why he had been declined and wanted a comprehensive investigation into 
Klarnas questionable conduct. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. 
I would like to point out Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
I appreciate that Mr R wants a comprehensive investigation into Klarnas conduct. I am 
however not a regulator. I dont have the power to investigate the way Klarna operates on a 
day-to-day basis. I can look at the individual circumstances of Mr Rs complaint and whether 
Klarna has acted fairly when dealing with Mr Rs declined application. 
Klarna is entitled to set its lending criteria, as this is a commercial process and Mr R doesnt 
dispute this. But, where Klarna decide not to lend, the Standards of Lending Practice explain 
that it should provide the primary reason why.
Based on the information provided before my involvement, I wasnt persuaded that Klarna 
had given Mr R the main reason for declining his application. I felt its reasoning was initially 
more generic rather than the primary reason and it had provided conflicting information. 
More conflicting information regarding the primary reason then continued following my 
requests for clarification. Finally, Klarna explained that the application had been declined as 
Klarnas automatic anti-fraud logic had highlighted the application as being potentially 
fraudulent. What algorithms go into Klarnas anti-fraud logic is commercially sensitive and 
not something I would expect it to share. But, for Mr Rs application Klarna has said the logic 
to reject his application was based on the transaction being for a new customer, the item 
being purchased was of a high value and at a store selling goods often at high risk of fraud 
attacks. 
Due to the conflicting information and the primary reason provided changing several times, I 
remain unpersuaded with the rationale Klarna has provided. 
I appreciate Mr R will likely be very frustrated by this, but I cant force Klarna to give me 
information that would fully satisfy me of the primary reason his application was declined. Its 
also not within my remit to fine or punish Klarna. So, to fairly resolve this complaint I believe 
Klarna should remove the declined application from Mr Rs credit file. 
The investigator previously recommended Klarna pay Mr R £50 for the inconvenience 
caused. She said Klarnas handling of things had led to Mr R having to contacting Klarna 
more than should have been necessary. Given the additional distress Mr R has been caused 
by the failure to be made aware why he was declined, Im satisfied Klarna should pay an 
additional £75. This would take the total amount for the distress and inconvenience caused 
to Mr R to £125, which I believe is fair in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I invited both parties to respond with new information they wanted me to consider before I
made my final decision.
Mr R responded and in summary said Klarna should be able to provide what additional 
criteria it relies upon, on top of the information provided by credit reference agencies, when 
assessing an application for credit. Mr R explained that he isnt able to say what impact the 
declined application has had on his credit rating. But he said he has been rejected by 
another lender, for a similar form of credit. Mr R feels this is clearly a result of Klarnas 
actions. 
Mr R didnt feel the £125 was sufficient and believed £300 would be a fairer amount given 
the energy he has used on this complaint over the last two years and the stress he has been 
caused. Mr R also wanted an assurance that the declined application would be removed 
from his credit file by all credit reference agencies. 
Klarna also responded and didnt agree with the £125 total compensation. It said the 
Standards of Lending Practice is a voluntary code that a business can choose to follow. 
Therefore, the amount of information Klarna provided shouldnt be measured against it. 
Klarna agreed there was additional confusion that delayed the resolution of the case and for 
that a total of £75 would be appropriateWhat Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While clearly important, there is more that goes into assessing a decision to provide credit 
than just the information provided by a credit reference agency. Things such as affordability, 
the amount of lending being requested and previous history with the lender in question. I 
understand why Mr R would like more information regarding the additional criteria Klarna 
uses in its application process. However, as Ive said in the provisional decision, this is 
commercially sensitive and not something I would expect Klarna to share.
I appreciate Klarnas point that the Standards of Lending Practice is a voluntary code. 
However, given its used by several lenders I dont believe its unreasonable to use what it 
explains as a guide for what is fair in situations such as this one. Klarna has now provided 
what it believes is the main reason for its decision to decline Mr Rs application, which I 
understand Mr R doesnt believe. 
In this case, the initial conflicting reasons for the decline meant that I wasnt persuaded with 
what Klarna had said. Its for this reason I recommended that Klarna completely remove any 
trace of the declined application from Mr Rs credit file. Both parties agreed to this in 
response to the provisional decision. 
I acknowledge both parties dont agree with the total £125 compensation recommended in 
the provisional decision. Mr R has explained that he has put a lot of time and energy into 
making this complaint. While I fully appreciate that, we wouldnt look to compensate for time 
and energy spent in bringing a complaint. 
Its clear the situation has been distressing for Mr R and he rightly wanted to know why he 
had been declined when he says he had a very good credit rating. There was also the 
confusion and delays caused by Klarnas initial incorrect response advising it couldnt locate 
any application Mr R had made. Given this, I still find that it would be fair and reasonable for 
Klarna to pay a total £125 for the distress and inconvenience that has been caused.
Putting things right
To settle this complaint, Klarna should do the following: 
Remove any trace of the declined application from Mr Rs credit file. 
Pay Mr R £125 compensation. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr Rs complaint and require Klarna Bank AB (publ) to put things right for Mr R as 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Paul Blower
Ombudsman