DRN-3745673
The complaint
Miss M complains that London Community Credit Union Limited (LCCU) provided her a top 
up loan that was unaffordable and did assist her when she was in financial difficulties.
What happened
Miss M was provided with a £350 top up loan in September 2019. This brought her total loan 
amount to around £1,454 and Miss M was required to make weekly repayments of £20 over 
104 weeks. The loan was rescheduled on three occasions.
Miss M says the loan wasnt affordable and that when she contacted LCCU about this it 
wasnt supportive and just made her sign further agreements which she couldnt afford to 
maintain. She says LCCU provided incorrect information and took duplicate payments from 
her account. 
LCCU says that Miss M took out a loan for £350 on 2 September 2019. She already had an 
existing loan balance of £1104.40 and so once the loan had been credited, the new loan 
balance was £1454.40. It says the loan was for education expenses, books and uniform. 
Before providing the loan, it says it assessed the affordability of the loan based on three 
months of Miss Ms bank statements. Miss M missed repayments and LCCU says the loan 
was rescheduled on three occasions to assist her in managing her account. 
Our investigator didnt think she had enough to say LCCU was wrong to provide the top up 
loan. However, she thought LCCU should have done more to assist Miss M given she had 
explained her financial difficulties. She recommended that all missed payment charges be 
waived.  
Miss M didnt agree with our investigators view. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
LCCU will be aware of all the rules, regulations, guidance and good industry practice 
applicable to the provision of these loans and what we consider when looking at a complaint 
concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont consider it necessary to set all 
of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to these complaints is set out on 
our website. 
LCCU has said it assessed the affordability of the loan based on Miss Ms income and 
assessment of three months of bank statements. This information should have given an 
indication of Miss Ms income and expenditure leading up to the loan, but I also think it would 
have been reasonable for LCCU to have carried out a credit check before lending. I havent 
seen the outcome of LCCUs affordability checks. Miss M has provided a copy of her credit 
report and bank statements covering the period mid-May to mid-August 2019. Miss M has 
also provided bank statements for a period after the top up loan was provided. I think this 
evidence gives a reasonable indication of what LCCU would have seen through its checks 
and had it undertaken a credit check.
Miss Ms credit report shows that she had two historic defaulted accounts. Miss M had also 
previously used high cost loans and had a high cost loan outstanding at the time. While I do 
not think the credit information means that LCCU shouldnt have provided Miss M with the 
top up loan I think that as there were signs that Miss M may be struggling financially, it 
needed to verify her income and understand her expenses to ensure that the additional 
lending was affordable for her.
Miss M has said that she lost her job in August 2019 and says she told LCCU about this. 
However, I havent seen evidence that she told LCCU this at the time the top up loan was 
provided. Miss Ms bank statements show she had an average monthly income of around 
£2,880 consisting of her salary and benefit payments. Additional to this there were regular 
transfers into her account from another account seemingly in her name. Miss M also 
provided a testimony about her costs for the time and these totalled just over £1,000. The 
bank statements show regular committed expenditure for housing, insurance, credit 
commitments and other living costs which suggest expenses higher than Miss Ms testimony 
and although these varied the average was around £1,300. I think that had LCCU carried out 
an assessment of Miss Ms expenses it was likely to record a figure of around £1,300. Based 
on an income of around £2,880 I do not find I can say that weekly repayments of £20 would 
appear unaffordable.
Miss M also complained that LCCU didnt provide the support it should have when she 
explained she was in financial difficulties. I can see that Miss M made her first loan 
repayment and then had two direct debits returned. She then had a successful payment 
before the next two were returned. LCCU says that it rescheduled Miss Ms loan to assist her 
account management. While I note this, given Miss M had missed four of the first six 
repayments, I think it would have been reasonable to carry out further checks at that point to 
ensure the lending was affordable, rather than to reschedule the loan with the same 
payment amounts but longer duration. 
I also note at this time Miss M says she had told LCCU about her job loss in August 2019. 
While I cannot say what would have been identified had a further affordability check been 
carried out at this point, I do not find that adding further charges to the account without this 
happening was fair and reasonable. Therefore, I agree with our investigator that LCCU didnt 
do enough to assist Miss M when she was experiencing financial difficulties. 
Based on this, and the comment about additional payments being taken and charged for the 
returned direct debits on these additional payments, I think the fairest way to resolve this 
complaint is for Miss M to have all the charges for returned direct debits (along with any 
interest that has been charged on these) deducted from her outstanding balance. Miss M will 
still have an amount outstanding and I think that LCCU should work with Miss M to ensure 
an affordable repayment plan is set up going forward.Putting things right
To put things right, I think LCCU should:
Remove all returned direct debit fees incurred, and associated interest, since end 
September 2019 from the outstanding loan balance.
Given Miss M has said shes still experiencing financial difficulties LCCU need to act 
positively and sympathetically towards her and Miss M and LCCU need to work together to 
setup an affordable repayment plan. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. London Community Credit Union Limited 
should take the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman