DRN-3040350
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont lend her money through a credit card 
account. It has declined her application. 
What happened
Mrs A said that shed applied for a credit card with her bank, Barclays, but was declined. She 
said that shed been Barclays customer for a long time, and couldnt understand why it had 
turned her down. Shed understood that her credit file is good, and she wanted to know why 
Barclays had taken this decision, so she could rectify any mistakes.
Barclays said its lending criteria were confidential, but it could tell Mrs A that it had 
affordability concerns. In other words, it had concerns that she might have difficulty with 
repayments, if she took further credit. It thanked her for the further information she sent 
through, but said that it doesnt have an appeals process for its credit applications. It said 
that she could apply again in six months, if she would like to do so.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that Barclays had tried 
to shed some light on the decision it had made, and said that on reviewing data, it could see 
that in recent months around when Mrs A made her application, her expenditure was on 
average greater than her income. Barclays said that would then mean that lending would be 
unaffordable. So, even though Mrs As credit file is in good standing, her application was 
declined. 
Our investigator said that this is an automatic system, and if there was any indication that 
Mrs A may not have been able to afford the credit card, then he wouldnt have expected 
Barclays to approve the application. So he said that Mrs A had been treated reasonably by 
Barclays.
Mrs A strongly disagreed. She said that this outcome was an injustice and based on 
untruths. She wanted to challenge the view that Barclays had reached about whether she 
could afford to pay back any lending. She said her account with Barclays was in credit 
throughout this time, and she had very substantial savings, and overseas accounts which 
were well in credit. 
Mrs A asked what the point of our service was, if any proof she offered wasnt going to 
change things? She expressed concern that her credit history would be blighted for life, and 
asked why Barclays was allowed to do as it liked. She didnt agree that it had been 
reasonable.
Mrs A sent us a number of redacted bank statements, which she said showed her 
comfortable financial position. And she said Barclays was wrong to say that her income 
sometimes exceeded her expenditure, because it didnt have the full details of her total 
income. 
Mrs A wanted her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
Mrs A has expressed concern that our service wont overturn Barclays decision not to lend 
to her, through an interest free credit card offer. I think it may help if I set out that it would be 
extremely unusual for our service to tell Barclays, or any other bank, that it must lend 
someone money. We usually take the view that it is for the bank itself to make its own 
commercial decisions about who it will lend to. The bank must assess the risk both to it, and 
to the customer. And if a bank errs on the side of caution, and doesnt lend, our service 
wouldnt usually challenge that conclusion. 
I havent seen anything to make me think that I should depart from our services usual 
approach in this case. 
I can see that Mrs A, when she first complained about Barclays refusal to open a credit card 
account for her, expressed concerns that this could be because of her age. Our investigator 
has sought to obtain much more detailed information about why Mrs As application was 
declined, so that we, and she, could be confident that this wasnt an issue of discrimination. 
And I think he has done this. Hes shared with Mrs A the reasons why she was turned down, 
and in so doing, hes made it possible for Mrs A to understand a little more of what Barclays 
can and cannot see on her finances, and the basis of its decision-making.
But this information wasnt obtained to enable Mrs A to appeal Barclays decision, and our 
service wont make Barclays reconsider. Barclays has already said it doesnt have an appeal 
process, but Mrs A can apply again, six months after its original decision, if she would like. 
I know that Mrs A will be very disappointed, but I dont think that Barclays has done anything 
wrong. I dont think it has to do any more. And that means this complaint wont be upheld.
Mrs A says that what Barclays has done will have blighted her credit file for life. She might 
like to know that her credit file will only record that Barclays has carried out a credit search. 
The credit file wont show the outcome of that search. And the record of the search will 
usually cease to be visible on a credit file after a year.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman