DRN-4039845
The complaint
Mr M complains that F2 Capital Ventures LLP (F2) gave him unsuitable advice to switch his 
self-invested personal pension (SIPP) to a new SIPP and to invest around 40% of his 
pension fund in a Dolphin Trust loan note.
What happened
Mr M approached F2 around August 2018 seeking advice regarding his SIPP. He had 
around £220,000 held within his SIPP. Of that, about £95,000 was held in cash.
Dolphin was a German based property development company. And the loan notes were a 
form of investment in a group of companies developing listed properties in Germany. The 
investments were intended to pay back the capital invested plus returns over a fixed period 
of time.
Mr M wanted to use the cash held in his SIPP to purchase a Dolphin Trust loan note, but his 
existing SIPP provider would no longer accept that investment in its SIPP wrapper. Mr M 
understood that he would need to transfer his cash to a SIPP with a different provider for him 
to be able to make that investment.
F2 did a fact find with Mr M and ascertained the following relevant facts regarding Mr M at 
that time:
He was retired with income of £2000 per month 
He owned his home outright worth around £450,000 
He held approximately £45k in stocks/bonds
He had approximately £50k in cash assets
F2 provided Mr M with a recommendation that contained two suggested ways to meet his 
objectives. It identified a SIPP provider that would enable Mr M to make an investment in a 
Dolphin Trust loan note. It explained that would enable him to transfer the cash part of his 
current SIPP and invest half of that into Dolphin. Which meant transferring around £90,000 
to the new SIPP and investing around £45,000 in Dolphin with the remainder invested in line 
with his attitude to risk. But the recommendation suggested that it would be more suitable to 
switch the entire SIPP value instead. In that case, F2 explained that it would instead 
recommend a level of investment in Dolphin Trust of 40% of the total fund value. Equating to 
around £80,000 of Mr Ms transfer value.
In November 2018 Mr M signed an application to open the new SIPP and transfer the full 
value of his existing SIPP into it. The SIPP switch completed. And Mr M went on to invest 
£85,000 in a Dolphin Trust loan note.
Dolphin, which subsequently became the German Property Group, has since gone into 
administration. And it is unclear if Mr Ms SIPP will be able to get back any of the money 
invested via the loan note. 
Mr M complained to F2, via a representative. The complaint was that the advice F2 provided 
wasnt suitable for Mr M. It said that Mr M was an unsophisticated investor and that hed 
never invested in any sort of unregulated investment scheme. It alleged that F2 endorsed 
the Dolphin Trust investment as being a sound investment with no mention of it being high 
risk. Mr M explains that it was because of the recommendation by F2 that Mr M decided to 
switch his SIPP and invest in Dolphin.
F2 didnt respond to Mr Ms complaint, which was then referred to our service. Our 
investigator looked into what happened but was unable to resolve this complaint. His view 
was that Mr Ms complaint shouldnt be upheld. So Mr M asked for an ombudsmans 
decision on his complaint.
I considered the evidence and issued a provisional decision to both parties to let them know 
why I didnt think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. Neither party has offered any further 
evidence or response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Which is the same evidence and circumstances that Id considered when issuing my 
provisional decision. Having given this matter final consideration, my final decision remains 
the same as Id provisionally decided. What follows is my final decision, which is along the 
same lines as the decision I already communicated to both F2 and Mr M.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) publishes rules and guidance in its handbook. It 
includes a set of Principles for businesses (under section PRIN 2.1), that are the overarching 
obligations that firms must adhere to in all of its regulated activities. Of specific relevance in 
this case are:
Principle 2 - A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care, and diligence.
Principle 6  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly.
The FCA also publishes COBS (conduct of business sourcebook), which puts in place a 
framework of rules and guidance. And Ive specifically considered COBS 9 in this case, 
which sets out the requirement on a business in providing financial advice to a client. 
Ive considered the position when F2 were advising Mr M. F2 did a fact-find with Mr M. And 
theres evidence that F2 have provided that indicates that, at that time at least, Mr M 
considered himself to be a sophisticated investor. There is a call note from August 2018 
documenting that Mr M wanted to re-invest in Dolphin. It indicates that Mr M was asked if he 
was a high net worth individual or a sophisticated investor. And the note indicates that Mr M 
answered that he was sophisticated. He had traded in contract for differences (CFDs) and 
previously worked in the City. He said hed signed a statement that he was a sophisticated 
investor to the firm he used to invest in CFDs. It indicates that Mr M understood that certain 
investments were high risk and best suited to experienced investors. And he understood that 
Dolphin fell into that category.
This call note is of particular interest, as it paints a slightly different picture to the one set out 
in Mr Ms complaint. Mr Ms complaint portrayed him as an unsophisticated investor with no 
experience of high risk investments. Because of this fundamental difference in recollections, 
I explored this further.In the confirmation letter that F2 sent Mr M in August 2018 it reiterated its understanding that 
Mr M had previously invested in Dolphin. And stated that, as a sophisticated investor, Mr M 
was able to assess the merits of the Dolphin property development company. And explained 
that Mr M must assess the financial strength of the company. I think that this most likely 
reflects what Mr M told F2. 
There is other evidence that also supports this. F2 have shown us a copy of a Dolphin Trust 
loan note issued in 2017 to Mr M. It is for £40,000 and in that one Mr M is the registered 
holder of the investment. This is different to the later investment where the registered owner 
is Mr M and the trustees of his SIPP. It appears most likely that investment was made 
outside of any SIPP platform. And F2 obtained a summary of investments in Mr Ms previous 
SIPP. It shows that he invested in a Dolphin loan note within that SIPP, receiving a return in 
2017 around £140,000. Overall this supports F2s understanding that Mr M had already 
invested in Dolphin. 
Mr M also sent F2 details of the CFD trades that he currently held in his SIPP. It came to 
around £40,000 invested in that way. CFDs are high risk investments. And Id only consider 
these to be suitable for certain types of investors. So I think that this information would have 
also led F2 to believe Mr M was a sophisticated investor. F2 have also provided us with the 
statement for a self-certified sophisticated investor that Mr M signed in October 2018. Given 
these facts, Im not convinced by Mr Ms statement in his complaint that he was an 
unsophisticated investor. And I cant agree with Mr Ms claim that he had never made high 
risk investments, like Dolphin, previously.
The client agreement that Mr M signed indicates quite clearly that Mr M was a retail client. 
Which is defined under COBS 3.4 as a client who is not a professional client. Which I think 
was correct. Ive seen no evidence that Mr M was a professional client. So the impact of 
Mr M being a sophisticated investor didnt alter F2s obligations to Mr M under the high level 
principles or its obligations in COBS 9. 
Being a sophisticated investor meant that Mr M may have been suitable for an investment 
like Dolphin to have been promoted to him. Which isnt what F2 were doing. But I consider 
that it would have been reasonable for F2 to be aware of that in determining whether an 
investment in Dolphin might be suitable for recommending to Mr M. And, based on what F2 
had found out about Mr M, I think it wasnt unreasonable for it to consider the investment for 
him.
I can see that F2s recommendation explained that, based on Mr M being a sophisticated 
investor, it thought Dolphin would be suitable as a proportion of Mr Ms fund, as part of a 
suitably balanced portfolio. Which, in principle, may have been okay. But, as Ill explain, I 
think the final recommendation wasnt suitable because it placed too much of Mr Ms fund 
into this investment.
Ive seen the assessment that F2 did on Dolphin Trust. Under a section headed investment 
risks, F2 described the investment as being like a non-mainstream pooled investment 
(NMPI). It identified that it should be considered as an unusual, speculative, or complex 
investment and should be viewed as a risky product. It had to be considered high risk. It 
carried with it the potential for a complete loss if the loan was defaulted on. And it explained 
that there was no protection through the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) 
because it was not a regulated investment. So I think that F2 had done enough to 
understand the nature of the investment.
F2 have showed that it assessed Mr Ms attitude to risk (ATR) as being Highest Medium 
with a score of 7 out of 10 on the risk questionnaire that it used. Having seen the answers 
provided the assessment seems to have been a reasonable starting point for Mr Ms ATR. It meant that F2 ought to have suggested that any investment in a high risk product be limited 
and balanced against other, more mainstream investments. 
I think this is made even more true when considering Mr Ms capacity for loss. He wasnt a 
high net worth individual, based on the regulatory definitions. That required him to have an 
income of at least £100,000 in the previous year and assets of at least £250,000 (not 
including his main residence or funds held in pensions). Mr M didnt meet either of these 
tests, and this wasnt the exemption that F2 considered made him eligible to be considered 
for an investment like Dolphin.
It was equally important for F2 to understand Mr Ms capacity for loss. F2 had established 
that Mr M had already retired. And had a household income of £24,000 a year. It identified 
that he had around £50,000 in cash and a further £45,000 invested. It didnt elaborate on 
that. And its unclear to me if that included the 2017 Dolphin Trust loan note Mr M held. 
The overall value of the funds held in his SIPP at the time of advice was around £220,000. It 
was the only pension provision that F2 identified for Mr M. Mr M had stated that he thought 
he could sustain medium investment losses. But that wasnt quantified by F2. F2 did 
however draw Mr Ms attention to the fact that, because of the added risk of an investment in 
Dolphin Trust, the balance of his pension ought to consider a lower risk investment 
allocation. Whilst that may have balanced the ATR across the portfolio, it was still important 
not to expose Mr M to too high an investment in a single thing. In this case Dolphin.
I dont think that Mr M had sufficient capacity for loss for the recommendation that F2 gave 
him. It recommended that Mr M invest up to 40% of his entire pension fund in a single 
Dolphin loan note. It made up around 25% of Mr Ms realisable assets. He didnt have the 
capacity to replace that kind of loss in the event that Dolphin should default on the loan. Not 
without it seriously impacting his income in retirement.
F2 ought to have been aware of guidance the FCA issued in July 2010 about unregulated 
investments in its Good and Poor Practice Report. This contained examples of good 
practice in relation to unregulated investments, for example where a firm had robust controls 
in place and limited client exposure to 3% to 5% of their portfolios, where those clients had 
been assessed as being suitable for unregulated investments. An example of bad practice 
given by the FCA was where up to 100% of a clients holdings were invested in a single 
UCIS.
Put simply, the recommendation to invest 40% of Mr Ms pension into another Dolphin Trust 
loan note was too high. Even in a situation where F2 may reasonably have thought Mr M 
was a suitable candidate for a certain level of investment in such a high risk unregulated 
product. Its why I think that F2s recommendation wasnt suitable for Mr M. And didnt 
comply with the high level principles 2 and 6.
What should F2 have done?
I dont accept Mr Ms point, that Dolphin Trust shouldnt have been considered suitable for 
any retail client. That isnt a natural conclusion from the regulations. NMPIs arent suitable 
for most retail clients. And careful consideration needed to be given. But it may have been 
suitable for a part of Mr Ms portfolio.
Id expect to see that F2 considered the suitability of the Dolphin Trust loan note for Mr M. It 
should have demonstrated awareness of the risk level of the investment and ensured that 
was communicated to Mr M. I think it did this. And it did make Mr M aware of the risks.It should have told him that investing that amount into a Dolphin Trust loan note was 
unsuitable. Because investing that much in any single unregulated NMPI would have been 
unsuitable. It should have spelled this out very clearly. And it didnt do this. Instead it 
provided Mr M with reassurance that his intended investment strategy was suitable for him. I 
need to consider what Mr M would most likely have done if F2 had provided suitable advice.
Would Mr M have done anything differently?
I have to now decide what would most likely have happened instead. And, for the reasons Ill 
explain, I think that its more likely than not that Mr M would have still invested in the Dolphin 
Trust loan note in the same way if given more suitable advice.
It is important to note that Mr M approached F2 with a clear plan in mind. Which was to 
invest the £90,000 held in cash in his SIPP in Dolphin Trust. The background in the fact-find 
and suitability report indicates that Mr M already believed that the £90,000 in cash had been 
transferred from the Firm H SIPP to another SIPP. It appears that Mr M had sought and 
obtained advice from a different adviser already to achieve this end. F2s enquiries revealed 
that the new SIPP had never progressed as far as being set up. And informed Mr M of that.
A 2018 phone call that F2 had with Mr M showed that Mr M understood the difficulty in 
finding SIPP providers that were still prepared to accept investments of that nature. This 
complaint hasnt looked at the advice Mr M received from the adviser before F2. And Mr M 
hasnt provided evidence of what he was told by that adviser. So I cant say what led Mr M 
not to transfer at the earlier stage. 
Mr Ms representative argues that F2 should have been alerted to Dolphin being unsuitable 
when it was told that the previous advisor was unable to carry out the transaction. But I 
havent seen evidence that the previous adviser was unable to complete the transaction. 
And I havent seen evidence that F2 were provided with that information either. But, if such 
evidence existed, I would similarly have considered that it ought to have served as a warning 
to Mr M about that investment. And is evidence of Mr Ms persistence in seeking to make a 
further investment in Dolphin regardless. 
In the fact-find that F2 completed with Mr M it recorded that hed previously invested around 
£200,000 in Dolphin in previous years. So he had a track record of positive personal 
experience with these investments. I think its more likely than not that Mr M considered that 
he understood the risks. Whether correctly or otherwise.
I think that it would have been more suitable for F2 to have recommended a much lower 
investment in Dolphin Trust. But I dont think it ought to have recommended that Dolphin was 
unsuitable for Mr M at all. Or that it ought to have provided any further warnings about the 
type of investment than it did. So, if it had recommended that Mr M only invest around 5% of 
his overall realisable assets, that would, most likely, have seemed too low an amount for 
him. He had £90,000 set aside for the investment. If hed been told to invest no more than 
around £15,000, I dont think he would have accepted that recommendation. Hed previously 
chosen to invest sums much greater than that already. I think its far more likely than not that 
he would have gone ahead with the SIPP switch and invested the amount he wanted 
anyway. 
I can understand that Mr M will be disappointed. I accept that the advice F2 provided wasnt 
suitable. But the information Mr M provided missed out on key facts. And that evidence 
means that I cant conclude that F2 should have been telling Mr M that Dolphin Trust was 
entirely unsuitable for any part of his pension fund. Just that it should have recommended a 
much lower amount. But I dont believe that extra information or caution would, by itself, 
have been enough to have changed Mr Ms mind. Mr M has explained that he wasnt aware and was not told that Dolphin Trust was high risk. 
But I dont think that the documentary evidence bears that out. Correspondence and the 
recommendation he was given adequately spelled out those risks, even if Mr M had never 
been made aware of these in prior advisory processes.
My final decision
For the above reasons, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman