DRN-3909070
The complaint
Ms H complains about how Barclays Bank UK Plc handled her attempts to deposit money 
into her individual savings account (ISA).
What happened
Ms H has an ISA with Barclays. Last October, she wanted to deposit £1,000 into it but had 
trouble doing so as she didnt have identification with her. The member of staff asked her 
some security questions but some of the questions  to do with whether she owned her own 
home  upset Ms H as she felt they were irrelevant, so she didnt want to answer. Ms H 
returned to the branch the following week with her passport and made the deposit.
A few days later, Ms H wanted to add some more money as she had some old £50 notes. 
This time, she didnt take her passport with her as it wasnt checked previously but she 
encountered the same issues as she did on her first visit. 
Ms H felt Barclays were being inconsistent with their process and had provided a poor 
service so she asked for our help. She mentioned shed lived in the area for a number of 
years and felt Barclays were segregating customers who owned property and who rented. 
She felt that sort of judgement was irrelevant and discriminatory and didnt feel comfortable 
going back to her local branch given the attitudes of the staff. In terms of putting things right, 
she asked for an apology and for the security question that upset her to be removed  she 
referenced friends in Europe who only have to provide identification when withdrawing 
money, not depositing it. 
One of our investigators had a look at what had happened but didnt think Barclays had done 
anything wrong. He thought it was fair for Barclays to have followed a security process given 
Ms H didnt have any form of identification with her. And he didnt think the questions asked 
were discriminatory as Ms H suggested. As he wasnt present at the time, he couldnt 
comment on the staff attitudes but did think theyd been following the security procedures. 
So he didnt think Barclays needed to do anything differently.
Ms H didnt agree  she thought the security question she was asked was discriminatory and 
wanted him to know more about the attitude of the staff in her branch. As things werent 
resolved, the case was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I appreciate this will disappoint Ms H, I agree with our investigator for 
broadly the same reasons. Ill explain why.
Ms H accepts that when she first went to deposit money into her ISA, she didnt have any 
identification with her. I appreciate that she doesnt usually take her passport out with her 
and as she doesnt drive, she doesnt have a photo ID by way of a driving licence. This said, 
I note Ms H says she had taken an ISA statement with her to show the branch. 
Ive had a look at the guidance Barclays has for their staff in these situations. It asks them to 
verify a customers identity before they can take their deposit money. Barclays gave a 
number of options, such as using a card and PIN number, or for staff to follow a support tool. 
This allowed customers to show something like their passport, identity card or photo driving 
licence, or to use a one-time passcode. And final options included bringing along bank 
stationary, such as a statement, and answering gateway questions.
As Ms H didnt have any photo ID, it seems the staff did try to follow the alternative options 
and rely on her statement and security questions. Barclays keep a log of the questions 
asked and explained these are randomly generated by their system each time  and if a 
question was asked, it had to be answered for Barclays to have proceeded. I can see the 
question Ms H might have been unhappy with was, what is your residential status.
Ive thought about this question, but I dont agree with Ms H in that it was irrelevant or 
discriminatory. This question  along with others such as confirming an address, email 
address, phone number and other things like a mothers maiden name or overdraft limit  
was just a way for Barclays to cross reference an answer with details they held on their 
system. In terms of this specific question, financial institutions tend to hold data on their 
customers to do with their resident status as theyre required to  this is because it relates to 
a customers legal status and can affect taxes in this country and abroad  so its something 
Ms H will have given an answer to when opening her ISA. 
Like the investigator said, we of course were not present when Ms H encountered the issues 
when visiting her branch, so we cannot now cast judgement on the way in which this 
question was asked or followed up. This said, I dont agree the inclusion of the question was 
unreasonable or inappropriate  it seems to simply be something Barclays was able to ask in 
order to cross reference Ms Hs answer against the details they held. 
I appreciate Ms H doesnt feel its necessary for Barclays to verify her identity when shes 
adding to her investment, and if they do, for them to remove the question she was unhappy 
with. But its not for our service to tell Barclays how to run their business as were not their 
regulator. In addition, we must be mindful that there are a number of rules and regulations 
for financial institutions to follow when it comes to things like anti-money laundering and so I 
can understand why they seek to check identity when deposits are made. 
From what I understand, Ms H doesnt have another account with Barclays so doesnt have 
one of their cards to be verified with, so next time she deposits money into her ISA she will 
likely need to provide some identification. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Ms Hs complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman