DRN-2452421
The complaint
 Miss B complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) is chasing her for a debt after several years in which it didnt contact her. She 
wants it to stop sending her letters about the debt. And reduce the sum she is said to owe. 
What happened
 Miss B tells us that she acquired the vehicle on a conditional sale agreement in 2014. She 
explains that at first she had no problem in making the repayments. But that she suffered ill 
health which resulted in her having to close her business. And she couldnt keep up with the 
payments. Mrs B says that she agreed with BPF to voluntarily surrender the vehicle back in 
2016. But that BPF didnt get back in touch with her until early 2020. Miss B is concerned 
that the value of the vehicle will have reduced and that shell be faced with a larger debt than 
if the vehicle had been collected when originally agreed.
BPF told us that due to an administrative error on its part the account had been wrongly 
allocated and hadnt been identified as requiring the vehicle to be collected. It said it had not 
received any correspondence or contact from Miss B querying the lack of progress on the 
collection or voluntary surrender of the vehicle from 2016 until early 2020. Nor to date, after 
the error had come to light, had she agreed to return the vehicle. It stated that the account 
had been terminated in April 2016 and a default applied. It offered £50 to recognise the 
errors that had occurred. BPF also confirmed that it is still open to Miss B to voluntarily 
surrender the vehicle.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She felt that whilst 
BPF had admitted it had made an error there had still been plenty of opportunity for Miss B 
to voluntarily surrender the vehicle. And she noted that Miss B had still continued to use it. 
She said she wouldnt be asking BPF to reduce or write off the debt.
Miss B didnt accept this outcome.  As its not been possible to resolve the complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  I empathise with the difficulties in terms of her health and finances that Miss B has 
experienced. And I understand that being faced with a significant debt is a stressful situation. 
I also consider there is some merit in the observations shes made about the time it has 
taken for BPF to progress matters once it determined there had been an error. 
Having said that I cant overlook that once it became apparent that there had been a 
breakdown in lines of communication, it was Miss B who was probably best placed to 
contact BPF - rather than for it to find her - and arrange for the return of the vehicle.
I cant help feeling that there may have been an element of frustration on her part at the 
vehicle not being collected. And thats not meant as a criticism more an observation of how 
easy it is for these things to drift. Particularly if health and business problems are also 
present.
Theres very little factual dispute about the basic issues relating to the complaint. Miss B 
started making repayments then fell into arrears. No payments were made after February 
2016. It appeared a voluntary surrender of the vehicle had been arranged in May 2016 but 
contact between the parties was then lost. And it wasnt until 2019 that BPF realised its 
error. Since then its sought to recover the vehicle and the debt. But at the time of writing the 
vehicle remains with Miss B and the debt which is stated to be £11,819 remains unsettled. 
This would be reduced by any proceeds of sale after the vehicle is recovered.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Where there is a substantial dispute between BPF and Miss B is in regard to the extent of 
any attempts which Miss B made to contact BPF after May 2016. Miss B has produced 
evidence of letters she wrote and states she also made telephone calls. BPF has supplied its 
contact note history. And it says it has no record of any further contacts before 2020. Miss B 
feels that BPF has either chosen to not acknowledge such contact or has again made an 
error in logging them in its records. For its part BPF views the lack of records of contact as 
casting doubt upon whether Miss B made such efforts.
Whilst both parties have expressed strong views about this aspect, I dont find that its 
necessary for me to make any finding of fact other than that Miss B wrote the letters and that 
BPF cant find any record of them having been received at around the date which appears 
on the letters. But I dont find that this materially alters my final decision.
To my mind the most relevant information isnt in dispute. That the vehicle has remained in 
Miss Bs possession; that she has used it; and that no payments have been made since 
February 2016.
The vehicles MOT history records successful tests in August 2018 (odometer 34,579); 
August 2019 (46,194) and September 2020 (54,084). Which indicates that the vehicle has 
had average use in the years since it was acquired by Miss B. And that in the most recent 
two years it has covered almost 20,000 miles. This service would ordinarily find that 8,000  
12,000 miles was a reasonable range to describe as average annual private use.
Ive considered whether or not it would be fair and reasonable to require BPF to accept 
some reduction in the sum it claims is owed. But bearing in mind the use that has been 
made of the vehicle, I dont support Miss Bs view that - as the value of vehicle has 
diminished in the time since the original voluntary surrender was agreed - a reduction in the 
debt to take this into account would be appropriate. This argument would, in my opinion, be 
stronger had the vehicle remained unused.
Im aware that Miss B considers the £50 BPF has offered for its error is inadequate. But this 
is one of those situations where the error led to unforeseen consequences. And even allowing for the difficulties faced by Miss B, it remained open to her to persist with her 
attempts to re-establish contact with BPF. And to mitigate the effects of the error.
Whilst Im aware my decision will come as a disappointment to Miss B, I shant be asking 
BPF to do anything else.
Its not my role to give advice. But I can say from experience that it is likely to prove less 
costly for Miss B if a voluntary surrender of the vehicle is arranged, rather than a court order 
needing to be obtained to recover the vehicle. Not only is that likely to incur costs but 
presumably the vehicle will continue to diminish in value during the process.
BPF will be required to treat Miss B fairly in seeking to recover the balance of the debt. And 
that would potentially include negotiating a payment arrangement which was affordable to 
Miss B. Now that it is aware of her ill health it will also have to make any necessary 
adjustments in the way the debt is recovered that are appropriate.
Putting things right
 BPF should pay £50 to Miss B for distress and inconvenience. But I shant require it to take 
any further action to resolve this complaint. Or to stop collection activities.
My final decision
 Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance has already 
made an offer to pay £50 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances.
So my decision is that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance should pay £50 to Miss B.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 January 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman