DRN-3318773
The complaint
Mr C complained that he was mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy by Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, (Bank of Scotland) in 1991.
What happened
Mr C took out a mortgage in 1991, and took a PPI policy at the same time. The mortgage 
started in May 1991 and was repaid in January 1998. 
Our adjudicator looked at Mr Cs mis-sale complaint and concluded that it should be upheld. 
Bank of Scotland accepted this view, and wrote to Mr C offering to pay compensation of 
£3,532.02 before deduction of tax. Mr C wasnt happy with the offer, as he said the 
calculation of the compensatory interest was incorrect. He said that compound interest 
should be paid, not just simple interest. 
Another adjudicator looked at the offer and said that what Bank of Scotland had offered in 
compensation was fair. Mr C remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to consider 
his complaint.
I should also say here that Mr C raised an additional complaint point relating to a telegraphic 
transfer arranged by Bank of Scotland just before the start of his mortgage. This is a 
separate matter from the sale of the PPI, and indeed I have not had a copy of Bank of 
Scotlands final response letter to Mr C on this point. So I will not consider it in this decision 
and instead it will be looked at separately. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained, Mr C first brought his complaint to this service because Bank of Scotland 
hadnt agreed that the PPI had been mis-sold. Our adjudicator concluded that it had, and 
Bank of Scotland accepted this view and agreed that Mr C should be compensated. So I do 
not need to consider the mis-sale issues further in this decision as they are no longer in 
dispute - Bank of Scotland has offered to pay full compensation as if the policy was mis-sold. 
I am only looking at whether the compensation offered is fair, on the basis that it is what 
would be paid for the mis-sold PPI. 
I have reviewed Bank of Scotlands calculation, and my conclusion is that it is fair. Ill explain 
why. 
When looking at the calculation of compensation for mis-sold PPI, I expect a business to 
start by working out what was paid, in total, for the PPI. I have not seen anything to suggest 
that Mr C disagrees with the list of figures Bank of Scotland has provided for the premiums 
paid. 
Turning to the subject of interest, The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has set out rules 
and guidance around how businesses should compensate consumers who have been mis-
sold PPI. These are found in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) section of the FCA Handbook, 
which can be found online. I have to take these rules into account when deciding if a 
businesss offer is fair.
DISP App 3.7.3E says that where a complaint is upheld, the firm should pay to the 
complainant a sum equal to the total amount paid by the complainant in respect of the 
payment protection contract including historic interest where relevant (plus simple interest on 
that amount). 
Historic interest is defined as the interest the complainant paid to the firm because a 
payment protection contract was added to a loan or credit product. And simple interest as a 
non-compound rate of 8% per annum (although before 1 April 1993 the rate was 15%).
Mortgage PPI premiums are generally paid monthly, and no interest is incurred on them as 
they are not added to the borrowing. Even if the premiums are collected as part of the 
monthly mortgage repayment, they are unlikely to incur interest as they are generally 
collected and paid on to the insurer, with no interest charged. Interest is only usually applied 
to mortgage PPI when the premium is paid as a lump sum amount at the start of the loan, 
and the consumer borrows the total premium amount in order to pay it to the insurer. The 
lump sum is added on to the amount the consumer is borrowing from the business. 
But that isnt what happened here - Bank of Scotland was able to provide copies of some of 
its computer records of Mr Cs mortgage account, and indeed Mr C provided detailed 
records of his own. I can see that the monthly premium (initially £12) was paid from a 
separate account held by Mr C and was not added to the mortgage. So in this case there is 
no historic interest.
I have reviewed the calculation of Mr Cs compensation that Bank of Scotland sent in, and I 
am satisfied that an interest rate of 15% was applied before April 1993, and 8% afterwards. I 
am also satisfied that the dates of payments used in the calculation are correct. I understand 
that Mr C has also been able to reconcile these figures. So the remaining issue is that of 
compound interest.
Bank of Scotland has calculated Mr Cs compensation in line with the FCAs rules and 
guidance, as I have explained above. I could award a different rate. But in order to do so Id 
have to be persuaded that it is most likely Mr C would otherwise have used the monthly 
amount paid for the PPI to invest or reduce the borrowing. Ive considered what Mr C has 
said about that. But Ive also kept in mind that Mr C had the mortgage for a limited part of the 
period over which compensation has been calculated. So I dont think I can fairly say how Mr 
C might have used the money over the period such that departing from the provisions in the 
FCAs rules and guidance would be appropriate. Therefore, I think simple interest of 15% 
prior to April 1993 and 8% thereafter is a fair amount to compensate Mr C for not having the 
use of the extra he paid for the PPI while he had the mortgage account. 
I am sorry to disappoint Mr C, as I appreciate that he feels very strongly about this. But in 
summary, my conclusion is that Bank of Scotland has fairly calculated the compensation for 
Mr Cs mis-sold PPI, so I do not uphold his complaint about this point. As it appears Mr C 
has not yet taken payment of the compensation, Bank of Scotland should simply update the 
calculation to reflect the new date of settlement. 
My final decision
I think the compensation Bank of Scotland plc has calculated and offered to Mr C for the mis-sold PPI is fair, subject to updating the compensatory interest to the date of final 
payment. Therefore, I am not upholding this complaint that more compensation is otherwise 
due.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman