DRN-3950073
The complaint
Mr H complains about the way Creation Financial Services Limited treated him, when we 
raised a chargeback claim with them.
What happened
Mr H has a credit card account with Creation. The credit card is branded using a sperate 
companys logo, which allows Mr H access to specific benefits with that company, the more 
he uses it. For ease, Ill call that separate company X.
In March 2022, Mr H had cause to raise a dispute about a transaction on his credit card 
account. So, he went through a website, branded by X, used for the administration of his 
credit card. Mr H says the website directed him to contact Creation to raise the dispute. So, 
he called Creation for further details.
Mr H says he found the call with Creation frustrating, as he was asked to go through a 
customer identification process twice. He also says the advisor sounded distant, so he 
couldnt easily understand what he was being told. Nonetheless, Mr H says he was given 
details of a dispute form on Creations own website, to raise the dispute.
A chargeback claim was raised with Creation and settled in April 2022. But, Mr H wasnt 
happy that he was asked to call to Creation in the first place and that there wasnt a simple 
link to raise a dispute on Xs own website. Mr H complained to Creation and said Xs website 
should be changed, to avoid wasting time on a call.
In their final response to Mr Hs complaint, Creation apologised for the time it took them to 
answer Mr Hs telephone call. They also apologised that he was asked to go through the 
identification process twice and that advice on Xs website wasnt as smooth as it could be. 
But, Creation didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Mr H didnt accept Creations response and brought his complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into Mr Hs case and found that they had treated him fairly. She said 
Creation had apologised for the delay caused with the telephone call, but overall they hadnt 
made a mistake.
Mr H didnt agree. He said Xs website had subsequently changed, meaning Creation had 
spotted a mistake in the advice they had been giving out. To resolve things, Mr H asked the 
investigator to consider recommending a payment for the trouble he said he had 
experienced.
The investigator didnt change her conclusions, so Mr Hs case has now been passed to me 
to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The credit card account
Mr Hs credit card account with Creation is a regulated financial product. So, we are able to 
consider complaints about it.
The concerns being complained about here, are about how Creation treated Mr H in the lead 
up to him making a chargeback claim. Mr H hasnt complained to Creation about the 
outcome of that claim, and he hasnt mentioned any dissatisfaction about it in any 
correspondence with us. So, Ive focussed on what Creation did to help Mr H, rather than 
how the chargeback was processed and eventually resolved.
Throughout his complaint, Mr H has been consistent in saying there is an affiliation between 
Creation and X. In that Creation are the provider of the credit card, which carries Xs 
branding and associated benefits. I can see where this wasnt fully supported during the 
initial stages of his complaint to us. But, I acknowledge where there is an obvious link 
between X and Creation and their administration of his credit card account.
The information on Xs website
Mr H says Xs website gave him details about how to raise a dispute. He says in March 
2022, Xs website told him to call Creation directly to start the dispute process. But, Mr H 
also says the telephone call was a waste of time, because he was subsequently asked to 
raise the dispute on Creations own website.
Creations responsibility to Mr H is to provide a way of administering and servicing his credit 
card account. In this instance, Mr H needed advice about how to raise a chargeback claim 
for a transaction that had debited his account.
I empathise where Mr H has told us Xs website should have simply signposted him to the 
correct dispute form to complete. I agree that for some customers, this would reduce the 
time to put a dispute together. But, I dont think the addition of the telephone call, means 
Creation have treated him unfairly.
I think that talking directly to a credit card provider, during the first stages of querying a 
transaction, may be very beneficial to some customers.
Mr H has since told us that Xs website for the administration of his credit card account has 
now been changed. He says the website now provides a direct route to raise a dispute with 
Creation, instead of the need to make a telephone call. Mr H may well take some satisfaction 
that his concerns may have prompted Creation and X, to review the advice on the website. 
However, I should add that Creation arent obliged to share that information with us and 
neither would we ask for it. Our role is to investigate individual complaints. If a business 
makes an error, we can decide if theyve treated a customer fairly in putting things right. 
We dont have the power to ask businesses to make changes to how they offer their services 
to their customer base.
The telephone call with Creation
Ive concluded that Creation didnt treat Mr H unfairly, when he was asked to call them to 
start the process of raising a dispute. So, Ive thought about what happened during the 
telephone call to decide if Creation should do more to put things right.
Mr H says he spent 20 minutes in a telephone call queue, waiting to talk to an adviser from Creation. He also says he was frustrated that he was asked twice for caller verification 
details and that the advisor sounded distant, in that he couldnt hear much of what was said. 
In response to those concerns, Creation say they were dealing with large volumes of calls 
when Mr H made contact with them. Additionally they said they may need to verify a caller a 
second time, if a particular instance requires them to do so. And that there may have been a 
poor connection, when talking to the adviser. 
Having considered everything, I accept that raising a dispute about a transaction must have 
been worrying enough for Mr H. But to then encounter frustrations with waiting to speak to 
an advisor, going through verification checks a second time and then struggling to get the 
information he needed, must have exasperated the situation.
However, Im also aware that most customers will encounter some frustrations with things 
that happen in their dealings with businesses. That doesnt mean to say that they have 
always been treated unfairly where a business has needed to be involved.
Ive thought carefully about how Creation treated Mr H when he sought to raise the 
chargeback claim. I can see that Creation acknowledged what had happened and 
apologised to Mr H for the delay in speaking to him.
In all the circumstances, I think Creation took the appropriate step to apologise to Mr H. After 
considering all the evidence, I dont think the impact on Mr H was such that Creation should 
make a payment to him for the distress and inconvenience he says he experienced.
Summary
Overall, I think Creation treated Mr H fairly when Xs website advised him to make a call to 
raise the dispute about the transaction. I also think Creations apology for the what Mr H 
experienced during the call, was fair and reasonable considering the circumstances of what 
happened. So, I dont think Creation should take further steps to put matters right.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman