DRN-3744416
The complaint
The estate of Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) lost items held in safe custody.
What happened
In 2018, a prior complaint was made to Lloyds about the loss of the deeds to the late Mr Ms 
property which were held in safe custody. Lloyds responded and in summary, didnt agree 
that the deeds had been lost. Lloyds final response was dated December 2018.
In November 2021, the executors of the late Mr Ms estate were notified by Lloyds that the 
deeds had been received at the branch for collection. 
The estate of Mr M complained. I will refer to the estate in this decision. The estate said the 
previous complaint hadnt been investigated properly as the deeds were clearly at Lloyds all 
along. The location of the deeds after all the time that elapsed was distressing for the family, 
and especially the late Mr Ms wife. The deeds were returned in a ripped and tatty envelope. 
The estate asked for further compensation of £250. The estate wants to know where the 
deeds were in the interim period.
Lloyds apologised for not properly investigating the whereabouts of the deeds in 2018. They 
accepted that errors had been made at that time. Lloyds paid compensation of £671.60, 
made up of £250 distress and inconvenience; £400 for having to have the deeds 
reconstructed; and £21.60 to cover call costs.
The estate didnt agree and brought its complaint to us. It still wanted to know where the 
deeds had been; and wants a further £250 in compensation. Our investigator said it couldnt 
be established where the deeds had been. But he considered that the compensation paid by 
Lloyds was appropriate for what had happened.
The estate asked that an ombudsman look at its complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that the loss of the deeds was investigated by Lloyds in 2018 and Lloyds issued 
their final response in December 2018. I wont comment on that complaint, as it is closed  
but essentially, Lloyds couldnt locate the deeds or land certificate. 
The outstanding issue is  where the deeds were in the meantime  up to when Lloyds 
advised that they were available to be picked up in November 2021. We asked Lloyds more 
questions about that  and they had been held in the banks deedstore (usually a central 
depository) in the meantime. And after Lloyds took a decision to not offer its safe custody 
service, it went through a process of returning items being held to customers  including the 
deeds in question.
I accept that to have the deeds returned after a long period of time must have been upsetting 
and frustrating. Its my role to decide if Lloyds dealt with the estates complaint effectively 
and reasonably. And I think they did  Lloyds admitted they made a mistake when they 
looked at the original complaint in 2018, and paid compensation of £671.60. Of that, £400 
was a direct cost of reconstructing the deeds, and £21.60 was for phone calls. So  the 
payment for distress and inconvenience was £250. So - I must decide whether thats the 
right amount. The estate has argued that it should be more for the upset it caused. 
Our service has laid down criteria for deciding awards of this nature.  We say An award up 
to £300 might be suitable where there have been repeated small errors, or a larger single 
mistake, requiring a reasonable effort to sort out. Typically, the businesss actions could 
have resulted in some acute stress lasting hours at the lower end  or a have had a milder 
impact across a few days, or even weeks. I think its fair to say that the stress, as described 
by the executor of the estate, falls into this definition  and therefore I consider that the 
payment of £250 is the right amount. I also noted that Lloyds readily agreed to pay for the 
reconstruction of the deeds.
Therefore, I consider that Lloyds dealt with the complaint from the estate in an appropriate 
and reasonable way, and Im not asking them to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman