DRN-3569823
The complaint
Mr P is the executor of his sisters estate. He complains that Bank of Scotland plc did not 
carry out proper checks to ensure that his sister could afford an increase in the credit card 
limit on her Halifax credit card.  
What happened
Ms P opened a Halifax credit card account in 2005. Her credit limit was increased over the 
years, the final increase taking place in 2014.
Ms P died in January 2021, and Mr P was appointed as executor in July the same year. The 
grant of probate records that the estate was solvent, with a net value of more than £77,000. 
On reviewing his sisters finances, Mr P noticed that she owed some £60,000 to a number of 
different lenders, including more than £8,000 on her Halifax credit card. She had exceeded 
her credit card limit by a few hundred pounds. 
Mr P complained that Halifax had not carried out sufficient affordability checks before 
increasing Ms Ps credit limit. 
Halifax noted that the most recent increase had taken place in 2014, more than six years 
before any complaint was made. This service cannot usually consider a complaint which is 
made more than six years after the event giving rise to it or, if later, more than three years 
after the complainant ought to have known they had cause for complaint. Halifax said this 
meant that we had no power to consider the complaint. 
Our investigator did not agree with Halifax on that point, but was not persuaded that it had 
not carried out appropriate checks before agreeing to the credit limit increase. Mr P did not 
accept the investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the case.        
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lenders should take steps to ensure that a borrower will be able to afford to repay any 
lending before they agree to it. In the case of credit card lending, they should carry out 
reasonable and proportionate checks before setting or increasing a credit limit. Reasonable 
and proportionate checks do not necessarily include, for example, an examination of bank 
statements or requiring proof of earnings  although they can do.   
In this case, our investigator noted that Ms P appears to have been able to manage her 
Halifax credit card for several years after the most recent credit limit change. It was not until 
2020 that she exceeded that credit limit. 
The information about the checks that the bank undertook in 2014 is, because of the 
passage of time, very limited. One reason why our rules include time limits is that evidence 
ceases to be available or becomes unreliable. The courts apply similar, but not identical, 
limits. In this case, there is little or no evidence from the bank or from Ms P about what 
happened in 2014. 
In the circumstances, I do not believe that I can fairly conclude that the bank did not carry 
out sufficient checks before agreeing to increase Ms Ps credit limit.      
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Bank of Scotland plc to take any 
further steps to resolve the estates complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms P 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 September 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman