DRN-1594528
 
The complaint
Ms D and Mr W have complained to us that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-
sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy in 1993. 
background
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that it shouldnt be upheld. 
Ms D and Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed 
to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ill explain the reasons for this.
Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Firstly, Ive looked at the optionality of the policy. In this case, the MPPI wasnt optional; the 
policy was a condition of taking a particular fixed rate mortgage. A financial business isnt 
precluded from making payment protection insurance a condition of credit or a preferential 
rate of credit. However it is a requirement that the business make it clear that the policy isnt 
optional.
Ms D and Mr W complained to us that the optionality of the MPPI wasnt made clear to them. 
But in this case the obligation on Nationwide was to make it clear that the MPPI was 
compulsory. Ms D and Mr Ws recollections about the sale are not detailed but this is 
understandable due to the many years that have passed. So I have looked at any sales 
documentation I can find to give me an idea as to what more likely than not would have 
happened. I also have relied on my knowledge of how sales were conducted by Nationwide 
at that time also. Having considered the paperwork from the time of the sale, I can see in a 
MPC fixed rate policy leaflet that more likely would have been given to Ms D and Mr W 
during the sale that MPPI was made clear. I think that having read this and considered what 
I know of sales at that time, Ms D and Mr W would have been informed that the policy wasnt 
optional, and that it was being sold with a mortgage that attracted a preferential rate. 
So on balance, without a more detailed recollection of what happened, or further evidence to 
support what Ms D and Mr W have said, I am persuaded Nationwide made it clear to them 
that the MPPI was compulsory and part of their mortgage that they selected. Next, Nationwide didnt recommend the MPPI to Ms D and Mr W, so it wasnt required to 
make sure that it was suitable for them. But it was required to give them information that was 
clear, fair and not misleading so they could make the decision about whether or not to take 
the MPPI. 
Ive considered the possibility that Nationwide didnt give Ms D and Mr W clear enough 
information about the cost, benefits, main exclusions and restrictions of the policy. Ms D and 
Mr W told us that their employer benefits would have paid out for at least six months each. 
But the policy would have paid out for up to 24 months and the cost was comparable to the 
cost of other, similar policies available at the time. Its also possible Nationwide didnt point 
out the main things the policy didnt cover. But given their circumstances, Ms D and Mr W 
wouldnt have been affected by any of those things. On balance, I dont think having better 
information would have dissuaded them from buying the PPI. So overall, Ive concluded this 
policy wasnt mis-sold. 
my final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Ms D and Mr W, but Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 May 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman