DRN-3434097
The complaint
Mr K complains about the advice given by Scott and Casey Financial Management Limited 
(S&C) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme, 
take the maximum available tax free cash and purchase an annuity. He says the advice was 
unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
Mr K is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading this decision Ill largely 
refer to representations as being made by Mr K.
What happened
Mr K had an occupational pension that he had accrued working for an employer between 
1972 and 1979.
Mr K received letters from his existing pension scheme in July 2009 providing up to date 
details of his plan. The letters say they were sent after he made enquiries about the plans 
status. These confirmed, at that time, Mr K had a preserved pension, payable at retirement, 
of £602.32 per annum (including a guaranteed minimum pension, GMP, of £414.96 per 
year). The GMP was scheduled to increase by 8.5% for each complete tax year between 
Mr K leaving the pension and the state pension age. The letters also confirmed that the plan 
had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £11,577.
S&C has said that Mr K approached it in August 2009 as he was looking to release money 
from his pension. Mr Ks representatives have said that S&C offered Mr K a pension review.
S&C completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ks circumstances and objectives. 
It noted he was 58 at the time and married. He was employed full time and his household 
income was recorded as exceeding outgoings. S&C recorded that Mr K had two other 
pensions, besides his DB scheme, from which he was already taking benefits. And it said 
Mr Ks main objective was to release tax free cash (TFC) from his DB scheme, in order to 
pay for a holiday as a gift to his wife, who had only recently recovered from a period of ill 
health. S&C also carried out an assessment of Mr Ks attitude to risk, which it deemed to be 
low/medium or cautious.
S&C contacted Mr Ks existing scheme to see if he could take benefits at that time  earlier 
than the scheduled retirement age. The scheme confirmed it could not offer the option of 
taking benefits early.
On 15 September 2009 S&C recommended that Mr K transfer his pension benefits out of his 
DB scheme. It recommended he take the maximum available TFC (£2,894.25) and use the 
remaining fund to purchase an annuity. The annuity recommended was an impaired life 
annuity, due to some pre-existing health conditions Mr K had, paying £496.08 per annum. 
This was a level annuity, so the benefits would not increase, and it included a five-year 
guarantee and would provide a 50% spouses pension. The letter explaining the 
recommendation said the reasons for it were that it allowed Mr K to take TFC, which he 
couldnt under his existing scheme. An annuity was recommended because Mr K was keen 
to know exactly what income his pension would provide. And the other choices made in 
relation to the annuity  it being level, having a guarantee and a spouses pension  were 
recommended because they were in line with what Mr K said he preferred.
The transfer went ahead in line with the recommendation made.
Mr K complained in October 2020. In summary his representatives said that the advice was 
unsuitable and was not in his best interests. He didnt recall receiving the TFC and was 
unsure what this was used for. And it said what Mr K was giving up was not clearly explained 
in a way he could understand. The representative also said that Mr K did not want to take 
any risks with his pension and that it had valuable death benefits which he shouldnt have 
been told to give up, which again it felt made the advice unsuitable.
S&C didnt uphold the complaint. It said that it had recommended, and Mr K had taken, an 
immediate vesting pension, giving him a fixed income through an annuity which commenced 
straight away. So, there was no investment risk and he was provided a guaranteed income 
for the rest of his life  which also had death benefits of a 50% pension for his wife. S&C 
said Mr K had gathered information from his existing scheme before contacting it. So, it felt 
he fully understood the benefits he was due and what he would be giving up. And it felt the 
recommendation was appropriate as it allowed him to release TFC  in line with his stated 
objective.
The complaint was then referred to our service. S&C indicated it felt that the complaint fell 
outside of our jurisdiction, having potentially been made too late for us to consider. An 
Ombudsman colleague considered the matter and decided that we did have jurisdiction to 
consider Mr Ks complaint.
One of our Investigators then gave an opinion on the merits of the complaint. They felt the 
complaint should be upheld. This was because they didnt think the advice was suitable as 
the regulators rules explained transfers from a DB scheme should be assumed to be 
unsuitable unless it could clearly be shown to be in the customers best interests. And they 
didnt think Mr K had a genuine need to release the TFC or to transfer. And if it had been 
explained this wasnt in his best interests, they didnt think Mr K wouldve transferred and 
instead wouldve remained in his DB scheme, taking retirement benefits at the scheme 
retirement age. So, they felt S&C should pay compensation in line with regulators redress 
methodology as well as paying additional interest on monies Mr K had been deprived of 
since 2015  when hed have reached the retirement age of his existing scheme.
S&C disagreed. They said Mr K had clearly indicated this was what he wanted to do  a 
choice it felt he was entitled to make. And it said hed made a choice to take TFC, for a very 
specific purpose, for which there wasnt a viable alternative and was keen to increase his 
income by taking a pension. And its recommendation had been in line with this choice. S&C 
also indicated it felt Mr K would have insisted on the transfer.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion as they still believed the advice to 
be unsuitable. And they didnt agree that Mr K wouldve disregarded advice not to transfer, 
had this been given. Because agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was referred to me. I issued a 
provisional decision in June 2022 explaining that I intended to uphold Mr Ks complaint but 
felt some amendments to the redress were appropriate. Below are extracts from my 
provisional findings, explaining why I thought this.
A number of the things that Mr Ks representatives have said about the suitability of the 
transfer dont appear relevant here. It has said part of the reason that the recommendation 
was unsuitable was that Mr K did not want to take risks, doing so was not appropriate and 
valuable guarantees were lost as a result of the transfer. But the transfer here didnt involve 
investing Mr Ks pension in unit linked investments, or any other action that put the amount 
transferred at risk of decreasing.
Mr Ks existing scheme provided a guaranteed annual pension. In 2009, this was quoted as 
being £602.32 per year and included a spouses pension of 50% - payable in the event Mr K 
pre-deceased his wife. A portion of that benefit accrued was though subject to revaluation 
increases until state retirement age. Meaning the benefits would likely have been higher at 
retirement age, if theyd remained with the existing scheme. The scheme however 
confirmed, at that time, Mr K could not take benefits early. So, he could not access his 
pension fund for several years, if it stayed where it was.
S&C recommended that Mr K use the transfer value of those benefits, the CETV, to release 
TFC and then purchase an annuity. That annuity provided a guaranteed level income for the 
rest of Mr Ks life (£496.08 per annum), as well as a 50% spouses pension. So, the CETV 
was not invested in a fund that could go up and down in value  and not exposed to 
investment risk. 25% was released to Mr K tax free, to spend as he chose, and the rest was 
used to buy an annuity, which still provided a fixed guaranteed income. So, the guarantees 
were not lost  they were exchanged for alternative guaranteed benefits.
What I must decide is whether the advice given  the recommendation to make that 
exchange  was suitable and in Mr Ks best interests.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The regulator, now the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), set out, in its Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (COBS), specific requirements and guidance relating to transfers 
from defined benefit schemes  these were contained in COBS 19.1.
COBS 19.1.2 required the following:
A firm must:
1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined 
benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits with the 
benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension scheme or 
other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client to transfer 
out of a defined benefits pension scheme;
2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to 
make an informed decision;
3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the factors 
that do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case no later 
than when the key features document is provided; and
4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison 
and its advice.Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6 set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to 
transfer, or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer or opt-out will not be 
suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it 
can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer or opt-out is in the 
client's best interests.
S&Cs role wasnt simply to facilitate something that Mr K mightve thought he wanted or 
needed. It was to objectively consider all of the relevant information, provide clear 
comparisons so he could make an informed decision and provide him with robust, suitable 
financial advice, which was in his best interests. And based on what Ive seen, Im not sure 
that S&C did this.
The letter setting out S&Cs recommendation set out the details of the annuity being 
recommended. But the only information included about the existing scheme was the transfer 
value and that TFC and monthly payments couldnt be taken at that time. I dont think that 
comparison included enough information for Mr K to make an informed decision. Because it 
didnt reflect the benefits due to Mr K under the scheme at retirement, if he remained 
invested. And this is what he was giving up and was a more appropriate comparison than 
simply saying he couldnt take benefits at age 58. S&C has argued information about 
existing benefits was provided by the scheme to Mr K before he contacted it for advice. So, 
he was familiar with what he was giving up and had decided he was willing to do so. But I 
dont think S&C can reasonably rely on this to say it fulfilled its obligations under the relevant 
rules to provide Mr K a clear recommendation that allowed him to make an informed 
decision.
The recommendation made was based on releasing TFC at that point being something that 
Mr K wanted to do and it being appropriate to do so. And because the existing scheme 
wasnt in a position to allow benefits to be taken early, a transfer was recommended. But the 
information Ive seen doesnt suggest that the need for TFC was tested. And there isnt 
anything in the recommendation that explained to Mr K why S&C thought it was right to do 
this  something Im satisfied it was required to comment on.
The information from the time is consistent that releasing TFC for the purposes of a holiday 
was something Mr K was interested in. I know he has said he doesnt remember the purpose 
of this now. But Im conscious that memories do fade over time. And Im satisfied that this 
was the position at the time  particularly given the documents he signed that confirmed this 
aim. I also think its likely Mr K approached S&C, rather than the other way around as his 
representative has suggested, to discuss this. I say that because Ive seen information from 
his existing scheme that was addressed to him, dated prior to any correspondence he 
received from S&C and before he signed a letter of authority to S&C. Indicating he requested 
this directly and then contacted S&C after it was received. So, Im satisfied that Mr K was 
looking into releasing TFC and contacted S&C because he was interested in doing so.
But I dont think that means it was a need. It was something he was exploring, but it was to 
fund something that was not essential. And the main purpose of a pension is to provide 
income in retirement. There was no commentary by S&C on why the desired holiday being 
funded by the TFC outweighed the benefits being given up. And there doesnt appear to 
have been any detailed consideration of this.There is also nothing to suggest that alternatives were explored. S&C has said it doesnt 
think there were any alternative options, particularly given Mr Ks other pensions were 
already paying benefits. But Id have expected this to be covered in the recommendation 
letter. And a pension is not the only way of funding a holiday. The fact find showed that 
Mr Ks household had surplus monthly income in excess of £500. Given the amount listed as 
being needed by Mr K was £2,500, financing that through a loan or credit seems to have 
been a realistic option. This would likely have resulted in interest being incurred. Which Mr K 
wouldve needed to decide if he was willing to pay. But in order to make that decision, S&C 
shouldve discussed this option to him, and commented on it in the recommendation, so that 
he could make an informed decision.
The recommendation letter also, very briefly, said that another of Mr Ks objectives was to 
obtain extra income. This wasnt however reflected in the fact find that has been provided. 
And again, the information provided indicates Mr Ks household had surplus income each 
month. So, Im not sure this was a genuine objective. And even if it were, there was again no 
commentary on why this was appropriate or anything which set out what did or did not 
support this course of action  so that Mr K could make an informed choice.
S&C has said that the pension belonged to Mr K and it was his choice what to do with it. 
While that is true, again S&Cs role wasnt just to facilitate what Mr K wanted. Just because 
he might have been interested in releasing tax free cash for an intended purpose doesnt 
mean it was in his best interests to do so. S&C still needed to consider if it was and explain 
why, setting out reasons for and against as required by the regulator  taking into account 
what the regulator says about the starting assumption being a transfer will usually be 
unsuitable. Which I cant see it did. There is no commentary on why it was right for Mr K to 
transfer and give up the benefits under the DB scheme  which appear to have been better. 
The letter simply outlines this is what Mr K apparently wanted and this was a way of doing 
that. Which wasnt, in my view, robust or suitable advice.
Taking everything into account, I dont think S&C provided clear comparisons in order for 
Mr K to make an informed decision. The recommended annuity did, as Ive said, provide a 
guaranteed income, so the recommendation wasnt contrary to Mr Ks attitude to risk. But 
this income was at a lower level than offered by the DB scheme, even before the next 
several years of revaluations was taken into account. And I dont think enough emphasis 
was given to the benefits Mr K was giving up so that he could make an informed decision. 
Rather S&C seems simply to have facilitated a transfer without consideration of whether it 
was in Mr Ks best interests. And again, this wasnt S&Cs role, simply to transact what Mr K 
mightve thought he wanted.
And I dont think the transfer was in Mr Ks best interests. I dont doubt that Mr K likely 
wanted to take a holiday. And he mayve been particularly keen on doing this. But by 
transferring, Mr K was going to receive a lower retirement income. And I dont think reducing 
his retirement income appears to have been the only option and, in my view, certainly wasnt 
the best option. Particularly given when Mr K did come to stop working, hed have greater 
reliance on the benefits he would receive from his pension.
So, I think S&C shouldve advised Mr K to remain in his DB scheme and look at funding the 
holiday another way, potentially using the surplus income available to him at the time.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr K would've gone ahead anyway, against S&C's 
advice. S&C has said it believes that he would have. It says Mr K had researched his fund 
status in advance of their discussions and he instigated the advice process - which it thinks 
suggests hed already chosen to take money from this pension.Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr K wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against S&Cs advice. Mr K does appear to have other 
pensions that were paying him benefits already. But Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr K was 
particularly experienced or had more than a standard knowledge of pensions that another 
regular customer might have. While he may have had an intended use for TFC, I dont think 
the impact on his retirement income that would be caused by this action and why this wasnt 
in his best interests was made clear. And if it had been, and hed been provided clear advice 
against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I 
think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that what Mr K had said hed like to use TFC for was a genuine need. Or 
that his desire for this was so great that he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a 
professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it 
was suitable for him or in his best interests. If S&C had explained that Mr K could meet his 
objective without reducing his retirement income, I think that wouldve carried significant 
weight. So, I dont think Mr K would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think S&C should compensate Mr K for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
Our Investigator recommended that S&C pay interest, at 8% per year, on the difference in 
what Mr K has received and what he wouldve received by remaining in the DB scheme 
since the scheduled scheme retirement age. This was in addition to the regulators standard 
redress methodology. But I dont intend to require S&C to do this. Mr K received income 
under the purchased annuity from 2009 that he wouldnt otherwise have done as well as tax 
free cash earlier than he wouldve done. So, he has benefitted from this. Which I think 
counterbalances him potentially not having received as much since 2015 as he would have 
under the DB scheme. So, in the circumstances I dont think itd be fair to require S&C pay 
additional interest. And instead I think itd be appropriate for the compensation to largely just 
follow the regulators usual methodology.
Usually wed say that a notional deduction should be made from the compensation to allow 
for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. But based on the information that Ive 
seen about Mr Ks retirement provisions and what his income in retirement is likely to be, I 
think it seems probable his income will be under the annual tax allowance. So, in this case, I 
dont think a notional deduction is appropriate.
Responses to my provisional decision
I gave both parties an opportunity to make further comments or send further information 
before I reached my final decision.
Both Mr Ks representatives and S&C made no further comments regarding the merits of the 
complaint or my provisional findings on this.
Mr Ks representative noted they felt it was correct that a notional deduction is not made for 
tax.
S&C however asked what evidence Id relied on when reaching this conclusion and said, if 
none was provided, omitting a notional deduction should be conditional on Mr K providing 
evidence of his income.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided any further comments for me to consider about the advice 
itself and whether it was suitable, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings in 
respect of this. So, for the reasons summarised above, I think the advice provided by S&C 
was not in Mr Ks best interests, it shouldve advised him to remain in his DB scheme and I 
think he wouldve accepted this advice. So, I think S&C should compensate Mr K.
On the point of whether a notional deduction from the compensation amount should be 
made for tax, as I explained in my provisional findings, I thought it seemed probable Mr Ks 
income in retirement would be under the annual tax allowance. This was based on the 
information S&C gathered at the point of application - when it recorded that Mr K had one 
pension paying £384 annually and another paying £26 monthly (so £312 annually). And 
Mr Ks likely state pension entitlement. 
I didnt think it was unreasonable to rely on the figures S&C recorded regarding Mr Ks other 
pensions  particularly bearing in mind it relied on these when giving advice. But I have, 
since my provisional decision, asked Mr K for some further information and evidence.
Mr K has said he isnt currently working and has no pension provisions beyond those 
recorded during the advice process. Mr K has also provided extracts from his online banking 
service showing the amounts he has received recently in respect of his different pensions 
(including the state pension). 
Based on this information, it appears Mr Ks annual income is very close to the amount of 
the annual tax allowance. The figures suggest, if they did not change throughout the year, it 
might fall just below the threshold. But it isnt entirely clear, particularly as the figure for the 
annuity recommended by S&C seems slightly lower than what Id have expected it to be 
given payments were fixed at a set amount. So, I cant say with certainty that Mr K would not 
be liable to pay income tax in retirement.
With that in mind, I think it would be fair for a notional deduction for tax to be calculated. But, 
if Mr K can provide S&C with evidence he does not pay tax, this deduction should not be 
applied to the compensation amount.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr K, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for S&Cs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr K would have 
most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
S&C must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Im satisfied Mr K wouldnt have taken benefits under the DB scheme, until the 
normal scheme retirement age. So, this should be the basis for the calculations.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ks acceptance of the decision.S&C may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ks 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ks SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, Id usually recommend that this be paid into 
Mr Ks pension plan. But I understand, as Mr K has taken an annuity, that further 
contributions arent possible. So, in the circumstances, it appears appropriate that the 
payment be paid directly to Mr K as a lump sum.
A notional deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid should 
usually be made from this amount. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-
free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Ks income tax rate in retirement 
- presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this. And I think it is reasonable that S&Q calculate this deduction. 
However, if Mr K can provide it with evidence that he is not paying income tax, this deduction 
should not be made from the compensation amount. This evidence needs to be provided 
within a reasonable period of time by Mr K, bearing in mind the requirements I mention 
below around when redress should be paid.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr K within 90 days of the date S&C receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes S&C to pay Mr K.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold Mr Ks complaint.
To resolve matters I order Scott and Casey Financial Management Limited to take the action 
set out in the Putting things right section of my decision, set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman