DRN-1678449
The complaint
Mr G has complained that The Governor and Company of the Bank of Ireland (BOI) has 
refused to allow him to port (transfer) his mortgage onto a new property. He wants BOI to 
agree to this, and thinks BOI should agree as he does not want to increase his borrowing.
What happened
In 2007 Mr B took out an unregulated buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage with BOI. He borrowed a 
total of £118,430.06 on an interest-only basis over a term of 20 years. The mortgage was in 
two parts, with £90,000 on a fixed rate until 31 December 2008 and the balance on a tracker 
rate of BOIs BTL Base rate + 1.50% until 31 January 2010. Thereafter each part of the 
mortgage reverted to BOIs base rate plus 1.75%.
A condition of the mortgage was that the property had to be rented out on a tenancy 
approved by BOI. I will assume that the property was rented out to tenants for the first ten 
years of the term, but in 2017 Mr G moved into the property, and it remains his residential 
address.
In September 2019 Mr G had two telephone conversations with BOI. During the first 
conversation, on 4 September, Mr G told BOI that he had a residential mortgage and wanted 
to port it onto a new property. BOI checked the details and explained that it was, in fact, a 
BTL mortgage. Mr G expressed his surprised at this. He asked BOI to check whether or not 
he met the affordability criteria for a residential mortgage. It was confirmed that, based on 
what Mr G said, he would qualify. But Mr B would not be able to port his tracker rate, as BOI 
no longer offered these.
Mr G telephoned again on 6 September 2019 for an update. BOI explained that Mr G could 
either apply for a new residential mortgage, or change his existing mortgage from a BTL to a 
residential mortgage and then port it onto a new property, but that this would be a more 
complicated and lengthy process. Mr G decided to apply for a new residential mortgage, but, 
due to a previous repossession, didnt meet BOIs criteria.
This was referred to underwriters, who confirmed that Mr G didnt meet lending criteria. Mr G 
put forward other options  asking if he could port his mortgage as a BTL onto a new 
property. He explained that he had another BTL property with another lender, but was living 
in the BTL property mortgaged to BOI. BOI said that any request to port the existing BTL 
onto a new rental property would be conditional upon Mr G already owning a residential 
property, which he did not have.
Mr G complained to BOI. He thought it was unfair that BOI was refusing to convert his BTL 
mortgage into a residential mortgage. BOI didnt uphold the complaint. It was satisfied that 
Mr G didnt meet its lending criteria for a new residential mortgage. The bank also explained 
that Mr G was free to redeem the BTL mortgage at any time, as there was no early 
repayment charge, and remortgage to a new lender if he so wished.
Dissatisfied with BOIs response, Mr G complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Mr G believes that BOI has refused to allow him to port his mortgage because it is on such 
an attractive tracker rate. An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be 
upheld.
Mr G disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Hes reiterated all the 
points about what he perceives to be unfair treatment by BOl. Mr G has also said that 
someone he works with was able to port their tracker mortgage onto a new property even 
though his colleague was two years away from being discharged from bankruptcy. Mr G 
thinks his situation is analogous to this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I confirm Ive listened to the telephone calls from 4 and 6 September 2019 and Ive reviewed 
all the documentation and taken note of all the points Mr G has said are important.
Whats happened isnt in dispute; Mr G wanted to port a BTL mortgage onto a new 
residential property, but BOI has said this isnt possible and that Mr G doesnt meet its 
criteria for a new residential mortgage.
Mr G has told us that he made a genuine mistake in thinking the mortgage was residential, 
rather than BTL. But it was over ten years into the mortgage term before Mr G moved into 
the property. Given this, I am hesitant to conclude that Mr G was unaware this was a BTL 
mortgage. 
Nevertheless, when the position was clarified with BOl, Mr G was given options on how he 
could proceed. Unfortunately, none of those options could go ahead; Mr G couldnt port the 
BTL mortgage onto another rental property, as he didnt already own a residential property. 
He also didnt meet BOIs lending criteria for a new residential mortgage.
Where a complaint is about the exercise by a lender of its commercial judgment my role is to 
decide whether that judgement has been exercised fairly and reasonably; it isnt to substitute 
my own judgement for that of BOI. In other words, I have to decide if BOI took into account 
all relevant factors and gave proper consideration to them before reaching its decision. It is 
only if I thought no lender could reasonably have made the decisions BOI made in this case 
that there would be any basis for intervention on my part.
BOI is entitled to set its own lending criteria. Decisions that BOI makes in respect of what 
those criteria are, its attitude to risk involved in this particular lending assessment, and 
whether it should lend and if so, on what terms are clearly discretionary matters for BOIs 
own commercial judgement that I would not interfere with. Additionally in deciding whether to 
lend to Mr G, BOI is entitled to take account of its own interests when making such 
decisions. It is not obliged to take account only of the interests of the borrower.
Im satisfied that BOI was entitled to decline Mr Gs request to port the BTL mortgage onto a 
new rental property. BOI requires BTL landlords to have their own residential property, which 
Mr B did not have. Furthermore, Mr Bs previous repossession meant he didnt meet BOIs 
current lending criteria. Im satisfied that BOI gave careful consideration to Mr Gs requests, 
which were reviewed by underwriters, not just staff at branch level, before being declined.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied BOI has properly exercised its commercial judgement. Im 
satisfied its decisions were based on Mr G not meeting its criteria, rather than any desire on 
its part to move him off his tracker interest rate.Mr G has told us that someone he knows was able to port his mortgage with another lender, 
despite being bankrupt. I cant comment on what other consumers have been able to do, but 
if the mortgage in question was residential rather than BTL, then it would be subject to 
mortgage regulations on porting. Mr Gs BTL mortgage is unregulated.
I appreciate Mr G says he feels trapped by BOI. But Mr G is free to apply for a mortgage with 
another lender to pay off the BTL mortgage. What I must make clear is that if Mr G continues 
to reside in the property if it is subject to a BTL mortgage, he is in breach of contract. Mr G 
will need to take steps either to vacate the property and rent it out again, or if he wants to 
continue to reside in the property, remortgage with another lender on a residential basis. It 
might help Mr G to see an independent financial adviser to discuss his options.
I know this isnt the outcome Mr G wanted. But after looking at everything he and BOI have 
said and provided, Im unable to find that the bank has done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman