DRN-2391399
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in 1999. 
Mr and Mrs G say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, including Mr and Mrs Gs 
circumstances at the time of the sale and the PPI policy benefit, limitations and exclusions of 
cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all that here. 
Nationwide has told us the PPI at first was accident and sickness cover on Mrs G only. It 
says in 2000 cover was switched to Mr G and to unemployment cover only. The benefit was 
payable for 12 months initially and 24 months after the switch.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the mis-sale complaint but thought Nationwides offer to pay 
back some of the cost of the PPI, because of the non-disclosure of high commission and 
profit share Mr and Mrs G paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs Gs representatives disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
new points but repeated points made previously. Mr and Mrs G also asked for the case to be 
considered by an ombudsman and a final decision issued  so it has been passed to me.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Gs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. 
Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Nationwide 
should have disclosed the commission it received - but that Nationwides offer to refund 
some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused, is fair in the 
circumstances. 
Ive summarised my reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
I think Nationwide made it clear Mr and Mrs G didnt have to take the PPI and they chose 
to take it. I say this because Mr and Mrs G havent said anything to make me think this 
wasnt made clear. Also, Ive nothing to make me think Nationwide wouldnt normally 
have given consumers like Mr and Mrs G a choice about the PPI and got agreement 
from them before adding it to their mortgage.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs G - so it didnt have to check the 
PPI was right or suitable for them. But it did have to give them enough clear and timely 
information so they could decide for themselves if it was right for them.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. But they chose to take it, and I dont think they wouldve done 
so without having at least a broad understanding of the cover it provided - so it looks to 
me like they wanted this type of cover.
Only Mrs G was employed initially and its likely Mr and Mrs Gs household income 
wouldve reduced significantly if shed been unable to work for an extended time due to 
accident or sickness. Mr G had been in employment for only just over a year when cover 
was switched to him, so its unlikely work redundancy pay wouldve covered his income 
for long if hed lost his job. With all this in mind, it looks like the PPI benefit wouldve 
been useful to Mr and Mrs G if something went wrong in the circumstances it covered.
I say this bearing in mind that Mr and Mrs G had some savings. But this was money 
theyd chosen to keep rather than to use to reduce the mortgage borrowing at the start. 
By helping with mortgage related costs, the PPI benefit wouldve helped them keep 
those savings intact or free for other uses at what could be a difficult time if Mrs G had 
been too sick to work or, later, if Mr G were to have lost his job.
Also Mr and Mrs G werent affected by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover. 
Mrs G didnt have any health issues, so wasnt affected by exclusions for pre-existing 
health issues  and there were no extra restrictions on cover for mental health or back 
problems. When Mr G took the cover, nothing about his job or employment wouldve 
made it hard for him to claim on the policy for unemployment.
Overall the cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr and Mrs G or too dissimilar to what 
its likely they thought they were buying from the information I think its likely they were 
given. With this and all Ive said above in mind, I dont think their decisions about taking 
cover wouldve changed if Nationwide had done more in terms of the information it gave.
Overall, I consider Mr and Mrs G wouldve still taken the PPI. It was sufficiently close to what 
its likely they thought they were getting and, given their circumstances, I think it couldve 
provided a useful benefit at what couldve been a difficult time if, during the periods when 
they were covered, Mr or Mrs G couldnt work in the circumstances the policy covered. And, 
in those circumstances, I think they wouldve taken the PPI in any event.
Mr and Mrs Gs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; that these policies represented poor value 
because of the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low 
claims ratio; and that the duty of utmost good faith meant Nationwide should have disclosed 
the poor value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the 
impact on the chances of making a claim.Mr and Mrs Gs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Gs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Gs particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. For the reasons Ive set out above, I 
dont uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint.
This means Nationwide doesnt have to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs G.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and, if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so, Ive decided Nationwide should have disclosed the commission it received 
and that Nationwides offer, to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the 
unfairness caused, is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Nationwide didnt tell Mr and Mrs G about the high levels of commission and profit share 
paid in this case. So, taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the 
non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Nationwide and Mr and Mrs G was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
because Nationwide didnt tell them about the high levels of commission and profit share 
in this case; 
I dont think Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr and Mrs G, 
because it failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipMr and Mrs Gs representatives have made a number of representations about this part of 
the complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of 
the Consumer Credit Act on their complaint.
In summary they have said Mr and Mrs G should get back all the money they paid for the 
policy because: Nationwide failed to tell Mr and Mrs G about the high commission and 
profit-share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. 
Because they say that meant the policy was poor value, they say I should find Mr and Mrs G 
wouldnt have taken the policy had they known about the level of commission and they 
should receive a refund of all the premiums they paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- a court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a court 
would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a consumer 
would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; and
- the FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge the 
considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance about 
mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) and that the 
impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it should be 
considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mr and Mrs G in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Nationwide not disclosing the 
high level of commission to them before they purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr and Mrs Gs representative suggests, driven to conclude that they 
wouldnt have purchased the policy but for Nationwides failure to disclose the level of 
commission for the reasons Ive given above;
I think it was fair for Nationwide to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance 
and return some of the money Mr and Mrs G paid for their PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves 
Mr and Mrs G with the policy Ive concluded above they wouldve still taken if Nationwide 
had done everything it shouldve  but with lower commission and profit share levels. A 
cheque for this payment was sent to Mr and Mrs G by Nationwide in August 2019.So I consider that Nationwides offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission 
and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms, is fair in all the circumstances.
If Nationwide has already paid Mr and Mrs G compensation on this basis, I wouldnt consider 
that it needs to do anything else.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr and Mrs Gs complaint or make any 
award in favour of them for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Nationwide Building Society should pay Mr and Mrs G an amount equivalent to the 
commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated 
interest where applicable) - if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2022. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman