DRN-3597851
The complaint
Mr S complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim he made 
under sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr S is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around July 2016, Mr S was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to 
talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. After 
being visited by a representative of P, Mr S decided to purchase the system and finance it 
through a ten year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In June 2020 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr Ss behalf under section 75 of the 
Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of representations about 
the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had 
induced Mr S to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the system would generate free electricity, which could be sold to the national grid;
the system would be self-funding, and would pay for itself within ten years;
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on his electricity bills would provide enough 
income to cover the monthly loan payments; and
the optional extras chosen by Mr S would save him even more money.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr S or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
However it offered £200 compensation for its delay in responding to the complaint.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr S and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
Mr S receives no FIT payments at all, even though the salesman had told him that 
this would be arranged for him;
the salesman had never shown Mr S Ps quote, except right at the end of the meeting 
when he asked Mr S to sign it, after the loan agreement had been signed;
Mr S had never had the opportunity to read it, and consequently the adjudicator 
should not have placed any weight on it; and
Shawbrook had recently upheld a similar section 75 claim about P.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr S paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that section 
75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr S could claim against Shawbrook (the 
creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could have 
claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr S and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing him loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The CMC has provided a redacted copy of a letter in which Shawbrook upheld another 
consumers section 75 claim about solar panels sold by P. However, the letter does not 
explain why Shawbrook agreed that misrepresentations had been made in that case, and so 
it does not assist me. The evidence in that case may have been entirely different to the 
evidence in this case; I simply do not know. So I have concentrated on the evidence in 
Mr Ss case.
Mr S says that during a sales meeting he was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both parties. These include the 
credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. Ive considered 
these, along with Mr Ss testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to decide on 
balance what is most likely to have happened.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with Mr S, explaining any benefits of the system, prior 
to him agreeing to enter into the contract. Mr S denies that this happened. But I dont think 
its likely or plausible that Mr S simply took the salesmans word for it when he was told that he could buy thousands of pounds worth of equipment  paid for with an interest-bearing 
loan  without it costing him a penny, without at any point asking to see something to that 
effect in writing. Its more likely that Mr S has simply forgotten seeing the quote over the four 
years between the sale and the bringing of his claim. So on the balance of probabilities, I am 
satisfied that the quotation did form a central part of the sales process when Mr O agreed to 
enter into the contract, and that the salesperson went through it during the meeting. So, Ive 
taken this into account, along with Mr Ss version of events, when considering if there have 
been any untrue statements of fact.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.
Registration for FIT payments
Mr S says that P told him it would register his system for FIT payments for him, and he 
would not have to do anything. However, that is not how FIT registration works, and so 
I think it is unlikely that the salesman told him that. I am reinforced in that opinion by what 
the quote says about it. On page 10 it says, under the heading To be signed by the 
customer named below:
I confirm that the following has been fully explained to me/us: 
It is my/our responsibility to apply for the Feed in Tariff but Project Solar UK will help 
you with this process.
That sentence is repeated on the next page, just above the signature box.
Then on pages 14 and 15, under the heading Feed in Tariff (FIT), there are two paragraphs 
explaining how to register a system for FIT payments. These include the following sentence:
It is the customers responsibility to provide their personal details and bank details 
to the energy company.
In the terms and conditions, which Mr S has signed on page 22, it says in paragraph 47, 
under the heading Feed In Tariff (FIT):
We will provide the application forms for you to claim your FIT. However, it is your 
responsibility to claim your FIT and we cannot accept any responsibility for any loss 
of FIT.
Income from FIT payments and savings
Mr S has said that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and the savings on his energy bills. Ive considered the quote 
that was provided by P as well as Mr Ss recollections of his meeting with Ps representative 
to decide what is most likely to have been said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr S could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr S could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £115.83, which results in an average monthly income of less than £10. 
Im satisfied that the same document set out that there would be a monthly loan repayment 
due of £113.07. As a result, Im not able to conclude that Mr S was told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT payments alone.
The quote then goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr S could expect from the system. 
The expected year one electricity savings are £201.72 and, when taking into account the 
optional extras chosen by Mr S, the combined income and savings in year one is shown as 
£719.79 This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
This sum works out as £59.98 a month. As Ive said, the same document said that the 
monthly loan repayments would be £113.07, so Im not able to conclude that Mr S was told 
that the combination of FIT payments and savings would be enough to cover the loan 
payments.
This is clearly set out in another section headed Repayments, which has three tables 
showing repayments over 60 months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table 
for 120 months as this is the length of the loan that Mr S entered into with Shawbrook. This 
table shows the loan as repayable in 120 monthly payments of £113.07. For each year of the 
ten year loan it shows the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that 
figure over 12 months, and subtracts the monthly loan repayment, to give an average 
difference between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in 
each year. This gives a negative figure for every year of the loan, meaning that the system 
would never make enough money to cover the loan payments.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr S could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments and savings, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income and 
savings to the monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income he 
could expect to receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would not be 
immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. (This supports my finding 
above that Mr S wasnt told that the FIT payments alone would cover the loan repayments.) 
Ive carefully thought about Mr Ss version of events. However, as Ive found that the quote 
did form a central part of the sales process which the salesperson went through at the 
meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that he was told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT income and savings.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr S that the system would be self-funding from the outset. 
In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have 
happened.
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand. That section of the quote has been 
signed by Mr S (on page 11), so Im satisfied that P did enough to bring it to his attention. On 
balance Im also satisfied that the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start. 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr S was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain period of time.
The Key Facts page of the quote states in large font that it would take ten years for the 
overall benefits that Mr S could expect to receive to match the cash price of the system. This 
figure also appears in the Putting it all together section.
A later page of the quote has a table detailing the estimated performance of the system over 
30 years. This too shows that during year 10 the overall benefits that Mr S could expect to 
receive would reach the cash price of the system, £8,692. (To save space I have only 
reproduced the rows for years 1, 9 and 10 here.)
The same table shows that the total amount payable under the loan agreement, £13,568, 
would be reached by the end of year 13.
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr S that the system would pay for its cash 
price in 10 years, and for the loan in about 13 years, as supported by the tables mentioned 
above, which were included in the quote. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im 
satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the contract, and he subsequently 
suffered a loss, then that could amount to a misrepresentation. So Ive gone on to consider 
the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the contract between P and 
Mr S.
Performance
The MCS certificate and quote set out that the system is expected to produce 1,727 kWh a 
year. I have looked at Mr Ss FIT statements and can see that his system, on average, has 
generated 1,627 kWh a year. This is slightly less than estimated by P at the point of sale 
(94%), so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected, in terms of energy 
generation, if not financially. So the reason Mr S has not seen the expected financial returns 
is not because the system is defective, but for some other cause.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2015 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Mr S hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system and 
by the optional extras have been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr S could have 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr S entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr S to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
I leave it to Mr S to decide whether to accept Shawbrooks offer of £200 compensation for its 
delay in responding to his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman