DRN-3439339
The complaint
Mr A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed his accounts without giving him any reason. 
He would like an explanation and to be granted online and mobile banking access for his 
mortgage account.
What happened
Mr A had various accounts with HSBC.
HSBC carried out a review of Mr As accounts. On 10 June he was issued with a 60-day 
notice to close letter. His accounts closed on 11 August 2020.
Mr A continued to have a mortgage account with HSBC.
Mr A was unhappy that HSBC hadnt provided reasons for the closure of his accounts. He 
thought HSBC had made an error when they said they would close his accounts.
Mr A was also concerned that he wouldnt be able to access his mortgage account using 
online or mobile banking. He said going into branch or using telephone banking would be 
very inconvenient for him.
Mr A complained to HSBC they said they were satisfied they had complied with the terms 
and conditions of the account when they gave Mr A 60 days notice to close the account.
Mr A was unhappy with the response. He complained to our service. One of the investigators 
looked into the complaint. He said HSBC had acted fairly when it had closed Mr As account. 
He said that the mortgage account could only be serviced through telephone and in person 
at branch.
Mr A wasnt happy with the investigators view. Although he accepted that the bank could 
close the account giving notice, he was still unhappy that he couldnt be provided with online 
and telephone banking for his mortgage account. He didnt think this was fair. He thought 
HSBc hadnt given him any notice regarding the withdrawal of mobile and internet banking 
for his mortgage.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A had other complaints with us which related to HSBC accounts he held jointly with 
others. These complaints have been resolved.
Mr A has also agreed to take up directly with HSBC issues in relation to a subject access 
request (SAR) he made to them.
Mr A has also accepted that HSBC can give notice to close customers accounts as they 
have done in this case. Mr A has mentioned how much stress and inconvenience this 
caused him and although I accept that is the case, HSBC were entitled to close the account 
on 60 days notice as the investigator has already mentioned, so they have done nothing 
wrong here and it follows no compensation is payable.
Whilst Mr A may have expected to be given the reasons for the closure, HSBC isnt required 
to give him a specific reason for closing the accounts. So, I cant say HSBC has done 
anything wrong by not giving Mr A this information  as much as hed like to know.
Mr As main point of concern is in relation to not being able to use mobile and online banking 
to manage his HSBC mortgage account. He has said this will be very inconvenient, a huge 
waste of his time and will have a financial impact on him in the future when his fixed term 
expires. 
Mr A has mentioned that he accepts that HSBC cannot be forced to reinstate his mobile and 
online banking access. He is concerned that he wasnt given any notice of the blocking of his 
online and mobile access until the 11 August 2020 when the closure of his other accounts 
meant his access was blocked.
I appreciate that Mr A finds this situation frustrating and he would prefer to have mobile and 
online access. I havent been able to establish how frequently Mr A access his mortgage 
account through online or mobile banking. I note Mr A was given two months notice of the 
closure of his accounts. 
I have seen the closure letter sent to Mr A on 10 June 2020. In it HSBC say his mortgage 
account will remain the same. I can see that this may have set an expectation in Mr As mind 
that he would still be able to access his mortgage account through mobile and online 
banking. I think that HSBC could have been clearer with their wording. I also think Mr A 
could have clarified it with HSBC, especially as Mr A was in regular contact with HSBC 
during this period.
HSBC have offered Mr A another way to access his mortgage account and although I accept 
this isnt as convenient for Mr A, I am satisfied he will still be able to access his account 
when he needs to. So Im of the view that HSBC have done nothing substantially wrong, and 
I wont be asking them to pay any compensation.
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman