DRN-2885580
The complaint
Ms N complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK limited (Aviva) mis-sold her mortgage 
payment protection (MPP). 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
In 2002 Aviva sold Ms N MPP alongside a decreasing term life and critical illness policy. In 
2019 she telephoned Aviva to ask how the MPP worked. Aviva wrongly told Ms N the MPP 
wasnt linked to her income. After contacting Aviva again in 2020, Ms N was given the 
correct information about the MPP and she cancelled the policy. Aviva accepted Ms N 
wouldve cancelled the MPP in 2019 if it had given her the correct information. So, it 
backdated the cancellation to 2019 and refunded the premiums Ms N wouldve paid during 
that period. 
Ms N complained to Aviva about the suitability of the MPP. She said it was unlikely shed 
have ever been able to claim on it because of the benefits she had with her employer. Ms N 
said the terms of the MPP werent discussed with her at the point of sale. She wanted all the 
premiums shed paid for the MPP since 2002 refunded to her. 
Aviva said the MPP was suitable for Ms Ns needs at the time of the 2002 sale. And that 
shed been provided with all the information about the terms and conditions of the MPP  
and that she had a responsibility to read and understand those before proceeding with the 
sale  particularly given the industry she worked in. Aviva also said that on deciding the MPP 
three month deferred period, discussion wouldve taken place about Ms Ns employment 
benefits and income at the time of the sale. 
Aviva said it would need to see evidence of Ms Ns employment benefits from 2002 in order 
to fully assess the suitability of the MPP. 
Ms N referred her complaint to our service and provided us with information about her 
employment benefits from 2002  but has said this information cannot be shared with Aviva 
at the request of her former employer due to confidentially provisions.  She maintained the 
terms and conditions of the MPP werent made clear when it was sold to her. And that the 
suitability of the MPP wasnt discussed with her in terms of other benefits she already had in 
place through her employer. 
Ms N said it was unfair for Aviva to be asking for evidence of her employment benefits from 
2002 now, when its unlikely it wouldve asked for such evidence at the time  rather she 
said Avivas failing here was that it didnt ask her anything about her existing benefits back in 
2002 not that it failed to get evidence of them. Ms N made the point that she has provided 
information on her 2002 employment benefits to our service  and Aviva should accept our 
interpretation of that without needing to see it itself. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and upheld it. In relation to Avivas request to see 
details of Ms Ns employment benefits at the time of the sale, our investigator said he 
thought it was unlikely Aviva wouldve asked for this information at the time  instead relying 
on any information Ms N wouldve given about her benefits if shed been asked. And so, our 
investigator thought it wasnt necessary for Aviva to see information about Ms Ns 2002 
employment benefits now. But he accepted it was our normal process to share evidence 
relied upon with all parties, and so wanted to assure Aviva that we had fully considered the 
information from Ms N from an impartial perspective. 
Our investigator said it was evident any claim on the MPP wouldve been impacted by the 
employment benefits Ms N already had in place in 2002. And so, on that basis, he said Aviva 
mis-sold the MPP to Ms N. 
He also said that given this was an advised sale, it was Avivas responsibility to fully explain 
the products to Ms N and ask the necessary questions to determine the suitability of those 
products. Our investigator didnt think it was fair for Aviva to have deviated from its 
responsibilities because of an assumption that Ms N had knowledge of the products due to 
her line of work. 
Our investigator asked Aviva to refund all the premiums Ms N had paid for the MPP from 
2002 to 2018, plus 8% simple interest.  
Ms N accepted our investigators opinion, but Aviva disagreed and has asked for an 
Ombudsman to review the complaint. Aviva said when Ms N was asked during the sale if 
she had sufficient income in the event of illness, she said no. And because there was a 
discussion around the deferred period of the MPP, Aviva said, on balance, it thought it likely 
the suitability of the MPP more generally was discussed. 
Aviva maintained the terms and conditions, and subsequent correspondence sent to Ms N 
about her cover made it clear the MPP was means tested and that employment benefits 
would be taken into consideration as part of any claim. And Aviva said factual evidence of 
Ms Ns employment benefits in 2002 was an integral part of the investigation  and 
something it wanted to see in order to form its own opinion on whether the MPP was 
suitable. It said Ms Ns refusal to disclose this information was suspicious. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold the complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome. 
I dont know exactly what was discussed at the meeting between Ms N and Aviva in 2002 
about the MPP. Aviva has provided us with some documentation from the point of sale  but 
nothing that definitively documents the discussions that took place. So, I must consider what 
is most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
surrounding circumstances. 
Ms Ns main argument is around the terms of the MPP  and how it wasnt explained to her 
that her existing employment benefits meant she would never have fully benefited from the MPP. Ms N has told us, and we accept it was most likely the case, that at the time she took 
out the policy she was entitled to 26 weeks sick pay from her employer. Had she continued 
to be absent due to illness or injury beyond 26 weeks, she was then covered by her 
employers permanent health insurance policy.  
Ms N says the terms of the MPP were never discussed with her as part of the meeting with 
Aviva, nor was she asked about any other benefits she had in place to protect against loss of 
income due to ill health.
Aviva has said that when asked if Ms N had sufficient income to meet her outgoings if she 
was unable to work due to illness, she said no. Aviva has also said that the fact a three-
month deferral period was selected for the MPP suggests that a discussion did take place. 
Aviva has asked to see a copy of the information Ms N has provided to us about her 
employment benefits. It considers this to be pivotal to her complaint and says its unable to 
fully consider its position without sight of it. Unfortunately, were unable to provide this 
information to Aviva as Ms N has been told by her former employer that it is not to be 
disclosed. I understand that this isnt ideal, but I dont see this as a wholly unreasonable 
request and have seen confirmation from Ms Ns former employer that it doesnt want the 
information disclosed  which it sent after shed already disclosed the information to our 
service. I also have no reason to doubt the authenticity of the information Ms N has 
provided, and Im satisfied from what Ive seen that it does relate to her specific 
circumstances in 2002.  
The information Ms N has provided to us supports her position that the benefits she already 
had in place through her employer in 2002 meant the MPP wasnt suitable for her. So, I can 
understand why Aviva wants to have sight of that information. But I want to assure Aviva that 
what Ive seen supports Ms Ns testimony that she was entitled to 26 weeks sick pay from 
her employer, after which she would have been entitled to claim on the permanent health 
insurance.  
Aside from the information provided by Ms N, my focus has been on what happened during 
the sale in 2002, and what evidence we have that Aviva fully understood Ms Ns needs and 
explored what protection she already had in place before deciding the suitability of the MPP. 
I accept its recorded on the document Aviva has referred to as the fact find that Ms N said 
she didnt have sufficient income to meet her outgoings if unable to work. But in answering 
this question its quite feasible she may have been thinking about what would happen if she 
stopped receiving any income, without thinking shed got some protection already in place 
through her employer. And the question here is about sufficient income. Under the terms of 
the permanent health insurance policy Ms N was entitled to 75% of her annual salary, which 
she may not have felt was sufficient to meet her outgoings.  
Whats more significant to me is that theres no evidence Ms N was prompted by Aviva to 
think about her sick pay, or other benefits. This was an advised sale. That means there was 
a responsibility on Aviva to fully understand Ms Ns needs as the customer - regardless of 
her profession - and to know the specifics of the products it was recommending  in this 
case the terms and conditions of the MPP. It was Avivas responsibility to ask Ms N relevant 
questions to determine what benefits she already had in place and how those might impact 
what cover she needed going forward. 
Had there been a proper discussion, Id have expected to see the recommendation take 
account of Ms Ns specific circumstances. But from looking at the fact find and the follow up 
letter sent to Ms N, there is no actual evidence any specific questions about her existing 
benefits were asked, which supports Ms Ns recollections. And knowing what we know now about the benefits Ms N had through her employer at the time, the recommendation for the 
MPP further supports that Aviva wasnt aware of her existing benefits. This all suggests to 
me that no discussion took place. 
I can understand the point Aviva is making about the deferred period  and how this could 
indicate that Ms Ns existing employment benefits were discussed. But its unclear to me why 
a three-month deferral period was selected. Aside from the permanent health insurance, 
Ms N has told us she was entitled to 26-weeks full pay from her employer if she was unwell 
before the permanent health insurance kicked in. And so, whilst there might have been some 
discussion about the deferral options for the MPP, I think, on balance, its unlikely Aviva 
specifically asked Ms N about her current terms of employment in relation to sick pay. Which 
in turn suggests to me its unlikely she was asked about any other insurance benefits she 
had in place. 
I accept the terms of the MPP were provided to Ms N in the key facts document at the point 
of application. But again, as this was an advised sale, it was for Aviva to ensure the MPP 
was suitable, not for Ms N to discover that it was unsuitable. 
Taking everything into account, Im not persuaded by the evidence Ive seen that Aviva has 
demonstrated it fully considered the suitability of the MPP for Ms Ns needs back in 2002.  
So, I think the MPP was mis-sold. Had Aviva correctly understood Ms Ns circumstances and 
needs at the time it would not have recommended this cover as it wasnt suitable for her, so 
the policy should never have been put in place. 
Putting things right
Aviva should now refund all the premiums Ms N paid for the MPP from 2002 until 2018 (the 
premiums for 2019 and 2020 have already been refunded as part of Ms Ns complaint about 
the misinformation she was given by Aviva in 2019). 
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint is upheld. 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited must do the following:
Refund all the premiums Ms N paid for the MPP from 2002 until 2018.
Add interest (less any tax properly deductible) at the simple rate of 8% per year to 
each premium from the date it was paid to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman