DRN-3355917
The complaint
Mr C complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) restricted payments being made to an 
account he held with a third-party company without giving sufficient notice.
What happened
Mr C is a customer of Santander. He also held an account with a third-party company which 
bought, traded and held cryptocurrencies. He used his Santander account to make 
payments to the third-party company.
Mr C says that Santander gave notice in July 2021 that they would be stopping payments to 
the third-party company. Mr C believes the immediate restriction of payments to be 
unreasonable. He says that there was a warning from the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) given to consumers about the third-party company. But he believes this warning 
wasnt an instruction to banking institutions, to stop sending payments to them.
Mr C complained to Santander. Santander responded saying that they stopped payments to 
the third-party company to help protect its customers from fraud, following the FCAs warning 
to consumers. They say they are obligated to have processes and controls in place to 
prevent fraud and financial crime, and while the FCA hadnt instructed them directly, they 
must take note of it.
Mr C, unhappy with Santanders response brought his complaint to our service. He believes 
Santander didnt give him a satisfactory response as to why they stopped payments to the 
third-party company.
Our investigator found that Santander didnt need to do anything further. He says that while it 
would have been helpful for Mr C to have been given more notice, they made a commercial 
decision which they feel will help protect their customers. He says that Santander had acted 
reasonably as they had serious enough concerns for them to decide to stop payments to the 
third-party company immediately.
Mr C disagreed and requested his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. And so it 
has been passed to me to decide on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why below.
Ive reviewed Santanders general terms and conditions. Ive noted it says that they can 
refuse any payment instruction if they reasonably suspect it relates to fraud or any other 
criminal act. Ive also noted they explain that they can make changes to their terms by taking 
into account any actual, or reasonably expected, change in law or regulation (including any 
decision by a regulator or similar body).
Santander say they relied on the consumer warning the FCA published about the third-party 
company. They say they made a commercial decision to protect their customers from fraud 
by stopping payments from their accounts to be made to them. They say that fraudulent 
activity in cryptocurrency had more than doubled in the last year so they needed to take 
decisive action. They apologise for the short notice given, but they say that if Mr C wishes to 
continue to use the third-party company he will need to make alternative arrangements.
They say they have allowed their customers, like Mr C, to still receive payments from the 
third-party company into their account as they did not want customers in a situation where 
they had funds in the third-party company which couldnt be removed. But they say this will 
continue to be monitored and will update their website if anything changes.
Santander have a duty to protect their customers and their money from fraudulent and 
criminal activity. Stopping payments to the third-party company was a commercial decision 
made by Santander, following an FCA announcement. I can see from the announcement the 
FCA published, it is alongside information about investing in cryptocurrency more generally 
and the risks involved with it.
Having considered what Santander has said, I dont think their response and actions they 
took to be unreasonable. I appreciate that Mr C was given short notice of payments 
stopping. But given this was to protect Mr C from making a payment involving a possible 
fraudulent activity, I think Santanders actions were fair. Santander has given Mr C the 
opportunity to withdraw funds from the third-party account and also said theyll continue to 
review the situation and their approach. So, I cant see that theyve acted outside of their 
terms on this occasion.
In this instance I wont be asking Santander to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman