DRN-4170440
The complaint
Mr Z complained about esure Insurance Limited. He isnt happy that it turned down a claim 
under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
I looked at this case and provided my initial thoughts in my provisional decision as follows;
Mr Z was involved in an accident during the early hours of the morning after dropping a 
friend off. A cyclist cut across his path causing him to swerve and collide with parked cars 
which piled into each other. But when esure looked into the claim for him it turned it down.
This was because it didnt believe the accident happened as Mr Z described. So Mr Z 
complained to this Service.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr Z and upheld his complaint. She thought that Mr Z 
had been clear in presenting his account and that esure didnt have sufficient evidence to 
turn down the claim.
As esure disagreed the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive formed a different conclusion to the investigator, and I dont think this 
complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr Z, but Ill 
explain why.
I also think its important to explain that Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been 
said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the  
crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to 
reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I 
dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question 
raised unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
Although I can understand why our Investigator looked to uphold this complaint and asked 
esure to reconsider Mr Zs claim I think it has sufficient information to cast doubt on the 
circumstances surrounding the claim. It has questioned Mr Zs account about what 
happened and why he undertook the journey he undertook that night. And it has suggested 
that there are a lot of coincidences about what happened - including the fact he hit a number 
of cars that werent roadworthy from a garage and that an employee of the garage (the only 
witness) happened to be drinking nearby on the street during the early hours of the morning.
However, esure appointed an independent engineer to look at the damage sustained by Mr 
Zs vehicle in the accident and the four other cars that piled into each other and they are 
clear that a number of the cars arent roadworthy. Indeed, they question whether an MOT 
which was just issued on one of the cars was valid. But, importantly, they have also 
questioned whether Mr Zs car had additional problems before the accident and highlighted 
that Mr Zs car had been involved in two accidents previously. And suggested Mr Zs front 
bumper wasnt even attached to the car at the time of impact.
Furthermore, Mr Z has recently provided photographs which he says were taken by the 
garage owner the following morning and before the cars, including his own, were moved.
The photographs show a number of cars which had front and rear damage, but I feel, on 
balance, that they suggest all the damage couldnt have been caused as described. Plus, the speed Mr Z says he was driving at (under 30mph) doesnt appear consistent with the 
level of damage caused to the four parked cars. Plus, the witness who works for the garage 
owner said there was three cars at the scene as opposed to four. In addition, Im surprised 
the air bag didnt go off on Mr Zs car and that the impact was so straight given the evasive 
manoeuvre he described.
Given all of this, and the various inconsistencies identified by esure Im satisfied, on balance, 
that esure has acted fairly in declining the claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I remain of the view that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. As both sides 
havent provided any comment or response to my provisional decision I dont propose to 
rehearse the arguments and evidence again now.
Ultimately, Im satisfied that esure acted fairly in its consideration of Mr Zs claim. And given 
the various inconsistencies outlined above I think esure has acted reasonably.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or reject my decision 
before 7 July 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman