DRN-1436622
The complaint
This complaint has been brought by the Mr L and the Estate of X and relates to a request 
that Barclays Bank Plc close her account. 
What happened
Mrs L held an account with Barclays at the date of her death in December 2018. Probate 
was granted with Mr L appointed as executor. This complaint is brought by Mr L and the 
Estate of Mrs L. But for ease of reading I'll refer to Mr L and the Estate of X as just Mr L in 
this decision.
After Mrs Ls death, Mr L asked Barclays to close her account and allocate the funds to his 
nominated account, which is a non Barclays account.                                                   
Barclays said it wrote to Mr L on 14 January 2019 to explain the information it needed in 
order to action his request. It said Mr L presented Mrs Ls death certificate in branch on 16 
January 2019 but other information it needed was missing. So, on 18 February 2019, it wrote 
to him again to request he provide proof of probate, his identification (ID) and address 
verification. 
Mr L attended a branch on 4 April 2019. He said he discussed opening an executors 
account and provided Barclays with the power of attorney, ID, proof of address and a further 
copy of the death certificate during that visit. But Barclays bereavement team informed him, 
on 8 May, that his ID was still needed.
Mr L attended a branch on 13 May 2019 in order to provide a further copy of his ID. And, on 
22 May 2019, Mrs Ls account was closed and the funds were transferred to Mr Ls 
nominated account.
Mr L wasnt happy with how Barclays had dealt with his account closure request. He felt it 
had caused delays during a particularly distressing time for him. And he said he had needed 
to attend his branch on a number of occasions in order to provide documents to Barclays, 
which he felt was unnecessary. So he complained to Barclays about what happened.
After Barclays investigated Mr Ls complaint it didnt uphold it. It stated in its final response to 
Mr Ls complaint that any delays were caused by Mr L not providing the correct information. 
And it said it had transferred the funds from Mrs Ls account to Mr Ls chosen account on 22 
May 2019. So it didnt think it had made an error.
Being dissatisfied with Barclays response to his complaint Mr L referred it to our service. 
Our investigator looked into this and contacted Barclays to request its business file. In its 
correspondence with our service Barclays accepted that when Mr L had attended a branch 
on 4 April 2019 he provided his ID together with the other documentation it required to 
progress his account closure request. But it said, due to an error, this documentation wasnt 
forwarded to its bereavement team, which caused a delay in Mr Ls request being 
processed. In recognition of that error Barclays offered to pay Mr L £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.Our investigator informed Mr L of what Barclays has said and the offer it had made. But Mr L 
rejected it because he didnt think it adequately reflected the trouble and upset he was 
caused. Our investigator explained to Mr L that, because our service cant award 
compensation to third parties, they couldnt ask Barclays to increase its offer. But Mr L 
disagreed  and asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to learn of the bereavement Mr L has suffered. I appreciate the time since Mrs 
Ls passing will have been difficult for him. And I can see the strength of feeling he has about 
his complaint. 
Mr L has sent submissions in response to our investigators view of his complaint. I want to 
assure him Ive read and considered everything that both he and Barclays have sent when 
reaching my decision. I havent referred to all the points Mr Ls raised as Ive focused on 
what I feel are the key issues of the case. I hope Mr L wont take that as a discourtesy, my 
approach reflects the informal nature of our service.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. Having 
done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as those 
reached by the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
Barclays initially didnt think it had made an error in dealing with Mr Ls request for a closure 
of Mrs Ls account. However, after Mr L referred his complaint to our service, it accepted that 
he had provided his ID together with the other documentation it required to progress his 
account closure request when he had attended a branch on 4 April 2019. It acknowledged 
that, due to an error, this documentation wasnt forwarded to its bereavement team. And it 
said this mistake caused a delay in Mr Ls request being processed.  
In recognition of the delays and inconvenience this error caused Mr L Barclays offered to 
compensate him £100. But when Mr L was informed of Barclays offer he told our 
investigator he wanted it to increase its offer to £200. Barclays is aware of Mr Ls wishes but 
its declined to increase its offer. And I can see our investigator has explained to Mr L the 
reasons why our service cant award compensation to him. 
I understand that Mr L wanted his complaint referring to an ombudsman because he 
disagreed with our investigators view. Im sorry to disappoint Mr L but Im not going to be 
able to help him as hed like. Ill explain why.
Under our rules, we can consider a complaint from a consumer. Mrs L was the consumer 
originally but when she died the right to complain passed to her estate. Although Mr L is 
representing the estate, hes not Barclays customer here. Mr Ls role is to bring the 
complaint on behalf of the estate, in the same way that a person might instruct a solicitor or 
other professional to represent them in a complaint. 
I dont have the power to look at a complaint from Mr L in his personal capacity or look at 
how this matter has affected him personally. In saying this I understand the points Mr L has 
made. And its clear that this matter has been difficult and frustrating for him to deal with, but 
thats just not something Ive got the power to consider. Im sure Mr L has suffered some upset and inconvenience in dealing with Barclays and for 
that Im sorry. But, any award of compensation I make can only take into account the losses, 
distress and/or inconvenience suffered by the actual consumer. In this case thats the late 
Mrs L not her representatives. 
I appreciate there was a delay in Barclays actioning Mr Ls request to close Mrs Ls account. 
And I can see Mr L spent some time chasing Barclays over the telephone and attending a 
branch to provide the documentation it needed. So, I uphold Mr Ls complaint on this basis.
I can see Mr L has raised concerns about how Barclays dealt with his complaint about what 
happened. However, we dont have the power to look at how financial businesses deal with 
complaint handling  as its not a regulated activity under the legislation that governs our 
service. So, even if Mr L was bringing this complaint in his personal capacity I wouldnt be 
able to make an award if Barclays could have handled his complaint better.
Putting things right
To recognise the poor service Mr L received Barclays has offered to pay him £100 
compensation. However, our service takes the view that an estate isnt able to experience 
the trouble and upset an individual can. So I wouldnt ordinarily award compensation for the 
banks actions. 
I cant ask Barclays to increase its award for the reasons outlined. But, impartially, I think 
what its offered to pay Mr L here is fair and reasonable. It takes into account the multiple 
visits he made to the branch and the time he spent dealing with Barclays over the telephone. 
Barclays should pay that sum to Mr L to resolve his complaint.  
I realise Mr L will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to an end what we, in trying 
to resolve his dispute with Barclays informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr L 
any further with this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank Plc should pay Mr L and the 
Estate of X the £100 compensation it offered to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and the 
estate of X to accept or reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman