DRN-2336332
The complaint
Ms T has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc caused undue delay when dealing with a 
claim under her car insurance policy, which led to a County Court Judgment (CCJ) set 
against her.
What happened
Ms T was involved in an incident with another car in May 2018. AXA decided to settle the 
claim on a joint liability 50%50% basis. 
Ms T said she moved home later in 2018 and had a redirection for her mail in place until 
March 2019. 
In June 2019 Ms T discovered that she had a CCJ against her for claim costs for the third 
party involved in the incident. She complained to AXA.
AXA asked Ms T to send a copy of the Judgment and assured her it would deal with it. It 
said it was in dispute with the third party as to their repair costs. It said they should have 
communicated with AXA rather than Ms T. 
In December 2019 Ms T received a notice from bailiffs of their intention to take payment or 
recover the costs of the CCJ from Ms Ts property. This was avoided as AXA settled the 
Judgment in time.
A week later AXA replied to Ms Ts complaint. It apologised and issued a payment of £500 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused her. 
In January 2020 the third party representative provided a copy of its notice to the court to 
show the Judgment had been settled in full by AXA. 
In January 2020 Ms T reiterated her complaint as the CCJ was still recorded against her. 
She said it was affecting her ability to obtain credit and she wanted AXA to arranged for it to 
be removed. And she said she hadnt received the compensation cheque. 
Ms T asked us to look at her complaint. 
In the meantime AXA investigated and discovered that the cheque it had sent to Ms T had 
been fraudulently cashed. 
In October 2020 our investigator thought Ms Ts complaint should be upheld. He saw that 
the Judgment AXA said it had set aside was for a different person and a different court 
number. Ms T had provided recent evidence to show the CCJ was still showing when she 
paid for a credit report. 
So for AXAs error he recommended it pay Ms T a further £250 compensation - bringing the 
total award to £750. He recommended AXA pay this sum directly into Ms Ts account in light 
of what had happened previously. 
Ms T accepted the investigators findings. AXA didnt agree. It hasnt provided any comment 
or update about the CCJ. But it doesnt agree it should pay any more compensation.
In November 2020 it provided a screenshot to show AXA received a refund of the £500 
fraudulent payment form the bank.
So as AXA doesnt agree., the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXAs notes show that the third party contacted it in March 2019 giving notice of its intention 
to issue proceedings. Its not clear what happened after that until Ms T contacted it in June 
2019.
On 24 June 2019 AXA contacted the third party insurer (TPI) to ask for details of the 
Judgment against Ms T. However, there doesnt seem to have been any further update until 
1 December 2019  which coincides with Ms T receiving a letter from Bailiffs on behalf of the 
Court. AXA chased the TPI for a reply. They provided details of their reply to AXA in 
September 2019, and provided a further copy. 
I think AXA caused undue delay of three months  allowing for the three months it took for 
the TPI to reply  by failing to progress and chase the TPI, especially given the seriousness 
of the situation for Ms T.
In December 2019 AXA apologised and sent Ms T a cheque for £500. This was sent to Ms 
Ts address. Unfortunately it was cashed fraudulently on 23 December 2019, and so Ms T 
didnt receive it. 
However, Ms T notified AXA of her not receiving the cheque in January 2020 and provided 
bank statements as evidence. Notes show AXA contacted its finance department in January 
2020 of Ms Ts concerns. Internally the matter was chased without an update between 
January 2020 and June 2020. 
In June 2020 AXA told us it intended to recover the funds from the bank. 
In November 2020 AXA didnt agree to an increase in compensation  and said that the 
payment was still being investigated. However, it later provided a screenshot to show the 
money was refunded to AXA on 9 June 2020. So from this stage, AXA was in a position to 
reissue payment for £500 to Ms T. 
Our investigator provided AXA with a copy of the Judgment AXA sent us in March 2020 to 
show that it had set aside the CCJ for Ms T. But it is for a different defendant, amount and a 
different Court number. So from what Ive seen, it appears that AXA hasnt acted on the CCJ 
for Ms T. However, AXA hasnt provided any comments on this since the investigators view. 
So from the evidence available, and recent checks carried out by Ms T, the CCJ is still 
showing against her credit record. I think AXA has been unreasonable to Ms T. And I think 
its caused unnecessary delay in putting things right for her. Despite Ms J notifying AXA in 
June 2019, the CCJ still appears not to have been set aside. 
Our investigator recommended an increase in the compensation award AXA pays Ms T by 
£250, so £750 in total. AXA doesnt agree. But I think AXA should and could have dealt with the CCJ much sooner, and so the impact of having the CCJ would have been reduced. I 
think AXA should pay the £750 compensation directly to Ms Ts bank account, in light of the 
previous problems so as to avoid any further delay. I think this is a fairer sum to reflect the 
distress and inconvenience AXA has caused Ms T.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to do the 
following:
Pay Ms T £250 compensation in addition to the £500 it originally paid, but Ms T didnt 
receive.
Pay the total amount of £750 direct to Ms Ts bank account.
Request for a new Cancellation of Judgement to be completed and confirmation 
should be sent to Ms T once the CCJ has been removed.
AXA Insurance UK Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Ms T accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at a simple rate of 8% a year.
If AXA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Ms T how much its taken off. It should also give Ms T 
a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman