DRN-3173985
The complaint
Miss J complains that Everyday Lending Limited (trading as George Banco) was 
irresponsible to allow her to be a guarantor and took a payment from her without prior 
notification.
  
What happened
Miss J was the guarantor on a £3,000 loan taken out by a friend on 28 May 2019. The loan 
was to be repaid over 36 months at £160.72 per month.
Miss J says George Banco caused her financial difficulties when it took a payment in 
December 2019 without prior notification. She clarifies that she did receive notification for a 
payment which the borrower subsequently paid, but not for the payment that was taken from 
her. Miss J says she also received an account statement which showed the borrower had 
had one of his payments refunded so would like a similar refund of the payment shed made. 
She adds that she also believes she should not have been accepted as a guarantor in the 
first place as she did not have a stable income at the time. Miss J says the situation has 
affected her mental health and her partner now has permission to speak to George Banco 
on her behalf as she has severe anxiety about corresponding with the company.
George Banco says it verified Miss Js income, assessed her credit file and calculated her 
living expenses. It says its affordability calculation showed shed be left with around £300 of 
disposable income per month if she needed to make the loan repayment, and so it cannot 
agree it was wrong to accept her as a guarantor. However, it said it could not see that she 
was notified before a payment was taken and offered her £25 in compensation for that.
Miss J did not accept George Bancos offer.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld in part. She was satisfied 
George Banco had carried our proportionate affordability checks and found the loan 
repayments to be affordable to Miss J. However, George Banco said it didnt notify Miss J of 
the upcoming payment and Miss J says that left her in financial difficulty due to a shortfall on 
the account. Our investigator considered £150 was fair compensation for the stress and 
inconvenience this caused.
George Banco accepted the recommendation and also requested that the loan should be 
removed from Miss Js credit file.
Miss J responded to say, in summary, that George Banco did not properly address her 
concerns about the status of the borrower and issued the borrower a refund on a payment 
whilst not granting her the same courtesy. She adds that she doesnt consider George 
Bancos checks of her own financial circumstances went far enough as the information on 
the bank statement provided differed from the figures George Banco used in its affordability 
calculations.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when George Banco approved the 
lending. Its rules and guidance obliged it to lend responsibly. As set out in the regulators 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), this meant that George Banco needed to take 
reasonable and proportionate steps to assess whether or not Miss J could afford to be the 
guarantor.
Sections 5.2A.32 of CONC says the following:
Lenders should have regard to:
othe total potential liability of the guarantor under the guarantee;
othe duration (or likely duration) of the guarantee;
oany other costs, including any charge for non-compliance with the guarantee, 
which will or may be payable by or on behalf of the guarantor in connection 
with the guarantee; and 
oany other potential adverse consequences for the guarantor arising under the 
guarantee from a failure to make a payment by the due date;
The assessment doesnt need to be identical to the one carried out on the 
borrower, but should be sufficient in depth and scope having regard to the 
potential obligations which might fall on the guarantor;
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
guarantor of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the guarantor could be required to make payments for an 
extended period).
In addition, as per CONC 5.2A.16G (3): For the purpose of considering the customers 
income, it is not generally sufficient to rely solely on a statement of current income made by 
the customer without independent evidence (for example, in the form of information supplied 
by a credit reference agency or documentation of a third party supplied by the third party or 
by the customer).Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Miss Js complaint about affordability, I 
have considered the following questions:
Did George Banco complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Miss Js circumstances to satisfy itself shed be able to sustainably repay the loan? 
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
Did George Banco make a fair decision?
Did George Banco act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive seen and heard evidence to show George Banco asked about Miss Js financial 
circumstances, checked her credit file and verified her income by requesting a bank 
statement. These checks showed:
Miss Js income was around £1,700 per month;
She said her rental payment was £332;
Her credit check showed no outstanding credit;
Her other expenditure appeared to be lower than the figure of £688 that George 
Banco had estimated in its affordability calculation.
Im satisfied these checks went far enough in the circumstances and there was nothing to 
indicate George Banco needed to carry out any further checks.
I accept what Miss J says about the figures George Banco used in the affordability 
calculations. Although Miss J told George Banco on a call that her rent was around £332 per 
month, it used the lower figure of £180 in its calculations. It also used an income figure of 
£1400, despite Miss J estimating it to be between £1,500 and £1,600 per month.
Based on the evidence I have seen, I find Miss Js income was actually around £1,700 per 
month and Ive verified a figure of £322 for her rental from a bank statement. Taking George 
Bancos estimate of £688 for her other expenditure, I calculate Miss J had almost £700 of 
disposable income, before taking into account the loan repayment.
So Im satisfied George Banco carried out reasonable and proportionate checks and made a 
fair lending decision.
I do find, however, that George Banco acted unfairly when it took the payment from Miss J 
without notice. As George Banco is now not disputing that to be the case, I just need to 
decide whether £25 is fair compensation for the stress and inconvenience this caused to 
Miss J. I dont doubt Miss J when she says the unexpected payment caused her financial 
difficulty and problems paying other bills. As a result, I find fair compensation for this is £150, 
to which George Banco has now agreed.
Finally, I acknowledge Miss Js concerns about the status of the borrower at the time and the 
apparent refund he received. I cannot comment on whether or not George Banco acted 
responsibly when it agreed the loan and, indeed, do not have the full facts to be able to do 
so. However, the borrower is entitled to bring their own complaint to George Banco about the 
lending. It also seems likely to me that, due to the date being the same as the credit to the account, the refund appearing on the loan statement is a returned direct debit rather than a 
refund initiated by George Banco.
In summary, I cannot uphold Miss Js complaint about her being approved as a guarantor, 
but I do find George Bancos compensation offer for the lack of payment notification was too 
little in the circumstances.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Everyday Lending Limited (trading as 
George Banco) should pay Miss J £150 for the stress caused by taking a payment without 
notice, as it has agreed to do.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman