DRN-2807086
The complaint
This complaint is about Mrs Ws efforts to arrange a re-mortgage through OSL Financial 
Consultancy Limited, a broker firm trading under the name Mortgagekey. Mrs W is unhappy 
with the amount of time the re-mortgage took, and with the fact that cheques to repay 
creditors out of the proceeds of the new mortgage were sent to the wrong address.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. Although Ive read and 
considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont 
comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont 
think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider 
context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
I should explain that its for me to decide if I have enough information, or whether I need
to contact either party directly, in order to decide the complaint fairly. Here, I have everything
I need to reach my decision without pursuing any further enquiries with either party.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator, for the following 
reasons. 
Mortgage broking isnt an exact science; nor is it a mechanical process, not least 
because there is another party in the transaction - ie the lender - that isnt subject to the 
complaint. Lenders dont always request the underwriting information they need all in 
one go; sometimes they do so in a piecemeal fashion.
So it proved here with Mrs Ws lender, which Ill call T. If Im to order OSL to pay Mrs W 
compensation I have to be satisfied that OSL unduly and excessively delayed the 
application by way of specific errors or omissions in the way it relayed information back 
and forth between Mrs W and T, and that the delay was the sole or over-riding cause of 
loss, financial or non-financial, to Mrs W. Looking at the overall progression of the 
complaint, I dont find that this is such a case. 
As far as the cheques to settle creditors are concerned, its important to remember that it 
was T, and not OSL, that posted the cheques to the address Mrs W says was the wrong 
one. Having considered all the available evidence, Im satisfied T did that not because of 
anything OSL told T about her living arrangements. T did so because of what Mrs W told 
it directly on the phone on 7 January 2020. OSL played no part in that conversation.
Mrs W asked why the investigator hadnt pursued further a comment hed made in his 
first view of the complaint; the inference hed drawn was that OSL might have arranged 
for T to provide the wrong type of mortgage. That proved to be unfounded when it was 
established that T was fully cognizant that Mrs W was between properties at the time of 
the application, but intended occupying the property being mortgaged permanently once 
the transaction had gone through.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman