DRN-3142140
The complaint
Mr P complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VFS) refused to cover 
cost of repairs to a leased car.
What happened
 The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for the following reasons: 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such this service is 
able to consider complaints relating to it. VFS is also the supplier of the goods under this 
type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
It is accepted that the cars brakes made a squawking/squealing noise when applied within a 
few months of the car being sold. This was confirmed by the dealer and Mr P has supplied 
this service with a video which records the noise.
The job sheet dated 5 January 2021 states: confirmed customer complaint and found 
brakes to be squeaking, visually checked brakes all round and found them to have not 
reached wear limit. suspect brake pads to have glazed will require stripping cleaning and re 
greasing. Carried out repair and replaced all associated parts, went out for road test, brakes 
no longer squeaking. 
The car is recorded as having covered 14,629 miles at that point. VFS has said that they 
have been told by the dealer that brake pads should be changed at approximately 15,000 
miles and they are wear and tear items which are not covered under warranty.
VFS has said that this is a high-performance car and the brakes which have been fitted can 
squeal. I have seen no independent evidence of that, and general a squealing sound from 
bakes more often than not indicates a fault. While the noise was confirmed by the dealer 
when the car had covered almost 15,000 miles I am satisfied that it was present from soon 
after acquisition which indicates that there was an issue.
Having seen the video supplied to us in October 2021 I consider it most likely that the issue 
persists. In summary I consider the car was making the noise within the first few months and 
it continues to do so. 
Our investigator recommended that VFS repair the car at no cost to Mr P. He responded to 
say that he would like to return the car. I dont consider that is an appropriate solution. The 
dealer did some work on the brakes, but I think it right that it be allowed to effect a repair 
which is what Mr P was originally seeking when he brought his complaint to this service. I 
have noted that another approved dealer has said the matter should have been covered 
under warranty and I think that is the correct approach.
Putting things right
 VFS should arrange for the car to be repaired.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited
arrange for the car to be repaired at no cost to Mr P;
refund 10% of his monthly finance instalments in respect of impaired use and add 8% 
annual simple interest for the period November 2020 to date of settlement;
pay Mr P £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to the credit reference agencies in 
respect of this account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman