DRN-3674261
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) misled them about the process 
of paying an inheritance into their current account. They say that this led them to lose 
money.
What happened
In January 2022, Mrs B contacted BOS to query the process of receiving an inheritance. 
During two calls, Mrs B said that she received an inheritance, and that she was not sure if it 
would be in Euro or Pounds Sterling. Mrs B queried the costs of paying in cheques and 
bankers drafts, which were explained to her. Mrs B also asked about exchange rates and 
whether BOSs rate would be better than a different bank. During these calls Mrs B asked 
what would be better, a cheque in Euros or a bankers draft that could potentially be in Euros 
or Pounds Sterling. The advisor explained that personally they would go with a cheque.
Subsequently, Mr and Mrs B opted for a cheque, which was paid into their joint account. 
When the amount was credited to their account, they raised a complaint as they believed 
that the exchange rate used was too low and was not equal to the actual exchange rate. 
They also say they were not told the rate when the cheque was paid in. Subsequently when 
it was explained by BOS that it sets its own rate with a margin, Mr and Mrs B said that they 
should have been told this prior to the cheque being paid in. They also say that other people 
that received the inheritance opted for a Pounds Sterling bankers draft and received a 
greater amount of money. They say that had they not been advised to take a cheque by 
BOS, they would have also opted for the bankers draft and therefore the advice they 
received from BOS cost them money.
One of our investigators looked into this matter already and they did not believe that BOS did 
anything wrong. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with this and therefore their complaint has been 
passed to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should explain that I note that Mr and Mrs B have gone into great detail about this matter. My 
response will not go into the same level of detail. This is not because I have not looked into this 
matter carefully, it is to reflect the informal nature of this service.
In relation to the advice that Mr and Mrs B said that they received from BOS. I have listened to this 
call and I accept that the member of staff for BOS said personally they would opt for a cheque. 
Firstly, I dont think that represents formal advice as it was more their opinion. But in any event, when 
the member of staff was asked this question Mrs B had not clarified in what currency the bankers draft 
would potentially be paid in. 
Mrs B said to the member of staff during the call that the bankers draft was likely to be in Euros. Had 
this been the case the difference between a Euro cheque and Euro bankers draft would have been 
negligible, as both would be subject to BOSs exchange rate at the time it was paid in. But 
importantly, the bankers draft would have incurred higher fees to process. So essentially the 
information that the member of staff gave was not incorrect based the information that Mrs B herself 
provided.
Mr and Mrs B said they were not told that BOS uses its own exchange rate and not the actual 
exchange rate. Very few, if any, financial institution offers retail customers the actual exchange rate. 
Most will apply either their own exchange rate, or an exchange rate provided by a third party - with 
some being more competitive than others. Mr and Mrs B says this should have been highlighted to 
them. However, in the calls Mrs B asked if the rate BOS offered was better than a specific Irish bank. 
It was explained that BOSs exchange rate could be better or worse than other banks. I think this was 
sufficient to highlight that BOS used its own exchange rate and that it couldnt guarantee that the 
exchange rate will necessarily be better than what is provided by other banks.
Mr and Mrs B say that when Mr B paid the cheque into the branch, he was not told what exchange 
rate was to be used. They say that had they been told the exchange rate they would have gone 
elsewhere. They also say that when they spoke to the branch after the cheque had been paid in that it 
was confirmed that they were not told the rate of exchange when the cheque was paid in.
The calls between Mr and Mrs B were not recorded so were not available for me to listen to. I have 
carefully considered this, but I am not persuaded that the exchange rate was not provided to Mr B 
when he was at the branch. I say this because the form that was filled in by Mr B has a section in 
which the rate needed to be added. And I can see that the applicable exchange rate was added to the 
form. I find it unlikely that this form wouldve been filled in with this part missing until after Mr B left the 
branch.
Mr and Mrs B have explained, had they been told the exchange rate in branch (and I think they were) 
they would have returned the cheque and asked for a bankers draft. But even had they done this, it 
was no guarantee that they would have received more money. As essentially it would depend on what 
happened to the exchange rate in the weeks after they visited the branch and what exchange rate the 
Solicitors bank used on the day it issued them a bankers draft. 
I note that Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with BOSs handling of the complaint, but as we have 
explained, complaint handling in itself is not a regulated activity and therefore is not something that in 
this instance we can comment on.
Overall and in summary. I dont think Mr and Mrs B were misadvised and I think they were likely told 
the exchange rate that would apply to their cheque. So it follows that I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman