DRN-3150205
The complaint
Mr B complains about the terms of Bank of Scotland plcs (BoS) cashback credit card. He 
feels it wasnt clear enough that he had to qualify for a minimum amount of cashback per 
year before anything would be paid.
What happened
Earlier this year, Mr B noticed he hadnt received the cashback he was expecting on his 
credit card. He also spotted hed not received it the previous year either. He spoke to BoS, 
and had the terms of the cashback offer explained to him. 
Mr B complained that these terms hadnt been clear when hed signed up for the card. He 
felt BoS should make it clearer that a minimum amount needs to be spent on the card each 
year, in order to receive the cashback.
In response to Mr Bs complaint, BoS said theyd handled the cashback as the terms said 
they would. But  as a goodwill gesture  they went on to credit Mr Bs account with the 
cashback hed not received previously.
Mr B wasnt happy with that, so he came to us. Our investigator explained why she felt BoSs 
offer did enough to put things right. But Mr B has said he wants us to go further  to tell BoS 
what to include in the terms and conditions for their credit card. And he wants us to comment 
on the quality of BoSs complaint handling process. 
The complaint has therefore come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I too feel BoS have done enough here to settle this complaint with Mr B. 
Thats because the details Ive seen tell me they handled the card in line with the terms that 
applied. Thats a good start for providing a fair and reasonable service  that a business 
does what they said they would do. 
BoS have also now made it clear to Mr B what the terms of the card are. That puts right any 
gaps he feels there were in the explanation given in the terms and conditions. No further 
clarification or explanation seems to be needed to help Mr B understand the terms that apply 
to the card. 
It goes beyond the scope of my role to make a general decision about the explanation 
needed for all of BoSs customers. Im here to say what should be done to settle Mr Bs 
specific complaint, for him personally. So Im not going to tell BoS to change their terms and 
conditions generally. 
Finally, Ive thought about the payment BoS offered to Mr B. Although he sees that as the 
rightful payment of his cashback, I dont think it is. Under the terms of the card, he hadnt 
qualified for any cashback to be paid in the two periods where nothing was paid. 
For me, the payment BoS offered was the goodwill gesture they held it out to be. I find that 
did enough to try to reasonably put right Mr Bs feeling that hed been left out of pocket. 
While I appreciate Mr B feels very strongly that BoS should do more to resolve his issues, I 
find the goodwill offer and explanation given did enough. So Im not upholding this complaint, 
because theres nothing else BoS need to do to put things right. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman