DRN-3274573
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain about the way UK Insurance Limited (UKI) trading as Direct Line 
handled a claim they made on their home insurance policy following damage caused by 
subsidence. 
All references to UKI also includes its appointed agents
What happened
In late 2018, Mr and Mrs J noticed cracks in their property. They contacted UKI to make a 
claim, which was accepted and monitoring began on the right-hand side of the property 
(which is where the damage was) in 2019. Mr and Mrs J raised concerns that only the right 
side of the property was being monitored, and in 2021, they say UKI agreed to monitor the 
whole property.
In 2021, UKI deemed the property to be stable, so it put together a schedule of works for 
repairs. Mr and Mrs J thought some areas of damage were missing, and so the scope was 
amended to include them. 
During the repair works, UKI had to remove a section of marble tiles in the living room, to fix 
a slope to the floor which had occurred due to the subsidence damage. When doing so, 
some of the marble tiles cracked. UKI said it would cover the cost of relaying the floor in the 
living room. It also said given the flooring was the same throughout the whole downstairs of 
the property, it would also pay a 50% contribution to replace the rest of the marble floor in 
the downstairs.
At this point Mr and Mrs J complained to UKI. They said theyd been told the marble might 
be damaged, but at no point were they told that the whole downstairs floor wouldnt be 
replaced. They wanted UKI to pay for the whole of the downstairs to be replaced, as they 
said they didnt have any spare tiles and couldnt find a match for the existing marble. They 
said the tiles hadnt been replaced by a specialist tiler, and so UKI was responsible for the 
damage and so they should be entitled to a full replacement of all tiles in the downstairs of 
the property.
They also complained that UKI hadnt monitored the left-hand side of the property from 
2019, and this was only included in May 2021. So they felt UKI had delayed the claim by not 
monitoring the whole property from the outset. 
UKI didnt agree to change its position, so Mr and Mrs J brought their complaint to this 
service. Our investigator noted the claim had now moved on, but said he was only 
considering events up to the UKIs final response letter in August 2021. He said based on 
the reports hed seen, UKI had acted reasonably in not monitoring the left-hand side of the 
property. He said UKI hadnt agreed to extend the monitoring to the left-hand side, but as 
hed seen no evidence of subsidence damage affecting that side of the property, he wouldnt 
ask UKI to do anything further. He also thought UKIs offer on the flooring was fair and 
reasonable.
Mr and Mrs J didnt accept the outcome. They said UKI hadnt carried out the repairs to the 
floor as set out in the schedule of works, and it was this action that led to the marble tiles 
cracking. They said the insurance policy should put them back in the position they were in 
before the subsidence damage, so the entire ground floor needs replacing. They also 
maintained that the left-hand side had been monitored from 2021. As Mr and Mrs J didnt 
agree, the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs J have provided a number of points regarding their complaint, as an informal 
service, I wont comment on each of them, but I have read and considered what has been 
provided by both parties. 
Monitoring of the property
There appears to be some confusion regarding the monitoring of the property. Mr and Mrs J 
were under the impression UKI had extended the monitoring to the left side of the property in 
2021 and feel this should have been done from 2019. UKI said it hasnt extended the 
monitoring as its satisfied the damage to the left-hand side of the property isnt caused by 
subsidence.
From what Ive seen, Mr and Mrs J first raised concerns about cracking on the right-hand 
side of the property. So UKI started its assessment here by instructing an arboricultural 
survey to review whether trees/vegetation could be causing the subsidence. This found a 
number of trees near the right-hand side of the property to be the likely cause, and 
monitoring was agreed to check whether the movement was seasonal. UKI also carried out 
a review of the drains and found some damage to a rainwater gully on the right side of the 
property. Whilst it didnt think this was the likely cause of the subsidence, it carried out a 
repair as a precaution.
In September 2019 Mr and Mrs J contacted UKI to notify it of further areas of damage. It 
doesnt appear UKI reviewed this damage. But in November 2019, UKI finished the 
monitoring, it was satisfied the subsidence was caused by clay shrinkage due to the 
moisture demand of surrounding vegetation. The vegetation was removed at the end of 2019 
so a further period of monitoring, to check the stability of the property, was done. 
Following correspondence with Mr and Mrs J about further damage, UKI reviewed the cracks 
noted by Mr and Mrs J to the left-hand side of the property. In January 2020 a report from 
UKI said these cracks were unrelated to subsidence. And a further report was finalised in 
October 2020. This again reviewed the cracks to the left-hand side of the property and found 
they were not caused by subsidence, but other causes not covered by their insurance policy. Mr and Mrs J say theyve had multiple plumbers and tradespeople confirm that damage to 
two bathrooms on the left-hand side of the property is subsidence damage. But I havent 
been provided with any report or commentary which persuades me this is the case. So 
based on everything Ive seen, I consider it more likely that the damage to the left-hand side 
of the property isnt related to the subsidence damage. And so UKI doesnt need to 
undertake any repairs to these areas. 
Mr and Mrs J have said UKI has included areas of the left-hand side of the property in its 
repair schedule, which proves there is subsidence and the whole house should be included. 
But Im not persuaded that is the case. I can see there were some further amendments to 
the schedule of works after the final response letter in August 2021, but if Mr and Mrs J have 
concerns about this they need to raise them separately with UKI before this service can 
consider them. As they werent raised as part of this complaint, I havent considered them as 
part of this decision.
Mr and Mrs J say UKI agreed to monitor the left-hand side of the property around 2021, but I 
havent seen anything to suggest thats the case. I have seen an email from UKI dated 1 
June 2021, and this says monitoring will continue to confirm the stability of the property. But 
this doesnt say it will expand it to new areas of the property. It seems UKI agreed to 
continue monitoring as Mr and Mrs J had continued to raise concerns about movement, 
rather than because UKI were concerned the property wasnt stable. 
Mr and Mrs J say UKI has admitted it did extend the monitoring, but from what Ive seen that 
isnt the case. It appears there was one monitoring point towards the left of the property, to 
check the movement at the front elevation. But this was part of the original monitoring sites 
and wasnt added in 2021. So Im satisfied that, as of the date of the final response letter in 
August 2021, no extension of the monitoring was agreed. And based on what Ive said 
above, I think UKI acted reasonably in not monitoring the left-hand side of the property from 
the start.
Marble flooring
The subsidence caused a slope in the flooring near a bay window. To carry out a repair UKI 
needed to lift some marble tiles. Its clear there was some concern from UKI as to whether 
these tiles may break in the process of being lifted as this was discussed prior to the work 
starting. The tiles did break, and so UKI has offered to pay for replacing all of the tiles in the 
living room, as well as a 50% contribution to the rest of the flooring in the downstairs, as it is 
all the same. 
Mr and Mrs J argue this doesnt put them back in the same position as before the damage, 
as the same tiles cant be sourced. They also say the tiles broke because of negligence from 
UKI, and if proper care and skill had been taken then the damage wouldnt have happened. 
They also say they were told by UKI the whole of the downstairs would be replaced if the 
tiles were damaged, so this is what should happen. 
The starting position is Mr and Mrs Js policy. This says UKI wont pay to replace any 
undamaged items solely because they are part of a set, suite, group or collection, unless 
they are part of a bathroom suite or fitted kitchen and the damaged parts cant be repaired or 
replaced.
Im satisfied that under the policy, UKI doesnt have to pay to replace marble tiles that 
werent damaged as part of fixing the subsidence damage. Mr and Mrs J have argued their 
flooring goes beyond this definition and it isnt just matching, it is intended to be continuous 
flooring with no breaks. Ive considered what theyve said, but I still consider the flooring 
comes under this definition. UKI have offered to replace all of the tiles in the living room, and 
contribute 50% for the rest of the ground floor for loss of match, so its offer is reasonable 
based on the policy terms. If I were satisfied the tiles only needed replacing because of poor workmanship on the part 
of UKI, then I might consider it fair and reasonable to ask UKI to replace the whole of the 
downstairs flooring. But having considered everything, Im not persuaded the tiles broke due 
to an error made by UKI. Mr and Mrs J have argued a specialist marble tiler should have 
been used, but UKI just used a joiner to carry out the work. UKI said its contractors are 
experienced in subsidence claims and have substantial experience in the building trade. Its 
not clear whether the contractors specialise in marble tiling, but having considered 
everything, I havent seen any evidence that the outcome would have been different if UKI 
had used other contractors. UKI shared its concern that the tiles may break while the flooring 
was lifted in advance of the works taking place. So it seems it was always going to be likely 
some damage to the tiles may happen as a result of the works. 
Mr and Mrs J say the contractor didnt carry out the works as set out in the schedule of 
works. Ive reviewed the schedule from June 2021. It says:
To correct the slope, we would have to lift the tiles which will probably break some of 
them and then we would have to take up and relay the full room.
It doesnt set out the method in which the repair will be carried out, and I havent seen 
anything else which suggests UKI didnt carry out the repair as agreed. So Im not 
persuaded any damage is as a result of poor work from UKI.
Mr and Mrs J asked what would happen if any tiles were damaged, and I have seen an email 
from UKI which says if that were the case it may consider replacing the whole of the 
downstairs. It later changed its position. I accept this would be disappointing to Mr and Mrs 
J, as their expectations had been raised. And its not clear why UKI said this, given what its 
policy sets out. But ultimately its my role to consider if UKI has made a fair offer for the 
undamaged tiles, and for the reasons set out above, Im satisfied that it has. So Im not going 
to ask it to do anything differently.
My final decision
My final decision is that UK Insurance Limited (trading as Direct Line) doesnt need to do 
anything differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman