DRN-1426653
 
The complaint
Mrs L complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with Lex Autolease Ltd (Lex).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs L acquired her car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Lex, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
Mrs L was able to pair her phone with the car when she first received it. It appears to have 
been the phone update that has now prevented the car from successfully pairing with her 
phone. But Lex didnt know about that update at the time and it would therefore not be fair to 
suggest there was therefore anything wrong with the car.
I understand that Mrs L has provided evidence to show a courtesy car pairing with her 
device, but I dont think that persuades me that there was anything wrong with her car when 
it was supplied. It seems the car originally paired successfully but Im persuaded it is the 
phone upgrade that has created the current issue and that may, conceivably, be resolved by 
future upgrades.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman
