DRN-4124398
The complaint
Mr N says Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr N applied for and received three loans from Loans 2 Go:
Date Amount Term Monthly 
RepaymentAPR Total 
Payable
Loan 1 9 Feb 2019 £400 18 months £91.42 1,013.1% £1,645.66
Loan 2 29 Sept 2019 £647.35 18 months £147.96 1,013.3% £2,663.28
Loan 3 20Jan 2022 £400 18 months £82.22 £769.9% £1,478.96
Mr N says Loans 2 Go didnt properly check he could afford the repayments on the loans. He
says this has led to him continually needing loans to meet his monthly expenses. He
complained to Loans 2 Go.
Loans 2 Go looked into Mr Ns complaint. It said it had followed its usual process for each
loan. This included using a credit reference agency to check his credit file and verify his
income, and the use of statistical data to provide an amount for his expenditure. Having
done so, it was satisfied that each of the loans was affordable for Mr N, and it rejected his
complaint.
Mr N was unhappy with the response he received so he referred his complaint to us. One of
our investigators looked into it. He felt it wasnt unreasonable for Loans 2 Go to lend Loan 1
to Mr N, but Loans 2 and 3 were lent irresponsibly. He upheld Mr Ns complaint and asked
Loans 2 Go to put things right for Mr N regarding Loans 2 and 3.
Mr N accepted our investigators recommendation, but Loans 2 Go didnt. It said Mr Ns
credit reports were on the whole very positive and suggested any issues Mr N had with his
finances had been largely overcome and [Loans 2 Go] cannot say that the situation had got
significantly worse since Loan 1 was issued..
As there was no agreement, Mr Ns complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I issued my provisional decision because I dont agree with our investigator. 
I said:
I asked Loans 2 Go to take another look at Mr Ns complaint. Im pleased to say that on 
reflection, it agreed to make an offer to Mr N for Loan 3. But it maintained its position 
regarding Loans 1 and 2. Mr N rejected Loans 2 Gos offer.
I think Loans 2 Go was right to make an offer on Loan 3, so Ill focus my decision on the first 
two. Weve set out our approach to complaints about high-cost credit on our website - 
including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. Ive considered 
this approach when deciding this complaint.
Loans 2 Go had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr N 
would be able to repay the loan sustainably. That means he should be able to repay the 
credit without undue difficulty, while being able to meet other commitments and without 
having to borrow further. Its not about Loans 2 Go assessing the likelihood of it being 
repaid, but it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr N.
Loan 1
Loans 2 Go says it used an automated process to verify Mr Ns income and statistical data to 
work out what it believed to be his expenditure. During the verification process, Mr Ns 
income was reduced from the £1,800 he declared to £1,295. In other words, Loans 2 Go felt 
Mr N was earning around £500 a month less than hed declared. Given he was looking to 
borrow £400, it would seem a logical step to find out more about the disparity in what Mr N 
felt he was earning and what was evident from the check Loans 2 Go had undertaken.
Further, Loans 2 Go worked out his expenditure using national averages provided by the 
Office of National Statistics (ONS). While theres nothing wrong with a lender using such a 
tool, it must recognise that not all borrowers will conform to the average. The nature of an 
average is that some will spend more while others will spend less.
I think it mightve been sensible for Loans 2 Go to do more to check his income and 
expenditure, but in view of the size of the loan I think the checks carried out on Mr Ns 
application were reasonable and proportionate. But simply carrying out the checks, isnt 
sufficient to say that the lending agreed was responsible. The lender has a duty to consider 
the information it receives to ensure the borrowing is sustainable for the borrower. Having 
looked closely at the information Loans 2 Go gathered for Mr N, I dont think the borrowing 
was sustainable. Let me explain why.
I note that the reference agency used here returns credit scores up to 1,000; the higher the 
score, the more credit worthy the consumer is. Anything less than 531 is considered as a 
poor score. Looking at Mr Ns credit file, at the time of his application for Loan 1, Mr Ns 
score was 343  a poor score. But I acknowledge that Loans 2 Go specialise in lending to 
consumers with less than perfect credit ratings, so a poor score in itself doesnt mean the 
lending was unreasonable, but it is something Id expect any lender to take into account.
It is clear from his file that Mr N was regularly using short term credit such as payday loans 
and was at (or very close to) limits he had on credit cards. While he didnt have an active 
payday loan at the time of his application for Loan 1, he had closed one less than a fortnight 
earlier for £400 and had been in arrears on that loan.
Mr N had taken a credit card at the end of November 2018 (just 10 weeks or so prior to this 
loan) and had been given a credit limit of £1,200. By the time he made his application for 
Loan 1, his balance was recorded as £1,192. He had other credit cards too with combined 
limits of £1,990, and balances totalling £1,754. So he was essentially up to his credit limits - 
one of which was very new - and was regularly taking short term loans. It seems to me that 
Mr N was showing signs of financial pressure and was cash hungry.
There is no evidence that he would be able to sustainably cope with a further financial 
commitment of £91 as required by this new loan. I dont think Loans 2 Go should have 
agreed to lend Loan 1 to Mr N.Loan 2
By the time of his application for this loan, Mr Ns situation had worsened. His credit score 
had fallen to 274. Hed taken further short-term loans  one of which remained outstanding  
and had been in an arrangement to pay on another. He remained at or very near to his credit 
card limits. Overall his indebtedness had gone up by around £800 and he was looking to 
increase this further.
Again, while the checks were proportionate to the size of the loan being requested, I dont 
think there were any signs that the borrowing could be repaid sustainably by Mr N. I dont 
think Loans 2 Go should have agreed to lend to him.
Loan 3
Mr Ns situation had continued to worsen by the time he applied for this loan. His credit score 
had dropped to 181 and his indebtedness had increased by over £1,500. As Ive mentioned 
above, Loans 2 Go has agreed to make an offer to Mr N for this loan. I think thats right, but 
for the avoidance of doubt, Ive included this loan in the redress I propose below.
Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct that business to 
put the complainant in the position they would be in now if the mistake it made hadnt 
happened, as far as is reasonably practical.
In this case, that would mean putting Mr N in the position he would be in now if he hadnt 
been given the loans. But Mr N was given the loans and used the money so its right he 
should repay what he borrowed. But I dont think Loans 2 Go should benefit from that 
through interest and charges. So I think Loans 2 Go should:
add up the total amount of money Mr N received as a result of having been given all 
three loans. The repayments Mr N made should be deducted from this amount.
oIf this results in Mr N having paid more than he received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement).*
oIf theres an outstanding balance for Mr N to pay, Loans 2 Go should reach an 
affordable payment plan with him. I remind Loans 2 Go of its obligation to 
treat Mr N fairly.
Loans 2 Go should remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ns credit report 
regarding all three loans.
*If Loans 2 Go considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr N how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Both Loans 2 Go and Mr N have accepted my provisional decision, so I see no reason to 
depart from it.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited should put matters 
right for Mr N as Ive set out.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman