DRN-2047532
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection policy 
(PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out PPI in 1995 to protect their mortgage repayments, the cover 
started in 1996. They recall the sale took place in a meeting, Nationwide cant confirm 
this. The policy was in Mr Ms sole name and gave him accident, sickness and 
unemployment protection. They paid a monthly amount for it.
The adjudicator didnt recommend Mr and Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. Mr and 
Mrs M disagreed so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory (as some of it is here), I have based my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely 
given the available evidence and what we know about how Nationwide sold PPI at the time.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive 
followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Nationwide had to make clear the PPI was optional, and Mr and Mrs M had to agree to 
take it out. I cant know what was said at the time of the sale, there are no meeting notes 
or records available, and Nationwide doesn't have copies of any paperwork from the sale. 
But that's not surprising or unreasonable given how long ago it was. It's not easy in cases 
like this where the information is limited. I have to decide what I think is most likely.
Mr and Mrs M have told us they werent given an option, PPI was a condition of their 
mortgage, they were told they had to take out PPI to get the mortgage. Nationwide says 
that PPI has never been a condition of its lending, Mr and Mrs M would have been given a 
leaflet telling them about the policy and the decision to take out PPI would have been 
entirely theirs. PPI didnt form part of their mortgage conditions and they were under no 
obligation to take it out.
I have thought carefully about Mr and Mrs Ms comments. And whilst I dont doubt these 
are their honest recollections, I have to take into account that the sale was over 25 
years
ago and how this might affect what they now remember. Overall, I think its more likely 
Nationwide made clear the PPI was optional, and they agreed to take it out for Mr M. 
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI so it didnt have to check if the policy was right for 
Mr M. But it did have to make sure Mr and Mrs M got all the information they needed to 
decide if the PPI was right for Mr M.
Its possible the information wasnt as clear as it should have been. But I dont think they 
wouldve been put off taking out the policy if they had received better information. I say 
this because Mr M was eligible for the policy given his circumstances at the time and the 
policys terms and conditions.
And it seems he wasnt affected by any of the things limiting the policys main benefits. So I 
think it unlikely better information about the policys exclusions and limitations would have 
changed their decision to buy it for Mr M.
Mr M was entitled to just statutory sick pay - the PPI would have paid out for up to 24 
months for all successful accident and sickness claims. The PPI also gave him up to 24 
months unemployment cover. Mr M told us he already had another similar insurance policy 
but he cant provided the policy details. So I dont know under what circumstances it paid 
out, whether it had a deferral period or how long it paid out for. This means I cant fairly 
conclude it meant he didnt need this PPI. 
Given the consequences for Mr and Mrs M of defaulting on a large and long term debt 
secured against their home, from what I have seen I think the PPI would have been useful 
for them if Mr M was sick or lost his job. 
I dont know when the cost was first made clear to Mr and Mrs M, but the PPI was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. And Mr M could cancel it without further cost 
if at any stage they no longer wanted it.
So, overall, it follows I dont think Mr and Mrs M have lost out because of any problems 
with this sale.
My final decision
My decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman