DRN-4172097
The complaint
Mr D complains about internet banking and mobile banking on his accounts with Clydesdale 
Bank Plc  trading as Virgin Money (Virgin).
What happened
Mr D has three accounts with Virgin. He is visually impaired and uses mobile banking 
regularly. He uses text/speech voice over services.
He complained to Virgin that he couldnt access his statements via mobile banking; nor can 
he delete secure messages; nor re-order /rename accounts. He said Virgins online access 
wasnt helpful to him as a visually impaired person.
Virgin said theyd spoken to Mr D and talked him through how to access his statements. On 
the further issues, they were aware of them and Virgins technical team are looking to make 
improvements to deal with those. But no timescale is known for resolution. Virgin offered to 
send out paper statements to Mr D if that would help. Virgin paid compensation of £150.
Mr D brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Virgin didnt need to do anymore. He 
said Virgin had spoken to Mr D and explained how to access his statements. The other 
improvements were planned, but without any firm timescales. He said Virgins payment of 
compensation of £150 was reasonable.
Mr D accepted what our investigator said  but said that without a firm date, Virgins 
promises to improve things were meaningless. So he asked that an ombudsman look at his 
complaint. So  it has come to me to do that.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I listened to the call between Virgin and Mr D on 5 July 2022. On it, Virgins call handler 
explained how Mr D could access his statements. Mr D confirmed this worked  and he told 
us he doesnt now need paper statements. He went on to raise the further points - that he 
cannot delete secure messages; or re-order/rename accounts in the app. The call handler 
said these are improvements which will be referred to Virgins technical team to resolve  but 
she couldnt give a timescale.
Mr D accepted that his issue regarding statements was resolved, but he wants firm 
timescales for the further improvements.
Here - let me say that this service doesnt regulate financial services businesses  thats the 
role of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). So  we cant make Virgin, for example, 
change their operating processes  thats for the FCA to decide. Instead my role is to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of this complaint.
Therefore  I cant make Virgin change their mobile banking app as Mr D would like, nor 
can we force them to give a timescale. Thats not in our remit. But  I did hear that Virgins 
call handler took Mr Ds points on board and treated them seriously. And she understood the 
issues he was raising  she talked through the services on the app with Mr D and could 
appreciate where he was coming from. 
So  while we cannot force Virgin to do something here, I was encouraged that Virgin 
understood what was needed. And therefore  Virgin treated Mr Ds complaint fairly and 
reasonably and did what they could to resolve it. And committed to refer the matters to the 
right area of Virgin to fix things.
Therefore, in the circumstances of Mr Ds complaint, I think Virgin acted reasonably. They 
paid compensation of £150  which I also think was fair.
Therefore, as far as Mr Ds complaint to us is concerned, Im not asking Virgin to do any 
more than theyve already committed to do here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman