DRN-4489239
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Vacation Finance Limited trading as VFL Finance Solutions 
(VFL) unfairly dealt with their claims under sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 (the CCA) relating to loans they provided to fund timeshare product purchases. 
What happened
Since 2014, Mr and Mrs B have purchased various timeshare products provided and sold by 
a company (who Ill refer to as A). Over that time, they purchased various timeshare 
products and upgrades from A, which were funded in different ways, including the use of 
loan(s) provided by different financial business(es).
In or around January 2018, while on a promotional holiday, Mr and Mrs B attended a 
meeting with A in which they agreed to exchange their existing timeshare product holding for 
a points-based timeshare product offered by A. The purchase required payment of an 
agreed sum of £19,000, £13,300 of which was funded under a fixed-sum loan agreement 
over 120 months with VFL. £5,700 was funded by bank transfer from Mr and Mrs Bs bank 
account.
In or around April 2018, while on holiday using their timeshare product, Mr and Mrs B 
attended a further meeting with A in which they agreed to purchase additional points to 
increase their existing timeshare points holding. The total purchase price, including what was 
already owed in respect of the January 2018 purchase, was £23,180. This was funded, in 
part, with a new loan from VFL of £19,880 over 120 months. Under the agreement, Mr and 
Mrs Bs existing loan was repaid. £3,300 was funded by bank transfer from Mr and Mrs Bs 
bank account.
In or around May 2020, using a claims management company (the CMC), Mr and Mrs B 
submitted claims to VFL under sections 75 and 140A of the CCA. The CMC said that during 
the sales meetings in January and April 2018, A made a number of representations about 
the product(s) purchased which turned out not to be true. And it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr and Mrs B to enter into the purchase contracts with 
A. They believe that under section 75 of the CCA (S75), VFL are jointly liable for any 
misrepresentation. In particular, the CMC allege that A told Mr and Mrs B:
the product was of some substance; and
the purchase would be an investment that would increase in value and could be sold 
at a considerable profit after a few years.
They also said that the relationship between VFL and Mr and Mrs B arising out of the loan 
agreement, taken with the related purchase agreement with A, is unfair pursuant to section 
140A of the CCA (S140A). In particular, they said:
Mr and Mrs B were subjected to a high-pressure sales presentation;
A were acting as an agent of Mr and Mrs B and VFL paid commission to A without 
their consent breaching their fiduciary duties;
commission paid wasnt disclosed to Mr and Mrs B;
Mr and Mrs B werent presented with a choice of finance options;
VFL failed to carry out a sound and proper credit assessment; and
the finance agreements were unaffordable.
Furthermore, the CMC said that A had gone into liquidation and ceased to trade, so were in 
breach of the contract. They believe that under section 75 of the CCA (S75), VFL are jointly 
liable for any breach of contract.
Having not received a substantive response to Mr and Mrs Bs claim, the CMC referred 
matters to this service as a complaint. During the course of this services investigations, VFL 
provided their response to the claims. Having considered the various allegations together 
with evidence from the time of the sale and their own records, VFL didnt think there was any 
evidence to support the allegation that the product had been misrepresented to Mr and Mrs 
B. Or that there was any evidence thered been a breach of contract. VFL didnt agree with 
the CMCs allegations of unfairness, or that the loan was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs B at 
the time of the purchases. 
One of this services investigators considered all the evidence and information provided. In 
doing so, they didnt think Mr and Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld. In particular, the 
investigator didnt think there was any evidence to show the product had been 
misrepresented in the ways alleged. Or that thered been a breach of contract. Our 
investigator also wasnt persuaded there was sufficient cause likely to lead a court to 
conclude the relationship was unfair pursuant to S140A. Or that there was anything to 
suggest the loan was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs B.
The CMC didnt agree with our investigators findings. They insisted the loans were 
unaffordable for Mr and Mrs B given the existence of previous finance that remained 
outstanding. Furthermore, they insisted the product(s) had been sold as investments but 
provided no further explanation or evidence to support this allegation.
The CMC subsequently provided copies of Mr and Mrs Bs bank statements covering an 
extended period from just prior to the purchase in January 2018 which they believe 
supported the allegation of unaffordability. They also provided their own in-depth explanation 
of the rules and guidance that applied to the assessment of loan affordability and how (they 
believe) that wasnt complied with.
As an informal resolution couldnt be achieved, Mr and Mrs Bs complaint was passed to me 
to consider further and reach a final decision. Having done so, while I reached a similar 
outcome to that of our investigator, I addressed various aspects that I feel werent fully 
considered and explained previously. Because of that, I issued a provisional decision on 7 
November 2023, giving Mr B, Mrs B and VFL the opportunity to respond to my findings 
below, before I reach a final decision.
In my provisional decision I said:
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP1 3.6.4R of the FCA2 Handbook 
means Im required to take into account; relevant law and regulations, relevant 
regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the relevant time.
S75 provides consumers with protection for goods or services bought using credit. 
Where Mr and Mrs B paid for their timeshare products having financed them with 
restricted use regulated loans from VFL, they are afforded the protection offered to 
borrowers like them under those provisions. So, Ive taken this section into account 
when deciding whats fair in the circumstances of this complaint.
S140A looks at the fairness of the relationship between Mr B, Mrs B and VFL arising 
out of any credit agreement (taken together with any related agreements). And where 
1 Dispute Resolution: The Complaints sourcebook (DISP)
2 Financial Conduct Authoritythe products purchased were funded under credit agreements, theyre deemed to be 
related agreements. Only a court has the power to make a determination under 
S140A. But as its relevant law, Ive considered it when deciding what I believe is fair 
and reasonable. 
Its important to distinguish between the complaint being considered here and the 
legal claim. The complaint referred to this service specifically relates to whether I 
believe VFLs treatment of Mr and Mrs Bs claim was fair and reasonable given all the 
evidence and information available to me. This service isnt afforded powers to 
determine any legal claim itself. That is the role of the courts.
Its also relevant to stress that this services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution 
Service (ADR) is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. While the decision of 
an ombudsman can be legally binding, if accepted by the consumer, we do not 
provide a legal service. And as Ive already said, this service isnt able to make legal 
findings  that is the role of the courts. Where a consumer doesnt accept the findings 
of an ombudsman, it doesnt prejudice their right to pursue their claim in other ways.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, my 
decision is made on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive 
based it on what I think is more likely than not to have happened given the evidence 
thats available from the time and the wider circumstances. In doing so, my role isnt 
necessarily to address, in my decision, every single point thats been made. And for 
that reason, Im only going to refer to what I believe are the most salient points 
having considered everything thats been said and provided.
Mr and Mrs Bs timeshare experience
Based upon the information available, it appears Mr and Mrs B maintained an 
ongoing association with A and their products. In particular relating to a holiday 
destination theyve regularly attended and holidayed at. They first purchased a 
timeshare product from A in 2014, with subsequent exchanges and upgrades in 
2015, 2016 and 2017 before the purchases in 2018.
Over that time, Mr and Mrs Bs timeshare holding varied in terms of the type of 
accommodation, the season and flexibility according to the product held. And I 
understand many, if not all, of the purchases were completed utilising finance 
provided by different businesses (including VFL).
So, based upon this information, I think its reasonable to conclude that Mr and Mrs B 
had a reasonably strong awareness about the products they purchased, how they 
operated and any associated costs. I also think its reasonable to conclude that Mr 
and Mrs B were familiar with A (as a timeshare supplier) and the sales presentations 
given by them. Particularly as the meetings in 2018 (the subject of their claim) 
werent their first experience.
The claim for misrepresentation under S75
For me to conclude there was a misrepresentation by A in the way that has been 
alleged, generally speaking, I would need to be satisfied, based on the available 
evidence, that A made false statements of fact when selling the timeshare products. 
In other words, that they told Mr and Mrs B something that wasnt true in relation to 
one or more of the points raised. I would also need to be satisfied that the 
misrepresentations were material in inducing Mr and Mrs B to enter the contracts. 
This means I would need to be persuaded that Mr and Mrs B reasonably relied upon 
the alleged false statements when deciding to buy the timeshare products and 
additional points rights.
From the information available, I cant be certain about what Mr and Mrs B were 
specifically told (or not told) about the benefits of the products they purchased. It is, however, indicated that they were told these things. So, Ive thought about that 
alongside the other evidence available. Although not determinative of the matter, I 
havent seen any documentation which supports the assertions in Mr and Mrs Bs 
claim, such as marketing material or documentation from the time of the sale that 
echoes what they say they were told. In particular that the products purchased were 
represented as a financial investment.
I dont think the contracts can have been marketed and sold as an investment 
contrary to The Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts 
Regulations 2010 (the TRs) simply because there might have been some inherent 
value to Mr and Mrs Bs membership. And in any event, Ive found nothing within the 
evidence provided to suggest A gave any assurances or guarantees about the future 
value of the product or the additional points purchased. 
A would had to have presented the products in such a way that used their investment 
element to persuade Mr and Mrs B to contract. Only then would they have fallen foul 
of the prohibition on marketing and selling certain holiday products as an investment, 
contrary to Regulation 14(3) of the TRs. Ive also found nothing within the 
documentation provided that appears to provide any guarantees or assurances about 
the subsequent resale of the points they purchased.
On balance, and in the absence of supporting evidence from the time of the sale, I 
therefore cant reasonably say, with any certainty, that A did in fact make the alleged 
misrepresentations. 
The breach of contract claim under S75
VFL have said that whilst A may have entered an insolvency process, the current 
management company confirm that timeshare owners remain able to fully utilise their 
timeshare products subject to the associated agreements. So, in the absence of any 
specific explanation or evidence to support why Mr and Mrs B believe theres been a 
breach of contract which resulted in a loss for them, I havent seen anything that 
would lead me to conclude there was such a breach.
The unfair relationship claim under S140A
The court may make an order under S140B in connection with a credit agreement if it 
determines that the relationship between the creditor (VFL) and the debtor (Mr and 
Mrs B) is unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following (from S140A):
a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of the rights 
under the agreement or any related agreement;
c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
As Ive said previously, its important to acknowledge that only a court can make a 
determination under S140A. But as this is relevant law, I need to take it into account 
in reaching my decision  where appropriate.The pressured sale and process
The claim and subsequent submissions set out an allegation that Mr and Mrs B were 
subjected to a pressurised sale. I acknowledge what has been said about the length 
of the sales presentations they attended  albeit Im aware theyd previously attended 
such meetings with A. I can, therefore, understand why its argued that the prolonged 
nature of any presentation might have felt like a pressured sale  especially if, as 
they approached the closing stages, they were going to have to make a decision on 
the day in order to avoid missing out on an offer that may not have been available at 
a later date.
Against the straightforward measure of pressure as its commonly understood, I find 
it hard to argue that Mr and Mrs B agreed to the purchases in 2018 when they simply 
didnt want to. I havent seen any evidence to demonstrate that they went on to say 
something to A, after the purchases, to suggest theyd agreed to them when they 
didnt want to. And Mr and Mrs B havent provided a credible explanation for why 
they didnt subsequently seek to cancel the purchases within the 14-day cooling off 
period permitted here. 
If Mr and Mrs B only agreed to the purchases (and the associated finance 
agreements) because they felt pressured, I find this aspect difficult to reconcile with 
the allegation in question. I havent seen anything substantive to suggest Mr and Mrs 
B were obviously harassed or coerced into either.  And because of that, Im not 
persuaded theres sufficient evidence to demonstrate they made the decision to 
proceed because their ability to exercise choice was  or was likely to have been  
significantly impaired. 
In deciding whether to make a determination under S140A, the court shall have 
regard to all matters it thinks are relevant (including matters relating to the creditor [A] 
and matters relating to the debtor [Mr and Mrs B]).
As Ive said, Mr and Mrs B already held an existing timeshare product theyd 
purchased previously from A. And had previously agreed to entering finance 
agreements to fund these. Importantly, the points purchases in 2018 appear to relate 
to the upgrade and/or change from their existing timeshare product holding. It doesnt 
appear it was their first product purchase from A and Mr and Mrs B werent new 
customers. So, its likely they wouldve benefitted from their previous experiences 
and what might be expected from the meetings and sales presentations in 2018.
If there was potential for a court to decide that some of the allegations might have led 
to an unfair debtor-creditor relationship here, I think any decision is likely to be taken 
within the context of Mr and Mrs Bs overall experience. And even if I was to find that 
some of the information couldve been clearer during the sale  and I make no such 
finding  I think its unlikely this would lead to a court finding this led to a sufficiently 
extreme imbalance in knowledge to render the debtor-creditor relationship unfair.
As responsibilities and disclosure of commission paid
Part of Mr and Mrs Bs S140A claim is based upon the status of A (as the introducer 
of the loan) and their resultant responsibilities towards them. In particular, its argued 
that the payment of commission by VFL to A was kept from them and was paid 
without their consent 
VFL have confirmed that no commission was paid here. And in any event, even if it 
had been, I dont think this was incompatible with As role in the transactions. They 
werent acting as an agent of Mr and Mrs B, but as the supplier of contractual rights 
they obtained under the timeshare product agreements. And, in relation to the loans, 
based upon what Ive seen so far, it doesnt appear it was As role to make an impartial or disinterested recommendation, or to give Mr and Mrs B advice or 
information on that basis. As far as Im aware, Mr and Mrs B were always at liberty to 
choose how they wanted to fund the transactions. 
Whats more, I havent found anything to suggest VFL were under any regulatory 
duty to disclose the amount of any commission paid in these circumstances  had it 
been paid. Nor is there any suggestion or evidence that Mr and Mrs B requested 
those details from VFL. As I understand it, the typical amounts of commission paid by 
VFL to suppliers (like A in this case) was unlikely to be much more than 10%. And on 
that basis, Im not persuaded its likely that a court would find that any non-disclosure 
and payment of commission created and unfair debtor-creditor relationship under 
S140A, given the circumstances of this complaint.
Were the required lending checks undertaken?
There are certain aspects of Mr and Mrs Bs claim that could be considered outside 
of S75 and S140A. In particular, in relation to whether VFL undertook a proper credit 
assessment. The CMC allege a sound and proper affordability check wasnt 
completed.
Having received our investigators initial findings, the CMC provided copies of Mr and 
Mrs Bs bank statements covering an extended period from October 2017 through 
the period of the purchases and beyond. Ive also seen information relating to Mr and 
Mrs Bs income and outgoings from that time which our investigator has considered 
in depth. Our investigator also asked for copies of Mr and Mrs Bs credit files. But I 
cant see that these have been received.
Ive carefully considered the information provided together with the work done by our 
investigator. Having done so, Ive not seen anything that I believe supports any 
suggestion of financial difficulty from that time. The bank account appears to have 
been well managed and it appears Mr and Mrs B had a surplus of income over the 
outgoings having taken into account the loans agreed.
In their response to Mr and Mrs Bs claim, VFL explained to this service the 
affordability assessment theyd completed which they believe was regulatorily 
compliant and showed the loan was sustainably affordable for them.  If I were to find 
that the checks and tests completed by VFL didnt comply with the regulatory 
guidelines and requirements that applied  and I make no such finding  I would 
need to be satisfied that had such checks been completed, they wouldve revealed 
that the loan repayments werent sustainably affordable for Mr and Mrs B in order to 
uphold their complaint here. 
Its important to stress that I dont believe any compliance failure (if proven) would 
automatically mean that Mr and Mrs Bs loan agreements were null and void in any 
event. It would need to be shown that any such failure resulted in a loss to Mr and 
Mrs B as a consequence.
I understand that Mr and Mrs B later experienced financial pressures. That said, it 
appears this coincided with the impact global pandemic of 2020. But I dont think 
thats something that wouldve been reasonably foreseeable for VFL at the time the 
loans were assessed and agreed. So, I cant reasonably conclude that at the time 
they were agreed, the loans were likely to be unaffordable for Mr and Mrs B, or that 
they suffered a foreseeable loss as a consequence.
Summary
To reiterate  My role in deciding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint is to establish whether, 
based upon all the evidence available, VFLs handling of their claim was unfair or 
unreasonable. Given my findings above, I cant say that it was. And on that basis, I 
dont currently intend to ask VFL to do anything more here.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Despite follow up by this service, neither VFL nor the CMC have provided any further 
comment or evidence for me to consider. In the circumstances, Ive no reason to vary from 
my provisional findings.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman