DRN-1855320
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy about how The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society (NFU) 
handled a claim he made under his buildings and contents insurance policy.
What happened
In November 2019 Mr N needed to make a claim under his insurance policy, following a 
burglary at his home. There had been some damage to his property during the theft, and 
items of jewellery stolen.
NFU appointed a loss adjuster to handle the claim on its behalf. The loss adjuster attended 
Mr Ns property and took some details of the loss. And then later Mr N was told a loss 
adjuster was needed to visit Mr Ns property a second time, to discuss the claim further, and 
take a statement in relation to the loss.
Mr N was concerned with this action. Mr N said he considered this to be unreasonable  as 
the first loss adjuster that attended his property could have taken a statement when they 
visited. But it was agreed a second loss adjuster would attend. After this visit Mr N raised 
concerns with the progress of his claim. He said that he felt he had been asked, and had 
answered, the same questions hed been asked previously. Mr N noted it had been two 
months since the theft, and he hadnt been told whether his claim had been accepted or not.
NFU provided a response to Mr Ns complaint. It said at the time of its initial report Mr N 
didnt have the crime reference number it needed to hand  and explained he needed to get 
this from the third party that had reported the theft to the police. So, it felt it had rightly asked 
this question again to make sure it could carry out the necessary claim validation at that 
point.
NFU also said that it had acted reasonably in asking a second loss adjuster to attend. It 
noted that formal statements were not taken on the first visit for every claim, and that it was 
common practice for insurers to need to discuss the claim further, to ensure the claim was 
covered in line with the policy. NFU said it was satisfied it had completed reasonable and 
necessary investigations when looking to move Mr Ns claim forward.
As in March 2020 Mr N remained dissatisfied with NFUs response, and that the claim had 
yet to be settled, he referred his complaint to this service for an independent review. 
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said NFU 
had acted reasonably in terms of the progress of the claim. And therefore, he didnt think 
NFU had done anything wrong.
In addition to this, our investigator became aware there had been further movement on the 
claim, since the complaint was referred to this service. NFU had asked for further information 
 asking for information on the alarm system. And it wanted to attend Mr Ns property and 
inspect the alarm itself, because NFU noted there was an alarm endorsement of Mr Ns 
property. 
Mr N didnt think NFU needed to attend and view the alarm itself. This was because hed 
provided information on the alarm system to NFU, including a video showing the times the 
alarm was set for. Mr N also explained that at that point, the Coronavirus pandemic was 
present. And he had people at his address that needed to shield themselves. So, someone 
else attending his home wasnt feasible. 
But, later on, NFU did send a representative to Mr Ns address, after agreeing this with Mr N. 
The representative reviewed the alarm from outside of the property  and technology was 
used for them to look at the alarm system inside. 
This service was later informed Mr Ns claim had been accepted, and the settlement of the 
claim was being dealt with. But Mr N remained unhappy with the initial progress of his claim. 
Because Mr N remained unhappy, he referred his complaint to this service for an 
independent review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I understand Mr N 
feels strongly about this  and therefore will be disappointed. Ive explained my reasons for 
this decision below.
It is also important to add that Ive received a number of documents from both parties. And 
Id like to reassure both Mr N and NFU that Ive considered all submissions provided. But, in 
this decision Ive only detailed the relevant information to illustrate my reasoning in this case.
As above, Mr N is concerned about the way in which his claim was progressed. And, has 
asked what the expected timescales would be for a claim of this nature to be settled. There 
is no set timeframe for the conclusion of a claim. And this is because each claim is different. 
But, NFU do have a duty to handle the claim promptly and fairly. And so, its this Ive 
considered when deciding whether it acted fairly here.
Ive considered what happened during the claim, prior to it being referred to this service. And 
based on the evidence provided to me, I do think the claim was progressed both promptly 
and fairly. So, Im satisfied NFU didnt act unreasonably in the way it handled the claim.
I say this because I can see there was continuous movement to consider Mr Ns claim since 
the point it was raised in November 2019, from reviewing contact notes, a timeline of the 
claim, and the documents compiled by the loss adjusters. NFU appointed the relevant 
experts to consider the claim and asked for information where it needed to  in order to 
proceed with an answer on the claim. 
I understand Mr N feels concerned with some of the questions asked of him. And that he 
was asked to repeat some of the information he feels hed given to NFU before. But the 
contact notes provided to me do suggest that Mr N didnt initially have the crime reference 
number to hand. There is a contact note from early in the claim, which noted Mr N needed to 
get this from the party that had discovered and reported the burglary. And, when considering 
a loss, it isnt unusual for an insurer to need to confirm information, ask, or re-ask questions, 
to make sure the loss is something covered under the policy. So, I dont think NFU acted 
unfairly in how it conducted its consideration of the claim here.I know that following the complaint being referred here, NFU wanted to send a third person 
to attend Mr Ns home and review the alarm installed. Mr N didnt feel this was necessary, as 
hed provided information to NFU about the alarm before. But an insurer is entitled to 
investigate and validate a claim. And I dont think its request to review the alarm was 
unreasonable  given the property was burgled.
I can appreciate why at the time Mr N didnt want to let anyone else enter his address, giving 
he was concerned about the coronavirus pandemic, and people in his home needing to 
shield. But I do think NFU and Mr N came to a reasonable solution to handle this. Someone 
attended the property and considered the alarm from outside  and part of this included 
using technology to see what they needed to, within the home. This resulted in the 
acceptance of Mr Ns claim. 
Mr N has more recently raised concerns about an alarm endorsement on his policy, and a 
concern that he wasnt aware of this. I have noted Mr Ns comments here. But Im satisfied 
this doesnt affect the outcome of this complaint. I do think the claim was progressed in line 
with what Id expect. NFU needed to carefully validate a claim to ensure it is covered. And, 
Im aware Mr Ns more recent concerns arent something that Mr N complained about or has 
been responded to before. So, it isnt for me to comment on this here.
My final decision
In light of the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. And therefore, I 
dont require The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society to do anything more in 
respect of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman