DRN-2622522
The complaint
Mr L complains about how a credit shows on his statement for his account with HSBC UK 
Bank Plc, trading as first direct.
What happened
Mr L received a credit into his current account with first direct for £100. But, when he viewed 
his statement online, it didnt show who the payer or sender was. Although Mr L knew what
the payment related to, he complained that it should show more details about the payer. He
felt it was unacceptable for this information to be missing.
first direct said that the payer hadnt included any reference or description when they sent
the money. It said it only had the sort code and account number from where the money had
come from, but it wasnt able to give this information to Mr L. first direct said that it couldnt
alter a statement to show detail that wasnt included with the payment.
Mr L said he found the customer relations department unhelpful and requested £210
compensation for his wasted time.
The investigators opinion
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He
didnt think that first direct had done anything wrong as the payment information it received
from the payer didnt include any payment instruction or reference. He said it had acted
appropriately in not releasing the sort code and account number to Mr L because of data
protection.
Mr L didnt accept the investigators findings. He asked for confirmation that first direct had
complied with UK Banking Regulations, as he feels first direct didnt issue a meaningful
statement that hes entitled to. Mr L said he didnt understand why first direct didnt go out of
its way to send him a corrected statement, or a covering letter or email showing the name of
the payer, which he said it knows as it has the account number and sort code.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in January 2021. In summary, I didnt think 
first direct needed to do anything further to resolve Mr Ls complaint, as it wasnt able to 
provide him a statement showing the information he wanted about the particular payment. 
I said that I did understand Mr Ls concern that the lack of detail included about the sender of 
this payment might make it difficult to demonstrate how he came to receive this money.
With regards to what information should be provided on a bank statement, the Banking:
Conduct of Business sourcebook (BCOBS) 4.2.1 sets out that a business must provide or
make available regular statements of account in a durable medium that are appropriate to
the type of banking service provided. But this doesnt extend to specify that the sender of an
incoming payment should be recorded or detailed on such a statement.
However, the Payment Service Regulations 2017 does refer to this. It says:
54.  Information for the payee on individual payment transactions
(1) The payees payment service provider under a framework contract must provide to the
payee the information specified in paragraph (2) in respect of each payment transaction on
paper or on another durable medium at least once per month free of charge.
(2) The information is 
(a) a reference enabling the payee to identify the payment transaction and the payer, and
any information transferred with the payment transaction;.
On my behalf, the investigator asked for first directs response to this in relation to the 
information shown on Mr Ls statement. And it said that the payer name wasnt included
in the information sent across from the paying bank. It told us that this was unusual, but 
unfortunately it meant that it couldnt provide the information Mr L wanted because it wasnt 
able to find out the name of the payer because of data protection requirements. It wasnt the 
case that first direct was unwilling to do this for Mr L, it was more that it couldnt because of 
how the details on the payment instruction were given.
The information shown on Mr Ls statement was as it was entered by the payer, so in this 
case it appeared as -, a dash or hyphen. I said that although first direct would be aware of 
the account details the transfer came from and the sort code would indicate which bank or 
building society this was, this didnt necessarily mean that it should be able to assume the 
payer name for the purposes of recording this on the statement, if this wasnt something that 
was included in the details entered by the paying bank.
I said that I did appreciate that this meant that first direct was unable to give Mr L the 
resolution he would like by showing the payer name on his statement. However, I said I 
understood that he was aware of where the payment came from and why it was paid to him. 
So I didnt think I could say that this issue caused him particular difficulties at this time. 
However I said I appreciated that it took Mr L time and effort to raise his complaint, and that 
he felt frustrated by the response he received. 
The responses
first direct said that it had nothing further to add in response to my provisional decision.
Mr L responded to say that hed received my provisional decision but couldnt believe the 
response to his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mr L has clearly been disappointed by the findings I reached in my provisional 
decision. I would look to assure him that I have taken into account everything that he said 
alongside the information provided by first direct.
However, having reviewed all of this, I see no reason to depart from the findings I reached.My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman