DRN-1946449
 
The complaint
Mrs A complains she was mis-sold a personal pension by The Prudential Assurance 
Company Limited.
What happened
In August 1988, Mrs A met with an adviser from Prudential who advised her to contract out 
of State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS) and contribute towards a personal 
pension instead. Mrs A completed a Personal Financial Review form, pension application 
form and an Application for Membership and Proposal for Benefits form at the time.
The application forms showed Mrs A:
was in her mid twenties, single and living with parents;
was employed, earing around £5,000 per year, with no access to a 
workplace pension scheme and no other pension arrangements;
had around £1,000 in savings; and
was a member of SERPS
Mrs A said the adviser came to her parents house and pressurised her into signing the 
paperwork to take out the personal pensions. She said the adviser refused to leave the 
house until she signed up for the policy.
Mrs A appeared to accept the advisers recommendation and her new 
personal pension started in December 1988.
Mrs A says she was mis-sold the policy because of her circumstances at the time. She 
said she became aware she had cause for complaint because of the recent media 
attention on mis-sold pensions.
Mrs A said she stopped paying into the policy in 1993 and opted back into the State 
scheme in 2006.
Mrs A complained to the Prudential who did not uphold her complaint. So, then complained 
to our service. Our investigator looked into Mrs As complaint and didnt uphold it, 
concluding that the advice the Prudential gave Mrs A at the time didnt appear unsuitable in 
her particular circumstances. Our investigator said she had not seen anything to show that 
Mrs A was forced into signing the paperwork at the time.
The investigator explained that, at the time of advice, consumers in employment who 
werent contracted-out through an employer's pension scheme, could do so on an 
individual basis, and that contracting-out was an on- going choice. She pointed out that the 
government had decided to allow individuals to contract-out of SERPS and offered 
incentives to encourage them to do so. However, it gave no advice as to who it was 
expected would benefit from contracting out. So, the actuaries at various pension providers 
 such as the Prudential  carried out comparisons of the projected benefits from SERPS, 
with those from an alternative personal pension arrangement.
These calculations were based on what were felt to be conservative assumptions of likely 
future investment returns at the time. The rebates paid by the Government were set in 
such a way that it was more attractive for younger people to contract-out than those who 
were older. So, age was a pivotal consideration when deciding whether to contract-out or 
not. There was also a lower earnings limit which was used to determine whether an 
applicants earnings would be enough to benefit from contracting out.
Looking at Mrs As age at the time of advice, the fact that her earnings met the minimum 
salary limit and she did not have access to a workplace pension, our investigator 
concluded that it didnt seem inappropriate, at that time, to conclude that contracting-out 
may be beneficial for her. But, the pension illustration Mrs A was given in September 
1988, did say that there was no guarantee that she would end up better off.
Mrs A didnt accept our investigators view and asked for her case to be referred to an 
ombudsman. She referred us to a press article showing that a penalty had been imposed on 
the Prudential for mis-selling pension arrangements. Our investigator pointed out that this 
related to the sale of annuities, and not to contracting out of SERPS.
As agreement couldnt be reached Mrs As complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator and for much the 
same reasons. I am therefore not upholding Mrs As complaint.
Looking at Mrs As circumstances at the time of sale, including her age, the amount she was 
earning and that she didnt have access to a workplace pension, I cant see that the advice 
she was given to contract out of SERPS was inappropriate in her individual circumstances. 
Mrs A may not have benefitted from this recommendation and the decision to contract out of 
SERPS, but this cant have been known at the time, and I can only take into consideration 
factors that were known or were reasonably foreseeable at the time.
Like our investigator, I cant see anything to show that Mrs A was pressurised into taking out 
the policy. Mrs A met with the adviser in August and the policy didnt start until some months 
later, in December 1988. If she was pressurised in the way she describes, I think she 
wouldve likely cancelled the policy once the adviser was no longer at her house. So, I think 
it more likely that she decided to accept the advisers recommendation.
The press article Mrs A has referred us to, as our investigator explained, is about a different 
situation. So, this doesnt change my view.
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman