DRN-2823190
The complaint
Mr U complains that Soteria Insurance Limited wrongly avoided his motor insurance policy 
and didnt deal with a claim hed made, as it thought hed made a misrepresentation to it. 
What happened
Mr U made a claim on the policy when his car was stolen. Soteria declined it on the basis 
that Mr U had said there was a tracker on the car. It said had it known that wasnt the case, it 
wouldnt have offered him cover. It thought Mr U had acted deliberately or recklessly in 
making the misrepresentation, so it retained the premium but treated the policy as though it 
had never existed. 
Mr U complained to Soteria about its decision. He said one of its advisors had told him he 
should answer Yes if asked whether the car had a tracker. Soteria didnt agree with his 
view of the issue  and it pointed out that he didnt buy the policy at that time. It said at the 
point of sale Mr U had confirmed when asked that hed said the car had a tracker.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Us case. He said the first advisor had told Mr U what 
the quote would be if the car had a tracker. He noted that during the investigation carried out 
by Soterias agent, Mr U said that he still hadnt had a tracker fitted at the time of the theft 
(around three weeks after buying the policy). Mr U told the agent that he hadnt decided 
whether he was keeping the car, and he didnt want to pay for a tracker until he was sure. 
The investigator thought it was reasonable for Soteria to conclude that hed made a 
misrepresentation to it and that in doing so, hed acted deliberately or recklessly.
 
Mr U didnt accept the investigators view, so it was referred to me for review. Meanwhile, he  
appointed legal advisors (firm A) who provided a lengthy submission in support of his case. 
In essence, firm A said that Soteria knew Mr Us car didnt have a tracker, as hed disclosed 
that fact to the first advisor, so subsequent advisors should have been aware of it too. Firm A 
also said Mr U had acted on Soterias guidance in responding to queries about the tracker 
later on when applying for the policy. And it said that even if Mr U did make a 
misrepresentation (which was denied) he didnt act deliberately or recklessly in doing so.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA).  It requires consumers to take reasonable care when taking out a 
consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable 
consumer. If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies, provided the 
misrepresentation is what CIDRA describes as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a 
qualifying misrepresentation, the insurer has to show that it would only have offered the 
policy on different terms  or not at all  if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether a consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
a qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or just careless. 
Soteria thinks Mr U failed to take reasonable care when he bought the policy. A major 
consideration in deciding on that issue is whether the insurer asked a clear question - to 
which the consumer gave an inaccurate response. In my opinion, at the point of sale, when 
the advisor asked Mr U to confirm that hed told Soteria his car had a tracker fitted to it, her  
query amounted to a clear question. Mr U gave an incorrect answer by confirming that hed 
said it did have a tracker. As Mr U was aware that there wasnt a tracker  and that he hadnt 
said there was one - I dont think he took reasonable care in responding to Soterias query.  
When Mr U told the first advisor he spoke to that his car didnt have a tracker, the advisor 
indicated that this was probably why he was declined a quote online. The advisor then 
provided a quote for Mr U, but in doing he said if it did have a tracker fittedyoure 
looking at just a shade under £1,800.27.  So in my opinion, the advisor made it clear 
enough that the quote only applied if the car had a tracker fitted, which it didnt. 
I dont think its clear why the first advisor told Mr U that it was best to say the car had a 
tracker - but at the time, he and Mr U were only talking about a quote. I think its likely that 
the advisor simply wanted to give Mr U an idea of the cost of a policy with Soteria should he 
have a tracker fitted, so he could compare it to other similar quotes. 
I dont think the advisors comment amounted to an instruction, or even to guidance for Mr U 
to rely on moving forward through the sales process. I dont think it was reasonable for Mr U 
to assume from the comment that he should mislead other advisors, when asked a clear 
question about the tracker, or that he should buy the policy based on a misrepresentation. 
So although I dont think it was helpful for the advisor to have made that comment, or to 
have produced a conditional quote, I dont think most reasonable consumers would have 
interpreted his words or actions as Mr U did. In my opinion, most consumers would have 
clarified the issue with the advisor at the time  or at the very least when asked about the 
tracker later on in the process. 
Firm A says as Mr U had advised Soteria initially that the car didnt have a tracker, the true 
statement he made then should be taken into account when considering his duty not to 
make a misrepresentation when buying the policy (in line with section 3 (4) of CIDRA). I 
agree that he didnt misrepresent the facts in the initial call to Soteria.  But at the time, Mr U 
was still looking for quotes elsewhere and wasnt in the process of buying the policy. He may 
not have returned to Soteria to buy a policy from it, as he could have found a cheaper quote 
elsewhere - or a policy that didnt require the car to be fitted with a tracker.
I dont think that Mr U giving Soteria the correct facts at the outset (and getting a conditional 
quote, which he knew was based on the car having a tracker fitted) absolved him from taking 
reasonable care later in the sales process. When Mr U returned to Soteria to buy the policy, 
he spoke to a second advisor, who didnt mention the tracker. But the next advisor he spoke 
to asked if the car had a tracker and checked that the issue had been covered already. Mr U 
had the chance to clarify the situation then, but he didnt do so. He simply replied Yes. 
Mr U spoke to a fourth advisor later on, and it was during this call that he bought the policy, 
so the contract of insurance was only entered into at this point. And before taking the 
payment details from Mr U, the advisor asked him to confirm hed told Soteria that the car 
had a tracker. 
Mr U already knew that the car must have a tracker - even to get a quote from Soteria - 
following his conversation with the first advisor. And the third advisor had raised the issue again. I think it was clear from the query made at the point of sale that Soteria was under the 
impression that Mr U had said the car did have a tracker. That wasnt true, and I think Mr U 
had a duty to take reasonable care in responding. In my opinion, the accurate response to 
the query was No - as the car didnt have a tracker and he hadnt said it did. I think Mr U 
had a duty to correct the inaccurate record that Soteria brought to his attention. Instead, he 
confirmed something he knew to be false - and the sale of the policy was based on that 
misrepresentation. In this situation, I dont think he can rely on section 3 (4) of CIDRA. 
As I think Mr U misrepresented the facts at the point of sale, I have to consider whether the 
misrepresentation was a qualifying one. Soteria has provided underwriting evidence that 
shows it wouldnt have offered a policy to him at all had it known the car didnt have a 
tracker. As the information was important to Soteria - and it would have acted differently had 
it known the facts - I think Mr U made a qualifying misrepresentation. 
Soteria thinks Mr Us misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless. It didnt explain why in 
any detail, but in this case,  I think the facts speak for themselves. Mr U knew the car didnt 
have a tracker, but he confirmed that hed said it did. As firm A has pointed out, a deliberate 
misrepresentation is one where the consumer has no honest belief in its truth. It says a 
reckless misrepresentation is one where a consumer has closed his mind to the risk of an 
untruthful answer, or takes no steps to verify its accuracy. I think it was reasonable for 
Soteria to conclude that Mr U knew - or didnt care - that the information he gave it at the 
point of sale was untrue or misleading, so he acted deliberately or recklessly when entering 
into the contract and buying the policy. 
Under CIDRA, if an insurer can show that a qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or 
reckless, it can avoid the policy (so any claim made on it wont be dealt with) and retain the 
premium. I think Soteria acted reasonably and in line with CIDRA in doing that in this case. 
As I think Soteria acted reasonably, and in line with CIDRA, in declining Mr Us claim, 
avoiding the policy and retaining the premium, I cant uphold his complaint.            
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman