DRN-2755710
The complaint
Mr D complains about Lowell Financial Ltd and the way theyve administered his account. In 
particular, hes unhappy with the way theyve handled his personal data.
What happened
Mr D held an account with lender V. In September 2019, this lender decided to sell the 
account to another company, who Ill refer to as O. In October 2019, O appointed Lowell to 
manage Mr Ds account. 
But Mr D was unhappy with the way Lowell managed his account, so he raised a complaint. 
Mr D believed Lowell had sold his personal details to other companies as hed been 
receiving a large number of unsolicited calls since their involvement. He was also unhappy 
that L used his e-mail address to communicate with him when they werent authorised to do 
so. And he was unhappy Lowell said they were unable to post their response to his 
information request and he feels this was evidence of Lowell purposely causing delays to his 
request. Finally, he thought Lowell were asking him for an excessive amount of information 
when trying to verify his identity in telephone conversations. So, he wanted to be 
compensated for the upset and inconvenience hed been caused.
Lowell responded to Mr Ds complaint and upheld it in part. They explained they hadnt sold 
Mr Ds personal information or attempted marketing calls to him directly. And they explained 
theyd taken the decision to use Mr Ds e-mail address to communicate with him while 
investigating his complaint to ensure it was completed promptly. But they didnt authorise for 
Mr Ds e-mail address to be used in any other context unless Mr D himself agreed. So, they 
didnt think theyd done anything wrong here. They also thought the information they request 
when verifying a customers identity was fair and in place to protect a customers account.
They agreed theyd failed to acknowledge Mr Ds information request appropriately. But they 
didnt agree theyd purposefully delayed their response. And they thought theyd sent their 
response to Mr D by post which had been received. So, they didnt think they needed to do 
anything more. Mr D remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to 
us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He explained Mr Ds concerns 
about the ownership of Mr Ds account and the legalities of this had already been considered 
by our service under a separate complaint reference. And this confirmed O was the owner of 
the account. As Lowell were regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), he thought 
Lowell were allowed to be appointed by O to manage the account.
And he thought Lowell had managed the account fairly. He explained he had seen no 
evidence to suggest Lowell had sold Mr Ds personal information or that they were the cause 
of the unsolicited calls. And Lowell had confirmed there had been no breaches to their 
system during that time. He also thought Lowell had acted fairly when communicating with 
Mr D by e-mail following our services involvement, as they already had this e-mail on file 
when the account transferred from lender V to O. He was also satisfied Mr D had confirmed 
Lowell could use this e-mail to respond to Mr Ds information request.
He recognised there may have been delays in Lowells response by post, due to the 
pandemic and the impact this had on business processes. But he didnt think this was 
something Lowell could control and he was satisfied Lowell responded as timely as possible 
once staff had returned to the office. And finally, he thought the questions Lowell asked Mr D 
when confirming his identity over the phone were reasonable and he explained there is no 
set limit on the amount of questions that should be asked. So, he didnt think Lowell needed 
to do anything more.
Mr D didnt agree and he raised several comments following our investigations view. The 
majority of these comments were the same as those raised in Mr Ds initial complaint and 
signified Mr D maintaining his original stance. But Mr D also explained hed never received a 
response to his information request by post. Mr D thought Lowell had admitted theyd used 
his e-mail without authorisation and wanted this considered. And Mr D thought the 
information Lowell requested when confirming his identity could be used for identity theft and 
thought they should ask alternative questions.
Our investigator responded again and his view remained the same. He recognised Lowell 
had waived its need for authorisation to respond to Mr Ds complaints by e-mail. But he 
didnt think Lowell acted unfairly by doing so as Lowell already had Mr Ds e-mail on file and 
Mr D responded to these e-mails. So, he didnt think Mr D has been impacted by this 
decision. He also explained Lowell had provided a tracking number which showed their 
response to Mr Ds information request had been received and signed for on 16 July 2020. 
So, he didnt agree that Lowell had failed to post this information. And he thought the 
information Lowell asked on the phone was fair, as explained in his first view. So, he didnt 
think Lowell needed to do anything more. Mr D remained unhappy, so his complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful to explain what I 
have been able to consider. Our service had already issued a response to Mr Ds complaint 
about O and Lowells involvement, so I havent thought about this or commented on it 
further. 
My decision has focused solely on Mr Ds complaints about the way Lowell administered his 
account. A significant part of these complaints focus on Lowells use of Mr Ds data. The 
provision of data, and the way its handled, is regulated by the Information Commissioners 
Office (ICO) in the UK. They are the organisation that are able to consider the legalities of 
data usage and fine businesses for breaches of the Data Protection Act. So, this isnt 
something our service is able to do. 
Instead, were able to consider the service Lowell provided Mr D when managing his account 
and decide whether we think it was both fair and reasonable. Where we dont think it is, 
were able to direct businesses to compensate customers for the impact this service had on 
them. But we arent able to make determinations on breaches of the law.First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr D. I dont doubt Mr D 
wouldve been frustrated by the unsolicited calls hes been receiving. And I recognise Mr D 
has been left unhappy with the service hes received from Lowell when complaining about 
this and other issues. But for me to say Lowell have done something wrong, Id need to be 
satisfied Mr Ds unhappiness has resulted from errors Lowell have made. Or, that the way 
theyve acted has been unfair and Mr D has been negatively impacted because of this. And 
in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive first thought about the unsolicited calls Mr D has been receiving. I understand why Mr D 
would attribute these calls to the business that had recently been instructed to manage one 
of his accounts, in this case Lowell. But timing alone doesnt mean Lowell were responsible 
for these calls. 
Ive seen the phone numbers attributed to the calls Mr D has received. And none of these 
numbers are linked to Lowell or the service they provided. And Lowell themselves have 
confirmed they dont undertake marketing calls. So, Im satisfied Lowell didnt make these 
calls themselves. 
And Lowell have confirmed they havent passed Mr Ds personal information to another 
business or that their system has been breached and that data couldve been stolen. Im 
aware Mr D feels Lowell should provide evidence to support this. But I dont think its 
reasonable to expect Lowell to provide evidence that shows they didnt do something as if 
they didnt, there should be no evidence to show it happened. Without a reason to suggest 
otherwise, I have to assume the testimony Lowell have provided me is truthful and accurate. 
And Mr D has been unable to provide evidence to show these calls were made by 
companies who received his information from Lowell. Because of this, I dont think Im able 
to say Lowell were the reason Mr D received these unsolicited calls and so, I dont think I 
can fairly say theyve done anything wrong.
Ive then turned to Lowells use of Mr Ds e-mail address. Lowell dont dispute they used Mr 
Ds e-mail address to communicate with him regarding the complaint he raised. And they 
dont dispute that to do this, they took the decision to override their own security processes. 
Im unable to comment on a businesss process, or their decision to override it, as this is 
something only the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), the industry regulator, can do. But I 
am able to think about whether Lowell acted fairly and, whether Mr D was impacted by 
Lowells decision.
Lowell have confirmed Mr Ds e-mail address was initially only used to respond to Mr Ds 
complaint. Given the impact of the pandemic around this time, I dont think this was unfair or 
unreasonable considering Lowell have a set amount of time to address Mr Ds concerns. Ive 
also seen that Lowell had Mr Ds e-mail address on their system before our services 
involvement when lender V sold his account to O. So, when our service confirmed the same 
e-mail address, I can understand why Lowell were satisfied this e-mail address was correct. 
From the evidence Ive seen, I cant see that Mr Ds e-mail address was used for any reason 
other than this and to respond to his information request. Ive seen Mr D gave Lowell 
permission to do this in his e-mail sent on 11 June 2020. So, I dont think Lowell have acted 
unfairly.
This then leads on to Mr Ds complaint about the delays Mr D feels Lowell were responsible 
for when issuing their response to his information request. Lowell have confirmed their 
response by post was delayed due to the working from home restrictions imposed by the 
government during the pandemic. But Mr D doesnt believe this is the case. I think its reasonable to assume this is what happened on this occasion. Whether or not all 
of Lowells staff were working from home, or whether some were able to remain in the office 
on a business need, I think its reasonable to assume they were unable to operate as 
business as usual. And so, I think delays were to be expected and unavoidable. Because of 
this, I dont think Lowell acted unfairly when sending the documents initially by e-mail to 
ensure Mr D received them. But I do recognise there were several documents and how this 
may have been frustrating for Mr D to receive.
Ive seen Lowell did post the documentation to Mr D and this was received and signed for on 
16 July. Im aware Mr D says he didnt receive this but I cant say this is because of anything 
Lowell did wrong. If Mr D disputes the receipt of the documents, I think this is something to 
dispute with the postal service rather than Lowell. So, I dont think I can say Lowell acted 
unfairly for this aspect of the complaint.
Finally, Ive thought about the questions Lowell asked Mr D when trying to verify his identity 
verbally. I recognise Mr D was unhappy with the amount of questions Lowell asked and also 
his opinion on how providing all that information could leave him being susceptible to identity 
theft. But its not our role to stipulate and mandate how many questions, and what questions, 
should be asked to confirm a customers identity. Instead, Ive considered whether the 
actions Lowell took were reasonable. And I think they were.
I think Lowell asked these questions in order to protect Mr Ds account. I think the amount of 
questions, and the personal nature of these questions, were reasonable in order for Lowell 
to be satisfied they were speaking to Mr D and not anyone else. I appreciate Mr D thinks 
giving all of this information causes him to be susceptible to identity fraud. But all of this 
information was already readily available to Lowell on their system and so the call handlers 
speaking to Mr D in the first place. So, I cant agree that Lowell asking Mr D for confirmation 
of this information places him in a greater position risk and I dont think I can say Lowell have 
done anything wrong. Because of this, I dont think Lowell need to do anything more on this 
occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr D was hoping for. And I recognise he may feel certain 
aspects of his complaint havent been addressed in the way he wouldve liked. But Ive 
explained exactly what we can and cannot consider and the reasons for this. And having 
considered the issues Mr D has raised that our service is able to comment upon, I dont think 
Lowell have acted unfairly or done anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint about Lowell Financial Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman