DRN-2284355
The complaint
Mr J and Mr C complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined their claim against their single 
trip, travel insurance policy. Reference to AXA includes reference to its agents. 
What happened
In February 2020, Mr J and Mr C booked a trip with intended departure and return dates of 
31 May 2020 and 5 June 2020 respectively. Mr J paid for the hotel and ferry costs by credit 
card. 
On 11 March 2020, Mr J bought a travel insurance policy, which included cover for travel 
disruption. 
On 17 March 2020, the UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but 
essential travel abroad due to Covid-19 (coronavirus). 
I understand that the airline cancelled Mr J and Mr Cs flights and provided Mr J and Mr C 
with a refund of their flight costs. 
The hotel offered to reschedule Mr J and Mr Cs booking for a later date. It offered to 
reschedule for 2021 on a same dates/same rates basis. The hotel said that the dates could 
be confirmed later, so they didnt have to be the same as the 2020 dates. The ferry 
operators booking agent offered to convert Mr J and Mr Cs tickets to open tickets. 
Mr J made a claim against his credit card provider, which I understand wasnt successful.  
Mr J and Mr C made a claim against their travel insurance in relation to their hotel and ferry 
costs. AXA declined Mr J and Mr  Cs claim. It said that the policy only covers                  
non-refundable costs and the offers from the hotel and ferry operators booking agent meant 
that Mr J and Mr C hadnt suffered a financial loss. 
Mr J and Mr C maintain that the offers made by the hotel and ferry operators booking agent 
have no value to them. They say that a hotel voucher isnt the same as a cash refund due to 
the very limited chance of its use. They say that they have no opportunity whatsoever of 
rebooking the hotel. In the initial complaint to this service, Mr J said that he has no remaining 
annual leave in 2020 and has already made plans for 2021. Mr J and Mr C say that, whether 
a voucher represents a cash refund or not, they have suffered financial loss and their policy 
covers this. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that AXA had treated 
Mr J and Mr C unfairly. The investigator said that it was fair for AXA to conclude that Mr J 
and Mr C had recovered their losses, as the vouchers theyd been offered were reasonable. 
Mr J and Mr C didnt agree with the investigator. Mr J said that the investigator hadnt 
considered the points hed raised. He said that the vouchers are unusable and dont 
compensate him for his loss. Mr J said that he cant make a trip to the original destination 
before the end of 2021. He says that AXA admits that the vouchers could be of no value.   
Mr J asked that an ombudsman consider the matter, so it was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant part of which says as 
follows:
SECTION T
TRAVEL DISRUPTION COVER
(ONLY OPERATIVE IF INDICATED IN THE SCHEDULE)
[]
What is covered
Before you reach your destination
1.We will pay you for your proportion only of any unused travel, accommodation and 
other pre-paid charges that you cannot claim back from any other source if you 
cannot travel and have to cancel your trip as a result of:
[]
c) The Travel Advice Unit of the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) or other 
regulatory authority in a country to/from which you are travelling advising against all 
travel or all but essential travel to the country or specific area you are travelling to 
providing the advice came into force after you purchased this insurance or booked 
the trip (whichever is the later) and was within 28 days of your departure date;
What is not covered
[]
9. Any costs incurred by you which are recoverable from the providers of the 
accommodation, their booking agents [] or for which you receive or are expected to 
receive compensation or reimbursement. 
10. Any costs incurred by you which are recoverable from the public transport operator or 
their booking agents [] or for which you receive or are expected to receive compensation, 
damages, refund of tickets, meals, refreshments, accommodation, transfers, communication 
facilities or other assistance.
[]
12. Any costs incurred by you which are recoverable from your credit/debit card provider or 
for which you receive or are expected to receive compensation or re-imbursement (sic). 
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that AXA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Im not upholding Mr J and Mr Cs complaint because I dont think that AXA treated them 
unfairly. I say that because: 
The FCO advised against all but essential travel abroad so, on the face of it, Mr J 
and Mr Cs policy covers the circumstances that arose here. However, the policy 
doesnt cover costs for which Mr J and Mr C have received, or are expected to 
receive, compensation or reimbursement. So, the central question for me to consider is whether AXA acted fairly in deciding  
that the offers from the hotel provider and ferry operators booking agent amounted to 
compensation or reimbursement. I think it did and Ill explain why.
The hotel provider offered to reschedule for 2021 on a same dates/same rates 
basis and it said that the dates could be confirmed later, so the dates dont have to 
the same as the 2020 dates. The ferry operators booking agent offered to convert  
Mr J and Mr Cs tickets to open tickets. I think that they are both offers which amount 
to compensation or reimbursement. 
Mr J initially said that the hotel and ferry operators booking agents offers have no 
value to them, as they have no opportunity whatsoever of rebooking by the end of 
2021. In response to this services further enquiries, Mr J said his schedule has 
flexibility, as hes self-employed, so Mr Cs annual leave determines when they can 
take holidays. Mr J says that travel restrictions were in place for the remainder of    
Mr Cs annual leave for 2020. Mr J says that they intend to visit another country in 
2021 and its essential that any annual leave is used for that. 
I appreciate that future travel plans are uncertain for everyone. Ive noted what Mr J 
says in relation to their travel intentions in 2021, the possibility that there may not be 
availability at the hotel which coincides with Mr Cs annual leave and the factors he 
mentions relating to the season and weather. But I dont think that means that the 
offers from the hotel provider and ferry operators booking agent have no value. The 
offers are available over an extended period and are flexible. I dont think its 
unreasonable to conclude that travel to the intended destination will be possible in 
2021, although I appreciate that Mr J and Mr C may prefer not to use whats been 
offered.  
Mr J says that the offers arent the same as a cash refund due to the very limited 
chance of use. I dont think that the opportunity to take up the offers is very limited. 
The offer from the hotel is open for 2021 and I havent seen an end date for the open 
tickets offered by the ferry operators booking agent. In any event, Mr J and Mr Cs 
policy doesnt provide for cover if they fail to get a cash refund from a provider.  
Considering everything, I dont think it was unreasonable for AXA to conclude that 
the offers Mr J and Mr C received from the hotel provider and ferry operators 
booking agent amounted to compensation or reimbursement. So, I dont think that 
AXA was at fault in declining Mr J and Mr Cs claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr J and Mr Cs complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman