DRN-1657275
Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 1999 with a 
credit card. Mr M says Barclays Bank UK PLC, (Barclays) mis-sold him the PPI. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr M says he was led to believe the PPI was a mandatory product and would help him get 
credit  so he felt pressured to take it. Although this was a postal application, he says he 
went into a branch and spoke to a branch advisor who recommended he take it. Barclays 
says it made the optional nature of the PPI clear and it was added to his account after he 
requested cover on his application. 
When there is a dispute like this, I have to decide what I think is more likely based on the 
available evidence - this includes Mr Ms testimony and any documents both Mr M and 
Barclays have submitted. 
Barclays has provided us with a copy of Mr Ms application form, and on it, I can see there is 
a separate section for PPI. Customers had to tick the Yes box to add PPI or a No box to 
decline it. I can see on Mr Ms form the Yes box has been ticked and he has then signed the 
form to confirm the selections made. There is nothing on this box that indicates Mr M had to 
tick the Yes box. 
I can also see that this form was a short form application where the credit card had been 
pre-approved. So, Im struggling to understand Mr Ms argument that he believed he needed 
to take the PPI to get the credit card, when its clear that his credit card had already been 
approved by Barclays, and there was a clear option to decline PPI. 
Although Ive thought carefully about Mr Ms testimony, and understand his strength of 
feeling reading this, based on what Ive seen, I think its more likely that Mr M ticked the Yes 
box and selected PPI knowing he had a choice. So, overall, I think Barclays made it clear 
that Mr M didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose to take it out. 
Mr M says that the branch advisor he spoke to recommend he take the PPI. But Barclays 
says no advice was given. It may be helpful to explain that businesses were able to sell PPI 
on either an advised (or recommended) basis or a non-advised basis. An advised sale would 
usually mean that the seller seeks out specific information about a customers personal and 
wider financial circumstances to assess whether a PPI policy was suitable for that particular 
customer, rather than simply intimating that PPI was a good product to have more generally. 
The latter would still be a non-advised sale. 
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think Barclays gave Mr M a tailored recommendation to 
take the PPI. This means Barclays didnt have to check if the PPI was right for him. But it did 
have to make sure Mr M got the information he needed to decide if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But I think its more likely he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he 
wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, he was 
eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover - so it wouldve been useful for him if something went wrong. It also 
looks like the PPI was affordable. 
Mr M says he was only entitled to statutory sick pay and he had no savings to help him make 
repayments if he had found himself unexpectedly out of work. This policy wouldve paid out 
on top of any sick pay he had for up to 12 months if Mr M couldnt work because illness, 
injury or unemployment. 
Overall, given the limited means he had to make all his essential payments, I think having a 
policy pay out in difficult times for up to 12 months would have been useful for him. So, I 
dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover. 
With all this in mind, I dont think the policy was mis-sold. Which means Barclays doesnt 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr M about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mr M, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman