DRN-1535942
 
The complaint
Mr P complains that Nationwide Building Society unfairly registered a default on his credit 
file.
What happened
Mr P says Nationwide registered a default on his credit file after two late payment markers. 
He says it didn't follow the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) rules on this. Mr P says 
he didn't receive the default notice in August 2019 but in any event he repaid the full 
overdraft balance in September 2019. He says he continued to use the overdraft facility as it 
was available to him, and he assumed that the issue had been resolved. Mr P would like the 
default removed and compensation for the distress and inconvenience he was caused. He 
also says the account has now been closed without notice.
Nationwide says it's not made a mistake in registering the default, but accepts there was a 
delay in removing the overdraft facility. It says it sent numerous letters to Mr P about his 
account and about the account being over the overdraft limit. Nationwide says although Mr P 
paid money into the account in September 2019, by October 2019 the account again 
exceeded the overdraft facility. It says the account is still open but restricted.
Mr P brought his complaint to us but our investigator didn't uphold it. The investigator 
thought Nationwide had written to Mr P about the account exceeding the overdraft facility on 
numerous occasions and had sent the default notice. She thought that notice told Mr P to 
pay just over £2,000 by 22 August 2019 to stop the default but Mr P hadn't made that 
payment. The investigator accepted there was a delay when Mr P's account went briefly into 
credit but thought Nationwide was entitled to register a default in these circumstances. The 
investigator also thought an overdraft was repayable on demand and that the account was 
open but restricted.
Mr P doesn't accept that view and in summary says his account was not over the agreed 
overdraft limit for the whole of May 2019. And so was only in arrears in June and July 2019 
which is two months and not three, which is when the minimum period the ICO says a 
default should be registered . He says his credit file shows two late payments and thought 
that in those circumstances a default wouldn't be registered. Mr P says he was told in branch 
he still had an overdraft facility and that is why he used it again in September 2019 ,and that 
the unauthorised overdraft was caused by Nationwide's charges. He would like the default 
removed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for the same reasons. I realise Mr P will be 
disappointed by my decision.The ICO says a default should only be registered when a relationship has broken down. It 
says that may take place after three months but normally by six months. I appreciate that Mr 
P says that his account exceeded the overdraft limit for two months and so a default should 
not have been registered. I'm satisfied that Nationwide wrote to Mr P on numerous 
occasions about his account exceeding the overdraft limit and asking him to make contact 
with it to discuss his account. So I think Mr P ought to have been aware that his account was 
regularly exceeding the overdraft limit and that Nationwide was concerned about that.
I'm satisfied that Nationwide sent Mr P a default notice in August 2019 following the account 
exceeding the credit limit from May 2019 to August 2019. I appreciate that Mr P says that the 
account didn't exceed the credit limit for the whole of May 2019, but I don't think that matters. 
I'm satisfied that Nationwide was entitled to conclude as it did, that the relationship had 
broken down in the circumstances, and that Mr P hadn't made any contact with it. I can see 
that default notice told Mr P that he needed to make a full payment by 22 August 2019 and 
not just the amount his account exceeded the overdraft limit. As Mr P didn't make that 
payment by that date, I don't think Nationwide made a mistake or acted unfairly by 
registering the default.
I accept that Nationwide ought to have explained what was happening with the account to Mr 
P sooner than it did and ought to have removed the overdraft facility sooner than it did. I 
don't think that affects the decision to register the default or means that decision was unfair 
and think the effect was Mr P continued to use the account and now continues to owe 
Nationwide money.
Overall I'm satisfied Nationwide was entitled to conclude the relationship between it and Mr 
P had broken down and that it acted in line with the ICO guidance in registering a default. Mr 
P accepts he saw that two late payment markers were registered on his credit file. So I 
would have expected him to have contacted Nationwide, as I think it was clear that 
Nationwide had concerns about the account.
I have looked at Mr P's account statements and I don't think it was just 
unauthorised overdraft charges that took Mr P's account over the agreed limit but Mr P's 
spending. And I have looked at Nationwide's records and I'm satisfied that the account is still 
open but with restrictions, as there is still a balance owed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman