DRN-3964058
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are partners in a business. They have complained that Society of Lloyds 
(Lloyds) did not offer enough to settle their business interruption insurance claim.
For ease of reading, reference to Lloyds will include anything done by the underwriting 
syndicate and its agent.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C held business interruption insurance with Lloyds. They claimed on their policy 
after their business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the 
pandemic. Their business was not required to close and was advised to remain open for 
emergency or key worker use. 
Lloyds ultimately accepted Mr and Mrs Cs claim as it said the national lockdown was an 
incident which was covered under the clause in the policy which covered losses as a result 
of a notifiable disease within a 25 mile radius of their premises. Lloyds offered Mr and Mrs C 
a settlement for their claim for losses between 23 March and 4 November 2020.
Mr and Mrs C complained to Lloyds as they thought they should receive payment for their 
businesss losses spanning the full 12 month indemnity period under the policy. Mr and     
Mrs C also complained to Lloyds about it deducting furlough from the settlement offer and 
about how their claim had been handled. 
Lloyds said the claim period ended when the second national lockdown was implemented
on 5 November 2020 because the lockdown amounted to a new incident under the policy 
and so would need to be considered as a new claim. Lloyds said Mr and Mrs C werent 
covered for this new incident/claim as their policy had lapsed in May 2020 and so cover 
under the policy was no longer in force. Lloyds said it believed it was entitled to deduct 
furlough from the settlement as this was a saving made by Mr and Mrs Cs business. Lloyds 
accepted it could have handled Mr and Mrs Cs claim better and offered £150 compensation. 
Unhappy with Lloyds response, Mr and Mrs C brought their complaint to our service. They 
said they had made two complaints to Lloyds. Complaint one was about delays and about 
how their claim had been handled. Lloyds offered £150 compensation for complaint one. Mr 
and Mrs C said they had since been contacted by Lloyds with regard to the payment of this 
on the understanding accepting £150 doesnt affect their second complaint. This decision is 
about complaint two. In summary Mr and Mrs C said about complaint two:
When Lloyds finally accepted their claim the loss adjuster advised that they would 
only receive payment for seven months of their losses due to the end date of the 
policy. The loss adjuster also said furlough would be deducted from the settlement 
amount. 
The first lockdown didnt last from 23 March 2020 until 4 November 2020 so this is 
inaccurate. 
Localised restrictions were in place in between lockdowns.
The proximate cause of their businesss loss remained the same  i.e. Covid-19. 
If Lloyds had paid the claim in March 2020 it would have been for 12 months.
They believe Lloyds actions are discriminatory due to their renewal date. Other 
policyholders with later renewal dates will receive more cover. 
It is not fair to deduct furlough as they did the right thing at the time and put their staff 
member on furlough rather than making them redundant. They still have ongoing 
costs with regard to furlough processing. 
Our Investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Cs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. 
She thought Lloyds decision to treat each lockdown as a separate cause of loss was 
reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. She also thought that 
Lloyds was entitled to deduct furlough from the settlement offer. 
Mr and Mrs C asked for an Ombudsmans decision. They said the trigger for their losses was 
a notifiable disease and not the Government restrictions. They said it was not fair to deduct 
furlough as other uninsured businesses had received furlough for their employees and this 
has not been claimed back by the Government. So Mr and Mrs C felt they had lost out in 
comparison. 
Mr and Mrs C said the Stonegate judgment didnt limit claims to lockdowns. They said the 
court said that early cases did not affect consumer behaviour for visiting pubs but if those 
cases affected consumer behaviour beyond the indemnity period then their policy should 
provide cover. Mr and Mrs C asked me to consider the changes in consumer behaviour 
which arose due to the first lockdown. 
Mr and Mrs C said that at paragraph 229 the court gave examples of claims which should be 
met if they fell outside of the lockdown period. This included bookings after the policy period 
which were cancelled during the policy period because of uncertainty. Mr and Mrs C said 
that their bookings from July 2020 were cancelled prior to the end of the lockdown because 
people were fearful of travelling. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs C said they made two complaints to Lloyds. This decision only concerns their 
second complaint. 
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and resulting Government actions have had an
impact on Mr and Mrs Cs business. However, Im not upholding their complaint. Ill
explain why.
Indemnity period
Mr and Mrs Cs policy, which was in force between 16 May 2019 and 15 May 2020, has an 
indemnity period of 12 months. In this decision I am only considering Lloyds actions with 
regard to the indemnity period under the policy which commenced in May 2019 and not 
whether any new policy would cover any separate claim from 5 November 2020.
Lloyds paid Mr and Mrs C s claim under the following clause within the policy which covers 
loss resulting from business interruption or interference as a result of:
contagious or infectious human disease (excluding acquired immune deficiencysyndrome (Aids) or an Aids related condition), an outbreak of which a
competent public authority has stipulated will be notified to them, manifested by
any person whilst at the premises or within a 25 mile radius of it;

will be deemed to be an incident, provided that our liability under this extension
for each claim will not exceed the sum insured stated for this sub section in the
schedule or £100,000 whichever is the less.
The policy provides for an indemnity period, which is defined as The period beginning with
the occurrence of the incident and ending not later than the maximum indemnity period
thereafter during which the results of the business will be affected because of the incident.
The indemnity period is stated as being 12 months.
Ive started by considering what the insured incident is under this wording. Having done so, I
think the incident is a notifiable contagious or infectious human disease (in this case Covid-
19) manifested by any person either at the insured premises or within a 25 mile radius of it
which causes interruption or interference to Mr and Mrs Cs business.
It's not in dispute that there was an incident in March 2020 which caused Mr and Mrs C a 
loss  i.e. that Covid-19 manifested in at least one person at their premises or within a 25 
mile radius, and that this manifestation was a contributing cause of Mr and Mrs Cs loss.
So Ive gone on to consider whether the losses sustained by Mr and Mrs Cs business 
throughout the indemnity period are as a result of that one incident.
Having done so, I dont think the losses were as a result of this one incident because I think
that the cause of Mr and Mrs Cs loss in March 2020 was different to the cause of the loss 
which occurred from November 2020.
I say that because the policy covers business interruption as a result of a person manifesting
Covid-19, it doesnt cover Covid-19 in general. It appears to me that Mr and Mrs Cs 
businesss losses which commenced in March 2020 were caused principally by the 
Governments restrictions in response to manifestations of Covid-19 around that time even 
though their business wasnt specifically required to close. As Mr and Mrs C have said, the 
lockdown didnt last between March and November 2020 and the Government restrictions 
were reviewed and changed over time and, given that the March restrictions had been 
eased, I dont think that the Government would have introduced new restrictions if it wasnt 
for new manifestations of Covid-19 which had caused a new threat. 
I think that by November 2020 the results of Mr and Mrs Cs business had ceased to be 
affected by the cases of Covid-19 which led to the March restrictions or from those cases 
which had caused any ongoing losses. I believe that the results of Mr and Mrs Cs business 
were instead affected by new cases of Covid-19.  And I dont think Mr and Mrs C are 
covered under the policy being considered here for later manifestations which led to 
restrictions or other causes of loss after the policy had ended.
In reaching a decision, amongst other things I have to consider relevant law and I think the
following judgments are helpful when considering this complaint: Stonegate Pub Company
Ltd v MS Amlin Corporate Member Ltd and others [2022] EWHC 2548 (Comm) (Stonegate),
Greggs PLC v Zurich Insurance PLC [2022] EWHC 2545 (Comm) (Greggs) and Various
Eateries Trading Ltd v Allianz Insurance PLC [2002] EWHC 2549 (Comm) (VE). Thats
because one of the issues considered by the Court was whether losses sustained beyond
the expiry date of the policies were caused by occurrences of Covid-19 when the policy was
in force.In Stonegate the relevant period of insurance came to an end on 30 April 2020. The court
said (at paragraph 209):
responses were not equally caused by the cases before the end of the Period of
Insurance, but rather were predominantly caused by more recent cases, and the
threat of future cases, at the time of the adoption of the measure in question.
In VE the period of insurance came to an end on 28 September 2020. At paragraph 48 the
court summarised the findings from Stonegate to reject VEs argument that losses
throughout the maximum indemnity period had been caused concurrently and equally by all
of the cases of Covid-19 which had occurred within the relevant radius. The court said:
(1) the decisions in the FCA Test Case do not establish that all cases of Covid-
19, whenever occurring, were equal concurrent causes of the governmental
actions and public response at any given time; (2) the fact that the cases of the
disease occurred in Period of Insurance may have caused the later cases of the
disease (because cases make cases) is not sufficient to say that the cases of
the disease in the Period of Insurance were the proximate cause of governmental
measures and public response after the Period of Insurance; and (3) the death
blow or grip of the peril principle is inapplicable.
In Greggs, the Court said at paragraph 39:
it appears highly doubtful that, on any view, there can be said to have been
only one period of interruption or interference. It seems certain that the degree of
interruption or interference with Greggs business changed over time between the
first cases of Covid-19 and the end of the Indemnity Period
Therefore, while an incident of Covid-19 at the insured premises or within a 25 mile radius of
it was a contributing cause to Mr and Mrs Cs loss in March 2020, this same incident was not 
still a cause of their loss by November 2020.
I believe that the judgments referred to above support my view that Mr and Mrs Cs losses 
from November 2020 werent caused by an incident within the period of the policy. 
Mr and Mrs C have referred to paragraph 229 of the Stonegate judgment. I believe they are 
referring to point 3 which says:
Stonegate Insurers accepted that in relation to certain particular categories of 
case, Stonegate might be able to show that occurrences of Covid-19 in the 
Vicinity during the Period of Insurance had caused loss during the Indemnity 
Period. Those categories were as follows:

(3) A cancellation of events (such as weddings and celebrations) which had 
already been organised to occur on a date after what proved to be the end of the 
first lockdown, by reason of uncertainty as to whether they would be able to go 
ahead, due to cases within the Period of Insurance.
Mr and Mrs C said that bookings for events beyond July 2020 had been cancelled due to the 
uncertainty caused by the cases of Covid-19 which led to the first lockdown. I acknowledge 
this point, but Lloyds has paid Mr and Mrs Cs claim for losses until 4 November 2020 and 
by that time I think the decisions being made by Mr and Mrs Cs customers were more likely 
to be in response to new cases of Covid-19 which manifested outside of the policy period. I recognise that other policyholders with later renewal dates might have received more 
cover. However, I think its fair that Lloyds only pay for the losses that are covered by the 
policy and I dont believe that not paying the same to everyone would be considered 
discriminatory if other policyholders policies covered them for different dates. 
Mr and Mrs C said that if Lloyds had correctly paid their claim in March 2020 it would have 
done so for 12 months. I think its likely Lloyds would have considered the claim on an 
ongoing basis and therefore I dont think Mr and Mrs C would have received a greater 
amount if their claim had been paid at the beginning of the loss. 
I remain of the view that Lloyds acted fairly when saying that Mr and Mrs Cs losses from 5 
November 2020 would be a new claim. Therefore Im not going to require Lloyds to pay for 
Mr and Mrs Cs losses beyond 4 November 2020.
Furlough
The relevant part of the Claims - basis of settlement section of Mr and Mrs Cs policy says 
the amount payable as indemnity will be:
1. the sum produced by applying the rate of gross profit to the amount by 
which the turnover during the indemnity period will in consequence of the 
incident fall short of the standard turnover.
2. in respect of increase in cost of working, the additional expenditure necessarily 
and reasonably incurred for the sole purpose of avoiding or diminishing the 
reduction in turnover which but for that expenditure would have taken place 
during the indemnity period in consequence of the incident but not exceeding 
the total of
a) the sum produced by applying the rate of gross profit to the amount of 
reduction thereby avoided; plus
b) 25% of the sum insured by this item (but not more than 250,000 GBP)
less any sum saved during the indemnity period in respect of such of the 
charges and expenses of the business payable out of gross profit as may cease 
or be reduced in consequence of the incident.
Lloyds said there is a formatting error within the policy and the wording which begins less 
any sum saved is meant to attach to point 1 as well as point 2. Lloyds considers that this 
would be recognised as being an obvious error. Lloyds also said its entitled to deduct 
furlough so as to ensure the amount it pays in settlement of Mr and Mrs Cs claim is what 
they would have received if not for the insured incident. This is line with the general principle 
of indemnity. 
I think the wording is consistent with there being an obvious error as other sections of the 
Claims  basis of settlement section has the wording set out as Lloyds say it should be. 
However, I dont believe that I need to make a finding on that because even if the policy 
wording didnt include this wording which says Lloyds can deduct any sum saved, I still think 
it would be fair and reasonable for it to do so. I will explain why. 
I believe that Stonegate Pub Company Ltd v MS Amlin Corporate Member Ltd and others 
[2022] EWHC 2548 (Comm) is relevant because whether furlough payments could be 
deducted from the settlement was considered by the court. While the policy considered by 
the court in Stonegate had different wording to Mr and Mrs Cs policy, I still think it is relevant 
because the court considered the legal position in addition to the provision within the 
contract. At paragraph 284 the court said:(1) If a third party has made a payment which has eliminated or reduced the loss 
to the insured against which it had insurance, then, subject to the exception 
below, the insurers are entitled to the benefit of that payment, either in reducing 
any payment that they might have to make under the policy or, if they have 
already paid, by claiming the amount from the insured.
(2) This will not be the case, however, if it can be established that the third party, 
in making the payment, intended to benefit only the insured to the exclusion of 
the insurers
(3) In assessing the intentions of the third party payor, it does not matter whether 
that payor gave any thought to the position of insurers.  A payment can still 
diminish the loss even if no such thought is given.   
Furlough payments were paid to businesses by the Government to cover part the cost of 
paying employees. They could not be used for any other purpose (albeit the timing of the 
relevant payments may have meant businesses had already paid staff, and the furlough 
payments acted as a refund of these amounts). Paying employees their wages is an 
expense Mr and Mrs C would normally have. As a result of the furlough payments, Mr and 
Mrs C saved on having to pay these wages.
 At paragraph 286 the court said:
As to the intention of the Government in paying, Stonegate has not shown that this 
was with the intention of benefiting Stonegate alone to the exclusion of insurers. There 
is no express statement by the Government to that effect. The Government did not 
indicate that the payment was being made only in respect of uninsured losses
I also think this is relevant to Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. I havent seen anything to persuade 
me that the Governments intention was the benefit Mr and Mrs C, to the exclusion of 
Lloyds.
The reason for Mr and Mrs Cs claim was the Covid-19 pandemic. The Government 
introduced the furlough payments scheme as a result of this pandemic. So, it follows that the 
saving on Mr and Mrs Cs normal expenses was a consequence of the cause of their claim.
Mr and Mrs C said that they did the right thing and put their employee on furlough rather 
than making them redundant. They said if they had made the employee redundant it would 
have cost less than they had deducted by Lloyds due to furlough. Its clear Mr and Mrs C 
suffered financial losses due to the lockdown measures  one of which would have been 
staff costs if not for furlough. However, as furlough was put in place to cover staff costs, I 
dont think that amount is a loss that Mr and Mrs C have experienced and therefore, I dont 
intend to require Lloyds to reimburse any amount that has been paid to them under 
furlough. 
I recognise this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs C were hoping for, given the impact of the 
pandemic on their business but, having considered things very carefully, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman