DRN-3429521
Complaint
Miss V is unhappy that Starling Bank Limited didnt reimburse her after she fell victim to a 
scam.
Background
The background to this case is well known to the parties so I dont intend to set it out in full.
Miss V has an account with Starling. In July 2021, she received a call saying that her identity 
had been stolen. The caller claimed to be a police officer and spoofed the number of the 
police force in her local area. Miss Vs mobile phone had a caller identification functionality 
and so the caller display read Police Scotland rather than the phone number itself. She was 
told that her personal details had been used to set up several accounts and that these had 
been used to launder the proceeds of crime. She was told that the security of her own bank 
account was compromised. She needed to pay her money into a secure account that would 
be controlled by the police.
She attempted to transfer the money she held in an account with a different bank, but the 
payment didnt go through. The caller suggested that she transfer the money into her 
account with Starling first. He suggested that she say that payment was to a friend. He 
persuaded her that to select the genuine reason for the transfer would risk alerting the 
fraudsters. She was told that shed later receive a visit from a police officer who would 
explain how she could access her money. When there was no visit, she called the police 
who explained that shed fallen victim to a scam.
She notified Starling straight away. Starling considered her complaint under the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) code. It declined to pay a refund. It said that she didnt have a 
reasonable basis for believing that these payments were part of a genuine exercise being 
conducted by the police. The steps she was asked to take were at odds with the typical way 
the police operate  for example, she was asked to transfer money into an account that was 
in the name of a private individual, even though shed been told she needed to put her 
money in a police account. She was also asked to send confirmation that the payments had 
been made via a social messaging app. 
It also argued that there were further red flags that shouldve made her stop and think before 
proceeding with the payments. For example, she received a message saying that the 
Confirmation of Payee process didnt match  i.e. that the name she put down on her 
payment instruction didnt match the name on the account she was paying. It thinks she 
ought to have had concerns about that.
It also said that it displayed Effective Warnings (within the meaning of the CRM Code) when 
she was making the payment. The warning essentially came in two parts. First, she was 
presented with the following text:
Are you being told how to send this payment? Anyone explaining what buttons to 
click, or asking you to read the text on this screen out loud is a fraudster. If you 
continue, you could lose all the money sent.
She then had to answer a handful of questions about the payment. A further warning was 
displayed which said the following:
Fraudsters will tell you how to answer these questions to scam you. A genuine 
organisation will never do this. A bank or any other organisation will never tell you to 
move money to a new safe bank account. Fraudsters can make phone calls appear 
to come from a different number. Are you speaking with who you think you are? If in 
doubt you can call us on [number].
Overall, Starling considered that it had provided Miss V with an Effective Warning. It also 
noted that, under the terms of the code, Miss V wasnt entitled to a refund if she didnt have 
a reasonable basis for believing that the payments were legitimate. It was satisfied that was 
the case here and so it concluded that it didnt need to pay any refund.
Miss V was unhappy with this response and so she referred her complaint to this service. It 
was looked at by an Investigator who upheld it in part. The Investigator agreed that Miss V 
didnt have a reasonable basis of belief for some of the same reasons as outlined above. 
However, he didnt agree that Starling had met its standards under the code by providing an 
Effective Warning. 
He said that the warning didnt give a good enough description of the number spoofing 
process. Although it says that fraudsters can make phone numbers look like theyve come 
from a different number, it doesnt explain that they can make calls look like theyre from an 
official number. In this instance, Miss V had a facility activated on her phone which 
automatically identified the call as being from Police Scotland. He also thought that parts of 
the warning were too vague  for example, including the phrase Are you speaking with who 
you think you are? The Investigator felt this suggested that the warning was trying to cover 
a wide range of potential scam types and was less impactful as a result.
Starling disagreed with the Investigators conclusions. It said: 
The warnings make it clear that only a scammer would coach a customer through the 
process of making a payment by, for example, instructing them to select a particular 
reason for the transfer.
Its clear that Miss V wasnt certain that she was genuinely dealing with the police. 
The warning told her to call Starling if that was the case, but she didnt do so.
The explanation given in the warning about the process of phone number spoofing 
was sufficient.
Its unreasonable to expect its warning to deal with every potential scam type and it 
was enough for it to make it clear that scammers can impersonate legitimate 
organisations and that such organisations wont instruct people to move their money.
Because Starling disagreed with the Investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed 
to me to consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances 
and it is for Starling to establish that a customer failed to meet their requisite level of care 
under one of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code. 
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that:
The customer ignored an Effective Warning by failing to take appropriate action in 
response.
The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate
There are further exceptions, but none are applicable in this case.
The warning Miss V saw when making the payment clearly contains a lot of detail that 
pertained to the scam shed been targeted by. However, Im not persuaded it meets the 
definition of an Effective Warning as set out in the CRM code.
The code says that warning must be specific. In this instance, I think it has fallen short. It 
doesnt cover the fact that a fraudster may present themselves as a representative of a 
legitimate public body, such as the police. A customer might be able to infer that from the 
content of the warning if given sufficient time to reflect. However, scams of this kind are 
usually presented to customers as if urgent action is required to keep their money safe and 
that can be a barrier to them processing the contents of the warning. I also find that the 
phrase Are you speaking with who you think you are? is too vague to impactful.  
Nonetheless, I agree that Miss V didnt have a reasonable basis for believing that the 
payment was genuine. There were several red flags that ought to have given her pause for 
thought. I think she ought to have been concerned by the fact that the scammer asked for 
the money to be paid into an account in the name of a private individual and that 
confirmation of the payments should be sent via a social messaging app, rather than a more 
formal communication channel. 
She received a no match warning regarding the name of the account she was paying. 
From what shes told us, I think she was concerned about this and had her doubts about the 
person she was talking to. However, she was given an explanation for the warning  she 
was told the account name must have been set up using that police officers nickname. I 
think that explanation is far-fetched.
Theres no doubt that Miss V sincerely believed that she was co-operating with the police. 
But Im not convinced that belief was a reasonable one. As a result, while I dont think 
Starling needs to compensate her in full, I think its fair and reasonable for there to be a 50% 
liability split between them.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint. Starling Bank Limited should 
have partially refunded Miss V under the terms of the CRM code. Starling Bank Limited should now pay Miss V:
50% of the money she lost to the scam, less the sum it was able to recover from the 
receiving account.
8% simple interest per annum on that sum calculated to run between the date it 
declined her claim under the CRM and the date it pays her a settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman