DRN-4128329
The complaint
Mr J complains about Highway Insurance Company Limiteds handling of his Buildings 
Insurance claim.
All references to Highway also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 10 May 2023 In my provisional findings, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending to uphold the complaint for these reasons:
Highway says it was unable to send a contractor to Mr Js property at the time the
claim was reported, due to exceptional demand across the industry.
Because of this Highway agreed for Mr J to obtain quotes himself for the roof repairs.
This was provided to Highway along with images of the damage to the roof.
Highway said it tried to contact the contractor who had provided Mr J with the quote,
as it wanted further detail about the works. As it was unable to reach them, I think
Highway had the opportunity to either ask Mr J to obtain more quotes and information
about the works, or to send a representative to assess the damage. But I cant see it
did either.
Highway conducted a desktop review which included a Google Earth image from
prior to the claim. Highway says this shows the damage to the roof is pre-existing.
However, from reviewing the image I can see this only shows part of the roof and
Mr J has reported damage to three sides of the roof. So, Im not satisfied this is
enough for Highway to say the damage was pre-existing and to decline cover.
Our investigator recommended Highway appoint someone to attend the property to
inspect the damage. Highway said due to the time thats passed, this has prejudiced
its position to assess the damage. I agree. Highway had an opportunity to assess the
damage or to ask Mr J to obtain further quotes and specify the detail it needed. But it
didnt.
And as I think Highway havent demonstrated the claim can be excluded for wear and
tear, or that the damage to the whole of the roof was pre-existing, I think its fair and
reasonable the claim for insurable damage should now be met.
Highway accepted there have been delays in its progression of the claim. It has
offered Mr J £300 compensation for the inconvenience caused by its actions. Having
reviewed everything, I think this is fair and reasonable in addressing matters, so I do
not intend to make any further award here.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr J responded to my provisional findings but hasnt provided any further points for me to 
consider.
Highway didnt agree with my provisional findings. In summary, it said:
It is in a position where it is now impossible to tell whether damage is covered or not 
due to the length of time that has passed.
As google images show signs of some damage to the roof, it shouldnt be expected 
to cover this damage.
It is for Mr J to prove he has a valid claim  and Highway has demonstrated the roof 
was in very poor condition prior to the incident.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Highway has said, but it doesnt change my decision  or my 
reasoning. 
As Ive set out in my provisional decision. I agree its not now possible for Highway to validate 
the damage due to time that has passed. But as Ive also explained, it had an opportunity to 
do so earlier, and it didnt. So, because of this, I think its now fair and reasonable for it to 
proceed with the claim.
The images may show some damage, however Highway has relied on one image of part of 
the roof, to decline the whole claim. But there is other damage to the roof, so because of this 
Highway havent provided me with sufficient proof to persuade me conclusively the damage 
was pre-existing.
Photos were provided with the repair quotes, of the entirety of the roof, which show other 
damage. And its not in dispute there was a storm on the date in question. So, I think Mr J 
has demonstrated he has a valid claim under the policy. It is then for Highway to 
demonstrate an exclusion applies  which Im not persuaded it has.
So, for these reasons, and those set out in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
To put things right I direct Highway to proceed with the claim and arrange for repairs to 
insured damage to the roof.
If Mr J wishes to cash settle, Highway should do so at the rate it would cost Mr J to carry out 
all insured repairs. Highway can request three quotes to be provided by Mr J should it 
require it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Js complaint.
To put things right I direct Highway Insurance Company Limited to do as Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman