DRN-4171197
The complaint
Mrs C complains about the decision by AXA PPP Healthcare Limited to apply an exclusion 
to her private medical insurance cover.
What happened
On 19 January 2022, Mrs C completed an application to join her employers group private 
medical insurance policy with AXA. Her application was accepted, and cover started on 1 
February 2022. 
Mrs C later asked AXA if it would cover the cost of a mammogram. AXA considered the 
matter and concluded that Mrs C hadnt disclosed relevant information about her health 
when taking out the policy. It therefore applied an exclusion to the policy for breast cancer. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs C brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought AXA had shown 
that Mrs C hadnt take reasonable care when completing the application form. She found 
that it had been reasonable for AXA to apply the exclusion.
Mrs C didnt accept our investigators conclusions, and so the matter has been passed to me 
for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this complaint concerns misrepresentation, Ive considered the matter in accordance with 
the principles set out under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 
2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation.
AXA says Mrs C failed to take reasonable care when answering the medical questions in her 
application form. Ill consider each question in turn.
The first question asked:
3.1 Have you or anyone to be covered under this plan, had treatment in hospital or 
consulted a specialist in the last 12 months?
The application also said:
Please note:
By treatment we mean surgical or medical services that are needed to diagnose, 
relieve or cure a disease, illness or injury
A specialist is any doctor (including psychiatrist) who is not your GP.
I think this question was clear. 
In response to this question, Mrs C answered yes and disclosed that shed had treatment for 
a gynaecological problem, as well as another condition. However, AXA thought that Mrs C 
also ought to have disclosed consultations shed had with Miss P (consultant oncoplastic 
breast surgeon) on 26 January 2021 and 3 September 2021. 
Mrs C says she saw Miss P in January 2021 because she wanted to know whether 
medication prescribed for her gynaecological problem would cause any complications. This 
was due to her previous diagnosis of cancer. She says that this appointment therefore only 
took place because of her gynaecological issue.
Ive read Miss Ps January 2021 clinic letter, and I appreciate she did comment on Mrs Cs 
prescribed medications. She said these should only be used in the short term given Mrs Cs 
previous breast cancer. Though its also the case that she carried out a physical examination 
on Mrs C and said this showed no evidence of recurrence (of cancer). Miss P said she had 
reassured Mrs C and would review her in one year with a mammogram.
After Mrs C referred her complaint to this Service, she provided new evidence from Miss P, 
as well as from her consultant obstetrician and gynaecologist (Mr R). 
Miss P said the January 2021 appointment was due to Mrs Cs gynaecological issue. She 
said Mrs C had been started on medication which she was concerned may affect the risk of 
recurrence of cancer and wanted to discuss this. 
Mr R said that he saw Mrs C in December 2020, and had advised her to seek the opinion of 
her breast surgeon to ensure it would be safe for her to go on the medication prescribed.
Ive taken into account the comments by Miss P and Mr R. However, I note that Mrs Cs 
previous appointment with Miss P was in July 2020. At that appointment, Miss P said she 
would review Mrs C again in six months. It therefore seems that the January 2021 
appointment was a planned follow-up appointment in relation to Mrs Cs previous diagnosis 
of cancer (though I appreciate that Mrs C asked Miss P about her medication for her 
gynaecological problem in this appointment too). So I think Mrs C should have disclosed this 
consultation to AXA.  
Mrs C saw Miss P again in September 2021. She did so as she had noticed a small lesion in 
the left axilla. Miss P arranged a mammogram, as well as an ultrasound of the axilla, and 
said that a physical examination showed no evidence of recurrence (of cancer). Whilst I 
appreciate Mrs C says there was no diagnosis or treatment, it is still the case that she 
consulted a specialist, and so I think she ought to have also told AXA about this consultation.
I therefore find that Mrs C failed to take reasonable care when answering the above 
question. 
The application also asked:
3.2 Do you or anyone else to be covered under this plan have any treatment, consultations, 
investigations, or diagnostic tests, planned or pending?
Mrs C answered no. Again, I think this question was clear.
Miss Ps clinic letter dated 3 September 2021 included a plan to review Mrs C in a years 
time with a mammogram. Im satisfied from this that Mrs C had a follow-up consultation and investigation planned or 
pending when she applied for the policy. Therefore, I find that Mrs C also failed to take 
reasonable care when answering this question.
As Ive concluded that Mrs C failed to take reasonable care when answering both questions, 
that means there was misrepresentation.   
AXA has shown this Service that if Mrs C had answered the questions correctly, it would 
have applied the following exclusion:
No benefit for any investigations and treatment related to Breast cancer and conditions 
arising therefrom and associated therewith.
That means that AXA has shown that the misrepresentation was qualifying under CIDRA. 
As AXA has categorised the misrepresentation as careless rather than deliberate, that 
means that AXA was entitled to apply the exclusion retrospectively, and refuse any claims 
that fell under the exclusion. 
I recognise my decision will disappoint Mrs C, but I find that AXAs decision to apply the 
exclusion was fair and in line with CIDRA.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman