DRN-3344624
The complaint
Mr C and Ms C complain Yorkshire Building Society closed Ms Cs savings account. 
The account belonged to Ms C who was a minor when the account was opened. Mr C was a 
trustee on the account. 
What happened
Ms C was a minor when the savings account was opened and so her father Mr C acted as a 
trustee on the account. 
Mr C and Ms C moved to another country in 2001. Their contact address was updated at 
YBS. The account became dormant because there hadnt been any activity for a number of 
years. YBS subsequently closed the account and Mr C and Ms C were unhappy. They said 
the account shouldnt have been made dormant in the first place and want it to be reopened. 
They also want Mr C to remain as a trustee on the account despite Ms C now being over the 
age of 18. 
YBS said the account became dormant and Mr C and Ms C needed to provide up to date 
identification in order to reinstate it. Ms C and Mr C werent happy because they dont reside 
in this county, and dont understand why the building society now needs to see further 
identification. 
Mr C and Ms C said they hadnt agreed to YBS closing the account and want it to reverse its 
decision. So they complained to YBS.
YBS said it wrote to Ms C on 25 March 2021 to explain it required certain information in 
order to keep the account open. It explained theres a regulatory requirement for the bank to 
hold sufficient identification for the account holder on any active account. YBS also said the 
account needed to be transferred into Ms Cs sole name. YBS said it gave the option of 
closing the account or keeping it active. And so it didnt uphold Mr C and Ms Cs complaint. 
Mr C and Ms C referred their complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into things for 
them. She said YBS had the right to close the account, and it acted in line with its terms and 
conditions. Mr C and Ms C didnt agree with the investigators view and so the complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding the complaint. Ive focused my comments on what I think 
is relevant here. If I havent commented on any specific issue its because I dont think it 
affects the outcome. But I want to assure Mr C and Ms C I have considered the points raised 
together with the information I have been provided.
Its important to note my role here is to look at whether YBS has acted within its terms and 
conditions and treated Mr C and Ms C fairly and reasonably. I am not able to address the 
wider issues of how YBS organise its internal processes as thats not my role. 
I can certainly empathise with Mr C and Ms C. It must be frustrating for an account to be 
closed with seemingly no obvious reason. However what Im required to consider is whether 
YBS have acted unfairly or unreasonably. And I dont think it has. 
The reason I say this is because I have looked at the terms and conditions of the account. 
They provide that YBS can close an account if for a period of five years no money is paid 
into, or withdrawn from, your account.  Here, the last qualifying transaction was in 2000 and 
the account was marked dormant in 2017. The terms also say, we can repay to you any 
part of your savings or close your account and repay to you all of your savings at any time 
without giving any reason, but we will give you at least 2 months advance personal notice. 
So Im satisfied YBS acted within its terms and conditions because more than five years had 
passed since money was last withdrawn from the account and appropriate notice was given. 
Anti-money laundering regulations and UK legislation place extensive obligations on 
regulated financial businesses to have systems in place for customer identification. There 
may be penalties if they dont. And this applies to new and existing relationships. Banks will 
routinely check that information about customers is up to date  and that might mean 
customers will need to provide proof of address or updated identification documents. 
In its email dated 11 March 2021 YBS explained it had been unable to validate identification 
by electronic check and there had been no activity on the account for over five years so the 
account was stopped until correct identification had been received. It said the identification 
held for Mr C was from 2008, and the building society didnt hold anything for Ms C. And so I 
think YBS marking the account as dormant is reasonable and in line with its terms and 
conditions. 
YBS explained the steps Mr C and Ms C would need to take in order to reinstate the 
account. And they were provided with an alternative in that they were able to close the 
account and YBS would arrange for a cheque to be sent for the balance. Ive not seen any 
evidence to say that either Mr C or Ms C did provide the requested information. 
And so although Ms C and Mr C will be disappointed with my decision I cant say YBS has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman