DRN-3894809
Complaint
Mr T has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected his claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background 
Mr T bought solar panel system (the system) for his home in 2020. The purchase was 
funded by a loan from Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions 
of the installer (P) under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to Ps sales advisor 
misleading Mr T into believing that he could sell the unused energy produced by the system. 
But he couldnt do this as he does not have a meter fitted to enable him to do this. 
Mr Ts complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She thought Ps sales advisor 
did misrepresent the benefits Mr T would get from the system by telling him hed be able to 
sell the unused energy back to the national grid  and she felt Mr T bought the system on 
that basis. She suggested Ikano (with help from P) work out how much Mr T would receive in 
payments for the unused energy produced by the system if he did have a meter fitted. 
Alternatively, she said Ikano could pay Mr T the average payments received by consumers 
with the same size system and home as him. 
Ikano didnt agree for the following reasons: 
Ikano felt the complaint shouldnt be upheld on Mr Ts testimony alone. Ikano pointed 
out that Ps records show that the sales advisor carried out a search to see if Mr T 
had a meter fitted to enable him to receive payments for the unused energy his 
system produced under the Smart Export Guarantee scheme (SEG)  and this had 
shown he didnt  so the sales advisor knew he wouldnt be eligible for such 
payments. 
His quote was based on savings alone and makes no mention of SEG, in line with 
the results of the above search. 
It added that if Mr T did sell the unused energy for SEG payments, his savings would 
be significantly less.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
In my provisional decision of 9 December 2022, I set out why I was minded to upholding the 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision. Ikano did not respond while Mr T agreed with my findings. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
Ikano is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider when 
looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
I can see the sales quote produced by P doesnt mention any payments for the unused 
energy produced by the system and only mentions the likely savings in energy bills Mr T 
could achieve by installing the system. Usually, if a consumer was entitled to either SEG 
payments or FIT (feed in tariff) payments, I would expect the quote to set this out with an 
estimate of how much a consumer might likely receive. As Ikano says, the quote is silent on 
this, but I have to bear in mind, that Mr T would not be aware of how SEG/FIT payments are 
usually presented to consumers.  
I understand that Ps records show a search was carried out prior to the sales meeting and 
that its advisor knew that Mr T didnt have a meter fitted that would have been needed to 
apply for SEG payments. However, I havent seen anything that suggests this was made 
clear to Mr T. 
Mr T has sent in emails he sent to P after the installation of the system and from these, its 
clear that Mr T believed he was going to receive SEG payments. He also changed energy 
suppliers to Ps sales advisors recommended energy supplier to enable him to apply for the 
benefit. I dont think its likely that Mr T would have gone through the effort of doing this, if he 
hadnt genuinely believed that this would enable him to apply for SEG payments. Mr Ts 
testimony has also been clear and consistent throughout and I think his testimony is reliable 
evidence of what he was led to believe during the sale. 
So, in this particular case, Im not satisfied that the sales quotation document accurately 
reflects the full extent of the discussions Ps sales adviser had with Mr T. I therefore think its 
more likely Ps sales advisor did tell Mr T that hed be able to apply for SEG payments and 
Im satisfied that Mr T relied on these representations and purchased the system on that 
basis.
So, having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those 
explained by the investigator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence 
supports the conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr T was not given clear 
information to demonstrate that he would not receive SEG payments for the unused energy 
produced by the system. 
So, I think that Ikano didnt treat Mr T fairly and he lost out because of what Ikano did wrong. 
And this means that it should put things right.
In the absence of any new points for me to consider, I find no reason to depart from my 
original findings as set out in my provisional decision. So, for the reasons explained above, I 
still think the complaint should be upheld. 
Putting things right 
In my provisional decision of the 9 December 2022, I also set out what I thought Ikano 
should do to put things right. I explained the following: 
Fair compensation  what Ikano needs to do to put things right for Mr T
Mr T doesnt have a meter installed at his property and his provider (the one recommended 
by P), has advised him that it doesnt know if or when, one will be fitted. So, for the 
foreseeable future Mr T will not benefit from any SEG payments. Determining fair compensation is not always an exact science and it is all the more difficult in 
a case like this where solar panels have been installed at a property and are, as far as Im 
aware, in good working order. 
Ive considered if its fair to unwind the credit agreement, remove the solar panels and give 
Mr T a refund of all the payments hes made (less any financial benefit gained from the
installation of the solar panels). Ikano would have to arrange to have this done at its expense 
and of course the fully functional solar panels would then likely be disposed of. Although 
Mr T initially wanted the system to be removed, he has since indicated that, due to the time 
thats passed since the installation, he no longer wishes to pursue a return of the system. 
So, I dont think this is necessary when there is an alternative option that will put Mr T in a 
fair position.
Without a meter fitted, its difficult to know what payments Mr T would have received for the 
unused energy produced by the system. But there is information available of the average 
annual payments consumers currently receive in SEG payments (see table below). 
So, as our investigator suggested, I think Ikano should pay to Mr T, the average annual SEG 
payments received by a consumer based on the size of his system and the size of his house 
in line with the table set out below. I think Ikano should also compensate Mr T for average 
SEG payments over a 10-year period. 
Ive recommended 10 years for a number of reasons. Firstly, the term of Mr Ts loan is 10 
years. Solar panel systems also usually have a lifespan of at least 20 years, and as Mr Ts 
loan payments should have concluded by year 10, any benefit he receives after this point, 
will be his alone to keep. Finally, while his supplier currently cant give any timescales of 
when meters will be fitted in his area, 10 years is a long time and it may be that one is fitted 
at some point in the future. So, I think 10 years of average SEG payments is a reasonable 
way to compensate Mr T. 
SEG payments each year
Ikano should add 8%* simple interest for the years Mr T would already have received the 
payments. 
Mr T should provide Ikano with details about the size of his system and home to enable 
Ikano to complete its redress calculation. 
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr T first 
contacted Ikano that means the claim should have been upheld. I intend to direct Ikano to 
pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Neither Ikano nor Mr T have made any further comments regarding this, so again I have no 
reason to depart from my findings. So for the reasons explained above, I uphold this 
complaint and require Ikano to pay redress to Mr T in line with what I set out above.
*I would add that if Ikano considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr T how much its taken off. It should also give 
him a certificate showing this, if he asks for one, so he can claim the tax from HM Revenue 
& Customs.
My final decision 
For the reasons explained, I uphold this complaint. Ikano Bank AB (publ) should put things 
right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman