DRN-2773213
The complaint
Mr S complains that TSB Bank plc hasnt treated him fairly after he was unable to make 
repayments on the fixed sum loan it had advanced to him. He wants the loan to be partly 
written off and to make an arrangement to pay the remaining balance.
What happened
Mr S tells us that hes had health and financial difficulties over a number of years. This has 
seen him in and out of employment at various times. He explains that he took out a loan in 
2017 and could afford repayments until he lost his job early in 2018. Subsequently, he says 
that he again found employment and made a number of payments as and when he could. 
But having lost that employment hes now decided to return to full-time education.
Since then he says that TSB hasnt supported him and has continued to chase him 
aggressively for the repayment of the loan. And he said that the agency to which TSB had 
directed him to obtain advice about his debt had encouraged him to give inaccurate 
information regarding his finances. Mr S would like TSB to write off part of the loan.
TSB explained that it had tried to offer support to Mr S. This had included putting collections 
on hold and allowing payment holidays. It said it had referred him to its specialist 
Vulnerable team. But that hed not responded to its letters. It said it would have been wrong 
to set up a payment plan if Mr S couldnt afford it. And once it had been ascertained that he 
was unlikely to be able to afford to bring the account back in order it had transferred it to its 
collections team and frozen interest
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 15 March 2021. I said that I thought that 
TSB had acted fairly and offered appropriate support to Mr S. And that I didnt intend to 
uphold the complaint.
Since then I cant see that Mr S has replied. TSB has replied accepting my provisional view. 
And its also informed me that Mr S is back in touch with its collection agents. And that hes 
making a small but regular monthly repayment and that no further interest is accruing on the 
debt.
I thank TSB for its response and in the light of the information provided I see no reason to 
change my provisional view which is largely repeated in my final decision set out below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mr S has experienced a number of personal and health difficulties. And I 
understand that these have impacted upon his financial circumstances. Hes given a very 
detailed background going back a number of years.
Im going to concentrate on whats happened after November 2018 as thats when TSB 
made a payment of compensation to him in relation to an earlier matter. And I note that 
during 2019 Mr S was able to get his repayments back on track before further difficulties 
arose.
Mr S complaint amounts to alleging that TSB hasnt done all that it could to help him through 
his financial difficulties. And that its been unhelpful and aggressive in the way its sought to 
collect the debt.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Where information is incomplete, unclear or contradictory - as some of it is here - I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
Our investigators earlier view set out the relevant parts of the rules, regulations and codes 
of conduct upon which a business is expected to act. Ill not repeat them here as the parties 
have seen it. In summary, when a business finds out that a customer is in financial 
difficulties the expectation is that it will treat the customer fairly and with forbearance and 
due consideration.
There is no fixed means by which this should be achieved. Every situation is different. But it 
wouldnt be unusual for a business to consider putting payments on hold for a period; 
deferring or cancelling interest; agreeing a payment arrangement. This is by no means a 
complete list of options that might be tried.
Mr S direct debit payments werent being met during the first few months of 2019 but he was 
making payments by other means. It seems that he lost his job in May 2019. So it wasnt 
surprising that arrears began to accumulate again. 
TSB sent arrears letters which is what wed expect. And it issued a default warning letter on 
21 June 2019. The arrears at this point were £330, which was just over one monthly 
instalment (£305). Wed normally expect an account to be placed in default when arrears of 
payments are between three and six months. And if it doesnt seem likely the customer is 
going to be able to repay the arrears within a reasonable period. Its not fair on a customer to 
record a default prematurely.
Whilst TSB knew of the previous account history, I dont think its reasonable to expect it to 
make assumptions at this point. Mr S had previously had considerably greater arrears and 
repaid them. So I think sending a notice of arrears and a default letter were the correct 
options. It wouldnt have been responsible for TSB to use a previous income and 
expenditure statement which was several months out of date as the basis for a payment 
arrangement.
Nor, in the absence of any clear information about his immediate financial / employment 
situation, was it required to suspend interest payments. Apart from letters it also made 
numerous attempts to contact him by phone. These werent successful until late July.Mr S has mentioned that at times he felt harassed. And I acknowledge that anyone with 
health concerns may feel greater anxiety when being contacted regarding debt. Whilst we 
wouldnt expect TSB to stop trying to contact Mr S once he fell into arrears, theres a fine 
balance to be struck between the business wish to pursue a debt and the needs of a 
vulnerable customer.
The attempted contact calls were largely limited to one per day  and not every day. And 
direct contact was re-established on 25 July 2019. During this call Mr S indicates that he 
wants to set up a payment arrangement  even though he wasnt working. That phone call 
ended prematurely and didnt produce anything positive. And the next contact is when Mr S 
makes a complaint a few days later. It seems he may also have had a conversation with a 
branch adviser.
On 17 August theres another call during which Mr S offered to pay £10 per month. At this 
stage TSB took the view that it was improbable he was going to be able to make contractual 
payments in the foreseeable future. And it referred the account to its collection team. The 
effect of which was to freeze further interest charges and stop them being applied.
In its reply to my provisional decision, TSB told me that its collection agents have now been 
receiving a regular monthly repayment of £5 from Mr S. And that no interest is being charged 
on the remaining balance. 
I infer that this is a sustainable amount for Mr S. And it seems payments are being 
maintained. This should in turn reduce the need for contact from the agents to the minimum 
required to meet statutory obligations in terms of issuing account statements and balances.
Overall, TSB has provided Mr S with holds on the account, reduced payments and referred 
him to its specialist vulnerable team. And now its frozen further interest on the account and 
reached a payment arrangement. Whilst Id describe its previous efforts to chase payments 
as persistent, within this has been a substantial measure of forbearance and due 
consideration for Mr S needs.
Whilst Im not upholding this complaint, the latest information indicates that significant 
progress has been made towards achieving Mr S wish to settle the debt in a sustainable 
and affordable way. And I hope that this alleviates much of the anxiety that hes previously 
expressed.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman