DRN-2917049
The complaint
Mr Q complains that U K Insurance Limited mishandled a claim on his motor insurance
policy. 
  
What happened
The subject matter of this complaint is a convertible sports car first registered in 2010.
For the year from early July 2020, Mr Q had the car insured on a comprehensive policy
under which UKI was responsible for dealing with claims.
In early October 2020, Mr Q reported a problem to UKI. He said that in the summer, the car
had suffered water ingress. He said hed taken it to a main dealer. But water had continued
to get into the car each time it rained. And in early October the car had broken down.
UKI led Mr Q to believe it would cover his claim. But later in October 2020, it turned down his
claim.
Mr Q complained to UKI about that. By a final response dated late October 2020, UKI
characterised the situation as a case of poor maintenance due to wear and tear . But it
apologised for some poor service and paid Mr Q £50.00.
Mr Q brought his complaint to us in November 2020.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think that
UKI had been unfair or unreasonable in declining the claim. She said that there was no
cover as the circumstances would be considered a maintenance/wear and tear issue rather
an insured event/peril.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr Q 
and to UKI on 9 June 2021. I summarise my findings:
Mr Q had fallen short of showing that the car had suffered damage covered by the 
policy.
I didnt consider that UKI treated Mr Q unfairly by declining his claim. I didnt find it 
fair and reasonable to direct UKI to meet Mr Qs claim.
However, UKI hadnt communicated with Mr Q properly in early October 2020. And 
this led to an unproductive debate about the valuation of the vehicle  before UKI 
declined the claim.
So the shortcomings in UKIs communication wasted Mr Qs time and failed to 
manage his expectations.
Subject to any further information from Mr Q or from UKI, my provisional decision was that I 
upheld this complaint in part. I intended to direct UKI to pay Mr Q  in addition to the £50.00 
already paid  a further £100.00 for distress and inconvenience.
UKI accepts the provisional decision.
Mr Q disagrees with the provisional decision. He says, in summary, that:
Originally the insurer agreed they were liable for the repair and they told him the car 
would be written off, so he did not complete the repairs. It wasnt until they reneged 
on their original offer that he then went ahead and repaired the car himself.
This delay has led to mould developing on the roof, seats and carpets, which he cant 
get rid of. The only way to fix this is to replace all of these, which will cost a fortune.
If theyd told him at the start that they were not liable, he would have resolved the 
issue straightaway, like the first time, rather than waiting and this wouldnt have 
happened.
When he tried to take new insurance with another company, he was told there was a 
claim against the car and this would affect his premium. Even when he explained 
what happened, he was told that because the insurance company has registered it, it 
would affect his premium, regardless of fault. UKI have offered to send a letter but 
have said they cant remove the claim even though it didnt go through. He was told 
that it shouldnt affect his premium, and when he told them it did, by £250, UKIs 
response was that insurance companies can do what they want. Their poor 
communication is still affecting him until now.
He also had to cancel his new insurance because he hadnt realised there was a 
claim against him and hadnt included it in his details. By not informing him, UKI put 
him in a legally tenuous position with his new insurers, meaning he had to cancel it or 
risk not being able to fully claim for any incident.
UKI have continued to miscommunicate with him up until now and their actions 
continue to impact on him to date.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covered damage to the car. But the policy terms had the following condition:
2 Notification of accidents and losses
You must tell us as soon as reasonably possible about any incident which may lead
to a claim under this policy
So Mr Q was under an obligation to tell UKI as soon as reasonably possible about any
incident that might lead to a claim.
The policy terms also had the following condition:6 Taking care of your car
You and any person who is covered by this policy must:
 make sure your car is roadworthy;
 take all reasonable steps to protect your car and its contents from loss or 
damage
So Mr Q was under an obligation to take all reasonable steps to protect his car from
damage.
The policy also had the following exclusions:
What is not covered
We will not cover:
loss or damage caused by wear and tear or loss of value
any mechanical, electrical or computer failure, breakdown or breakage
So the policy didnt cover Mr Qs car for wear and tear. And the policy didnt cover Mr Qs car 
for mechanical or electrical failure.
Ive listened to the recordings of the first two calls Mr Q made to report a claim to UKI. He
said that he only used the car three or four times a year. He said hed taken a video of water
in the car in August 2020. He said that - since then - water had been getting into the car
each time there was heavy rain.
In relation to the most recent incident, Mr Q said hed jump-started the car and driven it to
the gym. As he had a choice of vehicles, I dont think he wouldve driven the sports car if it
was wet inside. So I find it likely that  before he drove it to the gym  the car was
experiencing a mechanical or electrical problem which Mr Q later attributed to water ingress.
As the car had been difficult to start before he drove it to the gym, I dont find it likely that the
car suffered water damage on the way to the gym or at the gym. So I dont accept Mr Qs
statement that the August incident didnt cause too much damage but the October incident 
was more serious.
I find that Mr Qs vehicle had been letting in water since August 2020 but Mr Q was only 
reporting it to UKI in October 2020. As he was reporting this as a recurrent problem, I find it 
likely that the vehicle had been suffering periodic damp since August 2020. And he hadnt 
driven the car very often. So the conditions for mould were present from August 2020.
Therefore I dont accept Mr Qs recent suggestion that the mould was caused by UKIs delay 
in October 2020.
So I find that Mr Q has fallen short of showing that the car had suffered damage covered by
the policy.
And I dont consider that UKI treated Mr Q unfairly by declining his claim. I dont find it fair
and reasonable to direct UKI to meet Mr Qs claim.
Mr Qs policy with UKI wasnt due to expire until early July 2021. So I find it likely that he has 
only recently taken out (and then cancelled) a new policy. 
So he is making a new complaint that  without informing him - UKI recorded the claim and 
that UKI continues to miscommunicate with him. And under the Financial Conduct Authoritys rules (DISP), Mr Q must make that new complaint to UKI and wait up to eight 
weeks for a final response before we can deal with that new complaint.
However, I uphold Mr Qs earlier complaint that UKI gave him conflicting information about 
whether it would accept his claim in early October 2020. And this led to an unproductive 
debate about the valuation of the vehicle  before UKI declined the claim. So the 
shortcomings in UKIs communication wasted Mr Qs time and failed to manage his 
expectations.
 Putting things right
Ive thought about the distress and inconvenience this caused Mr Q. Ive considered whether
£50.00 was enough compensation. Im not satisfied that it was. I find it fair and reasonable to 
direct UKI to pay Mr Q  in addition to the £50.00 already paid  a further £100.00 for 
distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct U K Insurance Limited to pay Mr Q  in addition to the £50.00 already paid  a further 
£100.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman