DRN-4243181
The complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank PLC added late payment markers to his credit file when his 
account went into a small unarranged overdraft.
What happened
Mr H applied for a current account with Lloyds. By way of an error and for reasons that are 
unclear, instead of opening one account, Lloyds mistakenly opened two accounts. Mr H 
subsequently made use of both accounts.
Mr H appears to have used one account for his daily spending (Account 1). The second 
account was used less frequently (Account 2). Both accounts were subject to a monthly fee 
of £3 which could be waived in certain circumstances.
Lloyds said that Account 2 went into an unarranged overdraft of £6 in July 2022 which was 
caused by the account fee being charged over two months. It classed this unarranged 
overdraft as a late payment and reported it to the credit reference agencies. The same thing 
happened again in September 2022.
Mr H did not think this was fair. He thought the late markers should be removed and said 
they could have an impact on his job.
Lloyds said it was obliged to report information to the credit reference agencies. It offered to 
pay £40 to Mr H to compensate him for the mistake it made in opening two accounts.
However, it did not agree to amend his credit file. It said the late payment entries had been 
correctly made. Even though the account had been opened in error, Lloyds said that as Mr H 
had used the account, he needed to manage it in line with the terms and conditions.
Our investigator looked at all of this but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr H 
disagreed with that view. He said if the account hadnt been opened in error, the issue 
wouldnt have occurred in the first place. He said he was not informed of a payment date for 
the monthly charge and he was not informed when Account 2 went overdrawn.
As Mr H did not agree with our investigators view, the matter was passed to me for an 
ombudsmans decision. I asked our investigator to make some further enquiries of Mr H and 
of Lloyds.
In response to that further request for information, Mr H provided a copy of the relevant 
entries to his credit file. Lloyds provided further information about the circumstances in which 
it would report late payments to a credit reference agency. It said Mr H would have been 
notified by text message that Account 2 had become overdrawn.
I issued a provisional decision because I thought Lloyds should take further action. I said: 
As things stand, I intend to uphold the complaint and require Lloyds to remove the 
late payment markers from Mr Hs credit file. Ill explain why.
I note from Mr Hs response to our investigator that he was keen to say that Lloyds 
had acted unlawfully and in breach of contract. I need to make clear to Mr H that it is 
not the role of this service to establish whether there has been a breach of contract in 
this case. Such a matter would be for a court to decide. This service is an informal 
dispute resolution service and whilst I have taken account of the relevant law, I have 
determined this complaint based upon what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances.
Lloyds told us that its policy in reporting to credit reference agencies about current 
accounts was that late payments are reported after a customer has been in an 
unplanned position for 35 consecutive days. It says the first late payment wont be 
reported if the excess balance is less than £5. Further late payments will be reported 
if the balance is £1 or more over the unarranged overdraft.
Looking at Mr Hs statements, I can see Account 2 went into an overdrawn position of 
£3 on 6 June 2022. A further £3 was debited on 4 July 2022, which took the account 
£6 overdrawn until 11 July 2022 when Mr H paid £6. The balance was then brought 
back to £0. By my calculations, the account would have been in an overdrawn 
position by exactly 35 days. But it would not have been in an overdrawn position of 
more than £5 for that length of time.
On 2 August 2022, the £3 fee was debited again and Mr Hs account was again 
overdrawn. The fee was debited again on 2 September 2022, making the account £6 
overdrawn. Mr H transferred £6 into the account on 11 September 2022 and the 
balance was returned to £0 that day. By my calculation, the account was in an 
overdrawn position for approximately 40 days. But again, it wouldnt have been in an 
overdrawn position of more than £5 for 35 days.
From the information provided to me, it is not entirely clear whether the account 
would have to be more than £5 overdrawn for more than 35 days before Lloyds 
would usually report a missed payment to the credit reference agencies.
Lloyds terms and conditions say that it will notify Mr H when his account goes into an 
unarranged overdraft position. I asked Lloyds to provide evidence that Mr H was 
notified about this for Account 2. It provided a copy of a text message from 
September 2022, but this appears to refer to the arranged overdraft Mr H had on 
Account 1.
I also note from Lloyds terms and conditions that it may have been possible for 
Lloyds to change Mr Hs account if he did not pay the monthly account fee twice in a 
row. As Mr H had missed two payments in a row in July 2022, it is not clear to me 
why Lloyds did not consider changing Account 2 to one that did not attract a fee. Had 
it done so, it is possible the late payment marker in September 2022 could have been 
avoided.
Looking at all of this in the round, I agree with Lloyds that as Mr H was using the 
second account, it was his responsibility to use that account in line with the terms 
and conditions. That said, it seems to me that Mr Hs failure to pay the account fees 
of £3 was effectively an administrative oversight on his part, rather than an inability to 
pay the fees or an indication of financial difficulties.
When balancing this against the error Lloyds said it made in opening the second 
account in the first place, alongside the other matters I have set out above, it seems 
to me that the fair and proportionate response in the particular circumstances of this 
case is for the late payment markers to be removed from Mr Hs credit file. 
Both Mr H and Lloyds responded to say they agreed with my provisional findings. Lloyds 
said it had now been in touch with the credit reference agencies to remove the disputed late 
payment markers. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have indicated they agree with my provisional decision, I see no reason to 
depart from those provisional findings. 
So, for the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Lloyds to take action 
to put things right. 
Putting things right
If it has not already done so, I require Lloyds to instruct the credit reference agencies to 
remove the late payment markers from Mr Hs credit file for July and September 2022 in 
respect of Account 2. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman