DRN-2923059
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as F complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wouldnt release 
their security for a loan. Mrs B, who is a director of F, brought the complaint on Fs behalf.
What happened
F had an Enterprise Finance Guarantee (EFG) loan from Lloyds.  It was originally for 
£80,000 and was drawn on 1 December 2017. Repayments were £666 a month. Security 
held by Lloyds included a second charge on the directors (Mrs Bs) house, on which there 
was a buy to let (BTL) mortgage of £140,000. 
In February 2021, F requested that Lloyds release their second charge, but Lloyds declined 
the request. They said they would require the loan to be repaid in full before the charge 
could be removed. In March 2021, Lloyds declined to release their second charge, but said if 
F would provide its trading information, they would review the decision. On 29 March 2021, F 
reduced the EFG loan by £30,000. Having received the trading information, in April 2021 - 
Lloyds declined again, saying that they relied on the security for the EFG loan. The balance 
of the EFG loan was then £23,333. In May 2021, Lloyds agreed to postpone their second 
charge in favour of the first BTL mortgage lender.
F complained. It said it asked Lloyds to release the second charge on the BTL property so 
the directors could re-mortgage it. Lloyds explained it declined the request as they wanted to 
retain the security for the EFG loan. F thought this was unreasonable as it had paid off 
£30,000 of the EFG loan  and still Lloyds wouldnt release the second charge. Eventually, 
Lloyds agreed to postpone their second charge to enable the re-mortgage to happen  but F 
said that Lloyds shouldve suggested this in the first place. The director (Mrs B) had suffered 
a great deal of stress and wasted time in dealing with Lloyds over the matter.
F brought its complaint to us. Our investigator said Lloyds had acted fairly and that there was 
no obligation for Lloyds to release the second charge until the EFG loan was repaid. 
F asked that its complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not the role of this service to challenge the commercial decisions of Lloyds  whether 
they lend money, or not, and on what terms and security - is up to them. But  we want to 
ensure that they dealt with F fairly and reasonably, for example by making clear decisions in 
a timely way, and communicating effectively with F.
I can appreciate where F is coming from. It asked for the second mortgage on Mrs Bs house 
to be released in February 2021  and it was only in May 2021 when the whole matter was 
sorted out  when Lloyds agreed to postpone their second charge in favour of the first BTL 
lender.
I can see that there were several discussions that took place. At first, in early February 2021 
- Lloyds declined to give up their second charge  because they decided they needed it as 
security for the EFG loan. However, they said they might consider releasing the security if 
the amount of the loan was reduced, and if they were comfortable with up to date trading 
information.  
Lloyds then called F on 9 March 2021  to say that theyd only agree to release the security 
if the EFG loan was repaid in full. But  they would still see if they could agree to it if the loan 
was partially repaid. On 11 March 2021  Lloyds told F again that they needed full 
repayment of the loan. So  at this stage, Lloyds had given a clear decision to F. 
I can then see that F asked Lloyds again on 1 April 2021  after it had repaid £30,000 from 
the loan, reducing the balance to around £23,000. F had also provided financial information. 
But then  Lloyds again declined to agree to release the security. But  Lloyds hadnt said 
they would agree to the release of the security if the loan was reduced  only that theyd look 
at the situation in the light of Fs trading information. I can see that then  Lloyds evaluated 
whether they could help F  but then declined again. F was advised of Lloyds decision on 
13 April 2021.
So  I can see that between early February 2021 and 11 March 2021  Lloyds had told F 
that they wanted full repayment of the EFG loan for them to release the second charge. So, 
they made that clear to F. And then in early April 2021  after F had paid off £30,000 of the 
loan and when Lloyds had looked at Fs financial information  Lloyds declined again. Lloyds 
did give F a clear decision at each stage. I can see that there was a delay between 11 March 
2021 and 1 April 2021  following Lloyds decision on 11 March 2021  when nothing 
appeared to happen. But it looks like Lloyds considered theyd given a decision to F and 
were waiting for F to react to that. 
I think that once F paid off £30,000 of the EFG loan, it thought that Lloyds would agree to 
release the second mortgage  but I can see that Lloyds didnt ask for that, or say theyd 
release the security on that basis. And when they did look at the loan again with its lower 
balance, their decision was the same. And - as Ive said, Lloyds lending decisions are for 
them to take.
In the event, Lloyds agreed to postpone their second charge in favour of the first BTL lender 
 so a re-mortgage of the BTL was possible, and things were worked out. F has said that 
Lloyds shouldve suggested this. But  as I see it, this wasnt the role of Lloyds  as a 
postponement of a second mortgage would normally come from the first mortgage holder 
(the BTL lender) so that they can approve their re-mortgage. So  I dont think Lloyds were 
at fault there. 
The director of F says that shes been worried and stressed by what happened. And there 
was a lot of wasted time. While I can appreciate what Fs director says, its the case that we 
cant award anything for stress here  as a limited company like F cant feel stress. And the 
complaint has been brought to us by F (not by Mrs B). However, Ive considered whether 
there was a lot of wasted time on the part of F and whether it was inconvenienced. 
I can see that Lloyds wanted F to supply its accounts and trading figures for them to review. 
But  I wouldve thought that F shouldve had those figures available anyway. I can 
appreciate that everything took over two months from when F first asked for the second 
charge to be released to when Lloyds made its last decision on 13 April 2021  but equally I 
can see that Lloyds did give F several firm decisions along the way. And  it appeared that 
the delay during April 2021 was when Lloyds were waiting for F to come back to them. So  I 
dont think that F wasted a lot of time though the process and experienced inconvenience.The director of F (Mrs B) has said to us that she suffered distress an inconvenience 
personally because of the time taken for Lloyds to either release their second mortgage or 
agree to its postponement. She says that this led to a delay in the re-mortgaging of her 
personal property and this cost her personally £500 a month. But  this complaint has been 
brought to us (and originally to Lloyds) by F. F is a separate legal entity to its director, Mrs B.  
And this decision looks at what happened as between Lloyds and F  and the impact on F. It 
doesnt consider any possible effects on Mrs B. If she wants to pursue a complaint about her 
own situation, she should approach Lloyds in the first instance.
I was pleased to see that things have now been worked out as a result of the re-mortgage 
and postponement of the security  but I think that, in the circumstances of this case, Lloyds 
acted fairly  and I wont be asking them to do anymore.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman