DRN-4498403
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that Taylormade Finance Ltd didnt pass relevant medical 
information onto the insurer when selling them life and critical illness insurance policies. 
What happened
In January 2018, Mr and Mrs K applied for a flexible protection plan, consisting of life and
critical illness insurance policies, through Taylormade. The original application expired and
was resubmitted to the insurer by Taylormade, with the plan starting in June 2018.
In early 2022, Mrs K tried to make a critical illness claim with the insurer. The insurer initially
said the claim wasnt covered because Mrs K hadnt been diagnosed with a critical illness as
defined by the policy. After carrying out further investigations, the insurer said Mrs K hadnt
told it when taking out the plan that shed been diagnosed with epilepsy in March 2018 and,
if she had, it wouldnt have offered her any insurance cover. The insurer cancelled the plan,
refunded Mrs K for the premiums shed paid and arranged for a new plan to be set up for Mr
K.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs K brought a complaint about Taylormade to the attention of our
service. They said theyd told Taylormades representative about Mrs Ks epilepsy diagnosis
so that the application for the plan could be changed. One of our investigators looked into
what had happened but didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. Mr and Mrs K didnt agree
with our investigators opinion, so the complaint was referred to me.
I made my provisional decision about this complaint in November 2023. In it, I said:
Mr and Mrs K have also brought a complaint to our service about the insurers actions,
including what they say was the insurers failure to send them a copy of the June 2018 plan
application summary. Mr and Mrs Ks complaint about the insurer is being considered
separately by our service, under a different complaint reference number. When making my
provisional decision about this complaint, Im only considering the regulated activities which
Taylormade, as the seller of Mr and Mrs Ks plan, is responsible for.
This plan was sold on an advised basis. Industry rules require Taylormade, amongst other
things, to ensure that the plan was suitable for Mr and Mrs K and met their demands and
needs at the time it was taken out. Taylormade also needed to provide Mr and Mrs K with
information about the plan that was clear, fair and not misleading so they could make an
informed choice about whether to buy it.
I have no way of knowing for certain exactly what happened between January 2018 and
June 2018. So, I must base my provisional decision on the available evidence to decide on
the balance of probabilities what I think is more likely than not to have happened in the
circumstances.
Ive considered all the documentation which Taylormade has provided. Its not in dispute that
the medical information contained in the Medical Information Capture Form and the plan
application form completed on behalf of Mrs K on 31 January 2018 were correct based on
the position as it was at the time. What is in dispute is whether Mr and Mrs K told
Taylormade about Mrs Ks epilepsy diagnosis in March 2018, as this condition wasnt
mentioned on the June 2018 plan application.
Mr and Mrs K say they saw Taylormades representative in person a total of three times in
early 2018. They say they told him verbally in a face-to-face meeting at their home, after 18
March 2018, about Mrs Ks epilepsy diagnosis. Mr K says he watched Taylormades
representative make notes of what they were telling him about this medical condition. Mr K
says when he asked Taylormades advisor if this would affect their insurance application, he
was told it wouldnt make any difference. Mr K says he has since spoken to Taylormades
representative on the phone, who admitted failing to change the details on the original plan
application form.
According to Taylormades records, an initial fact-find was completed by its representative
during a home visit with Mr and Mrs K on 23 January 2018. Taylormade says another home
visit is likely to have taken place on either 31 January 2018 or 1 February 2018  but there
are no records or notes of this. Taylormade has said that subsequent queries which arose
relating to Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage would usually be dealt with over the phone, meaning
that a third home visit from Taylormades representative would have been extremely unlikely.
But, Taylormade also doesnt have any records or notes of any such phone call relating to
the mortgage or of another completion phone call which Taylormade says was made to Mr
and Mrs K on 30 May 2018.
I asked Taylormade to confirm what verbal or written checks were carried out with Mr and
Mrs K before the June 2018 plan application was submitted to confirm that their medical
details hadnt changed since January 2018. Taylormade has suggested that a telephone call
took place to check the medical details but it has no records or notes of any such call.
Taylormade has pointed to a change in an answer to a question relating to the digestive
system from the January 2018 application form to the June 2018 application form as
evidence that it called to check whether Mr and Mrs Ks medical details had changed. But I
dont accept this is persuasive evidence that such a telephone call is likely to have taken
place. While I can see that the question which Taylormade has referred to was answered
differently on the two applications, I can also see that this medical condition was disclosed
by Mr and Mrs K on the original Medical Information Capture Form. So, the available
evidence suggests that this medical condition wasnt a new development since January
2018 but was instead one which was disclosed to Taylormade from the outset.
Mr and Mrs K have, I think, been extremely consistent and plausible in their testimony about
their recollection of the events that took place and I have no reason to doubt anything
theyve said. I havent seen a statement from Taylormades representative setting out his
version of events. Based on all the available evidence, Im satisfied that its likely Mr and Mrs
K told Taylormade about Mrs Ks epilepsy diagnosis and that Taylormade failed to pass this
information on to the insurer.
So, overall, I think there were failings in the sales process by Taylormade which resulted in
Mr and Mrs K being sold a plan which wasnt suitable for them. Whether or not the insurer
sent a summary of the June 2018 application details to Mr and Mrs K doesnt change my
findings that Taylormade didnt comply with its obligations when selling this plan.
I understand Mr and Mrs K feel theyve been left significantly out of pocket because of
Taylormades actions. But I dont think it would be fair or reasonable in the circumstances to
require Taylormade to pay compensation to Mr and Mrs K to the value of what any
successful claim under the original plan might have been. Im satisfied that, if Taylormade
had told the insurer about Mrs Ks epilepsy diagnosis and the results of a subsequent MRIscan in April 2018, the insurer wouldnt have offered Mrs K any cover. And, based on the
evidence Ive seen, I think its unlikely that Mrs K would have been able to obtain alternative
cover elsewhere with a different insurer. Even if Mrs K had been able to obtain another
policy at the time, theres no guarantee that the condition she tried to claim for in 2022 would
have been covered under that other policy anyway.
Having said that, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs K have experienced distress and
inconvenience as a result of Taylormades actions at a level which Id consider substantial.
Mr and Mrs K were understandably disappointed and worried to find out they didnt hold a
plan providing the level of financial protection which they thought they had, at what was
already a very difficult time due to Mrs Ks illnesses.
I therefore currently intend to direct Taylormade to pay an award of £1,500 compensation for
the impact of its actions on Mr and Mrs K.
Taylormade didnt accept my provisional decision. It said it was disappointed that I based my 
findings on the balance of probabilities rather than on actual evidence, and that its staff are 
aware of the importance of updating insurers about any changes in the health of prospective 
policyholders. Taylormade said it has nothing to gain by failing to update an insurer about 
such changes and again pointed to what it says was the insurers failure to send Mr and Mrs 
K a copy of the completed insurance application summary to check the answers provided to 
the medical questions asked. 
Mr and Mrs K didnt agree with the award of £1,500 compensation which I said I intended to 
make. Mr and Mrs K say this sum doesnt put them back into the position they would have 
been in if the error had never been made as, if theyd realised Mrs K wouldnt have been 
able to obtain insurance cover, theyd have saved money instead. Mr and Mrs K feel an 
award of compensation in excess of £5,000 would be more appropriate in the 
circumstances.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service applies one standard of proof across the complaints we 
determine, and that is the balance of probabilities. In reaching my provisional findings about 
what I think is most likely to have happened in the circumstances, I considered and 
addressed all the available evidence. This includes the evidence provided by Taylormade as 
well as that provided by Mr and Mrs K. 
Ive taken into account Taylormades comments about having nothing to gain by failing to 
update the insurer but I havent concluded that the error here was deliberate. The error is 
just as likely to have been accidental. Taylormade had the opportunity to investigate and 
address Mr and Mrs Ks assertions that its representative admitted to failing to change the 
details on the June 2018 application form but doesnt appear to have done so.  
Our service has issued a final decision in which I said I found it likely that Mr and Mrs Ks 
insurer didnt provide them with a completed copy of the June 2018 insurance application 
summary for them to check. But this doesnt change my findings that it would be fair and 
reasonable for Taylormade to pay compensation for the impact of its own failings on Mr and 
Mrs K. 
Mr and Mrs K have been given a refund by the insurer of the premiums they paid for Mrs Ks 
cover. This reflects the fact that Mrs Ks policies should never have been sold to them, so Mr and Mrs K should never have been paying this portion of the premium. I accept that, as an 
alternative to buying Mrs Ks policies, Mr and Mrs K may have saved this money instead but 
I dont think I can fairly conclude that theyre likely to have saved a higher amount based on 
their circumstances as they were at the time. 
Overall, I remain satisfied that a payment of £1,500 is fair and reasonable compensation for 
the impact of the situation on Mr and Mrs K. I appreciate this is less than what Mr and Mrs K 
were hoping for and Im sorry to disappoint them but an award of compensation at the level 
theyve mentioned isnt one which Id consider fair in the circumstances of this individual 
case.
This means I wont be changing my provisional findings. 
Putting things right
Taylormade Finance Limited needs to put things right by paying Mr and Mrs K £1,500 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience they experienced. 
Taylormade Finance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it Mr and Mrs K accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ks complaint about Taylormade Finance Limited and I direct it to 
put things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 January 2024.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman