DRN-3004694
The complaint
Mrs & Mr A are unhappy with the standard of service they received from Barclays Bank UK 
PLC.
What happened
In November 2020, Mrs and Mr A, with the help of their son, set up a new joint current 
account online with Barclays. Mrs and Mr A received paying-in books, an introductory letter, 
and a letter containing their membership number for online banking. However, they didnt 
receive debit cards, chequebooks, or several other documents. This meant that Mrs and Mr 
A didnt have full access to their account for several months  other than online  despite 
repeated chases with Barclays. In April 2021, Mrs and Mrs A closed their Barclays account 
and raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Mrs and Mr As complaint. They acknowledged that Mrs and Mr A hadnt 
been provided with the standard of service that they should have been. So, they upheld Mrs 
and Mr As complaint and made a payment of £125 to them as compensation for the trouble 
and upset that theyd incurred.
Mrs and Mr A didnt feel that Barclays response went far enough, so they referred their 
complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they felt that 
the payment of £125 compensation that Barclays had already made did represent a fair and 
reasonable resolution to what had taken place, and so they didnt uphold Mrs and Mr As 
complaint.
Mrs and Mr A remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been frustrating for Mrs and Mr A to have not received a 
chequebook or debit cards from Barclays upon opening their account, especially given that 
Mrs and Mr A are both over 90 years of age and dont wish to engage with online banking, 
preferring instead to do their banking by more traditional means.
Barclays have acknowledged that they didnt provide the standard of service to Mrs and Mr 
A that they aspire to in this instance. And this includes that Barclays didnt initially send the 
forms to be returned by Mrs and Mr A providing their specimen signatures to enable the 
chequebook and debit cards to be sent.
Mrs and Mr A have explained that, when they chased Barclays about this, they subsequently 
received two sets of signature forms from Barclays in short succession, both of which Mrs 
and Mr A signed and returned. However, in their correspondence with this service, Barclays 
confirmed that they had never updated Mrs and Mr As signatures and that they have no 
record of receiving the signature forms from Mrs and Mr A to enable them to do so on either 
occasion.
Unfortunately, it isnt clear whats happened here, and its in part for this reason that 
Barclays upheld Mrs and Mr As complaint and paid compensation of £125 to them.
Mrs and Mr A dont feel that this compensation amount goes far enough considering the 
length of time that they were without debit cards and a chequebook or in regard to the 
number of times they chased these outstanding items with Barclays. Mrs and Mr A also cite 
the worry and concerns they felt with regard the safety of the funds that they deposited into 
the account, and which they sought reasonable access to.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an amount considered as being fair and 
reasonable by one party sometimes not being considered as such by someone else. But, 
while I appreciate that Mrs and Mr A might not agree, the £125 that Barclays have already 
paid to them as compensation does feel fair to me and I do feel that it provides reasonable 
compensation for the upset and trouble that they incurred. I can also confirm that this 
amount is commensurate with what this service would expect, given what happened here. 
It follows then that Im satisfied that the compensation of £125 that Barclays have already 
paid to Mrs and Mrs A does represent a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint. And 
it further follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking Barclays to take 
any further action at this time.
I realise that this might not be the outcome that Mrs and Mr A were wanting here, but I hope 
they will understand, given what Ive explained above, why Ive made the final decision that I 
have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman