The complaint
Mr S says PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about four instalment loans Mr Lender provided to Mr S between February 
2017 and June 2018. Mr S borrowed amounts ranging between £200 and £650 to be repaid 
in six monthly instalments. The highest expected monthly repayments ranged between 
£105.06 and £259.13. Mr S deferred loan one twice and loan three once. There were no 
significant gaps in the borrowing and the loans didnt overlap. Mr S repaid all his loans. 
When he complained, Mr Lender offered Mr S a £25 gift voucher as a gesture of goodwill, 
but Mr S was unhappy with this. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ss complaint in part and thought loan four shouldnt have been 
given. Mr Lender disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
DRN-2011111refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr S could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint.
Mr Lender asked Mr S for information about his income and expenditure and it carried out 
credit checks. Mr S said his monthly income was £2,100. His monthly outgoings ranged 
between £825 and £1,700. I cant see that Mr Lenders credit checks found anything 
untoward that should have prompted further checks.
I think these checks went far enough for loans one to three. Given the loan amounts, what 
was apparent about Mr Ss circumstances at the time and his history with Mr Lender, I dont 
think it wouldve been proportionate to ask him for the amount of information needed to show 
the lending was unsustainable.  There wasnt anything in the information Mr S provided or 
the information Mr Lender shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been 
proportionate to start verifying what Mr S was saying. The loans looked affordable, and so I 
cant say Mr Lender was wrong to have approved loans one to three.
But I think Mr Lender should have made better checks for loan four. This is because of the 
pattern of Mr Ss borrowing, his late payments for loan one and the deferral for loan three. 
So I think Mr Lender should have asked further questions about Mr Ss finances and verified 
what hed told it. 
I havent enough information to say what better checks would have found. But, as our 
adjudicator explained, by loan four Mr Ss overall pattern of borrowing suggested that he was 
persistently reliant on short-term loans:
This was Mr Ss fourth loan in 16 months and there was no gap between the 
repayment of loans three and taking out loan four;
The amount Mr S borrowed had increased significantly since loan one and the gaps 
in the borrowing had decreased so Mr Ss indebtedness to Mr Lender had increased.
 
Mr Lender thought the three months break between the repayment of loan one and taking 
out loan two constituted a new chain of lending. But I disagree. I dont consider this break sufficient for Mr Lender to think that Mr Ss finances could have improved. I think the four 
loans were in one chain of lending. 
So I think Mr Lender should have realised from the pattern of lending that loan four was 
unsustainable for Mr S. And so I think Mr Lender was wrong to have provided loan four.
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr S, I think Mr Lender should:
refund all interest and charges Mr S paid on loan four;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loan four from Mr Ss credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that Im partially upholding Mr Ss 
complaint. I require PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) to pay Mr S compensation 
as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2020.
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman