DRN-3790058
The complaint
Mr A complains that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans lent irresponsibly 
when it approved two loans in his name.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said:
Mr A applied for a loan of £3,000 for two years with a total sum repayable of £7,815 with
interest via Everyday Loans in August 2018 (loan 1). During the application, Everyday Loans
says it looked at his credit file and asked him to provide bank statements. Everyday Loans
took the income Mr A was receiving into account and deducted living expenses leaving a
disposable income. Everyday Loans has confirmed it used child benefit as part of Mr As
income. Everyday Loans says the application met its lending criteria and was approved. The
loan was repaid in November 2019.
In November 2018 a County Court Judgement was recorded on Mr As credit file.
In March 2020 Mr A applied for another loan of £3,000 (loan 2). This loan was for three
years with a total sum repayable of around £9,200. Everyday Loans looked at Mr As credit
file again and took information from his application, including his income. Everyday Loans
obtained bank statements and contacted Mr As employer to confirm his role. Everyday
Loans approved Mr As loan application.
In 2020, a third party acting on Mr As behalf, complained to Everyday Loans that it had lent
irresponsibly. Everyday Loans didnt uphold Mr As complaints.
An investigator at this service looked at Mr As complaint and upheld it in part. They thought
Everyday Loans had lent irresponsibly when it approved Mr As first loan. But they didnt 
agree the second loan was irresponsible. Everyday Loans asked to appeal, so Mr As 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before a business agrees to lend, it should take reasonable steps to ensure it does so in a
responsible way. Theres no set list of checks a lender has to complete. In practice, this
means businesses should ensure proportionate checks are carried out to make sure the
customer can afford to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way. These checks should take
into account various factors, like the amount being lent, the costs to the borrower each
month, credit history and the consumers income and outgoings. As the relationship between
lender and borrower progresses, the business may need to consider carrying out more
comprehensive checks to ensure the borrower can afford repayments in a sustainable way.
The full rules can be found in CONC.
As noted above, Ive reached a different view to the investigator. I think Everyday Loans
decision to approve both loans led to it lending irresponsibly. Ill explain why.
Everyday Loans obtained a reasonable amount of information and evidence from Mr A when
assessing the application for loan 1. I can see Everyday Loans obtained a bank statement
from Mr A and also looked at his credit file to get a picture of his income and outgoings. Mr A
has also provided a copy of his credit file from 2020 that shows broadly similar information.
Mr A submitted two sets of bank statements, one in joint names and one in his sole name.
Ive looked at both and found Mr As earned income was broadly in line with the figures
Everyday Loans used. But I note Everyday Loans has confirmed it used Child Benefit being
received into the joint account when assessing Mr As application. The child benefit doesnt
appear to be in Mr As name. Given the application appears to have required the benefit
income to be approved, I think Everyday Loans needed to be sure it was in his name.
The bank statements also show signs Mr A mayve been struggling. I note there are a
number of returned direct debit payments for items including insurance, which Id consider to
be a priority bill, in the months before the loan was approved.
Given the total size of the loan and what Everyday Loans knew about Mr A, I think the
decision to approve loan 1 was irresponsible.
Ive looked at loan 2 in the same way. I note our investigator wasnt persuaded Everyday
Loans lent irresponsibly in relation to loan 2 but I disagree. I think there were further signs at
this stage that indicated Mr A would be unable to manage further repayments in a
sustainable way. I note Mr As credit file recorded a CCJ and new defaults to other finance
providers in the period between loans.
I also note the income used by Everyday Loans reduced significantly between Mr As
applications. For loan 1, an income of around £3,200 was used in the assessment. But for
loan 2 that figure had been reduced to around £2,200. In addition, whilst the initial borrowing
amount was again £3,000, the term increased to 36 months for loan 2 and total amount
repayable went up to around £9,200. Given the increased term, total borrowing and
reduced income, Im not persuaded it was reasonable to proceed. In my view, Everyday
Loans lent irresponsibly when it approved loan 2 as well.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional points they wanted me to consider before 
I made my final decision. Everyday Loans confirmed it accepted the terms of my provisional 
decision. We didnt hear back from Mr As representatives. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided new information for me to consider, I see no reason to change 
the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I still think Mr As complaint should be 
upheld, for the same reasons. My final decision
My decision is that I to uphold Mr As complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited trading 
as Everyday Loans to settle as follows:
- Refund all interest, fees and charges applied to loans 1 and 2
- If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr A along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the 
date of settlement. Everyday Loans should also remove all adverse information 
regarding both loans from Mr As credit file.
- Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, Everyday Loans should 
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mr A on an interest free basis. Once Mr A 
has cleared the balance, any adverse information in relation to the account should be 
removed from their credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from any award of interest. 
It must give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If 
it intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting 
the tax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman