DRN-3070893
The complaint
Mr B complains that Cofunds Limited trading as Aegon, referred to as Aegon delayed the 
closure of his Stocks and Shares Individual Savings Account (ISA) causing him financial 
loss. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. Below, 
I have highlighted some key dates I think are relevant to the complaint:
22 May 2018: Mr B signs the request to withdraw his funds 
25 May 2018: the request is received by Aegon
8 June 2018: funds were processed by Aegon
20 June 2018: funds amounting to £20,045.97 were transferred to Mr B  
Aegon upheld Mr Bs complaint and paid him £201.90 compensation. It says this reflects the 
lost investment caused by the delays and recognition of the trouble and upset caused. 
However, Mr B is seeking an increased amount of compensation. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached the matter has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I broadly agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator for the 
following reasons: 
All parties agree there was a delay in closing Mr Bs ISA and transferring his funds. 
When a business has delayed a transfer I firstly need to consider if there was any 
financial impact. Ive thought about the timescales involved in a transaction like this. 
Mr B has told us he was expecting the transfer to take 5-8 working days. Aegon has 
said Mr Bs transfer was delayed and the trade should have been placed on 
4 June 2018 but wasnt placed until 8 June 2018. 
The form Mr B filled out to close his ISA also states that payments will typically take 
up to 10 business days to reach your nominated bank account. Following this, I can 
see Mr B did receive his funds on 20 June 2018, but this was already over three 
weeks since Aegon had received the forms. 
Aegon has said that the delay was due to a significant demand on its platform since 
its systems were upgraded, which impacted its internal processing times, resulting in 
delays. So, whilst I understand the reasons for the delays, I still need to consider the 
impact on Mr B. I think Aegon couldve transferred Mr Bs funds much quicker than it 
did and therefore, Ive considered whether he suffered any financial loss because of 
Aegons delays. 
I know Mr B has said he intended to use the funds to buy a vehicle for his business 
and due to Aegons delays the business lost out financially. Ive thought about 
whether Aegon couldve reasonably foreseen that its delays wouldve caused Mr B 
further losses to what it has already compensated him for. I cant say that his 
business incurring the financial loss Mr B says it did was reasonably foreseeable. 
Under the circumstances this would be too remote to be a consequence of Aegon 
delaying the transfer for several weeks. 
I dont dispute the loss incurred by Mr Bs business and understand this wouldve 
been a stressful time for him. But in any event, I cant consider the financial impact 
Aegons delays had on Mr Bs business as it is not Aegons customer.
Nonetheless, I accept Aegon couldve carried out the transfer more quickly. It didnt 
communicate effectively with Mr B to manage his expectations about the delays it 
was experiencing. It told Mr B that the funds should reach his account in 
10 working days, but it did in fact take much longer than this. 
Aegon has already paid Mr B £201.90 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. This includes a price comparison it made had it sold the 
stocks and shares sooner than it did. So, Im satisfied Mr B has been put back in the 
position he wouldve been in had Aegons delays not occurred. 
My final decision
I dont think Cofunds Limited trading as Aegon needs to do anything to settle the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Rajvinder Pnaiser
Ombudsman