DRN-4300268
The complaint
Mr A complains that Wise Payments Limited (Wise) wont refund over £45,000 he lost to a 
scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will provide a brief summary and focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.
Mr A fell victim to scam in September 2022 after he was contacted by someone who said 
they could help him release the profits of a previous cryptocurrency investment hed made, 
which was now sat in an account. He downloaded remote access software and allowed the 
scammer to open an account with Wise in his name, as he was told he had to pay various 
fees in order to release his profits. Mr A then made the following payments from his newly 
opened Wise account to purchase cryptocurrency, which was then paid on to the scammer:
Date Payment method Payee Amount
19/09/2022 Transfer F (private individual) £7,500
19/09/2022 Transfer F (private individual) £2,480 
20/09/2022 Transfer F (private individual) £9,900
21/09/2022 Transfer F (private individual) £10,500
22/09/2022 Card Binance £4,995
22/09/2022 Card Binance £5,000
22/09/2022 Transfer I (private individual) £4,995
Total: £45,278
Mr A realised hed been scammed when he was asked to pay a further fee of £20,000. He 
reported the fraud to Wise, but it said it wouldnt refund the money hed lost as hed 
authorised the payments. 
Our investigator also didnt uphold the complaint. She thought Wise ought to have provided 
a tailored scam warning in light of the payments Mr A was making, but she didnt think this 
wouldve ultimately prevented the scam as Mr A hadnt been honest when he was asked the 
reason why he was making the payment, so it wouldnt have been able to provide an 
impactful warning as a result. Mr A disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to 
determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it for the following reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr A authorised the disputed payments he made from his Wise 
account. The payments were requested using his legitimate security credentials provided 
by Wise, and the starting position is that firms ought to follow the instructions given by 
their customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Wise should have done more to prevent Mr A from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a payment service 
provider should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a 
particular transfer. For example, if it was particularly out of character.
Wise doesnt consider the payment activity on Mr As account to have been unusual 
enough to have warranted an intervention. However, Mr A opened his Wise account on 
13 September 2022. Prior to the first scam transaction of £7,500 on 19 September, he 
had only made small payments to himself not exceeding £1,000. So, I think Wise ought 
reasonably to have seen a £7,500 payment to a new payee as higher risk given it 
marked a change in how the account had been used, such that, at this early stage, it 
should have provided Mr A with a written warning that broadly covered scam risks. 
However, Im not persuaded that any such general warning would have likely prevented 
Mr A from continuing to make the payment. Theres nothing to suggest he was uncertain 
or sceptical about what he was doing, for example, as he thought he was dealing with 
genuine firms such as Revolut, Wise and Binance who were asking him to pay different 
fees. The scam also wasnt a typical investment scam, so I dont think any general 
warnings about how they tend to operate wouldve resonated with Mr A. Indeed, I can 
see that he was presented with a general scam warning on 22 September 2022, but he 
still chose to continue with the payment. 
Its arguable that Wise shouldve sought to provide a more tailored written scam warning 
by seeking to narrow down the purpose of the transaction when he made the third and 
fourth payments, as payments escalating in value being made to the same payee can 
often be indicative of fraud. However, even if Wise had sought to narrow down the 
purpose of the payment to provide a more tailored scam warning, Im not persuaded this 
wouldve ultimately prevented Mr A from falling victim to the scam either.
I say this because Mr A said he was under the impression that he was paying fees to 
Revolut, Wise and Binance in order to carry out liquidity checks, as well as paying taxes 
and money laundering fees. However, when he was asked to select a reason for the 
payment, Mr A said he was sending money to friends and family. I appreciate this may 
have been selected by the scammer who was helping Mr A to make the payments via 
remote access software. But it ultimately means that Wise wouldve been prevented from 
providing a tailored scam warning. It also means that any further questioning wouldnt 
have revealed the scam either, as the scammer would have likely been telling Mr A to 
continue providing misleading answers. 
Given Mr A was also paying an individual rather than a company, the reason he gave 
wouldnt have appeared inconsistent with the payee and wouldve given Wise less cause 
for concern that he was at risk of financial harm. I appreciate he later went on to send money to Binance, but I dont think the value of these payments were significant enough 
to warrant a further intervention from Wise, as it was less than the amounts hed already 
paid from the account, so it wouldnt have appeared overly unusual.
So, in these circumstances, I dont consider it would be fair and reasonable to hold Wise 
liable for Mr As loss, because it seems more likely than not that he would have always 
made the payment to the scammers, notwithstanding any scam warnings or intervention 
Wise couldve given.
Ive also thought about whether Wise couldve done more to recover the money Mr A lost 
after he reported the scam. In terms of the transfers, Wise has explained that the 
individuals he paid were legitimate Wise customers using its platform for peer-to-peer 
crypto trades. And given they had provided the crypto in exchange for the money Mr A 
paid, (which he then transferred on to the scammer) there wouldnt have been any fair 
and reasonable basis on which it could seek to recover the funds from those individuals 
accounts. 
Similarly, in terms of the card payments made to Binance, I can see that Wise attempted 
to recover the funds via a chargeback claim, which was successfully defended by the 
merchant. And given there wouldve been no reasonable prospect of the claims 
succeeding (seeing as Mr A received the crypto asset he paid for), I dont think Wise has 
acted unreasonably by failing to pursue the chargeback claims any further.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr A, and Im sorry to hear he has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded Wise can fairly or reasonably 
be held liable for his loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman