DRN-3166385
The complaint
Mr S complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) misled him about how much 
his pension would be worth at retirement.
What happened
Mr S took out a pension with Aviva in 1984 through an independent financial adviser (IFA).
Mr S recently received a retirement quotation and was disappointed to find out that his 
pension was worth £238,334.60. This was substantially less than the sum Aviva had 
estimated his pension would be worth when he took it out.
Mr S complained that hed been misled by Aviva, adding that he hadnt been told during the 
years since taking the pension out that the plan was likely to be worth less at retirement.
Aviva didnt uphold the complaint. It said market conditions were very different now 
compared to when Mr S took out the pension in 1984. It said the estimated returns were 
reasonable at the time.
Mr S remained unhappy so he referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought the information Aviva had provided 
was clear that the future returns were estimated and that the projected value wasnt 
guaranteed. He also thought Aviva had provided valuations to Mr Ss IFA over the years so 
he ought to have been aware that a lower value at retirement was expected.
Mr S didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide the matter. He said as a layperson 
he had relied on the illustration. He thought it was incumbent on Aviva to do more to let him 
know how much lower the value of his pension was likely to be at retirement. Mr S added he 
couldnt be expected to understand that the value estimated in 1984 was unachievable as 
the maturity bonus couldve increased the value substantially.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint for largely the same reasons as the 
investigator. I know Mr S will be very disappointed by this, so Ill explain why.
First I wish to acknowledge the difficult position Mr S is in. I understand Mr S was relying on 
this plan to fund his retirement and he was expecting a much higher sum. So, I appreciate 
how upsetting it must be for him knowing he has a lower pension available to him. But 
having said that, I dont think Aviva has treated him unfairly here.
Its important to note that Aviva didnt sell the plan to Mr S, it was purchased through an IFA. 
So, it wouldve been the IFAs responsibility to explain the features of the plan to Mr S and 
the risks involved, such as the effect of market conditions on the returns. But Aviva still 
needed to provide clear information. Ive seen a copy of the illustration Mr S says he relied 
upon and Im satisfied it clearly explained that on retirement at age 60 there was a 
guaranteed fund of £53,495 and an estimated fund of £1,146,504. The illustration stated:
Estimated values are calculated assuming a bonus rate of 7% p.a. compound, with a further 
2.50% p.a. calculated on existing bonuses only and estimated pensions are based on 
current annuity rates.
Note: Current bonus rates reflect high investment returns. A decline in investment returns 
may lead to a fall in bonus rates.
So, I think the illustration made it clear that Mr S was only guaranteed to receive the lower 
sum of £53,495 at age 60 and the higher figure was an estimation based on the current rates 
and investment returns. And I think Mr S wouldve known that the projected value of his 
pension at retirement was dependent upon market conditions and could change over time.
Mr S says Aviva needed to do more to let him know the valuation estimated in 1984 was 
unachievable. But I can see Aviva sent regular valuations to Mr Ss IFA, whose responsibility 
it wouldve been to discuss the valuation with Mr S and consider the implications of it. I dont 
think Aviva needed to do more in the circumstances as it couldnt have reasonably expected 
Mr S to base his retirement plans on an illustration given to him in 1984. I can also see that 
Aviva wrote to Mr S in 2012 to explain that because of investment conditions, it was unable 
to declare any regular bonus in 2011 and would be unable to do so going forwards, as it 
needed to prioritise the payment of guaranteed benefits. So, I think Mr S wouldve 
understood the market conditions were having an adverse effect on his pension.
Mr S says he thought that the addition of the final bonus could make the figure estimated in 
his illustration achievable. But Im not persuaded by this  Mr S was told the estimated 
valuation was based on investment returns and he wouldve been aware of a series of 
market crashes since 1984. He was told directly in 2012 that poor investment returns meant 
Aviva was unable to pay bonuses and that the value of his pension, after around 28 years, 
was £128,876.88. So, overall, I think Aviva gave Mr S enough information for him to 
understand his final pension was likely to be substantially less than was estimated in 1984. 
And I dont think it was reasonable for him to have expected otherwise.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2022.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman