DRN-3400260
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that they were charged a cancellation fee of £20 by Sainsburys Bank 
Plc, when they cancelled their home building and contents insurance policy within the 14-day 
cooling off period. They think this is unfair and would like the fee refunded.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J purchased a home insurance policy from Sainsburys in May 2021. Shortly 
afterwards Mr J found a cheaper quotation and called Sainsburys to cancel the policy. 
Sainsburys were happy to cancel the policy but told him there would be a cancellation fee of 
£20, which theyd deduct from the refunded premium. 
Mr J went ahead and cancelled the policy but raised a complaint about the fee. He said hed 
never been told thered be a fee if he cancelled the policy and the policy documents didnt 
make this clear.
Sainsburys didnt uphold the complaint. They said the policy had been purchased via a 
comparison website, and before buying the policy details of their fees and charges are 
provided. The website states that within 14 days of inception the cancellation fee is £20 but 
the £30 set-up fee will be refunded. So Mr J was provided with information about 
cancellation before deciding to purchase the policy. 
Sainsburys said Mr J received the policy documents on 31 May 2021 via their online portal 
as this was his preferred delivery method. The insurance pack provides details of the 
cancellation rights. And these are also provided within the Insurance Product Information 
Document which is part of the pack.
Mr and Mrs Js policy started on 19 June 2021 and was cancelled on 1 July 2021. So 
Sainsburys said theyd following the correct process and refunded the premium paid less 
the £20 cancellation fee.
Mr and Mrs J werent happy with Sainsburys response and complained to our service. 
Initially Sainsburys didnt provide their business file, so our investigator said they should 
refund the £20 cancellation fee, as he hadnt seen any evidence which showed Mr and Mrs J 
had been made aware of the fee.
In response to our investigators opinion Sainsburys provided their file, so he reviewed the 
case and issued a further opinion. He said hed reviewed the policy documents, and these 
made it clear that if a policy was cancelled within 14 days, a fee of £20 would apply.
Our investigator was satisfied that the policy documents were available for Mr and Mrs J to 
view before purchasing the policy. He also looked at Sainsburys website and said the 
policies they offered were available to view, and these included information about fees that 
might apply. 
Mr J had also said that the £20 was around 25% of the total cost of the policy and this wasnt 
proportionate. Our investigator considered this but said it was a set fee, regardless of the 
cost of the policy, and Sainsburys had correctly applied the fee set out in the policy 
documents. So he thought Sainsburys had acted fairly and didnt ask them to take any 
further action.
Mr J responded saying he thought the matter had been resolved and it was unfair that 
Sainsburys had been allowed so much time to respond. He also said that at the time he 
applied for the policy he didnt think hed been made aware of the policy terms and 
conditions. He asked if he signed to confirm hed read and agreed to them. He said again 
that the fee was disproportionate and that he never received the policy documents.
Our investigator considered what Mr J had said but didnt change his opinion. He said that 
as Sainsburys had provided their file, it was appropriate for him to review the evidence 
theyd provided to thoroughly investigate the case. But he understood this was disappointing 
to Mr and Mrs J. 
He was satisfied the policy documents had been sent and he said that by completing the 
online application for cover Mr J had accepted the policy terms and conditions. And as the 
cancellation fee Sainsburys had charged followed the Financial Conduct Authority 
Guidelines, he thought it was fair.
The case has now come to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr and Mrs J are disappointed that their complaint was initially upheld by 
our investigator, but he then changed his opinion when Sainsburys provided their evidence. 
They think this is unfair. But our role is to consider a case based on the evidence provided 
by the parties. And just as our investigator considered Mr Js response to his further opinion, 
it was appropriate for the evidence Sainsburys provided to be considered.
I need to consider whether I accept that Mr and Mrs J were provided with details of the 
cancellation fee when they purchased their policy from Sainsburys. Sainsburys have 
provided screenshots of the information that would have been available online before Mr J 
purchased the policy. And Im satisfied that this included details of the charges which applied 
to the policy, including the cancellation fee.
To complete his purchase of the policy Mr J would have been asked to confirm that he 
accepted the policy terms and conditions. He purchased the policy, so Im satisfied he 
accepted these.
Mr and Mrs J have said that they were never sent a copy of their policy, so they werent 
aware of the cancellation fee. Sainsburys have said that Mr Js preference was to receive 
documents via their online portal. And the documents were available there for Mr and Mrs J 
to view on 31 May 2021. Theyve provided a copy of the documents that were uploaded 
which include the policy terms and conditions. But even if Mr and Mrs J didnt see these, Im 
satisfied that details of the cancellation fee were provided before Mr J completed his 
purchase of the policy.
Mr and Mrs J didnt raise the amount of the cancellation fee when they made their complaint 
to Sainsburys. But Sainsburys didnt object when our investigator commented on this, so 
Im also going to consider this. The Financial Conduct Authority sets rules and guidelines for how businesses should 
operate. In respect of insurance the relevant rules are set out in the Insurance Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook. Section 7.2 sets out the rules around the cancellation of a contract. 
And section 7.2.3 deals with the amount to be paid by a consumer. It says: -
The amount payable may include:
(1) Any sums that a firm has reasonably incurred in concluding the contract, but should 
not include any element of profit.
Theres work involved in cancelling a policy and £20 is the standard fee charged. Its not 
linked to the amount paid for the policy. Im satisfied that the fee is reasonable, and a set fee 
ensures that all customers are treated fairly.
Im persuaded that Mr and Mrs J were notified of the cancellation fee that would be payable 
before purchasing their policy. They accepted the terms and conditions of the policy and 
Sainsburys charged the appropriate fee. So I wont be asking Sainsburys to do anything.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Js 
complaint about Sainsburys Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman