DRN-3892883
The complaint
Mr L complains about the charges Norton Home Loans Limited applied to his mortgage at 
redemption. Hes also unhappy with its handling of his complaint.
What happened
Mr L took out a mortgage with Norton in July 2019. He borrowed £83,387 (including fees) 
over a 25-year term, on a capital and interest repayment basis. 
The interest rate on the mortgage was fixed at 7.9% for the first two years, before reverting 
to Nortons variable rate which, in July 2019, was also 7.9%. An ERC of 3% of the original 
mortgage balance was payable if the mortgage was repaid in full during the two-year fixed 
rate period.
In February 2021, the mortgaged property was sold and Mr L paid £86,971.26 to settle the 
mortgage. That figure included an ERC of £2,501.61, an administration fee of £295, and 
interest up to the date of settlement of £539.47.
The following year, Mr L complained. He said Norton had profiteered from him and treated 
him unfairly. It knew about his difficult financial situation, but it had charged him more than 
£16,000 in fees and interest for a £80,000 mortgage he had only had for 18 months. He said 
the ERC was excessive and unreasonable, and he was charged too much interest at 
redemption. 
Norton said all the charges it had applied were in line with its agreement with Mr L, and it 
hadnt done anything wrong.
Our Investigator concluded that Norton had applied the ERC and other fees on redemption 
fairly, in line with its mortgage contract with Mr L and the relevant regulatory rules.
Mr L asked for an Ombudsmans review. He still felt he had been treated unfairly, and said 
he should be entitled to see the information Norton had provided to the Investigator about 
the basis on which it had calculated the ERC.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the Investigator, for much the same 
reasons.
Turning firstly to the ERC, I find this was set out clearly in the mortgage offer Norton issued 
to Mr L. It was 3% of the original mortgage balance if the mortgage was repaid in full during 
the two-year fixed interest rate period. The original mortgage balance was £80,000 plus 
fees. Im satisfied that the offer was also clear about that, and that the product fee and 
broker fee were to be added to the £80,000.
There are costs to a lender when a mortgage is repaid early. So its common practice for 
lenders to include provision in mortgage contracts to recover those costs, in the form of an 
ERC. An ERC isnt intended to be a penalty for the borrower and, as our Investigator 
explained, its a regulatory requirement that an ERC be a reasonable pre-estimate of the 
cost to the lender of settling the mortgage early. That cost can be calculated across a 
tranche of mortgages rather than individually. 
The Investigator asked Norton to provide information about its costs, in order to understand 
why it set the ERC it required Mr L to pay at the level it did. Norton provided various 
information about its overheads and other costs, as well as lost income on early repayment 
across its mortgage book. 
Ive looked carefully at all of this information, alongside Nortons explanations and 
methodology, and I think it has calculated the ERC it charged Mr L fairly. I understand why 
Mr L would like to see all of these details, but our rules allow us to receive information and 
evidence in confidence where appropriate. Im satisfied that its appropriate to do so in this 
case, given that the details of Nortons underlying costs and calculations are commercially 
sensitive.
Mr L asked Norton to waive the ERC because he was in financial difficulty following the loss 
of his job, and feels it was unfair to turn down his request. Waiving an ERC may be 
appropriate in certain circumstances. Here, I understand the mortgaged property sold for just 
under £150,000, so it wasnt in negative equity in terms of the Norton mortgage, for example, 
and there were no significant arrears on the mortgage at redemption. In all the 
circumstances, I dont think Norton treated Mr L unfairly in not waiving the ERC.
Mr L has also said he was charged too much interest at redemption. Norton has said interest 
is calculated and applied monthly. The mortgage terms reflect that, so I find that Norton was 
entitled to charge interest in this way, and nothing Mr L has said leads me to conclude that 
he has been overcharged.
Finally, Mr L is unhappy with Nortons response to his complaint. While Mr L thinks it didnt 
go into enough detail, that was a matter for Norton. Norton was, however, wrong not to 
include information about the Financial Ombudsman Service in its response or tell Mr L he 
could refer his complaint to us. Mr L contacted us in good time in any event, so I dont find 
anything to indicate that he was disadvantaged as a result of these omissions. I must also 
bear in mind that complaint-handling, of itself, isnt a distinct activity covered by the rules 
under which the Financial Ombudsman Service operates. I therefore make no order or 
award in this respect. I would nevertheless expect Norton to remind its staff of regulatory 
requirements about complaint-handling and in particular the need to include the appropriate 
information about the Financial Ombudsman Service.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman