DRN-3787148
The complaint
Miss M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC closed her accounts.
What happened
Miss M had three bank accounts with Lloyds. In December 2021, Lloyds decided to close 
these accounts. The closure took place on 22 February 2022  at which point Lloyds sent 
Miss M a cheque for the £3.66 remaining in the account.
Miss M is unhappy that Lloyds closed her accounts. She also says that in the period 
following she wasnt able to open accounts elsewhere. She thought Lloyds may have 
registered adverse information with external agencies. 
Dissatisfied, Miss M referred the complaint to us. We contacted Lloyds.
Lloyds investigated Miss Ms complaint. It said it was sorry it had closed her accounts  and 
that it had closed them because, following a review, they were deemed outside its risk 
appetite. But it wasnt able to provide any more information about the closure, which it said 
had been done in line with the terms and conditions of the account.
Our investigator looked at the complaint, and didnt think it should be upheld. Miss M doesnt 
agree. The complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Financial businesses, like Lloyds, are subject to a number of legal and regulatory 
requirements. These mean Lloyds may need to review customers accounts at any time. The 
terms and conditions that apply to Miss Ms account also say Lloyds could end the 
agreement for any reason if it gives Miss M two months notice. And where Lloyds closes an 
account in these circumstances it doesnt need to give reasons  just as Miss M wouldnt 
need to give Lloyds a reason if she chose to close her account.
In Miss Ms case, Lloyds says it carried out a review of her account. Following the review, it 
concluded that Miss Ms accounts were outside of the banks risk appetite. It decided to 
close her accounts.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Lloyds was acting in accordance with the terms 
and conditions of the account when it closed Miss Ms account this way. I appreciate Miss M 
would like to know more about why Lloyds did this  but Lloyds isnt required to give 
reasons, and nor would it be appropriate for me to tell Miss M more.
Ive considered what Miss M has said about the difficulties shes had opening accounts 
elsewhere. Shes told us that she tried to get an account elsewhere but this was closed. 
More recently, shes told us that she had another account, with another bank, closed. But 
based on everything Ive seen, Im not persuaded this is because of anything Lloyds did. 
Weve had confirmation from Lloyds that it didnt apply Miss Ms details to external 
databases which would cause her difficulties applying for an account with another provider.
Ive considered the further points Miss M has raised. She says that shes faced financial 
difficulties because of Lloydss actions. I have every sympathy for Miss M, and dont doubt 
that losing access to the account was frustrating. But Ive concluded that Lloyds acted 
reasonably in closing the account, so this isnt something I can award compensation for. I 
also note that Miss M was able to spend money from the account for the two months it 
remained open before it finally closed. Miss M says she now has another account with 
another provider. So this doesnt change my conclusions.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman