DRN-2284608
The complaint
Miss W complains about the way Crowd Property Limited dealt with her secured loan 
application. She asks that it refunds fees related to the application, interest and additional 
costs related to her other loans (about £20,000) and pays compensation of £10,000 for 
delays with her building work.
What happened
Miss W applied to Crowd Property for a secured loan in October 2019. It declined the 
application in December. Miss W says it should have told it wouldnt lend to her at the outset. 
She says Crowd Property caused delays, failed to communicate and misled her about the 
amount it would lend. 
Our investigator said Crowd Property made a decision not to lend within a reasonable time 
after receiving the information it requested from Miss W, including the valuation. She said 
Crowd Property made it clear it would need a valuation and site images before it could make 
a decision about the application, and how much it would lend. The investigator said Miss W 
had given information to Crowd Property which suggested she had property development 
experience. 
Miss W didnt agree. In summary, she said she made Crowd Property aware that she had no 
property development experience of this type. She said Crowd Property breached its own 
terms and conditions and misled her about its credit team approving a sighting paper.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss W says Crowd Property should have told her at the outset that it wouldnt lend to her as 
she didnt meet its lending criteria. First, because she didnt have relevant property 
development experience. And second, because of the size of the property. She says Crowd 
Property was aware of this at the outset. 
Crowd Property asked Miss W about her experience in property development. She said the 
project was managed by a company (that Ill refer to as B) and named the main contractor 
which she said was experienced in building and finishing to a high standard at this size. 
She went on to say with regard to previous experience we have recently completed a new 
build in the same area which was sold November of last year. We have another property due 
to go OTM in [area] at £950k shortly. Previous to this in recent years we completed five large 
scale refurbishment projects across the [wider area]. When Crowd Property asked for more 
information Miss W sent a link to Bs website. 
Miss W now says she didnt have relevant experience. She says if Crowd Property had done 
its due diligence it would have declined to proceed with her application, as other lenders had 
done. However, based on the information it was given, I think it was reasonable for Crowd 
Property to proceed with the application. If what Miss W told Crowd Property about her 
experience wasnt right, I dont think its reasonable to require Crowd Property to refund her 
costs because it didnt discover this immediately.
Miss W says Crowd Property breached its own lending terms and conditions as she didnt 
have relevant experience. However, Crowd Property didnt lend to Miss W.
I asked Crowd Property whether, as Miss W says, it should have known at the outset it 
couldnt lend to Miss W, for instance because of the size of the property. It said this wasnt 
the case. It said there was no one issue that meant it couldnt lend. It said it didnt take the 
proposal further due to the number and range of its concerns, which it couldnt have known 
at the outset. This included planning issues, conditions that werent discharged and not 
receiving all of the information it asked for. Crowd Property provided internal notes to 
support this. 
While Miss W says she was told (wrongly) that her application had been approved by a 
credit team I havent seen evidence to support this. I think Crowd Property made Miss W 
aware that the loan would have to be approved by the board, that this wouldnt happen until 
the requested documents were provided and any offer in the meantime was conditional. 
Did Crowd Property cause delays with Miss Ws application?
Miss W applied to Crowd Property for a loan in October 2019. Crowd Property sent a list of 
the information it required a couple of days later. 
Miss W instructed a valuation in mid-November 2019. Crowd Properties sent a reminder to 
Miss W at the end of November that it hadnt received the valuation. It asked for the final 
valuation report again on 5 December 2019, having only received a draft. 
The application was reviewed in early December 2019 before being sent to the board. In 
mid-December 2019 Crowd Property told Miss W it wouldnt be taking her application further.
Having looked at the evidence, I think Crowd Property told Miss W what it needed to 
progress the application. It responded to her questions promptly. It reminded her what was 
outstanding and told Miss W it needed this in order to get board approval.
Miss W was under time pressure and she asked Crowd Property to waive its usual process  
for instance, to waive conditions that she said couldnt be satisfied in time, accept out of date 
property searches and base its lending decision on a draft valuation. I think it was 
reasonable for Crowd Property to maintain its usual process and requirements. I think it 
made a decision not to lend to Miss W within a reasonable time frame and without causing 
any unreasonable delays. 
Changes to the amount Crowd Property Limited would lend
Miss W says Crowd Property reduced the amount it initially said, in principle, it would lend. 
She says shed have applied elsewhere if shed known this at the outset. 
Miss W first asked for £1.66 million. Initially Crowd Property said it would lend a total of 
£1.55 million. Miss W asked in November if Crowd Property would increase the amount it 
would lend, to match an offer from another lender. In December Crowd Property sent a 
conditional offer for £1.87 million, including bridge finance. 
I cant see that Crowd Property misled Miss W about the amount it would lend. I think Crowd 
Property made it clear throughout that it needed the valuation report before it could decide 
how much it would lend, and that this would have to be approved by its board.Response to Miss Ws complaint
Miss W says she made a complaint in December 2019 but didnt receive a response. Crowd 
Property say they didnt receive the complaint. As I havent seen evidence that Crowd 
Property received a complaint at that time I cant fairly say it made an error by not 
responding.
I dont think Crowd Property made an error or treated Miss W unfairly. It follows that I wont 
require it to pay compensation or refund any costs related to her application or her other 
loans.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman