DRN-3855315
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy that every time she requests a new cheque book with Santander UK Plc 
she has to telephone or go into a branch which is inconvenient. 
What happened
Mrs H says that for the last few years, every time she needs a new cheque book, she has 
had to telephone Santander instead of one automatically being sent to her. She says that 
each time she has to go through security and she is told a tick has been added to her profile 
which they have to remove so that a new cheque book can be ordered and sent out to her. 
She says that telephoning is inconvenient as there can be long delays and she is unable to 
visit a branch due to her location and difficulties with transport. 
She raised a complaint in February 2022 about the issue. Santander issued a final response 
letter in which it explained that every month, Santander reviews all of its accounts. As a 
result of this review, a block has been placed on Mrs Hs account that stops cheque books 
automatically being sent to her and requires her to go into a branch or telephone Santander 
to request one. This is why each time a call handler removes the block, it is then re-applied 
the following month after the monthly review. Mrs H was advised over the telephone by the 
case handler at Santander that the block was applied due to an outstanding debt Mrs H has 
with Santander that is connected to her credit card. The debt is with a third-party debt 
collector.
Mrs H was unhappy with the response and continued to have issues getting her cheque 
books issued, with some call handlers advising her she had to go into a branch, and they 
could not issue one over the phone. 
Our Investigator looked into the complaint and following our involvement, Santander said it 
had now placed a note on Mrs Hs file which should make it clear to call handlers in the 
future what the situation is and that Mrs H should be taken through security and issued with 
a new cheque book. Our Investigator felt that Santander placing a block on the account was 
within the terms and conditions, so they had not made an error in doing so. However, they 
did think communication had been poor from the call handlers which had caused confusion, 
and that a note could have been placed on Mrs Hs file sooner. Because of this, they felt  
Mrs H should be awarded £100 compensation. Santander agreed with this. 
Mrs H did not agree with the outcome. She felt that Santander had lied when they told her 
the block on her account would be removed every time she called. And she was unhappy 
she still had not been issued with a cheque book since her most recent contact with 
Santander, since the complaint was with our service. 
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the Investigator for largely the same reasons. Ill explain why in 
more detail. 
Ive firstly considered the block itself which was placed on Mrs Hs account each month 
following a monthly review. Santander has said this block restricted Mrs Hs account and 
meant a cheque book was not automatically issued. Ive considered if the terms and 
condition of the account allowed for Santander to do this.   
Section 9.4 of the account terms and conditions states: We can withdraw or suspend your 
cards, chequebook, PIN or Personal Security Details where there is a significantly 
increased risk you will not be able to repay any money you owe on your account. Looking at 
this, I think Santander was acting within the terms and conditions of the account when it 
restricted automatic access to a cheque book on Mrs Hs account due to the outstanding 
debt on her credit card account. And I note that due to the automatic reviews each month, as 
long as the debt remains, the blocks will continue to automatically be added. And I dont 
think Santander has acted unreasonably in doing so. 
Because of this, Mrs H will continue to have to contact Santander each time she would like a 
new cheque book and she will have to pass the security to request one. While I appreciate 
this is frustrating and inconvenient for her, for the reasons outlined above I dont think 
Santander has made an error in requiring her to go through this process. I note Mrs H is 
currently waiting for a new cheque book following letters she sent to Santander and she will 
need to telephone Santander and pass security in order to request one again.  
Ive considered Mrs Hs comments that she was repeatedly told the block had been lifted 
and would no longer be a problem. I only have access to a few phone calls that are relevant 
to the complaint raised. And I note that in the phone call in February 2022, the call handler 
lifts the block and then says this should not be an issue anymore. When Mrs H says that has 
not been the case the last few times she has called, the call handler says that she hopes it 
will not be a problem in the future. It seems likely this conversation is indicative of other 
conversation Mrs H has had where call handlers havent fully understood the block and how 
it works. So I can understand why Mrs H has been frustrated by the process and the lack of 
communication. 
As there has been no financial loss in this case, Im only able to consider compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience the lack of communication has caused and issues Mrs H has 
had with call handlers not understanding the situation fully. Having done so, I think the £100 
offered is fair and is in line with what I would have recommended I the circumstances. I hope 
this decision clarifies the issue for Mrs H moving forward and that the note that has been 
placed on her file makes the process work more smoothly in the future.  
My final decision
I partially uphold Mrs Hs complaint against Santander UK Plc and instruct it to pay her £100 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Rebecca NorrisOmbudsman