DRN-2735458
The complaint
Mrs H complains about the affordability of loans provided to her by Santander UK Plc in 
2014 and in 2018.
What happened
Mrs Hs husband has a loan with Santander which he took out in 2012.
In 2014, Mrs H took out a loan of £5,000 to repay in part the loan taken out by her husband 
in 2012. In 2016, she contacted Santander so it could investigate why her husbands loan 
had been put in her name. At the time she told Santander that her husband had been taken 
into care and she believed she would struggle to pay the loan.
In November 2018 Mrs H took a second loan for £4,414, these funds were to clear the 
balance on the loan taken in 2014 (£1299.85) and the remainder was for home 
improvements.
Mrs H didnt think Santander carried out sufficient affordability checks when she took out the 
loans in 2014 and 2018.
Due to the time that has elapsed since the loan was taken out in 2014 Santander wasnt able 
to provide all the information it had at the time of the application. 
Mrs Hs representative has however told us that Mrs H had an annual income of £8,661.12.  
The rest of the household income consists of Mr H's state pension and his occupational 
pension, £1,075 a month of this is used to pay his nursing home fees.
For the 2018 loan Santander has provided evidence that Mrs H declared her monthly income 
as £2,300 with £1,600 outgoings, leaving £700. It also provided evidence that it carried out 
credit checks and compared Mrs Hs answer for her outgoings to data from the Office of 
National Statistics.
Mrs H made all the monthly payments on her loans until May 2020.
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Mrs Hs income 
was above the income threshold for the loan. She could see that a credit check had been 
undertaken. She felt for a loan of £5,000 over 60 months extensive checks werent required. 
This was because the monthly repayments were limited to £113.99. She didnt think there 
was anything in the information Santander had at the time which would have given it cause 
for concern especially as this was a non-advised loan. Overall, she thought the checks 
Santander did before the 2014 loan went far enough to show the loan was affordable. 
For the 2018 loan the investigator was satisfied Santander had carried out checks 
proportional to the loan. She felt as Mrs Hs declared income and outgoings left a surplus of 
£700 then the new loan with a monthly repayment of £118.09 shouldnt have given 
Santander cause for concern. Therefore, she was satisfied it acted fairly when approving the 
loan. She wasnt persuaded that the loan was unaffordable because of the contact Mrs H 
made in 2016 to say she was struggling to make her payments. This was because Mrs H 
had continued to make the monthly payments until May 2020.
Mrs H disagreed. She said at the time of the 2014 loan Mr and Mrs H had two approved joint 
overdrafts facilities with the bank of £1,550 and £1,000 and were using these overdraft 
facilities to supplement everyday expenditure. In addition, Mrs H does not agree with the 
figure of £700 surplus each month as other monthly expenditure such as internet, house 
repairs, Christmas, birthdays, haircuts, papers and clothing were never considered. In 
addition, the loan taken out in 2014 was in Mrs Hs sole name but based on the joint income 
not Mrs Hs sole income and her expenditure. The priority payments to Mr Hs nursing home 
fees were missed in order that Mrs H kept up the repayments for the loan. This was brought 
to Santanders attention in 2016. Whist no repayments of the loans were ever missed. The 
arrears on the nursing home fees were accruing and causing great distress. The loan in 
2018 was unfordable as evidenced that in order to repay the loan Mrs H could not pay the 
priority payments of the nursing home fees.
The investigator responded to say that it is the customers responsibility to confirm the 
information she gives is correct. As nursing home arrears aren't a credit agreement, they 
wouldn't have shown up on any affordability check which would've been carried out by 
Santander. 
Mrs Hs representative says our approach is typically to expect lenders to check a 
customer's income independently and look at any 'observable trends' such as frequent 
refinancing, increasing levels of debt and how much the debt costs each month.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear of the anxiety and despair Mrs H feels. Santander has a duty to respond 
positively and sympathetically to customers in financial difficulty and I remind it of its duty 
going forward.
In the case of the 2014 loan we dont have all the information that was available to 
Santander at the time. Looking at what we do have I dont think I can fairly say that 
Santander didnt undertake reasonable and proportional checks for the loan. The loan and 
monthly repayments were quite low, and I can see that credit checks were made. 
I did have some more concerns about the 2018 loan. By the time this loan was entered into 
Santander had been told in writing in 2016 that she was struggling to pay nursing home fees. 
But after telling Santander of her problems Mrs H continued to make the loan repayments 
every month and not to seek the help it offered her. I think in this context it was reasonable 
for Santander to assess the 2018 loan on the application Mrs H made in 2018.
Based on the information Mrs H supplied I think Santander wasnt unreasonable to grant the 
loan. The cost of the loan was only a few pounds a month more than the previous loan which 
she had managed to maintain the payment for and the income and expenditure she declared 
didnt suggest she should have problems meeting the monthly repayments nor did any of the 
credit checks Santander carried out. Mrs H and her representative feel that Santander should have made more enquiries. I can 
understand why they feel this given what they have shared about Mrs Hs finances. As the 
investigator explained the checks we expect of a bank before lending depend on several 
factors such as the size of the loan, the length of the term and the consumers income. 
I appreciate Mrs H and her representative say that some of the figures on the 2018 
application were wrong, but I havent seen anything which means I can say Santander 
should have known this. A customer has a responsibility to provide accurate information. I 
dont think I can hold Santander responsible for Mrs H declaring an income that was higher 
than she actually had. Based on what she was saying she had £700 a month to pay for the 
things she and her representative have mentioned and her loan. I think this would have been 
manageable. It wasnt manageable because the figures she provided werent right. I dont 
think I can hold Santander responsible for that.
Im also not satisfied that the observable trends as Mrs Hs representative has put it, should 
have caused Santander concern. Although some of the 2018 loan was for re-financing the 
majority wasnt and the stated purpose for the new borrowing was home improvements. This 
seems reasonable given what else Santander knew about Mrs Hs finances.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman