DRN-2958098
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J took out a PPI policy alongside a further advance on their mortgage in 1998. 
Mr and Mrs J paid for the PPI with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It 
covered Mr J, in case he was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs J disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
While I understand this will disappoint Mr and Mrs J, I do not think their PPI policy was mis-
sold  Ill explain why.
Here, the PPI was not a requirement of the further advance, nor a compulsory part of 
applying for the lending. Mr and Mrs J signed and submitted an application specifically for 
PPI, separately to applying for the loan itself. And they set up a direct debit to pay for the 
PPI, again separately to paying for the loan  the PPI was not part and parcel of the lending. 
None of the paperwork said or implied it was compulsory. And Ive not seen any wider 
problems with Lloyds sales process from the time, nor anything which shows it misled Mr or 
Mrs J into having PPI here. So I think its most likely that Lloyds made Mr and Mrs J aware 
they had a choice about buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time  though 
I can understand if they no longer recall doing so after so many years.
Lloyds recommended the PPI for Mr J, so it had to check it was right for him. And based on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it looks like Mr J 
was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations. 
While he was self-employed, this policy still covered self-employed people and it shouldnt 
have been any harder for him to claim. The policy had a standard deferral period. And Mr J 
didnt have any other significant cover in place, which potentially left him at serious risk 
without PPI. Its worth bearing in mind that if Mr and Mrs J had fallen behind on their 
mortgage, they couldve lost their home. So it looks like this policy could have really been 
useful for them in protecting their home.
Its possible that the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs J about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. Here, it looks like Mr and Mrs J chose to take out PPI, which indicates 
they wanted this type of cover. As I explained above, Mr J wasnt affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful in case something went 
wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out in a claim. And 
the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr and Mrs J could cancel it at any time 
without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely to have put them off 
taking out the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman