DRN-2441826
The complaint
Mr P and Mrs P applied for a mortgage with National Westminster Bank Plc and are 
unhappy with the service they received. 
They say the delay in telling them the property had been downvalued denied them the 
opportunity to negotiate further on the purchase price. They also say the fact the mortgage 
didnt complete until March 2020 meant, due to Covid-19, they ended up staying in their 
rental property for an additional six months whilst the property theyd bought stood empty. 
They want to claim £24,306 in compensation.
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so I wont repeat it again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
It's not in dispute that NatWest got some things wrong. It's admitted that and offered a total 
of £1,395 compensation. Those errors were the delay between 12 December 2019 and 
7 January 2020 where the case wasnt picked up by the underwriting team, and the fact the 
property was downvalued on 12 December 2019 but Mr P and Mrs Ps mortgage broker 
wasnt told of that until 18 February 2020.
Whilst I acknowledge how frustrating it is when a business makes a mistake, mistakes do 
happen. Were not the regulator; weve no power to fine or punish businesses, and our 
awards arent punitive. Clearly no amount of compensation can change what happened. 
NatWest has apologised and paid £1,395 to Mr P and Mrs P; £500 in compensation and 
£895 to reimburse one months rent.
Mr P and Mrs P say they lost the opportunity to negotiate a further reduction in the purchase 
price due to not knowing about the down valuation. Ive considered this point carefully but 
Im not persuaded by it.
The valuation report that was instructed by NatWest was a free basic mortgage valuation. It 
wasnt for Mr P and Mrs Ps purposes. Mr P and Mrs P independently instructed their own 
Building Survey, which was carried out on 3 January 2020. 
On 7 January 2020 Mr P sent an email to their surveyor in which he summarised the building 
survey report theyd received. In the email he listed the issues that had been raised as:
Main issues:
Issue 1  Leaking gutter to front elevation (causing damp patches on the inside of the 
building).
Issue 2  Lack of ventilation in the main roof space causing elevated readings to the 
battening (one of the more costly aspects to fix).
Issue 3  Poor pointing allowing damp ingress in rear right hand corner.
Issue 4  Possible lack of building control in various works (the surveyor has suggested 
we purchase additional insurance to cover us, so this issue is not too much hassle for us 
but just an extra cost).
Issue 5  Moss growth on main roof covering, flat roof and in the gutters (requiring 
professional removal due to the use of asbestos tiles).
Minor cost issues:
2x blown windows panes which will require replacement.
The surveyor has stated that due to the previous status of the property being a 
rental property and keys to the doors and windows being given to multiple 
occupants, it would be prudent to pay for all new locks and keys upon moving in to 
the property.
A full gas and electric check required and was not completed during the survey.
Mr P asked the surveyor if he could give an indication of the likely costs of all those items.
The surveyor replied that quotes from contractors will vary wildly, but his idea of costs was:
Issue 1 - £100
Issue 2 - Adding eves vents and dehumidifying £600
Issue 2 - If recovering the roof is required then £8  10,000
Issue 3 - £200
Issue 4 - Insurance is normally about £30
Issue 5  Two potential methods. First is to spray the roof with a toxic wash and the 
second is to scrape it off. Should be possible with a tower scaffold, both would cost in 
the region of £500
Minor cost issues-
Windows - £70/window
Lock replacement  DIY job at about £8/window and £25/door for materials
Gas inspection - £100
Electrical inspection - £200
All above may be subject to VAT depending on turnover of chosen contractor.
Mr P and Mrs P say they entered into negotiations over the purchase price off the back of 
their survey report. Theyve provided us with an email from Mrs P to the estate agent on 
24 January which said:
Ultimately, it comes down to the fact that the Building Surveyor has highlighted some 
issues yet we feel we are still keen to go ahead with the property and will use savings to 
cover these works and accept the fact that a £10,000 roof recover may be required by us 
in the short-medium term.Whilst we are agreeing to proceed, we would like to clarify the following points:
We, as buyers, are very reasonable and are still keen to purchase the property. 
Rest assured we are not time-wasters and we have seriously considered all 
elements thoroughly before proceeding.
Although we are buying this jointly, [Mr P] has been happy for me to lead on the 
purchase.
The crux of the matter is that, following acceptance of an offer, we received a very 
detailed building survey report in January, which highlighted a number of issues, 
of which some of these have since been rectified and the vendor agrees to fund.
However, there is a roof issue that the surveyor has raised and whilst it is difficult 
to fully explore the issue until we are in the property (and due to the large 
quantities of insulation materials in the loft space) we therefore raised this as a 
potential cost issue. Although the report states there could be 5 years left in the 
covering, when we spoke to the surveyor at length he did indicate it would be best 
to identify the problem and tackle it sooner, to avoid further damage. Ultimately, 
we are very pleased with the survey and want to follow [the surveyors] best 
advice.
Although we are going to agree to incorporate the roof recovering costs ourselves, 
we wish to gather second opinions on potential costs, but with a timescale given of 
Monday to make our decision, this has made it feel very time-limited and 
restricted.
I just thought it best to clarify the above points so we can be clear and continue to move 
forward as calmly as possible with this.
The estate agent replied the same day:
This email will be brief only as we have been unable due to appointments to write in full 
and I wanted you to know that progress has been made.
My client is happy to reduce the asking price by £1716.00.
The valuation report that was completed for NatWest gave no details of any work that 
needed to be done, with just the comment: 
The condition of the property appears generally consistent with its age and type of 
construction but works of repair and maintenance are required. 
It gave the value as £320,000, with the explanation for the downvaluation from the £326,000 
purchase price as The instructed value is considered to be high and is not supported by 
evidence of sales of comparable properties in the locality.
Mr P and Mrs P have said the mortgage valuation report would have given them more 
leverage to further reduce the purchase price, but Im not persuaded by that. The only 
reason given for the downvaluation in the mortgage valuation report was that the purchase 
price wasnt supported by comparables, there was nothing about the various works that were 
identified by Mr P and Mrs Ps building surveyor in his report. 
It seems unlikely from the content and tone of the email trails, and the fact Mr P and Mrs P 
only managed to negotiate a £1,716 reduction despite the potential costs of the works being 
much higher, that any further reduction would have been forthcoming if theyd been aware of 
the mortgage valuation report.When considering any complaint like this, as Mr P and Mrs P are the ones bringing the 
complaint against NatWest, to uphold the complaint Mr P and Mrs Ps version needs to be 
more likely than NatWests version; not just as likely. Having considered everything I cant 
say Mr P and Mrs Ps version - in that they would have been able to negotiate a further 
reduction in the purchase price - is anything more than just as likely, which isnt enough for 
me to uphold this part of their complaint.
Mr P and Mrs P have said if theyd known sooner they would have searched for another 
mortgage lender who would offer them a larger loan amount to cover the shortfall between 
the mortgage amount and the final costs. But they didnt need to do that as NatWest was 
willing to change the mortgage onto a 95% loan to value product code. However, Mr P and 
Mrs Ps broker told NatWest on 19 February that the mortgage should continue at 90% loan 
to value, which gave a mortgage of £288,000. 
It is unfortunate that Mr P and Mrs Ps mortgage broker didnt tell NatWest about the £1,716 
price reduction sooner. As weve not been sent the full email trail we dont know what 
happened after 24 January 2020, but we can see in the emails on that date that the estate 
agent said that was how much the vendor would reduce the price by and that seemed to be 
in response to earlier negotiations. I say that because Mrs Ps email earlier that day said 
they wanted to proceed at the newly revised price and requested confirmation of the price 
in writing; hence the reply from the estate agent. From this it seems the price reduction was 
agreed by both sides on 24 January 2020.
Had the broker notified NatWest of the purchase price reduction at that time then the issue 
with the downvaluation would have come to light when the amendment to the purchase price 
was made on NatWests system. Its not clear why the broker delayed telling NatWest of the 
price reduction until 12 February 2020, or why an incorrect purchase price of £324,000 was 
given (rather than the £324,284 that had been agreed). The reduction in the purchase price 
meant the loan amount needed to be reduced to stay within the 90% loan to value band for 
the product, so the broker would have been aware of the need to pass that important 
information on as soon as possible.
It seems theres been a misunderstanding on Mr P and Mrs Ps part in respect of the 
maximum mortgage amount (for the 90% loan to value product theyd selected), which is 
understandable as theyre not mortgage professionals. Theyve talked as if their mortgage 
advance should have been £293,400 which it would have been had they been buying the 
property for £326,000. But as soon as they negotiated a reduced price to £324,284 then the 
maximum mortgage amount would have decreased to 90% of that new price, so the 
maximum mortgage would have been £291,855. And in fact, based on the £324,000 
declared by the broker, the maximum mortgage would have been £291,600. So thats only 
£3,600 more than their mortgage actually was, not the £5,400 Mr P and Mrs P want to claim.
Mr P and Mrs P could never have borrowed £293,400 when they were buying the property 
for £324,284 unless they moved to a 95% mortgage product.
Some of the other costs Mr P and Mrs P want to claim are the;
£700 cost of their building survey,
£30 CHAPS fee,
£995 NatWest product fee.There are no grounds for me to order NatWest to cover any of those fees because:
NatWest didnt tell Mr P and Mrs P they needed to get a building survey, that was 
their choice and they obtained it for their own purposes. All NatWest needed was the 
mortgage valuation report which it paid for.
The CHAPS fee is always due for the transfer of the funds.
The £995 product fee is an intrinsic part of the product Mr P and Mrs P chose. They 
got the product they applied for, therefore the fee is fairly due.
Finally, Mr P and Mrs P have said they want to claim £5,250 for six months of additional rent. 
Theyve said that delays meant they werent able to get the keys to the new property, so 
were left paying rent on their existing property when they should have moved. This part of 
the claim isnt clear as the purchase completed on 20 March 2020 so before the country 
went into lockdown. As contracts had been exchanged on 28 February Mr P and Mrs P had 
plenty of opportunity to give notice on their rental property and arrange what they needed to 
move house. According to the mortgage application Mrs P was already working in the area 
the new property was in, and was living with her family who lived in the area during the week 
(just travelling home to their rental flat for weekends).
Even if they werent planning on moving on the day of completion  20 March  during the 
initial emergency period from 23 March 2020 home moves were permitted under section 6(2) 
of The Health Protection (Coronavirus, Restrictions) (England) Regulations 2020.
These regulations were amended with effect from 13 May 2020 by The Health Protection 
(Coronavirus, Restrictions) (England) (Amendment) (No.2) Regulations 2020 so that 
in England it became possible to:
visit estate or letting agents, developer sales offices or show homes;
view residential properties to look for a property to buy or rent;
prepare a residential property to move in;
move home; or
visit a residential property to undertake any activities required for the rental or sale of 
that property.
Mr and Mrs P have said in NatWests mortgage application timeline, it states that an 
applicant can expect to receive a mortgage offer 5-10 working days after the valuation is 
received, which would have been much sooner (i.e. prior to January 2020). But theyre 
overlooking a few things. 
NatWest sent a letter to Mr P and Mrs P on 13 December 2019 asking for confirmation they 
werent going to be renting the property out. It seems Mr P and Mrs P are saying they didnt 
receive that, but Im satisfied having reviewed the underwriting notes that the letter was sent 
to them. NatWest sent a further copy of that letter to Mr P and Mrs P on 12 February and the 
mortgage offer couldnt be produced until NatWest got that signed form back.
In addition, the underwriter asked Mr P and Mrs Ps broker for various pieces of information 
on 7 January 2020 and there were issues with Mrs Ps employment which werent resolved 
to the underwriters satisfaction until 7 February.It seems from this that NatWest wouldnt have been in a position to issue a mortgage offer in 
December 2019, even if there hadnt been the issues with the downvaluation, and the fact 
the mortgage underwriter didnt pick matters up until about fifteen working days after the 
valuation had come in, rather than the five to ten working days Mr P and Mrs P have referred 
to.
In any event, even if NatWest had delayed things significantly, I must bear in mind that as far 
as NatWest was concerned, completion could have happened at the end of February as it 
issued the mortgage offer on 21 February. It was Mr P and Mrs P that didnt exchange 
contracts for a further week and then set three weeks between exchange (on 28 February) 
and completion (on 20 March) despite the email from their solicitor saying the vendor wanted 
completion agreed as no later than 20th March (my emphasis) rather than no sooner than 
or on.
I appreciate that the process may have been frustrating for Mr P and Mrs P. NatWest paid 
£500 compensation plus £895 to cover Mr P and Mrs Ps rent for one month for the delay 
between 12 December and 7 January. I think this offer is more than fair in all the 
circumstances of the complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint in the sense I consider the offer made by National Westminster 
Bank Plc in its final response letter to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 February 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman