DRN-3881082
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that they werent given sufficient information by National Westminster 
Bank Plc when they chose to fix their interest rate on their additional borrowing for five years.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J had a mortgage with NatWest on an interest only basis. In April 2017, they 
borrowed an additional £42,500 on a capital and interest basis and fixed the interest rate for 
five years. When the term expired on this fixed rate product they had a choice of NatWests 
switcher rates which are the rates available to existing borrowers switching products. Mr 
and Mrs J feel that they should have been advised to take out a shorter term on their product 
to take advantage of these rates earlier. Whereas they continued on the higher interest rate 
attached to the additional borrowing for longer than they should have had to. NatWest says 
that it ascertained that Mr and Mrs J wanted the stability of an interest rate fixed for five 
years rather than the two year one that was also available to them. It says that it didnt 
advise Mr and Mrs J that switcher rates would be available to them on the shorter mortgage 
as it wasnt able to say what would happen to interest rates in the future. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as she believed that 
Mr and Mrs J should have known that when the product on the additional borrowing part of 
the mortgage came to an end that they could have access to one of NatWests switcher 
products. Mr and Mrs J disagree and say that there is a lack of clarity about NatWests 
interest rates and eligibility 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint relates to what Mr and Mrs J say they should have been told when they took 
out the additional borrowing. if I look at the interest rate they were paying an additional 
borrowing premium  they agreed a five-year fixed rate of 4.10% when the standard variable 
rate (SVR) was 3.75%. But when that period came to an end, they could then switch to 
more attractive rates  switcher rates rather than continue paying a higher rate because of 
the additional borrowing as was their assumption. Mr and Mrs J say that NatWest didnt give 
them sufficient information to make an informed choice. If it had told them that switcher rates 
would be available to them in two years time, they would likely have chosen a shorter term 
for their mortgage product.
Although I can see the force of Mr and Mrs Js argument, it would require the adviser to 
anticipate what NatWests lending policy might be in the future and the trend of interest 
rates. Perhaps switcher rates might be available, perhaps not depending on NatWests 
lending policy in the future. Perhaps switcher rates might be lower in two years time than the 
interest rate that was available to Mr and Mrs J in 2017, perhaps not.
The advisers role is to advise on the range of products that were available at that moment in 
time to Mr and Mrs J in line with their needs and not to anticipate the situation in several 
years time. As Mr and Mrs J noted All you ever see are rates applicable to you at that point 
for that part of the mortgage and a standard variable rate. As such it is not easy to determine 
what the rates are or will be in the future or what the excess is and how it switches. I believe 
this to be an oversight. I dont believe it is an oversight but a conscious decision not to 
anticipate what interest rates will be or what the eligibility criteria will be for those interest 
rates in the future. As that eligibility criteria could change and interest rates will change, it 
could be potentially misleading to provide such information. As the adviser seems to have 
done her job by advising Mr and Mrs J given their needs and requirements and using the 
rates for which they were eligible in 2017, I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman