DRN-3043095
The complaint
Mr B complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited has rejected the claim he made under section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel system he says 
was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr B is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around May 2015, Mr B was contacted by a representative of a company which Ill call 
P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system to be installed at his home. After being 
visited by a representative of P, Mr B decided to buy the system and finance it through a 10-
year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently installed.
In June 2017 the CMC made a claim on Mr Bs behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr B to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said 
the following misrepresentations had been made:
The system would be self-funding.
The feed-in-tariff (or FIT) would provide enough income to cover the finance agreement 
repayment costs.
The returns promised were inflated.
The CMC also said that P had broken the Renewable Energy Consumer Code, the RECC.
On making the section 75 claim to Shawbrook the CMC provided: point of sale 
documentation titled your personal quotation; receipts; and Mr Bs electricity bills and FIT 
statements.
In its final response letter Shawbrook said, having reviewed the information it held on file, as 
well as information provided by P, that it didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to 
Mr B or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. In summary, it said:
Mr Bs contract with P had set out the expected total returns from the system and this, 
alongside the finance agreement, made it clear that the system was not self-funding 
immediately and that there would be a cost involved.
The contract showed an expected annual return in year one of £566.07, whereas the 
loan agreement repayments were £123.03 a month, or £1,476.36 over the year, so 
there would be a shortfall between the expected benefits and the loan repayments.
The FIT statements and electricity bills show that the system was slightly over 
performing.
Unhappy with this response, the CMC referred the complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the information and 
evidence provided, our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented the system to Mr 
B and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view but didnt provide any reasons why.
As no agreement could be reached on a resolution of the complaint, the case has been 
passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. Section 75(1) 
says:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or 
(c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the 
supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like 
claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and 
severally liable to the debtor.
As Mr B paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr B could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr B and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purposes of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and Mr Bs solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar 
Quotation. Ive considered these in detail and whether they support the alleged 
representations made by P. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mr Bs recollection of the sale.The credit agreement, which was also provided by the CMC at the time the original 
complaint was made, sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
Ill now consider each of the alleged representations made as set out above.
Self-funding
Mr B has alleged that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the benefits generated by the system. Ive considered the quote that was 
provided by P and considered whether this supports what he says he was told as I consider 
the quote was central to the sales presentation.
On pages 8 and 9 the quote sets out the estimated income Mr B could expect to receive by 
way of FIT payments. The expected income is split into two tables. The first shows the 
expected FIT payments in the first year and the second shows the expected average income 
over 20 years. My understanding is that the system would only receive FIT payments for 20 
years and this is why 20 years has been used in the quote.
I think that these tables make it clear that Mr B could expect to receive a total income in year 
one of £379.34 from his FIT. The expected electricity saving is shown as £186.73. The 
combined income and savings in year one is shown as £566.07. This is shown in a table 
titled Putting it all together.
There is a section headed Repayments. This has three tables set out over 60 months, 120 
months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 120 months this is the length of the 
loan that Mr B entered into with Shawbrook. This table sets out that there are 120 monthly 
payments of £121.03 due and compares the overall expected grand total from the system, 
averaged over a monthly basis, with the expected loan repayments.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr B could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income with the monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income Mr B could expect to receive by 
way of FIT income and any additional savings would not immediately be sufficient to cover 
his monthly loan repayments. Therefore, Im not persuaded that Mr B was told that his 
monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone.
Ive considered the table above that sets out the expected income from the system against 
the expected benefit. My view is that this table is in an easily accessible format comparing 
the two.
Im satisfied that this table shows that in the first year Mr B was expected to have made a 
loss of £73.86 a month and in the second year this would decrease to a loss of £71.54 a 
month. The expected benefits would be less than the monthly loan repayments for the entire 
loan period and, by my calculation, it wont be until around year 18 that Mr B will have 
recouped the loan costs and the system will be paying for itself, based on the assumptions 
made at the outset.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start, 
and Im unable to conclude that Mr B was told that the system would not cost him a penny. I 
think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between his expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
I do accept that Mr B was told that hed receive a year one benefit of £566.07 as this was the 
expected combined income from FIT payments and electricity savings on his energy bills. 
Having said that, taking into account the available evidence, Im not persuaded that Mr B 
was led to believe that hed receive this sum as a payment. Im satisfied that the quote 
makes it clear that hed have to make loan repayments and overall there would be a deficit.
I also accept that Mr B was told by P that the system would pay for itself over 18 years. The 
system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the performance 
over 20 years.
This shows that by year 18 the overall benefits that Mr B could expect to receive would have 
exceeded the total amount payable under his loan agreement. This table also sets out the 
panel degradation rate so Im satisfied that P made him aware that performance of the 
system would deteriorate over its lifetime. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr B that the system would pay for itself by 
year 18, as supported by the table above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and I were 
satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the contract, and he subsequently 
suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr B. The quote and MCS certificate set out that the system was 
expected to produce 2,398.59 kWh a year and this in turn would generate the income by 
way of FIT payments and savings in his energy bills that Mr B could expect to receive.
Ive calculated that the system should generate 6.57 kWh of energy each day. The system 
generated 6,119.11 kWh between June 2015 and 28 June 2017 which equates to 8.19 kWh 
a day. I think this demonstrates that the system is overperforming compared to the estimates 
provided at the point of sale.
Ive gone on to consider whether P have overstated the potential income and savings Mr B 
could expect to receive by, for example using unreasonable assumptions.
The quote P provided to Mr B was personalised to his specific circumstances and used a 
number of underlying assumptions to calculate the income and benefits he could expect to 
receive over the systems lifetime. Those assumptions included the expected annual 
generation in kWh from the system, the amount of energy generated by the system that Mr B 
would use rather than buying it from his energy provider, therefore leading to savings on his 
energy bills, and the expected increase in utility prices alongside the expected annual 
increase in RPI inflation. The expected increase in utility prices and RPI were based on the 
Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2014.
As set out above, Im satisfied that the system is performing in line with the figure provided in 
the quote and therefore Im able to conclude, as supported by the FIT statements provided, 
that the FIT payments received are also in line with the figures provided in the quote.
The quote sets out that Mr B was expected to use, or self-consume, 50% of the kWh 
generated by the system each year. This in turn would lead to a first years annual saving of 
£186.73. This amount of saving would increase each year in line with the ONS data Ive 
mentioned above.
When setting the percentage of electricity that a consumer would be paid for exporting to the 
National Grid the Government set a rate of 50%. This implies that a consumer would self-
consume or use the remaining 50%. It is my view that a self-consumption rate of 50%, the 
amount Mr B could save on his electricity bills, would be fair basis for calculating the benefits 
of a particular system.
Taking the above into account, Im satisfied that the estimates for the expected generation 
by the system and the percentage of energy that Mr B was expected to self-consume were 
both reasonable assumptions for P to have made.
When estimating the future income and electricity savings that Mr B could expect to receive 
from the system, P estimated that both energy prices and RPI would increase in line with the 
available information from the ONS. The figure used for energy price increases was 8.38% 
and for RPI was 3.22%. Ive considered the available information from the ONS from 2015 to 
2020 to see whether both energy prices and RPI have increased in line with the estimates 
provided by P. The data from the ONS suggests that energy prices have increased by 3.7% 
and RPI by 2.56%. Both of these figures are lower than the assumptions used by P and in 
my view explain why Mr B isnt receiving the financial returns from the system that he may 
have expected.
The assumptions used by P, as set out above, were based on the available information from 
the ONS from 2005 to 2014. I dont think it was unreasonable for P to have used these 
assumptions to calculate the expected financial returns from the system. Im of the view that 
this goes some way to explaining why the system may not be self-funding by year 18. 
Although I appreciate Mr B will be disappointed by the financial returns from his system, Im 
not persuaded that this was because P used unreasonable assumptions when he entered 
into the contract for the system.
Further considerations
The CMC explained that P breached the RECC. I have looked at the findings of the RECC 
non-compliance panel hearing from December 2013.
The RECC non-compliance panel findings are from December 2013, around two years 
before Mr B entered into the contract with P. Shawbrook has also provided information from 
Trading Standards, setting out that it had worked with P since the findings to improve Ps 
sales process. This work included Trading Standards helping P to enhance their business paperwork and documentation to ensure compliance with the relevant legislation. This has 
ultimately led to P receiving Primary Authority Status by the Secretary of State.
So, whilst I accept the RECC findings found concerns with Ps sales practices in 2013, the 
evidence discussed above indicates that Ps sales process, practices and documentation 
had evolved before Mr B entered into the contract. I have to take account of the particular 
circumstances of this case, along with the wider, contemporaneous evidence.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im not 
persuaded that there were any untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr B to 
enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint and I do not require Shawbrook 
Bank Limited to take any further steps to resolve it.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman