DRN-3549616
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy Vodafone Limited signed him up to a credit agreement when he upgraded 
his mobile phone contract. He is unhappy he wasnt aware of the loan or credit check until 
the following month when he checked his credit file.  
What happened
Mr R says he wasnt made aware that when he upgraded his mobile phone contract in 
August 2021 he was entering into a loan agreement for the purchase of the handset. 
Mr R has been with Vodafone for a number of years and has had numerous contracts with it. 
He maintains he has never entered into a loan agreement when upgrading. He says if this 
practice is new to Vodafone it should have made him aware of it. 
Mr R says he wouldnt have taken the loan if he had known it entailed a credit check and 
potential markers showing on his credit file. He says he wasnt aware of the loan agreement 
until September 2021 when he checked his credit file and the loan was on it. 
Vodafone said it was satisfied Mr R was made aware the agreement being taken out was a 
loan. It said during the web chat the agent told Mr R since Vodafone was now regulated by 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) it was required to complete an affordability credit 
check with all its customers. The agent asked Mr R if he could proceed and Mr R agreed. 
Vodafone said the loan agreement document also makes it clear the agreement is a loan 
regulated by the Consumer Credit Act. Vodafone also said it is the customers responsibility 
to ensure the document is read and understood prior to signing. So it didnt uphold the 
complaint. It did offer Mr R £75 as a goodwill gesture to be paid against his airtime but Mr R 
declined the offer.
Mr R brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into things for him and 
didnt uphold the complaint. She said she was satisfied Vodafone told Mr R it was carrying 
out a credit check and the loan agreement had been provided to him to review. And so she 
didnt think Vodafone needed to do anything more to resolve Mr Rs complaint. 
Mr R didnt agree. He said he was not told that he was taking out a loan when he upgraded 
the phone. He also said by the time he saw the entries on the credit report a month had 
passed and so he was unable to cancel the agreement, since the 14-day cooling off period 
had ended. The complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I have summarised the events here, I want to assure both parties that Ive reviewed 
the evidence Ive been provided. And if I dont comment on something, its not because I 
havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues. 
I know it will come as a disappointment to Mr R but I agree with the investigators view. I 
have explained why below. 
I have seen the account notes of the various interactions between Vodafone and Mr R. I can 
see when he contacted Vodafone to upgrade Mr R confirmed he wanted a new handset. And 
when the agent asked Mr R whether he wanted to take the cost of the phone over 24 months 
or 36 months he confirmed 36 months. 
I can also see when Mr R says he isnt happy with the two direct debits the agent explains 
one is for the cost of the phone, and the other is for the airtime. When asked if he wants to 
proceed Mr R confirms he does and signs the device plan. 
On 17 August 2021 Vodafone wrote to Mr R confirming details of the direct debit for the 
device plan. So at the very least I think he would have been aware at this stage that an 
agreement was in place for payment for the handset. I have also seen a copy of the Key 
Information sheet which is headed Fixed Sum Loan Agreement under the Consumer Credit 
Act and then goes on to say, your loan agreement explained. I would have expected Mr R 
to be aware that the payment plan was a loan agreement given these details. 
The loan agreement confirms, the device plan is intended to finance the purchase by you of 
mobile communications equipment. We are giving you credit by allowing you to pay for the 
equipment in instalments. Mr R signed the device plan and in doing so agreed to the terms 
and conditions of the loan. Vodafone cant be held responsible if Mr R didnt read the terms 
and conditions prior to signing it. But Im satisfied the document makes it clear that the 
device plan is a loan and details the consequences of not making the payments. 
Credit file reporting 
Mr R says the credit check and loan took a month to appear on his credit report. Vodafone is 
required to provide credit reference agencies with accurate information about Mr Rs 
account. Vodafone explained it can take 30 days for information to appear on a credit file so 
I cant say this is because of anything Vodafone did wrong. Vodafone had provided Mr R 
with a copy of the credit agreement both at the time of the upgrade and thereafter. So Im 
satisfied Mr R had the information regarding the loan prior to checking his credit file. 
Given the above Im satisfied Vodafone explained it would carry out a credit check prior to 
taking out the device plan, which Mr R agreed to. It also explained the device plan would 
have a separate direct debit. The loan agreement was provided to Mr R so he had the 
opportunity to review it and go back to Vodafone with any queries, or indeed to cancel within 
the relevant period. This is what I would have expected Vodafone to do and so I cant say it 
has acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman