DRN-1861516
 
The complaint
Miss B complains about what happened when she rang Lloyds Bank PLC to request a 
chargeback for goods she'd ordered but hadn't received.
What happened
Miss B was unhappy about how Lloyds dealt with her request for a chargeback. She said 
she had bought goods by mail order, and had confirmation that they werent delivered to her. 
She said that the call handler was reluctant to raise a chargeback, and was rude. She said 
he should have put her through to the right team. Lloyds has now raised a chargeback, and 
has given Miss B a temporary refund while it investigates. 
Lloyds said it had listened to the call. It didnt feel that its call handler had provided Miss B 
with poor service. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that the call handler 
that Miss B spoke to wasnt inappropriate or argumentative, and he did raise a chargeback 
request for her. She didnt think that there was anything wrong with the service, so she said 
she wouldnt ask Lloyds to do any more.
Miss B wanted an ombudsman to look at this complaint, so the case was passed to me for a 
final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Id like to start by saying that theres no right for a chargeback request to be made. 
Chargeback requests do incur a cost for banks, and if theres little prospect of that 
chargeback being successful then I wouldnt necessarily expect a bank to make the 
request. In those circumstances, I dont think it would be unreasonable for a bank to 
explain this to a customer, and ultimately to refuse to make the request.
But I dont think thats quite what happened here. I have listened carefully and 
repeatedly to the call that Miss B had with Lloyds call handler. It doesnt seem to me 
to be solely about attempting to advise Miss B of the prospects of her chargeback 
request being successful. 
In the first part of the conversation the call handler says the dispute Miss B is 
describing isnt a matter for the bank. He says she should take this up either with the 
seller or the delivery company. This could perhaps have been based on a 
misunderstanding. Miss B considered the item hadnt been left on her property. That 
wasnt initially clear to me, so I would understand if this may not initially have been 
clear to the call handler. But once that was clarified, the call handler continued to discuss reasons for not 
making a chargeback, rather than simply assist Miss B to make her request or to 
advise her of the prospects of success. I dont think that was appropriate in the context 
of this call. I dont think, for example, that it was helpful in this situation to tell Miss B 
she should think of the seller, who wont have the money and wont have the goods. 
Miss B pointed out that the seller was likely to be insured, and she also didnt have the 
money, or the goods. 
The call handler may have intended simply to advise Miss B of the prospects of 
success with a chargeback request, but unfortunately I think the call could have 
created the impression that the call handler was seeking to avoid a chargeback being 
made. 
Miss B persisted, and her chargeback request was registered.
I think Lloyds did provide Miss B with poor service on this call. I think a payment of £50 
in compensation, to reflect the inconvenience to Miss B, would provide a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint.  
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Lloyds accepted my decision. Miss B didnt reply.                                                                  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I havent changed my mind.
My final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC must pay Miss B £50 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman