DRN-4177746
The complaint
Mrs E complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) refused to refund the 
cost of a training course that she paid for (in part) using her credit card. 
What happened
In July 2021 Mrs E purchased a course in permanent makeup that cost about £17,000. She 
is unhappy with the quality of the training and she considers misrepresentations were made. 
In summary, she says:- 
she paid double the usual cost for top quality training but this wasnt provided;
she didnt get the four days of training promised or the additional day offered;
the prospectus said lunch would be provided but it wasnt;
she was promised live models to perfect her skills but the models provided had the 
relevant treatments previously so there was no opportunity to complete a procedure 
from scratch - or work on a variety of models - meaning she was unable to master 
the necessary skills with confidence;
her equipment wasnt calibrated to her personally as promised and she didnt get 
training on some techniques;
the course provider tried to sell other things during training which she felt pressured 
to purchase and reduced her training time;
one trainer took personal calls during the course and Mrs E was left alone to view 
videos with poor sound at times; 
public liability insurance was not received and she was locked out of the website 
portal and unable to access demonstration videos and training;
there was no follow up contact when the training finished, her only contact was when 
she requested a full refund; 
she asked to redo the course and the provider offered work on one model only, she 
has lost confidence in the trainers in any event and will need to retrain elsewhere due 
to lack of support; 
communication was poor and she was threatened with legal action which she found 
bullying and intimidating. 
Mrs E contacted the course provider (that Ill call P) who didnt agree there was a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation. In summary P said:- 
a variety of models was provided, some may have had the relevant treatment 
previously but this reflects the usual clients to be expected in practice;
they aim to have at least one model who hasnt had a specific treatment before on 
each training course and this was achieved as Mrs E worked on a client who hadnt 
had eyeliner previously;
a model who hadnt had an eyebrow treatment before was booked but she cancelled 
due to covid, this was outside of Ps control and an alternative was provided at short 
notice;
lunch was promised and this wasnt provided due to a covid related change that 
wasnt updated in the course paperwork but Mrs E was told via email that shed need 
to get her own lunch and P offered a £40 refund to cover this cost;
equipment was pre-calibrated for Mrs E to the correct setting so it didnt have to be 
altered and, if there was a fault, its under guarantee;
information about other courses was provided during training but there was no 
pressure to purchase;
one of the trainers had car trouble and took two calls from the breakdown service that 
lasted about three minutes, this was unavoidable and did not impact adversely on 
Mrs Es training;
a video didnt start correctly but this was rectified before the trainer left Mrs E to 
watch it and she reported that the content was helpful and made notes - in any event, 
the video was available on the website for Mrs E wanted to watch again if she 
wanted;   
P provided several extras, in addition to the start up kit, which outweighs any minor 
inconvenience caused; 
Mrs E was advised at the outset to undertake a shorter course, so she would have 
more time to perfect her skills, but she chose to book the full course;
Mrs E was late to training, she also had difficulty seeing the needles at times and 
changed her glasses and one trainer was concerned that she had unrealistic 
expectations about how quickly shed acquire the necessary skills so a video chat 
with another student was arranged to help Mrs E appreciate what was required;
Mrs E expressed satisfaction at the end of the course and then asked for a full refund 
a week later which suggests she simply changed her mind and decided this sort of 
work wasnt for her.
Mrs E didnt agree with Ps version of events so she contacted Barclaycard and asked for a 
refund, under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). Barclaycard considered 
the evidence and declined the claim and Mrs Es complaint - as it didnt think there was 
enough to show a breach of contract or misrepresentation by P.  
Mrs E referred the matter to our service and one of our investigators looked into what 
happened. He didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that P accepted 
lunch wasnt provided and offered a refund, which seemed reasonable. He thought the 
course elements that Mrs E said she didnt receive were either not included within the course 
package to begin with or they were available (such as liability insurance, for example) but 
not used by Mrs E - or they were actually provided, such as the four days of training. 
The investigator wasnt satisfied that there was enough evidence to find there was a breach 
of contract or misrepresentation by P and he didnt think it was unreasonable for Barclaycard 
to decline the section 75 claim. He also considered a chargeback but didnt think that was 
likely to have been successful and he didnt recommend Barclaycard should have to do 
anything further. 
Mrs E didnt agree and she asked for an ombudsman to review the matter. She says she 
was persuaded to purchase the course by numerous testimonials supplied by P and she 
feels strongly that she didnt get what she was promised. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. Mrs E has made fairly detailed submissions and Ive also spoken to her about what 
happened, so Im going to have to summarise things in my decision. The rules of our service 
allow me to do this. And I want to assure the parties, if I dont mention every single point 
thats been raised, its not because I havent thought about it. I have considered everything 
thats been said and sent to us. Im going to concentrate however in this decision on what I 
consider is key to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome overall. 
I have no doubt that Mrs E feels very let down with this purchase. She brings her complaint 
to our service because she paid the deposit (of just under £3,000) for the course using credit 
provided by Barclaycard. I understand she wants Barclaycard to give her a refund because 
she considers P didnt provide what she paid for. And I want to be clear at the outset that Im 
looking at Barclaycards response to Mrs Es complaint - its not within my remit to require P 
to do anything.
Section 75 CCA 
Section 75 provides (broadly speaking) that the borrower under a credit agreement has an 
equal right to claim against the credit provider if theres a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services - in certain circumstances. Ive 
considered section 75 when Ive looked at whether Barclaycard has taken appropriate steps 
in relation to this complaint. 
I realise this training course didnt meet with Mrs Es expectations - she raised a number of 
issues in her correspondence with P and Barclaycard (as outlined above). In order to uphold 
her complaint, Id need to be satisfied that there was a breach of contract - or 
misrepresentations were made by P (in that Mrs E was told something untrue at the outset 
which induced her to make the purchase). 
I asked Mrs E if there were any specific written terms and conditions and she referred me to 
the course prospectus and extracts from the course manual that set out what was included. 
Ive looked through this paperwork carefully. Im satisfied that P agreed to provide 12 weeks 
of coursework, a start-up kit (consisting of several items including equipment and a selection 
of related consumables, such as pigments), four days of one to one training plus a fifth 
trouble shooting day, liability insurance, a helpline and access to online videos and similar 
for 12 months. 
Ive seen nothing to show that the coursework and start-up kit werent supplied and Im 
satisfied that Mrs E received four days of training. It looks as if the fifth day was offered but 
Mrs E declined to take this up. I appreciate Mrs E feels these elements werent all provided 
as promised because, among other things, some of her training time was taken up with a 
trainer attempting to sell other courses/products, her equipment wasnt personally calibrated 
and she didnt get  to work on live models who hadnt had certain treatments previously. 
I cant see any reference in the paperwork to the provision of live models who hadnt had 
specific treatments before but P acknowledges in correspondence that this is something it 
seeks to provide. P says one such model was provided here (for eyeliner practice) and Mrs 
E confirmed she had the chance to do that from scratch. I realise Mrs E is disappointed that 
she didnt get the opportunity to work on a model who hadnt had another specific treatment 
previously - but P says a relevant model was booked and couldnt attend as she tested 
positive for Covid and a substitute was provided although this person had the treatment 
before. I have no reason to doubt what P says. I think it sounds credible. And I cant fairly 
find this amounts to a breach of contract in these particular circumstances. 
P also states that Mrs Es equipment was supplied pre-calibrated to the personal setting that 
she used during training so there was no need to do more to set it up  and tutorials were available online if Mrs E had any difficulties. Mrs E told me thats not right. She says her 
equipment hadnt been taken out of the box when she got it and P refused to help her set it 
up on the last day of training. I cant be certain what happened. I dont think what P says 
about pre-calibration sounds implausible and Mrs E confirmed that she was able to set up 
the equipment - after watching a video on the manufacturers website. On balance, I cant 
reasonably find the equipment wasnt supplied as agreed.  
I dont think its unusual for course providers like P to provide information about other 
courses and products on offer in this situation. I appreciate Mrs E may have found this 
frustrating but Im not persuaded that relatively minor interruptions such as this - or a trainer 
taking personal calls and minor glitches in video recordings - are likely to have adversely 
impacted on the quality of the training provided overall. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mrs E raised any significant issues during the four days of 
training that she attended - which I would have reasonably expected her to do if she had 
such concerns  and this would have given P the chance to address these at the time. 
Instead it looks as if she actively indicated that she was happy with the course on her last 
day of attendance. I cant see that Mrs E sought to take advantage of the fifth day of training 
or the liability cover but Im satisfied these was offered. And I think Ps offer to refund the 
cost of lunch sounds fair, in all the circumstances.  
Mrs E has referred to testimonials from other students that P supplied which she says 
wrongly persuaded her to book the course. I think an individuals experience of training of 
this sort is always going to be subjective, to some extent. As far as I can tell, the students 
who provided the testimonials in question were recounting their own experiences. Ive got 
nothing to show that the testimonials are false - or P otherwise made misrepresentations that 
induced Mrs E to purchase the course. And Im not persuaded I can reasonably uphold this 
complaint on those grounds. 
When I spoke to Mrs E I explained that I wasnt satisfied there was enough evidence to 
reasonably find there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation here - for the reasons 
set out above. I agreed she could have more time to provide additional evidence - if she 
wanted to. The time set for that evidence to be supplied has now passed and Mrs E hasnt 
sent us anything else. 
Taking all of the available evidence into account, Im not persuaded that there are sufficient 
fair and reasonable grounds to find there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation 
here. And I dont think Barclaycard acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining Mrs Es 
section 75 claim. 
Chargeback
Mrs E says she didnt receive the services she paid for using her credit card so, like the 
investigator, Ive thought about chargeback. This is a process that allows a customer to ask 
for a transaction to be reversed if theres an issue with the goods or services theyve paid 
for. Theres no automatic right to a chargeback but we generally think a financial business 
should attempt one if theres a reasonable chance of success. The success (or not) of a 
chargeback is decided under the relevant card scheme rules. And its for the financial 
business to decide if a chargeback is likely to succeed - albeit wed expect it to make that 
assessment on a reasonable basis. 
Ive considered whether Barclaycard followed the relevant scheme rules here. For the 
reasons set out above, Im not persuaded theres enough evidence to show that there was a 
failure to provide the goods and services promised. So I think its unlikely a chargeback 
would have succeeded and I cant fairly find it was unreasonable of Barclaycard not to pursue this option.  
In light of my findings, Im not persuaded that Barclaycard has acted unreasonably or treated 
Mrs E unfairly and Im unable to uphold her complaint. I realise this decision is likely to come 
as a disappointment to Mrs E as its not the outcome she wanted. I understand she feels 
extremely let down by what happened and I have sympathy for her situation but I cant 
reasonably require Barclaycard to do more. Mrs E isnt obliged to accept what Ive said - in 
which case it remains open to her to pursue the matter by any other means available. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out, my decision is I am unable to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman