DRN-2243872
The complaint
Mr E and Ms K are unhappy with Union Reiseversicherung AGs settlement of a claim they 
made on their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms K and Mr E had an annual travel insurance policy which covered them both. In 2019 
Ms K was on holiday with her friend, who wasnt insured under the policy. Ms K was 
admitted to a public hospital via ambulance and was diagnosed with a urinary infection. She 
was then discharged from hospital but developed symptoms of shortness of breath. Her 
friend took her to a private hospital, which was the closest hospital. Ms K was in hospital for 
some time, having been diagnosed with pneumonia, before returning to the UK. 
UKI sent Ms K a letter saying theyd cover around £13, 000 of medical expenses. But she 
then received a letter saying they wouldnt. They also refused to pay a number of other 
expenses that had been incurred, including various costs which Mr E incurred when he flew 
out to join Ms K. Unhappy, Ms K complained to URV. 
URV apologised for the confusion and agreed to pay around £850 towards the out of pocket 
expenses Ms K was claiming for. But they said shed gone to a private hospital which wasnt 
covered under the policy. So URV said they wouldnt pay for those costs. They offered Ms K 
compensation of around £155 and waived the policy excess. Ms K made a complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld Ms Ks complaint. In the 
circumstances he thought it was reasonable that Ms Ks friend had taken her to the nearest 
hospital, which was private. He also thought that URV hadnt made it clear to Mr E and Ms K 
that she wouldnt be covered for staying in the private hospital. Nor did it suggest moving 
her. 
URV disagreed with the investigators findings and pointed out the contents of an earlier call 
with Ms Ks friend, when Ms K was present. They later offered to cover 50% of Ms Ks 
medical costs, but Ms K didnt accept this. So, URV asked an ombudsman to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that URV has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly, and they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
URV has now agreed to pay Ms K approximately £850 towards the expenses she incurred 
and around £155 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by their 
handling of the claim. The key issue I need to decide is whether URV should cover the 
medical costs in full.
The policy terms say that URV will not cover:
Costs of private treatment unless our 24-hour Emergency Assistance Facilities 
service had agreed, and adequate public facilities are not available. 
As private treatment hadnt been authorised by URV the claim isnt covered under the policy 
terms and conditions. However, I also need to decide what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. Having done so Im upholding this complaint for the reasons Ill go on to 
explain. 
Ms K had been discharged from the public hospital having been admitted for a few days. 
When she was admitted on the first occasion it took about an hour for the ambulance to 
arrive. She also explained that in the public facility she had difficulty in communicating with 
the staff and that family members were expected to help out with care, for example by 
providing meals. 
Prior to the second admission, Ms K began to feel very unwell again with symptoms of 
shortness of breath. She says her friend was too concerned to wait for the ambulance, given 
that they had waited so long on the first occasion. The friend therefore asked a neighbour to 
drive them to the nearest hospital, which was the private one, approximately ten-minutes 
drive away. 
I have taken into account that the public hospital was twenty-minutes drive away. But Ms K 
has only recently been released from hospital and was struggling to breathe. She was 
admitted, and treated, as an emergency. That included being given a lot of oxygen to help 
her breathe. I can also appreciate that Ms Ks friend had in mind some of the challenges 
theyd faced at the public hospital. So, I dont think her friends decision to seek assistance at 
the nearest facility was unreasonable in all the circumstances.
I accept that Ms K was told initially in general terms that private treatment wasnt covered by 
the policy. However, that was before her first admission to hospital and the circumstances of 
the admission were quite different. Whilst Ms K was unwell at that time she wasnt 
experiencing symptoms of chest pain and she had been receiving some care from a small 
local clinic. As Ive outlined above, the circumstances of the second admission were, based 
on the evidence Ive seen, more akin to an emergency admission. 
In any event, given how unwell Ms K was, and the circumstances of her admission, I can 
understand why she didnt necessarily realise that URV were not intending to cover her 
medical expenses at the private facility. She and Mr E were still utilising the emergency 
assistance facilities and URV were liaising with the treating team. There was no suggestion 
that Ms K should be moved or that Ms K wouldnt be covered during the time she was 
accessing treatment at the private facility. I also think Mr E made it very clear to URV that 
Ms K was being treated in a private hospital, and there was quite an in-depth conversation 
about the difference in treatment shed received at the two hospitals. So, I think URV should 
have communicated to Mr E and Ms K more clearly that they wouldnt be covered if she 
stayed in the private facility and offered to support her with moving to a public facility if that 
was necessary.  Ive also taken into account the medical evidence which suggests it is unlikely that Ms K 
would have been able to be easily moved to the public facility once shed been admitted. 
She was described as having made slow progress and she needed a lot of oxygen for most 
of her admission. And, if URV had thought there was a point when she was well enough to 
move to a public facility, then it would have been reasonable for them to explain that to her 
or Mr E. I also bear in mind that Ms K was likely to have needed support with nursing and/or 
communication had she been moved given the issues shed experienced during her first 
admission.
Putting things right
URV needs to put things right by paying the full costs of the medical expenses Ms K claimed 
for and the compensation for distress and inconvenience offered in the final response letter.  
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint against Union Reiseversicherung AG and direct them to put 
things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Ms K to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman