DRN-2906288
complaint
Ms A says Nationwide Building Society (NBS) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Ms A bought the policy in 1998 at the same time as taking out a loan. She applied for the 
loan and PPI policy in branch.
 
The policys one-off upfront premium of £90.66 was paid in advance by being added to the 
loan (a single premium) where it attracted interest over the term of the loan. The loan was 
repayable over a 24-month term and the policy term matched that of the loan The monthly 
loan repayment was £48.79 with the PPI costing an additional £4.42 making the total 
monthly repayment £53.21.
 
The policy provided cover for Ms A for accident, sickness, unemployment and life  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Ms As monthly loan repayment for up to 
the remaining term] in the event of a successful disability claim and 12 months in the event 
of unemployment. 
At the time, Ms A was employed as an assistant manager in a high street store. She has told 
us she was entitled to up to three months employee sick pay if she was too unwell to work. 
Ms A didnt have any other financial means, such as savings, she could have used to make 
the loan repayments in the event she wasnt working. Ms A told us she would receive 
redundancy pay if she lost her job. Ms A was in good health at the time of the sale. 
NBS has sent us screenshots to show that the loan account 1999.
Ms As representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have read and considered them all carefully. In 
summary, Ms As representative says:
NBS failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying the regulators rules and guidance for businesses on 
handling PPI complaints under DISP APP 3, it should be presumed Ms A wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld. Ms As 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of the 
most common reasons people are off work. This significantly reduced the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest and the fact it was unlikely you could make a 
successful claim meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good faith means NBS should have told 
Ms A about the poor value; 
The cancellation terms were unfair;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means NBS should have explained 
the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Ms A and the impact 
they would have had on her chances of making a claim; and
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Ms A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons.
 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Ms As. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms As complaint
This sale took place in 1998 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code of practice in June 2000 and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the FCAs Perimeter guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded in 1999. That means the unfair relationship provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin about 
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular, The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other 
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement of Practice for Payment Protection InsuranceThe ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries 
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected of 
intermediaries like NBS at the time. So, Im satisfied I should take the ABI code and these 
other publications into account when deciding, what is in my opinion, fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Ms As case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including: the law relating to 
negligence, contract (including the express and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001, Im also required to take into account what 
determination the relevant former scheme  in this case the Office of the Building Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building Societies Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman 
was required to decide complaints by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated activity, so NBS 
was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Ms As complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account, it seems to me that the key questions I need 
to consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
- If NBS gave advice, whether it advised Ms A with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances. 
- Whether NBS gave Ms A sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable her 
to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to 
her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
- If, having considered these questions, I determine the complaint in favour of Ms A, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Ms A suffered loss or 
damage and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Ms A and NBS, 
Ive decided not to uphold Ms As complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Ms A know she had a choice?
NBS had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. Ms A has said she didnt want the 
PPI during the conversation she had at the point of sale. The policy was included as part of 
the loan package NBS has been able to give us a copy of the loan application and the subsequent loan 
agreement. 
I see from the loan application form that there is a separate section entitled PROTECTING 
YOUR REPAYMENTS and the YES box has been ticked to say I would like to take 
advantage of the peace of mind offered by LoanCare Cover in the event that I am unable to 
work due to involuntary unemployment, accident, sickness or death. Ms A has also signed 
this section, separate from the loan agreement itself. There was an equally prominent box to 
say NO which could have been ticked if the policy wasnt wanted so I think Ms A knew the 
policy was optional at the point of the loan application. 
Ms A was sent a loan agreement form after she had completed the application. On that form 
there is a table setting out the costs of the loan itself as well as the PPI and the monthly cost 
of both. The PPI column in that table is entitled Optional Credit Insurance so again I think it 
was made clear Ms A had a choice at the time she signed to agree to take the loan and the 
policy. 
Taking everything into account, I think its more likely that Ms A knew the policy was optional 
and she agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did NBS provide advice?
NBS says it didnt provide advice during this sale. Ms A hasnt given us her recollection 
about whether advice was given. I think it unlikely that advice was given. I say this because I 
havent seen any evidence that NBS gave a tailed recommendation to take the PPI. And Ms 
A hasnt given me any alternative recollection to consider and that would make me think 
differently.  
This means NBS didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Ms A. Instead, it had to give 
her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable Ms A to make an informed choice 
about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a 
clear, fair and not misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and significant 
limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Ms A was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if Ms A was 
unable to work through accident, sickness and unemployment). I have reached this 
conclusion because this was set out on the credit agreement Ms A signed and I think its 
unlikely Ms A would have taken out the policy without any sense of what the policy was. And 
I think Ms A knew that the single premium being added to the loan was £90.66, the interest 
added to the premium was £15.42, the total cost was £106.08, and the monthly cost was 
£4.42 (as this information was, in my view, sufficiently clear on the loan agreement Ms A 
signed.)  
But the evidence from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether NBS gave sufficient 
information about the about the exclusions or limitations before Ms A agreed to take out the 
policy. 
So, I dont think NBS gave Ms A sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable her 
to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including drawing her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. Ive considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling PPI complaints set out at DISP App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings Ive highlighted above, Ms As representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards to the requirements on a business when providing information in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Ms As. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them as:
- The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Ms As representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather than the 
insurer. 
- The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business shouldnt have just 
told Ms A about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Ms As representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Ms A has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint, I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that NBS ought to have done either. 
What effect did NBSs shortcomings have on Ms A? To what extent did Ms A suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that NBS didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Ms A. So, Ive 
gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Ms A suffered loss 
and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or not Ms A would have still 
taken out the policy, had NBS done things properly. 
Ms A says she would not have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Ms A had to weigh up in her own mind the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure against the 
risk of being unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Ms A chose to take this policy out. So, I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude she had some interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she 
made this decision based on incomplete information. So, what Ms A thought she was getting 
is not exactly what she got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Ms A has suffered any loss or detriment. 
As Ive already said, while Ms A might not have been clearly given the cost information 
during the application itself, the information Ms A was given in the credit agreement which 
followed the application  and which required Ms As signature before the loan and PPI 
started  was clear. So overall, Im not persuaded Ms A would have found the cost unacceptable if she had been given all of the cost information when she completed the loan 
application. If she had found it unacceptable, I would have expected her to have raised this 
on receipt of the credit agreement which set this out clearly to her. 
Im not persuaded NBS made clear exactly what Ms A would get back in return in the event 
she made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Ms As expectations about what the 
policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet her loan payments) 
were significantly different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Ms A thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating any medical condition or disease which Ms A 
knew of or should reasonably have known of on the start date of the policy. Or any 
medical condition or disease for which Ms A received treatment, advice or was 
referred for investigation during the 12 months before the start date and which 
recurred within 12 months of the start date of the policy;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Ms A would have to 
be unable to do any work as certified by a doctor. 
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions above might well have 
caused Ms A pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude that the policy 
wasnt as good as she thought, and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Ms A from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence about Ms As circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
she wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Ms A didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and [he/she] was in permanent employment. So, I still think she 
had some good reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental health conditions or place any additional restrictions 
or more onerous evidential requirements in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied to any other disability claim. And I think its unlikely Ms A would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence to 
support that claim.
To make a disability claim, Ms A needed to be totally unable to do any work as certified by a 
doctor. I dont think this is likely to be too different to what she would have expected in order 
to make a claim. After all, the loan application form says the policy provides cover if Ms A 
was unable to work due to involuntary unemployment, accident, sickness or death. So, it 
seems unlikely Ms A would have thought she would have been able to make a successful 
claim if she was still working. 
The policy did provide a pro-rata refund if it was cancelled early, so the policy provided 
flexibility if Ms A decided to repay the loan early and cancel the policy.
Having considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Ms A would still have taken out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close to what 
its likely she thought she was getting and provided benefits that would help her manage the 
consequences were Ms A made redundant, or unable to work through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Ms A would have taken out the 
policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Ms As representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear that, where a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have taken out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms, but it is a relevant consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things when I decide what is in my opinion fair and reasonable. Considering 
the purpose of the guidance, I dont think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken. 
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances, DISP App 3 says it should be 
presumed Ms A would not have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Ms As 
circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude the position Ms A 
found herself in as result of the sale was the same position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance for firms set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Ms A in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy. 
That is because, while I accept its possible she wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she would still have taken 
out the PPI had she been given clear, fair and not misleading information about the policy 
she was buying.
So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those circumstances, to conclude 
NBS should pay Ms A compensation, as that would put her in a better position than she 
would have been in if everything had happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Ms A thinks NBS misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. Whilst I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some of 
NBSs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why NBS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because the overall information NBS gave Ms A, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1998 when providing information about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Ms As representative says a court might take if it were 
to find NBS had been in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. But this doesnt persuade me 
to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the circumstances of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to put Ms A in a 
better position than if everything had happened as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman