DRN-3884442
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H say HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (MPPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out an MPPI policy with a mortgage in 1998. They paid a monthly amount 
for the policy.
They complained to HSBC, and it didnt uphold their complaint. Mr and Mrs H then brought 
the complaint to this Service.  
Our Adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Hs case. 
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. I know this will be 
disappointing for them, so Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs H say that they werent aware that the MPPI policy was optional and that they 
felt that they needed to take it out. They also say that they didnt know they could cancel the 
policy. HSBC has provided information from the time of sale, including notes from the 
meeting that Mr and Mrs H had with its financial planning manager. In this I can see that the 
policy was presented as optional, and that a detailed discussion took place regarding their 
circumstances at the time  as well as the fact that the policy could be cancelled. It also 
confirmed that copies of the terms would be sent to them after the application.
So with this in mind, I think that HSBC did make Mr and Mrs H aware that they had a choice 
about buying the MPPI, and that they chose to take it  although I can understand why they 
may not recall the conversation in detail as it happened so long ago. 
HSBC recommended the MPPI to Mr and Mrs H  so it needed to take steps to make sure 
that its recommendation was suitable for Mr and Mrs H. Looking at the information provided 
by HSBC, I can see that that a discussion took place about their finances, including sick pay 
and savings. And the MPPI seems to have been right for them based on what Ive seen of 
their circumstances at the time. 
I do think HSBC couldve explained the cost of the policy better than it did. But even if it had, 
I think Mr and Mrs H would still have bought it  it wasnt too expensive given the cover it 
provided, and they seem to have had a need for cover at the time.
Its also possible HSBC didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But Mr and 
Mrs H dont appear to have been affected by any of those things  so I dont think that better 
information wouldve prevented them from taking out the policy. 
Ive taken into account all of Mr and Mrs Hs comments, including what they have said about  
said about being young adults at the time taking their first mortgage, that they werent given 
time to think about things and that their family couldve supported them. But Mr and Mrs H 
were making an important financial decision  so they needed to make sure that they 
understood what they were entering into  and couldve asked questions if they felt they 
needed more information, or asked for more time to think about things if they needed it. And 
while I know that family are often keen to help where they can, this cant always be relied 
upon, and ultimately the mortgage was Mr and Mrs Hs responsibility. So, these points dont 
change my conclusion.
Other considerations
The Supreme Court decided a case that involved the commission on a PPI policy  Plevin
v Paragon Personal Finance. And the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  who make the
rules for financial businesses  introduced some new rules and guidance for businesses
to follow when theyre looking at PPI complaints. This means businesses will sometimes
need to give consumers back some of the commission paid on certain PPI policies.
But this only applies to credit agreements taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or
agreements taken out before then which were still running on 6 April 2008. From the
information Ive seen, Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage agreement doesnt fit into these dates - and 
so HSBC UK Bank Plc dont have to refund any of the commission they paid on the MPPI
policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman