DRN-2240006
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Mr C was induced into taking out an endowment policy due to a 
misrepresentation by Standard Life Assurance Limited (Standard Life). 
What happened
Mr C took out a mortgage endowment in 1990, with a target amount of £37,000 over a thirty-
year term. It was sold by an Independent Financial Advisor (IFA) but provided by Standard 
Life. I understand Mrs C was added to the policy around 1998.
Around March 2020, shortly before the policy was due to mature, Mr and Mrs C received a 
letter from Standard Life indicating that the final value of the policy would be lower than its 
target amount. Whereas they say its previous documentation had said the endowment would 
pay off the mortgage. Mr C complained, but Standard Life said its documents made it clear 
that the policy wasnt guaranteed to reach the target amount. And it had warned them since 
2004 about the likelihood of a shortfall.
On review, our investigator pointed out that the sale was completed by an IFA  so they, 
rather than Standard Life, were responsible for how this was conducted. He also reviewed 
the documents that Mr C had referred to  stating that the policy was designed to repay the 
mortgage. He didnt think these gave the impression that the final value was guaranteed. So 
he didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs C didnt accept this. Mr C clarified theyre not complaining about the sale of the 
policy. Rather, he said their complaint is based solely on a misrepresentation by Standard 
Life that induced me into a contract. Our investigator reiterated that he didnt think Standard 
Lifes documents had misled them about what the policy would do. As requested, Ill now be 
making the final decision  on whether Standard Life made a misrepresentation which 
induced Mr C to take out the endowment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill explain why. 
Whilst the IFA holds responsibility for how this endowment was sold, I do agree with Mr C 
that Standard Life is responsible for its product literature. So Ive considered whether it made 
a misrepresentation in this that induced Mr C to take out the endowment. 
The particular wording Mr C has highlighted comes from the Policy Illustration, which I 
understand was provided when he took out the policy. This starts (my emphasis):
This popular house purchase plan is designed to repay your mortgage at a low 
cost
As the endowment didnt produce enough to fully repay the mortgage, Mr C says Standard 
Life should honour their contract obligations and fully make up the target amount. But its 
correct that the policy was designed with the target, or aim, of producing enough to repay the 
mortgage. Whilst I appreciate Mr Cs point about the wording, I have to consider this line in 
context. Looking at the rest of the document, I dont agree that Standard Life reasonably 
gave him the impression that the endowment was contractually guaranteed to repay his 
mortgage. Under the heading How Does A Low Cost Policy Work, the document explains 
(again, my emphasis): 
In order to reduce your monthly outlay, the with profits endowment sum assured at 
outset is less than the amount of the loan. This guaranteed sum is increased each 
year by the addition of reversionary bonuses. These are also guaranteed and are 
payable at maturity. Once added they cannot be taken away by Standard Life. The 
aim is to build up these guaranteed sums to repay your loan at the end of the term.
The minimum size of the with profits endowment policy will be agreed by your 
Lender. At the end of the policy term, the value of the policy will be sufficient to repay 
your loan provided the future investment return assumptions implicitly accepted by 
the Lender are realised. 
The Illustrations of Future Benefits section further explains:
What is actually paid will depend on the bonuses added to the guaranteed benefits 
under the policy.
Im not persuaded this reasonably constitutes a misrepresentation, or contractual obligation, 
to Mr C that the target amount was guaranteed. This was an investment product, and 
Standard Lifes document reflects that the final value was dependent on how well it 
performed. This point was also made clear in the subsequent documents Standard Life sent 
Mr and Mrs C over the years  such as the warning letters they were sent from 2004 
onwards, which explained: 
There is a high risk that your plan wont pay out enough to cover the target amount 
of £37,000 when it matures
If they were under the impression that the target amount was guaranteed, I question why 
they wouldnt have raised this with Standard Life on receipt of these letters clearly stating 
otherwise.
Additionally, whilst Im not considering how the policy was sold  Mr and Mrs C have made it 
clear this isnt what theyre complaining about  they havent shown that this document was 
the sole or main factor that induced Mr C to take out this policy. The IFA would have likely 
discussed the product and provided further information. Theres not enough persuasive 
evidence to safely conclude that, but for the wording of Standard Lifes Illustration, he would 
have made a different decision during the sale.
I do appreciate why Mr and Mrs C feel strongly about this matter, having been left in the 
difficult position of facing a shortfall on their mortgage. But, based on what Ive seen, Im not 
persuaded it would be fair and reasonable to direct Standard Life to cover this. My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 November 2020.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman