DRN-3878969
The complaint
Miss T complains that TSB Bank plc unfairly declined to refund transactions she didnt
recognise.
What happened
What Miss T says
At the time of the disputed transactions, Miss T had a TSB savings account. She didnt use it
often because she was saving for a mortgage. She needed to go shopping and couldnt find
her usual bank card that was held with another bank and needed to withdraw some cash.
Miss T decided to use her TSB card (which was kept hidden in the house) to withdraw the
cash and when she looked at her account, she realised it had less in it then she expected.
Miss T spoke with TSB who went through various cash withdrawals and Miss T identified
several of them that she didnt make herself and which had taken place over about a three-
week period. Miss T confirmed she still had her card with her and discussed the possibilities
of how the withdrawals could have been made, including the cloning of her card. Miss T
didnt think that the TSB call handler treated her very well or took her additional needs into
consideration. The conversation deteriorated and was cut short. Miss T notified both the
police and Action Fraud about the loss from her account which amounted to nearly £2,000
over eight transactions.
Miss T visited a number of places where the cash was withdrawn and was able to obtain
video images of one of the withdrawals which she identified as her (now ex) partner. Miss T
notified TSB about this and visited a TSB branch to discuss the issue. Miss T also reported
this to the police. Miss T said that after the initial call with TSB, she was so stressed that the
medical emergency services had to attend at her home.
Miss T raised a complaint about the loss, how she was treated when she first reported it to
TSB and how shed been treated in branch.
Miss T later told the police that shed previously asked her partner to withdraw cash from an
ATM and had given him the card and Personal Identification Number (PIN). She stressed
that shed only asked for this one withdrawal and never gave permission to take the card or
use it again. Her card was returned to her at the time. Miss T went on to say that her (now
ex) partner had access to her house with a set of keys and was trusted by her and the
family.
What TSB say
TSBs records show that Miss T called them when she identified the withdrawals she didnt
recognise and also confirmed that no one had access to her card or knew the PIN for her
card. TSB declined to make a refund because they couldnt identify how someone had been
able to obtain both the card and PIN, they also reported that if the card and PIN had been
given to someone else by Miss T, then she would be liable for the withdrawals because it
would be in breach of the terms of the account.
TSB records show that the day following the first notification, Miss T told them she thought
her partner had been responsible and hed probably seen her use the PIN when hed been
shopping with her.
TSB noted that Miss T regularly used her account for cash withdrawals and some of the
ATMs used for the disputed transactions were the same as normally used by her. They
thought it unusual that Miss T hadnt noticed her card missing earlier and that she hadnt
made any cash withdrawals herself during the three-week period over which the disputed
transactions took place. TSB thought that Miss Ts version of events had changed.
TSB explained that theyd listened to the first call between their advisor and Miss T and
couldnt agree that shed been treated poorly. They noted that Miss T had used inappropriate
language which necessitated the call to be cut short. TSB didnt agree that their treatment of
Miss T when she visited their branch was anything other than a normal approach to disputed
transactions and they needed to ask Miss T about the withdrawals and how it could have
been done without her knowledge.
TSB declined to make a refund for the disputed transactions.
The investigation so far
After receiving her complaint, an investigator from the Financial Ombudsman Service was
assigned to look into it. Miss T also complained about a lack of response by TSB to some of
her emails and that they hadnt taken her health conditions into account when they dealt with
her. Evidence supplied by both parties was considered and a recommendation was made
about the outcome of the complaint. The investigator thought that because Miss T had
previously given authority to her partner, this meant that he had apparent authority to
continue to use the card , which Miss T would then be responsible for. It was commented
that Miss T should have taken steps to prevent her partner from using her card again such
as changing the PIN.
Regarding the other complaint points - The investigator didnt have the opportunity to listen
to the first call because TSB no longer had it available. This meant that the investigators
assessment was based on the notes of the conversation and Miss Ts records. The
investigator didnt think there was any evidence to show that TSB had been unfair to Miss T.
She thought that TSB could have answered Miss Ts emails, although, because the final
response had already been issued, it didnt cause any delay to the overall complaint process
or disadvantage Miss T. Taking everything into account, the investigator didnt uphold Miss
Ts complaint.
Miss Ts response
Miss T disagreed with the investigators recommendations and still thought that TSB should
have answered her emails. She also commented that she didnt change the PIN because
she had no reason to believe her partner was going to take her card.
Miss T was able to provide footage of her now ex-partner using the ATM to make one of the
disputed transactions and provided other photographic evidence to identify him.
Because no agreement could be reached, Miss T asked for an Ombudsman to review her 
complaint which has now been passed to me and I issued a provisional decision where I 
said:Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Ts principal complaint revolves around the use of her card and PIN to make several
withdrawals from an ATM. Its her case that they were carried out by her now ex-partner
without her permission. TSB didnt think the card could have been obtained on numerous
occasions and returned without Miss T noticing. They also argued that had Miss T given the
card and PIN to someone else, she would be responsible for the withdrawal because it
breached the terms of her account that shed signed up to when opening it.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The
basic position is that TSB can hold Miss T liable for the disputed payments if the evidence
suggests that its more likely than not that she made them or authorised them.
TSB can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Miss T authorised the
transactions, but TSB cannot say that the use of the card and PIN conclusively proves that
the payments were authorised.
Unless TSB can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the payment
or to debit Misss account and any such transaction must be regarded as unauthorised.
Theres no disagreement here that the withdrawals took place, so whilst I havent seen the
evidence that these payments were authenticated, it doesnt affect the issue of whether Miss
T can be held liable for them. Ill now need to consider the information provided by both
parties to determine whether theres sufficient evidence to hold Miss T responsible for the
disputed transactions or not.
TSB terms and authority to use the card
TSBs terms set out the way the account is to be used including how to treat the security of
the card and PIN. It goes on to say that these details shouldnt be given to anyone else and
in such cases where its used, TSB are unlikely to be able to make a refund.
There are exceptions to this including when someone uses the card without the permission
of the account holder.
Apparent authority
This is a concept that an account holder who gives their card and PIN to another to use is
handing permission for them to use the card. In such cases they would generally be
responsible for whatever use the card is put to, even if its used outside of its original
intended use. But, when the use of the card was for a specific purpose, we generally
wouldnt agree that the authority continued past this point. In Miss Ts particular situation,
she has said that she gave permission to her partner at the time to use her card and gave
him the PIN. This was for a specific withdrawal from an ATM. Miss T received the card back
and has said that she didnt give permission for it to be used after this one withdrawal.
Where it can be seen that the apparent authority has ended, any future use of the card
would likely be considered unauthorised. So here, Miss Ts partner had the card and PIN for
one withdrawal, which was completed. Miss Ts testimony is that this was the only occasion
she gave that permission and once she had the card back, it was hidden in her home. As
Miss T received the card back and placed it out of sight, its unlikely that her partner could
take this as carte blanche permission to use it as he saw fit.
It's apparent that he knew where the card was kept as hed been Miss Ts partner for some
years, and he had access (with a key) and was trusted by her and the wider family. So, itsplausible that he could have obtained the card on each of the occasions to use it for these
cash withdrawals.
Miss T followed up the cash withdrawals and managed to obtain CCTV coverage of one of
them. This showed her partner withdrawing cash from the ATM. Miss T has been able to
provide pictures which show her with her partner at the time who appears to be the same
person withdrawing the cash. The evidence shes been able to provide points to her partner
at the time withdrawing cash using her account, so I think it likely that the other withdrawals
were also made by him as Miss T doesnt recognise them herself.
Whilst TSB can argue that there was a breach of their terms, the disputed transactions
claimed by Miss T resulted from the removal of her card without her permission or consent.
Without that consent the transactions cant be considered to be authorised. Miss T has
explained that she never thought her account was at risk, otherwise she would have made
changes to it including changing the PIN.
Ive also considered whether Miss T can be held grossly negligent with the security of her
card and PIN. This is a high bar and Miss T has stated that she never thought for one
moment that her funds were at risk and kept her card hidden in her house. As her card was
effectively taken without her permission by someone who appears to have entered her
house repeatedly for that purpose  I dont think this could be viewed as Miss T being
grossly negligent with the security of her card.
Ive thought about TSBs position that Miss T changed her version of events and how her
account was used. I dont think Miss T had any idea how her account had been used when
she first reported it and its apparent that she was completely taken by surprise at the
realisation it was her ex-partner whod taken the money. I think that TSBs interpretation of
how the events unfolded didnt take into account the evolving nature of the information
available to Miss T when she looked into the matter herself.
TSB detailed the times when the account was used which showed Miss T usually made use
of it nearly every month. They thought the lack of use of her card during the three-week
period of the disputed transactions was unusual. The account is used most months, but not
every week. In the last twelve months there are gaps of up to about a month, but usually less
than a couple of weeks between use. Having looked in detail at the statements, I dont think
a three-week gap is particularly noteworthy.
Treatment by TSB
Alleged breaches of the Equality Act 2010 are a matter for the courts to determine  and so I
cannot make a finding on whether or not TSB has acted unlawfully in discriminating against
Miss T on the basis of a protected characteristic. But I can consider whether Miss T was
treated in a fair and reasonable manner and whether I think she was treated differently to
other customers.
Ive considered the unfortunate impact on Miss T after reporting the loss to TSB. As Ive
mentioned, the call she had with them is no longer available, but the call notes are, and they
indicate Miss T was increasingly distraught which resulted in the conversation being cut
short. Its difficult to draw any reliable conclusions from the notes made by TSB and from the
reports made by Miss T because they differ so much.
Its apparent that Miss T was affected by the loss of her funds and it wouldnt be surprising
for TSBs message that she wasnt going to receive a refund to cause her even more
distress. Miss T later apologised for her behaviour, so I think its likely that the conversation
became heated.I do appreciate Miss T suffered considerable stress and worry, which resulted in the
attendance of medical professionals, but this could be as likely to do with the message shed
received as opposed to how it was delivered.
Miss T further complained about treatment at a branch and TSB explained theyd spoken to
her about the circumstances which Miss T said made her feel as though she was a criminal.
There are no substantial records of this meeting, but Id expect TSB to discuss the details of
what happened and how her card and PIN could be used to make the withdrawals,
particularly when she retained the card herself. Its understandable that Miss T would be
sensitive to these discussions, particularly when shed already had a bruising experience
with TSB on the phone.
There isnt evidence that TSBs conduct was beyond their usual approach to this type of
disputed transaction and I havent seen anything that would lead me to conclude Miss T was
treated differently to any other customer in a similar situation.
TSB response to Miss Ts emails
Ive also thought about the lack of response to further emails from Miss T. I understand they
were sent after the final response had already been issued and TSB said the person who
was dealing with Miss Ts case had moved on from that position. Whilst I dont think that
Miss Ts ability to complain about the refund was impacted because the final response had
already been issued, I do think that TSB could have responded to Miss T, particularly given
that they were aware of her different needs. A timely response would no doubt have
lessened the stress she was feeling.
Overall, Im currently intending to uphold this complaint with a refund of the substantive
losses (£1,974.96) plus interest at the account rate ( as Ive not seen any evidence that the 
money would have been used for any other reason at that time). Also, I think TSB could 
have been more understanding when they handled this situation and Im currently thinking 
that a payment of £100 be paid to Miss T for the impact this had on her.
I invited Miss T and TSB to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to
consider before issuing my final decision. TSB accepted my provisional decision and Miss T 
didnt have anything further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as neither party had anything further to add, I see no reason to reach a
different conclusion. So, this final decision confirms the findings set out in my provisional
decision.
Putting things right
TSB should now refund Miss T the disputed transactions, recorded as £1,974.96, including 
interest at the account rate for the period the funds left the account to their repayment. Also, 
TSB to pay Miss T £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused by their handling of the 
complaint.  My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against TSB Bank PLC and theyre instructed 
to settle this complaint as set out above.
If TSB considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Miss T how much its taken off. It should also give Miss T a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman