DRN-3770996
The complaint
Mrs D complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) made a GBP payment.
What happened
On 13 April 2022, Mrs D made a payment of £49,080.64 from her USD currency account to 
a currency exchange beneficiary in the UK. The payment instruction was for USD 65,358.67 
at a rate of 0.751. 
Mrs D complained. She said she intended to make the payment in USD but the online 
payment page defaulted to GBP. So as a result, she suffered a shortfall of £919.36. She 
accepted she made an error. But she said it shouldve been obvious to HSBC that she 
wouldnt send a payment of GBP from a USD account to a currency exchange business. The 
rate applied by HSBC was a bad one compared to that offered by the currency exchange 
business. She has been a customer of HSBC for many years, and she thinks it is fair that 
HSBC refunds the loss she suffered. 
HSBC said they wouldnt refund the difference. They followed their policy and procedures in 
processing the payment.
Mrs D brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said HSBC acted reasonably. The online 
payment process gave sufficient information to show a GBP payment was being made, and 
Mrs D would have accepted and confirmed the details were correct. HSBCs rate of 
exchange was not something we could change.
Mrs D asked that an ombudsman looks at her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs D admitted that she made a mistake in sending a GBP payment rather than a USD 
payment. I can appreciate that this mistake caused her a significant loss of £919.36  and 
that this must have been a shock to her and has caused her upset.
The crux of her complaint is that the payment pages defaulted to a GBP payment  when 
she wanted to make a USD payment. We asked HSBC about that  and that is the case  
the page does show the currency of the destination country, unless it is changed by the 
customer.  In this case, it was GBP as the beneficiary was in the UK. But here, we cant ask 
HSBC to change their online processes  as they are down to HSBC to decide.
I looked the payment process that Mrs D went through to ensure they were clear. And I think 
it is fair to say that she went through number of checks and confirmations before making the 
payment:
- firstly, she had to confirm the destination country and currency; 
- she then had to select the currency being sent, enter a transaction code, and click 
confirm. I noted here that Mrs D would have been shown the exchange rate to be applied;
- the payment details were then shown again, including the currency youre sending and the 
exchange rate. Mrs D then had to click continue and confirm. 
Each time there was an option to edit or start over  so Mrs D couldve amended the 
payment instruction.
Therefore, I think HSBCs process set out the details of the payment to be made, the 
currency being sent and the exchange rate  and Mrs D wouldve confirmed as correct at 
each stage.
Mrs D argues that HSBC should have known it didnt make sense to make a GBP payment 
from a USD account to a currency exchange house  but I dont think that is a reasonable 
thing to expect of HSBC. HSBC had no knowledge of the nature or reason for the payment. 
The online payment process is a self- service one, and I think it is reasonable to say that the 
onus is on the payer (Mrs D in this case) to ensure the details are correct.
On Mrs Ds complaint about HSBCs exchange rate  the setting of exchange rates is a 
commercial decision for HSBC to make, and we cant interfere with that.
 I do understand that Mrs D has suffered a loss here, and it was a costly mistake. Mrs D 
says that as shes been a customer of HSBC for many years, HSBC should refund the loss. 
But in this case, thats a matter for HSBC  and theyve said they wont do so. 
And so, in this case, in all fairness, I cant say that HSBC acted unreasonably. Therefore, Im 
not asking them to do anything here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman