DRN-1628158
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Nationwide Building Society exposed their information by 
posting their joint bank account statement without an envelope.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P hold a joint FlexAccount with Nationwide and receive their monthly 
statements by post. They normally receive these around the same time each month, so 
expected to receive Octobers statement around the middle of that month. 
However, this statement was late and when it did arrive it was not within an envelope. 
Therefore, the account details and Mr and Mrs Ps name and address were clearly visible. 
The statement itself was dated 13 October 2019, but there had been a franking stamp added 
to the top right corner of the letter which was dated 20 November 2019. Unhappy that their 
information mightve been compromised, Mr and Mrs P raised a complaint with Nationwide. 
Nationwide claimed that it hadnt made a mistake when sending the statement. It said its 
printing system is automated and every statement follows the same process, whereby a 
machine encloses it within an envelope, and this is then sealed before being sent to the 
Royal Mail. It said its systems were able to show that no error had been reported. 
Nationwide pointed out that Mr and Mrs P could raise the issue with the Royal Mail, as the 
information suggested the problem had been caused after it had left Nationwide and while 
being sent through the postal system. 
Mr and Mrs P remained unhappy, so they brought the complaint to our service and one of 
our investigators looked into it. In light of the available evidence, he was persuaded that 
Nationwide hadnt made an error and didnt uphold the complaint. Nationwide agreed with 
this opinion. 
Mr and Mrs P do not agree. They believe Nationwide should accept its at fault and 
apologise for leaving their information unsecure. Because Mr and Mrs P are not in 
agreement with our investigator, the complaint has been escalated to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided not 
to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Nationwides systems can track if a fault was identified, or whether there was a need for the 
support of an engineer when sending out statements to its customers. In other words, 
Nationwide can look back at what was sent and identify, with reasonable accuracy, if 
anything went wrong. Theres documentary evidence that no errors were reported on these 
systems for the batch of correspondence that Mr and Mrs Ps statement was included in. Nor 
was there a need for an engineer to intervene, because there doesnt appear to have been 
any problem with the normal process of enclosing statements in envelopes. From the evidence available, its unclear what happened to the statement from the time it 
was produced by Nationwide on 13 October 2019, until it was delivered to Mr and Mrs P. But 
the postage franking that was stamped on the statement by the Royal Mail is dated more 
than a month after the statement date. And we know that the Royal Mail delivered the 
statement to Mr and Mrs P around the 21 November 2019. Therefore, it strikes me that a 
likely explanation is that it remained in the postal system until it was delivered.
Thats not to say that the absence of the envelope was a result of the statement being 
potentially delayed in the postal system. And, in any event, the jurisdiction of our service 
means that within this complaint I can only consider the acts or omissions of Nationwide  so 
its not for me to comment on how the Royal Mail delivers post. Rather, my role is to decide 
whether a failing by Nationwide led to the statement being received without an envelope.  
Ours is an informal service and this a civil dispute, so I determine this complaint based on 
the balance of probabilities. Overall, the evidence leads me to conclude that the statement 
left Nationwide shortly after it was produced. Im satisfied the measures Nationwide has in 
place means its more likely than not that it was enclosed within an envelope before it left 
Nationwides control. So, on balance, Im not persuaded that Nationwide is to blame for how 
Mr and Mrs P received the statement once it was delivered through the postal system.  
Because of this, I cant safely conclude that its fair or reasonable to require Nationwide to do 
anything for the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2020.
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman