DRN-4003194
The complaint
Miss W is unhappy about the way that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank 
(Tesco) has handled the outstanding balance on her credit card account.
Miss W wants Tesco to write the outstanding debt off or pay significantly more compensation 
than its offered so far.
What happened
Miss W has an outstanding credit card debt to Tesco of almost £3,400. In 2021, Miss W 
asked Tesco to write the debt off due to personal circumstances. Miss W expected the debt 
to be written off by the end of 2021. 
Miss W says she received a few letters from Tesco in 2021 and 2022 asking her to call. After 
calling back, Miss W says Tesco told her it was nothing to worry about so when Tesco wrote 
again in mid-2022, Miss W didnt contact them.
Miss W then received a letter from Tesco to say that it had passed her account to a third 
party debt collection company. Miss W says that subsequently the debt collection company 
harassed her. Miss W explains that due to ill health, she is struggling financially and has 
found the whole experience very stressful.
Tesco says that in November 2021, it decided not to write off Miss Ws debt as it hadnt 
received the required medical evidence to support the request. Tesco says that due to a 
system issue, it didnt tell Miss W about its decision until April 2022. And that as Tesco didnt 
then hear back from Miss W, it passed the debt to a debt collection agency. Tesco offered 
Miss W £50 to apologise for the delays. 
The investigator thought that Tesco shouldve tried again to contact Miss W before passing 
on the debt. The investigator recommended that Miss Ws complaint be upheld and that 
Tesco pay a further £50 compensation. The investigator recommended that Miss W speak 
with Tesco about what further evidence she should provide to support her write off 
application.
Tesco disagrees with the investigators recommendation. It says it didnt sell the debt to a 
third party but instead appointed a debt collection company to act on its behalf. Tesco says 
that if it hadnt moved the debt to the debt collection company, it wouldve been contacting 
Miss W itself. So, Tesco doesnt agree that moving the debt to the debt collection company 
impacted Miss W It also doesnt think the correspondence from the debt collection company 
was threatening.
Miss W explains that the latest debt collection agency told her that in circumstances such as 
hers, it wont usually try and collect the debt. Miss W says shes not heard anything from the 
debt collection agency since the end of 2022.
Miss W says her financial situation is very bad, she has rent arrears and is in debt to her 
energy company. Miss W says the condition of her home affects her and her dependant. 
Miss W says that multiple health conditions affect every aspect of her life and that her 
dependant has additional needs. Miss W is isolated and has no financial support, leaving her 
with an affected credit score and inability to borrow any money.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear about the difficulties Miss W is facing. My role is to consider whether 
Tesco has treated her fairly and if it should be required to do more than it already has to put 
things right.
Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties, and Ive done so using my own 
words. The rules that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean Ive not 
considered everything that both parties have given to me. I should also make it clear that Im 
only considering Miss Ws complaint as it relates to Tesco and not the third party debt 
collection companies. 
I appreciate that it was upsetting for Miss W to find out that Tesco hadnt written the debt off 
as shed hoped. But like the investigator, I consider Tescos apology for the delay and offer 
to pay £50 was fair, particularly as Tesco told Miss W that it would consider her write off 
request if she supplied further evidence. 
We have copies of letters that Tesco sent to Miss W in May and August 2021 and June 
2022. The letters are very short  just asking Miss W to give Tesco a call when she has a 
minute. Miss Ws evidence is that she contacted Tesco after receiving the letters in 2021 and 
was told they werent important and that Tesco just wanted to make sure it could contact her. 
Ive no reason to doubt what Miss W says, so I can appreciate it was a shock when Tesco 
told her in June 2022 that it had moved the debt to a third party debt collection company.
Although I take Tescos point that it didnt sell Miss Ws debt, I dont think this wouldve been 
clear to her. As the investigator said, the very act of moving the debt to a third party led to 
further anxiety for Miss W. So, I consider it reasonable to require Tesco to pay Miss W an 
additional £50 on top of the offer it already made. 
Miss W says shes not cashed the £50 cheque that Tesco sent her. Its unlikely that        
Miss Ws bank would accept that cheque given the time that has passed. So, if Miss W 
accepts my decision, she shouldnt attempt to cash the £50 cheque. Tesco will then have to 
issue her a new payment for £100.
As for Miss Ws request to write off the debt, I think its reasonable that Tesco wants to see 
evidence of Miss Ws diagnosis and prognosis, together with her income and outgoings. Im 
grateful to Miss W for providing further information about the health problems that she and 
her dependant face. Tesco already seems to have some of this evidence but Im not sure 
that it has previously seen the evidence relating to Miss Ws dependant or the letter from 
Miss Ws hospital dated August 2022. I suggest that Miss W asks Tesco whether this 
information would be helpful and find out what, if any, further medical information it needs. 
This may also include information about how Miss Ws mental health impacts her ability to 
keep up with her finances. As the investigator told Miss W, we can forward the information 
we hold if Miss W asks us to. 
Tesco also says that it needs details of Miss Ws household income and expenditure rather 
than any business expenses. I can see that the budget Miss W provided to Tesco in June 
2021 is a business and household budget. If Miss W speaks with Tesco, I hope that it can either supply a suitable form or provide details of what information she should include about 
her income and expenditure.
I appreciate Miss W might be disappointed that Ive not required Tesco to do more at this 
time but I hope that after providing some further information, a fair and reasonable solution 
to Miss Ws evident financial difficulties can be found.
Putting things right
To put things right, Tesco should pay Miss W a total of £100 which includes the £50 
previously offered.
The debt hasnt been sold, so if Miss W prefers to speak with Tesco about what further 
information it requires, rather than the third party debt collection agency, she should be 
allowed to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I direct Tesco 
Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank to take the steps outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman