DRN-3218177
The complaint
Mr V is unhappy with Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) in respect of the length of 
time he was required to wait to authorise a transaction and what was offered to him to 
recognise his wait.
What happened
Mr V attempted to complete a transaction from his Halifax account, using £5,000 to purchase 
cryptocurrency. The transaction was initially blocked as Halifax wanted to complete further 
authorisation checks. This was because it involved a significant sum being paid for 
cryptocurrency, and it didnt follow a previous history or pattern, so the transaction raised 
internal markers to flag the need for additional checks. Mr V was asked to contact Halifaxs 
fraud team. 
Mr Vs main complaint isnt that Halifax were wrong to make checks at this stage, although 
he did say this was a genuine transaction and it ought to have been authorised. He primarily 
takes issue with the time it took for him to speak to someone on the fraud team to confirm 
this wasnt a fraudulent transaction and that it ought to proceed.
Mr V told this service hed spent around two hours on hold waiting to speak to someone. He 
also told us that he thought that because he hadnt been able to proceed with the purchase 
at the time hed wanted, hed potentially made a loss of around £2,000.
Mr V complained to Halifax at the time. Their records suggest Mr V had referred to being on 
hold for around one hour and 10 minutes and potentially on having lost out on around 
£1,000. 
The potential loss and time spent waiting on the phone have not been played any role in my 
decision making here. Halifax have accepted from the start that the time Mr V spent waiting 
to speak to someone was unreasonable. Its understood Mr V did go on to make the 
purchase, it appears this took place on the day after he first tried to complete the transaction.
When Mr V first complained, Halifax apologised and offered him £75 for the delay hed 
experienced which they agreed was unreasonable. Mr V rejected this. Halifaxs complaints 
team considered Mr Vs complaint. They agreed the delay was unreasonable and paid £20 
into his account. They went on to indicate theyd upheld this part of his complaint, but felt 
£20 was appropriate, (they didnt think theyd done anything wrong in applying the block in 
the first place). They told him call volumes had exceeded those expected and waiting times 
had increased.
Mr V was unhappy to discover £20 had been paid into his account as a proposed settlement, 
and he referred a complaint to this service. Mr V told this service he thought Halifax ought to 
consider paying him an amount of around £500 to address what had happened and his 
potential loss.
An investigator at this service looked into Mr Vs complaint. He thought it ought to be partly 
upheld. In relation to the delay experienced by Mr V waiting to speak to the Fraud team, the 
investigator agreed it had been unreasonable, and as such he thought Halifax ought to pay 
Mr V the £75 first offered, so £55 further. The investigator didnt think the block had been 
wrongly or unreasonably applied to the original attempted transaction, and he thought £75 
was sufficient to address what had happened.
Mr V doesnt agree. He strongly feels that £75 is an inadequate sum to address what 
happened. He felt the investigator failed to take account of his point of view and the 
frustration he was caused by waiting on hold on the phone. He didnt think £75 was 
appropriate when it was first offered, and he still doesnt. He also thinks theres a failure to 
understand the way cryptocurrency can fluctuate.
Halifax accepted the investigators view and arranged to pay £55 into Mr Vs account.
Mr V has gone on to say he hopes I will ensure my decision is fair, reasonable and 
independent. He remains dis-satisfied with the investigators view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on everything, I am upholding Mr Vs complaint in part. Halifax accept Mr V had to 
wait for an unreasonable period of time to speak to someone on their fraud team to authorise 
his transaction. I agree. I also think Halifax were right to eventually revert to their original 
offer of £75 to address what went wrong here.
Mr V doesnt raise a substantive complaint about authorisation being needed, albeit he feels 
its unreasonable to require this when he is then unable to confirm the transaction easily and 
quickly. I can understand his thinking and it was unsatisfactory for Mr V to have a transaction 
delayed as his authority was required, yet he was required to wait for a significant time to 
provide this authority.
Overall I dont think it was unreasonable for the transaction to have been marked as 
requiring additional checks here. Whilst I appreciate what Mr V says about the legitimacy of 
his transaction and the company he was wanting to invest through, it was still a significant 
sum of money involving cryptocurrency. Cryptocurrency purchasing has been seen in certain 
types of targeted frauds and activities. And here it wasnt a transfer that followed a 
previously authorised pattern of similar sums to the same business either.
However Mr V ought then to have been able to complete the necessary steps to confirm the 
transaction more efficiently than was the case here. I accept Mr Vs extended wait time 
wasnt what Halifax want to do for customers, but it is what happened.
Based on my thinking that the checks were reasonable, my primary consideration has been 
around how the unreasonable delay ought to be appropriately addressed by Halifax.
I am sorry it will disappoint Mr V, however in upholding Mr Vs complaint in part about 
Halifax, I think the original offer of £75, which has now been paid, was enough in the 
circumstances. 
I can understand why it would have been particularly frustrating for Mr V to have discovered 
the original offer of £75 had been withdrawn and £20 paid into his account, and with no 
reasoning around the decreased sum. I dont think £20 was sufficient here.
Cryptocurrency values can fluctuate swiftly and significantly, and trading is not regulated. As 
such they are often characterised as involving an increased level of risk. I understand Mr V thinks he can identify a level of loss he thinks was occasioned by the delay. I dont agree this 
is possible or that it would be right here to attempt to do so. 
I dont accept the requirement to verify the transaction was wrong, and despite the delay 
being unreasonable, I dont consider it to be appropriate for Halifax to pay any further sum; 
or that there is any sum that can be directly linked to a loss based on the cryptocurrency 
purchase here.
Ive seen Mr V says he isnt suggesting Halifax ought to pay £2,000, but he does suggest a 
sum of around £500. I dont accept this would be the appropriate sum for me to conclude 
Halifax ought to pay here.
Mr V has previously indicated that on the day he wanted to complete the transaction, the 
cryptocurrency fluctuated significantly. He said that due to waiting on the phone to have the 
transaction authorised he missed an opportunity to sell at the highest rate. He said he 
intended to buy and sell on the same day. 
Mr V has also told us that when the transaction was complete, and despite ongoing 
fluctuations and increases in value, he has continued to hold the cryptocurrency. He has told 
us it has increased greatly in value.
When purchasing currencies, its not unusual for there to be some fluctuation. I dont accept 
that it would be reasonable to identify a particular time when the purchase could have been 
completed, nor do I conclude it can be said that Mr V would have wanted to sell or 
completed the sale at a particular time. I dont accept there is an identifiable and non-
speculative loss that can appropriately be attributed and linked to Mr V waiting to verify the 
transaction.
Halifax did make Mr V wait longer than was reasonable to verify his transaction and I can 
understand why he became frustrated by the process. In reaching my decision Ive looked at 
everything provided and balanced it carefully. I understand Halifax have now paid Mr V the 
£75 they originally offered. I am satisfied this is sufficient in the circumstances of this case 
and is in-line with our usual approach; had they not paid this sum in full, I would have 
required them to do so.
For completeness, I have considered Mr Vs complaint afresh and independently. I am sorry 
that my conclusions will disappoint Mr V, who I can see has felt strongly about matters here.
My final decision
For the reasons given I uphold Mr Vs complaint against Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as 
Halifax) in part. Mr V was made to wait an unreasonable period of time to verify a 
transaction. I dont require Halifax to do anything further as they have now paid the sum 
originally offered to Mr V. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman