DRN-3145650
The complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund money he lost, which he believes was as 
the result of a scam. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in great 
detail here. But in summary and based on the submissions of both parties I understand it to 
be as follows.
Mr S was looking to purchase a car and saw an advertisement for a business that purchased 
cars at auction, on its customers behalf. Mr S has said he researched the business online, 
which included checking the firm on Companies House and seeing that it was registered with 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Alongside this, Mr S also said he saw videos on 
social media and positive reviews.
Mr S decided to proceed and entered into communication with the business. He identified a 
car that he was interested in and made the following payments to the business. The first 
being a down payment, with the second payment being made when the business confirmed 
to Mr S that it had secured the vehicle on his behalf;
 9 June 2021 £7,500  
15 June 2021 £4,800
When the car wasnt delivered to him on the date expected, Mr S contacted the business.  
Mr S has said he was promised a refund on a number occasions, but never received any 
money back. 
Realising something was wrong, Mr S contacted Lloyds. Lloyds looked into things and 
issued its final response in July 2021, not upholding Mr S complaint. In summary, it said that 
this was a civil dispute, as it considered Mr S had sent the payments to a genuine company 
and it didnt think it had made an error in allowing the payments to be made. 
 
Mr S then brought his complaint to our service, as he believes this was a scam. In summary, 
he said other customers have also lost their money and not received their cars and that the 
matter was being investigated by the authorities. One of our investigators looked into things, 
but didnt uphold Mr S complaint, in summary this was because he didnt think Lloyds were 
wrong to say this was a civil dispute.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators opinion. As agreement couldnt be reached the 
complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
I appreciate Mr S has referred to other consumers. But I would point out that, while on the 
surface complaints may seem quite similar, each complaint is determined by its own 
individual circumstances. Here, as Im required to do, Ive looked solely at the individual 
circumstances of Mr S complaint.
Having thought very carefully about Lloyds actions, Im not intending to uphold Mr S 
complaint, for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. I do appreciate how 
disappointing this will be for him, but I dont think I can fairly say Lloyds should reimburse 
him.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive thought about the Lending 
Standards Boards voluntary CRM Code (the Code), which Lloyds has signed up to and was 
in force at the time Mr S made these payments.
Under the Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who is the 
victim of an APP scam. Ive thought about if the Code applies in the circumstances of the 
payments Mr S made and, in particular, whether Lloyds ought to reimburse him under the 
provisions of the Code. But the Code is quite explicit that it doesnt apply to all push 
payments. It says:
DS2(2) This code does not apply to: (b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer 
has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, services, or digital content but has not received 
them, they are defective in some way, or the Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the 
supplier 
Subsections (a) and (c) have been omitted as they are not relevant to this complaint.
Both the bank and our investigator felt the payments Mr S made formed part of a civil 
dispute. Mr S strongly disagrees, he considers this is a scam. However, based on what I 
currently know, Ive not seen anything that I can safely say meets the high legal threshold 
and burden of proof for fraud. Rather, this appears to be a case of a legitimate business 
failing and not being able to honour its customers orders as a result of going into liquidation.
Its clear the agreement Mr S entered into with the business did not go as planned and he 
has not received what he was expecting. And I can understand entirely why he feels so 
strongly about what has happened. But I cant safely say with any certainty, with what I 
know, that the company set out with an intent to defraud him. Ill explain why.
The business Mr S paid was a registered limited company, which had been incorporated in  
2015 and whose principle activity was the sale of used cars. And Im mindful that the 
business was also registered with the FCA. As well as this, it had reviews, some of which  
Mr S has said hed seen before making his payments, indicating other customers had their 
orders successfully completed.
Im also mindful that there are some other factors, in the circumstances of this case, that 
dont carry the typical hallmarks of these particular types of scam or a trader setting out with 
an intent to defraud. The price of the car Mr S was interested in didnt seem too good to be 
true, which can often be an indicator that things arent as they seem. And the seller, at least 
for a time, was still contactable after Mr S had made the payments. This is not typically the case with fraudsters, who more often than not are not able to be contacted after they have 
taken a victims money. 
As well as this, evidence weve seen from the receiving bank (the bank to whom the 
payments were made), indicates that the seller had previously successfully carried out 
similar transactions with other customers and it also made some refunds. It also appears 
that, at a later date to the payments Mr S made, the business was engaging with Insolvency 
Practitioners, which Im persuaded is more common with a failed business, rather than one 
that has set out with an intent to defraud. 
I recognise that Mr S has lost out here and I accept that the authorities have become 
involved and that there is an ongoing investigation into the business Mr S paid. Im also 
mindful that, in September 2021, the FCA posted a warning, which said the business had 
agreed with the FCA that it would no longer take any payments in advance from customers 
for its services to help customers source and purchase vehicles. But Im mindful that this 
warning was posted a number of months after Mr S had made his payments and, as things 
stand, there does not appear to have been any formal conviction for fraud.
Overall, I havent seen enough evidence to suggest that the seller was always acting with 
the intend to defraud Mr S at the point he made the payments. So, on balance, taking into 
account everything thats been said and provided, I cant fairly conclude that Mr S has been 
a victim of a scam or that the company he made his payments to were operating 
fraudulently. It follows that I cant fairly or reasonably ask Lloyds to refund Mr S the money 
he has sadly lost. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman