DRN-3112479
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy because Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded the premium he paid 
for an annual, multi trip, travel insurance policy (the policy). 
What happened
The policy covered Mr M for the period 1 December 2019 to 30 November 2020, and it cost 
him just over £163 for the year. 
Mr M originally had plans to travel abroad several times in 2020. But due to the Covid-19 
global pandemic, he didnt think that was likely. So, he contacted Great Lakes on 1 May 
2020 to ask for the policy to either be suspended or for Great Lakes to provide him with a 
(pro-rata) refund of the premium hed paid for the policy. It doesnt look like the policy was 
cancelled at that time. 
Great Lakes didnt think Mr M was entitled to any refund of the premium. Mr M didnt think 
that was fair, so he asked for the issue to be escalated as a complaint. 
His complaint wasnt passed on to Great Lakes customer services department. It apologised 
and offered Mr M £50 by way of compensation for that mistake. It later increased the offer of 
compensation to £75. However, Great Lakes ultimately maintained its position that Mr M 
wasnt entitled to a refund.
Unhappy, Mr M complained to our Service. Initially, our investigator upheld Mr Ms complaint 
and concluded that he was entitled to a pro-rata refund in proportion to the length of time he 
effectively no longer had the benefit of the policy from; 1 May 2020. That was when hed 
contacted Great Lakes requesting a refund. 
Mr M thought this was fair but Great Lakes didnt. However, in response to the view, Great 
Lakes did offer Mr M a 30% monetary refund of the premium hed paid for the policy.
Our investigator considered the offer and thought that was fair. 
Mr M disagreed. So, his complaint has been passed to me to look at everything afresh and 
decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law in their view dated 18 
May 2021. I agree that those are the relevant considerations which apply to the specific 
circumstances of this case.
Its accepted that Mr M didnt cancel the policy within 14 days. And, under industry rules, 
even if he had done so, he wouldnt have been entitled to a full refund of the premium paid. 
The policy terms and conditions
The policys terms and conditions set out Mr Ms cancellation rights under the contract. It 
says:
You have the right to cancel up to 14 days from the date your policy commences, or 
the date on which you receive your policy documentation, whichever is the later.
You will receive a full refund except in the following circumstances:
Your holiday return date is within one month of the commencement of your 
policy. No refund will be given.
Your cover has commenced. A pro rata refund will be given.
You have made or are intending to make a claim. No refund will be given or 
we will recover the monies paid to you in settlement of the claim before 
refunding the premium paid.
 If you do not exercise your right to cancel then you are required to pay the 
premium.
See below for your rights outside this statutory cooling-off period.

After the statutory cooling-off period you may cancel the policy at any time by 
contacting us, but no refund of premium will be available
Mr Ms cancellation rights under the contract of insurance are more favourable to him
than is required by industry rules. And although he didnt cancel the policy on 1 May 2020, if 
this is taken as the date on which it can reasonably be said hed indicated he wanted to bring 
the policy to an end, that was more than 14 days after hed bought it.
So, Im satisfied Mr M isnt entitled to any refund of premiums under the policys terms and 
conditions.
Whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances
Mr Ms need for the remainder of the policy year changed due to circumstances entirely 
outside of his control. So, Ive thought about whether it would be fair and reasonable to ask 
Great Lakes to do anything further, taking into account the exceptional and extraordinary 
circumstances surrounding Covid-19. 
Covid-19 was an unanticipated and unforeseen event, and it was outside of the control of 
both parties to the insurance contract. But Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for Mr Ms 
contract with Great Lakes to be performed. 
Cover under the policy started on 1 December 2019. And from this date cover was in place 
for any number of trips, each up to 45 days in duration (and 120 days in total for the policy 
year), which Mr M couldve taken until he indicated that he didnt want the policy anymore. 
Indeed, Mr M says he travelled to the USA later in December 2019 for a couple of weeks so 
wouldve had the benefit of the policy for that trip.
Because of the way annual multi-trip insurance policies work, an insurer has no way of 
knowing how many such trips Mr M took (unless he made a claim under the policy). There may have been many trips or there may have been none, but Great Lakes was covering the 
risk of a claim during the time the policy was in force for any number of listed events in the 
policy.
The price set by Great Lakes covered Mr M for cancellation of any holidays which hed 
booked and was due to take from 1 December until, in this case, 1 May 2020, when hed 
indicated to Great Lakes that he now had no need for the policy because of the global 
pandemic. And Great Lakes covered the risk of Mr M making a successful cancellation claim 
for any number of pre-booked holidays, or the risk of travelling on any number of holidays, 
during that period. 
As explained by our investigator, its a fundamental principle of insurance law that, if the 
insurer had commenced to bear the risk concerned  for however short a time  the 
premium paid is not returnable. So, regardless of what Mr Ms cancellation rights were, it 
isnt unfair for Great Lakes to retain any premiums relating to the risk it covered.
However, due to Covid-19 and because Mr M had effectively said he wanted the policy 
brought to an end with effect of 1 May 2020, Im satisfied in this case that Great Lakes didnt 
bear any risk under the policy from this date. 
There was effectively five months during which Great Lakes was on risk of Mr M making a 
claim under the policy. And Great Lakes has said, in its claims experience, it receives 
varying percentages of claims across different months of an annual multi-trip travel 
insurance policy. 
Great Lakes has recently offered to reimburse Mr M 30% of the premium he paid for the 
policy. I know thats significantly less than the pro-rata refund Mr M says hes entitled to and 
I can understand the points Mr M has raised in support of his position. He says the policy 
covered him for up to 120 days in total for the policy year. And the only trip hed taken during 
that year had lasted 14 days  so he used around 11% of the total number of days he was 
insured for. He therefore says that Great Lakes should reimburse him for 89% of the 
premium he paid (or that it should at least meet him in the middle and pay back 59.5% of the 
premium to him). 
Ive thought about this. And based on the explanations Great Lakes has provided about its 
reasons for calculating the percentage refund in the way it has (when underwriting the brand 
of travel insurance policy Mr M had the benefit of), Im satisfied its shown that theres a 
material unevenness in the way the risk is spread for this policy. And Im satisfied it hasnt 
treated Mr M unfairly or any differently to other customers in similar circumstances.
As such and having taken into account the unique and unprecedented circumstances 
surrounding the Covid-19 pandemic, Im persuaded that it would be fair and reasonable for 
Great Lakes to refund Mr M 30% of the premium he paid for the policy.
Putting things right
Within 28 days from the date on which we confirm to Great Lakes that Mr M accepts my final 
decision, Great Lakes should pay to Mr M a sum equivalent to 30% of the premium he paid 
for the policy.  
My final decisionI partially uphold Mr Ms complaint. I direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to put things right by 
doing what Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman