DRN-2384944
The complaint
Mr M complains on behalf of W, a limited company, that Towergate Underwriting Group 
Limited did not communicate to him the outcome of whether a potential commercial 
insurance claim would be covered by Ws policy.
What happened
Towergate arranged a commercial insurance policy for W in September 2018.
In November 2018, W received a claim for negligence from a former patient. W contacted 
Towergate so they could discuss a potential claim under their insurance policy. A meeting 
took place between Mr M and a senior account executive from Towergate. The details of the 
meeting were confirmed in a follow up email from Towergate in which they stated they would 
send the relevant documentation to the insurers to see if the matter could be covered.
The relevant insurers told Towergate that any potential claim would not be covered under 
the policy. Towergate said that they explained this to Mr M during a phone call in December 
2018.
In July 2019, W received a letter from their former patients legal representatives. It said that 
court proceedings would be issued shortly as W had not responded to their letter of claim. 
Miss W contacted Towergate and was informed that Ws claim wasnt covered by the policy 
W had in place.
Mr M raised a complaint saying W hadnt been told by Towergate that the potential claim 
would not be covered. Towergate responded and disagreed with Mr M. They said he had 
been told in a phone call with their senior account executive in December 2018.
Mr M says this call didnt take place and that W was never advised that the claim would not 
be covered. So, he brought Ws complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into matters. He said that W had been inconvenienced by 
the lack of communication from Towergate and he recommended that Towergate pay £200 
to W for the inconvenience this delay caused to the business.
W accepted this recommendation, but Towergate thought the amount of compensation was 
excessive and suggested that £25 was a more appropriate offer. As such, it has come to an 
ombudsman for a decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on Ws complaint last month, setting out what I thought 
Towergate needed to do to resolve the matter. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Im minded to 
uphold the complaint for similar reasons to our investigator and Ive explained my 
reasons below. 
Towergate had a responsibility to keep W informed about the outcome of whether 
this potential claim would be covered by Ws policy in a timely and transparent 
manner. 
Towergate say they did this and that one of their employees informed Mr M in 
December 2018 that Ws claim was not covered.
Towergate have provided us with a call note which they have confirmed was written 
retrospectively from the employees memory of what happened. They said there is no 
recording of this call despite having recordings and timestamps for other calls made 
in relation to this claim stored on their internal systems.
Mr M told us that no call took place, so we asked him to check his phone records for 
that day. Mr M provided us with screenshots of text messages between himself and 
Towergates employee which show it is unlikely that this phone call ever took place. It 
looks as if the employee did try to contact Mr M, but they missed each other. 
The text messages provided by Mr M from the day this call is alleged to have taken 
place say that Towergate just wanted to give Mr M an update on the case and there 
was nothing for him to be concerned about. 
On balance, I think it is unlikely that this call ever took place. The text messages 
indicate that there was an attempt to make contact with W but their content does not 
suggest that the senior account executive told Mr M anything significant, as for 
example that any potential claim wouldnt be covered by the insurers. 
There is very little interaction between W and Towergate between December 2018 
and July 2019. I havent seen anything on Towergates files to indicate that W were 
advised that the claim wouldnt be covered prior to the call from W in July 2019 to 
Towergate when they received the letter from their former patients legal 
representatives informing them that court proceedings would be issued shortly.
So, I dont think Towergate told W that their claim wasnt covered either in the alleged 
call in December 2018 or at any other point before July 2019.
As part of my investigation, I asked W to provide me with more detail about the 
impact and inconvenience Towergates actions had on them. Miss W replied on 
behalf of W that the issues could not be quantified and that the court proceedings 
and expenses currently stand at around £19k.
As this case is about the delay in Towergate making W aware that the claim wouldnt 
be covered and not the reasons why the insurers wouldnt cover the claim, what I 
have considered is whether it would have made any difference to W if they had 
known this information seven months earlier in December 2018. I cant say that it 
wouldve made any difference in terms of Ws potential loss, as the insurers said the 
claim wasnt covered. 
W says that had Towergate advised it sooner that the policy wouldnt cover any 
potential claim, it may have sought legal advice earlier than it did and not doing so 
caused it avoidable inconvenience. 
On the other hand, I also see that W didnt contact Towergate in the interim period to 
ask for an update on the letter of claim or anything else to do with the case. I think it 
is reasonable to expect them to actively engage with Towergate considering the seriousness of the potential claim. So, I think W contributed to the delay in it 
understanding the correct position by not pursuing the matter with W. 
That said, I acknowledge that W was inconvenienced by not being told sooner that 
the policy wouldnt cover the potential claim. Taking all of the above into account I 
consider that a payment of £200 for the inconvenience caused to W is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint.
Neither party responded to my provisional decision with any further comments or evidence 
for me to take into account.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with neither party having sent me anything further to take into 
consideration, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion. So, this decision confirms my 
provisional findings, as detailed above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I require Towergate Underwriting Group Limited to pay £200 to W in 
recognition of the inconvenience caused 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2020.
 
Tara Richardson
Ombudsman