DRN-2478814
The complaint
Mr H and Mr P have complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) did not 
provide a full premium refund on their motor insurance policy following a reported incident 
which didnt result in a claim against the policy.
What happened
Mr Ps car was insured on his familys multicar insurance policy with Admiral and Mr H was a 
named driver. Mr H has been the main correspondent with Admiral. On policy renewal in 
March 2018, Mr Ps monthly premium payable increased significantly. Admiral said that a 
third-party had notified it of an incident which took place in February 2018 and although a 
claim was yet to be made, it had nevertheless increased the premium by £1,500. Admiral 
also reduced Mr Ps no claims bonus from two years to nil.
Mr H, who is Mr Ps step-father feels that hed been reassured by Admiral that if no claim 
was received, all of the increased premium would be refunded. Mr P therefore continued to 
pay insurance at the higher rate for a period of around 6 months until he eventually 
cancelled the policy. 
Mr H says that he made several telephone calls to Admiral to try to receive updates 
regarding the refund. Eventually it was confirmed that no claim had been made against Mr 
Ps policy and Mr Ps no claims bonus of two years was reinstated.
Mr H says that he made several telephone calls to Admiral to try to receive updates 
regarding the refund. Eventually it was confirmed that no claims had been made against Mr 
Ps policy and Mr Ps no claims bonus of two years was reinstated.
In March 2020, Admiral informed Mr H that a refund of just less that £170 was due. Mr P had 
expected a refund of approximately £600. Mr H complained to Admiral about the level of 
refund. He also complained that he had felt hed been bullied into accepting the lower 
amount.
Admiral confirmed that although it had been able to reinstate the no claims bonus, which 
generated a small refund, the incident had still affected the premium. Admiral didnt agree 
that it had forced Mr P to accept the lower amount.
Mr H and Mr P werent satisfied with Admirals response and were seeking the difference 
between £170 paid and £600 expected and they therefore complained to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.  An Investigator looked into all the evidence. As to whether Mr H was 
given the impression that there would be a full refund, the Investigator considered that this 
was not the case having listened to the relevant telephone call of March 2018.
As to the amount of the refund, the Investigator came to the following view; even though you 
were found to be not at fault, your premiums are still rated on this and calculated 
accordingly. Each insurer makes their own decisions on how they underwrite their insurance, 
theyll decide what factors to take into account and how much weight they put on to each 
factor. Admiral have explained they rate on all incidents regardless of fault. 
Finally, the Investigator also said that he found no evidence of bullying. 
Mr H and Mr P remain dissatisfied and the matter has therefore been referred to me to make 
a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr H and Mr P were disappointed that Mr P didnt receive a greater refund 
from Admiral, bearing in mind that no claim was made on his policy following the incident in 
February 2018. Its my role to consider whether Admiral acted unfairly or unreasonably in the 
light of the policy terms however. In all the circumstances of this case, I cannot say that they 
have. Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the policy document as the starting point. The relevant paragraph states that; 
any changes could alter the terms of our agreement to insure you or the premium you pay. 
For example, if you have received motoring convictions since your policy started. If we are 
able to arrange cover we will calculate any difference in premium from the date you were 
obliged to notify us (even if this happened in a previous period of insurance). 
In its final response letter following Mr H and Mr Ps complaint, Admiral states; We rate on 
all incidents regardless of fault because we found customers involved in an incident often go 
on to make future claims. There are many possible reasons for this, the most likely 
suggesting a higher than average exposure to everyday driving risks. Examples could 
include driving in rush hour or on typically dangerous stretches of road or parking on busy 
roads. The higher your exposure, the more likely you may be to claim.The claim status 
changed and your policy was referred to our Pricing Department to review any change in 
premium. They have confirmed the incident which occurred will still be rated on within our 
pricing structure as explained above, however, we are able to reinstate the NCB
Its the case that each insurer makes its own decisions on how they underwrite their 
insurance and decide upon the factors to take into account and how much weight they 
attribute to each factor. Admiral have satisfactorily explained how it calculated the premium, 
including how it treated the incident. In the circumstances, I cant say it did anything wrong or 
treated Mr H and Mr P unfairly. 
I have also listened to the calls between Mr H and Admiral and noted the understandable 
concern expressed by Mr H in March 2018 about the very significant increase in premium. In 
the event, Mr P continued to pay the premiums for a further 6 months. In all the 
circumstances, I consider that Admiral explained the premium increase and the reason for it 
and cannot say that it acted unfairly or unreasonably in doing so.
As to continuing to pay the increased premiums for 6 months, Mr H understood that he was 
told that the increase was a combination of rate increase and loss of no claims bonus; When 
discussing a possible refund if no claim was made, I was not made aware that the rate 
increase could never be refunded and any potential refund would only be of the increase in 
no claims bonus. He said that he finished the conversation believing 100% that the increase 
could be refunded; If I had believed anything else, I would have cancelled the policy.
Having listened to the relevant call, Im satisfied that the agent did not give any guarantees 
about a full refund or any refund. He did say in the context of price; if theres any difference, 
theyll refund the difference. Mr H mentioned that he might cancel the policy and it was left that he would call back to talk about potentially moving Mr Ps vehicle off the policy. In the 
circumstances I cant say that Admiral provided any assurances that led Mr P to continue to 
insure Mr Ps car on the policy at the increased premium. I dont consider that Admiral have 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in this respect either.
With regard to the telephone call in March 2020, I have heard no evidence to suggest that 
Mr H was pressurised into accepting a refund of just under £170. He wished to ensure that 
the amount was paid out rather than deducted from a future premium. The agent checked 
that this was possible and Mr Ps step-father said OK in his responses, and he said; lets 
go with that and then thanked the agent for her help at the end of the call. I dont consider 
that Admiral have acted unfairly or unreasonably in the way they responded to Mr P or his 
step-father therefore.
In conclusion I will not be upholding this complaint. I know that this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr H and Mr P, however I thank them for raising their concerns with this 
Service in a courteous and constructive manner. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Services Ombudsman, Im required to ask Mr H and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman