DRN-3325308
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy Royal & Sun Alliance Plc (RSA) declined a claim on their pet 
insurance policy due to an exclusion.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W had a pet insurance policy with RSA. While Mr W was working his dog 
attacked the pet belonging to the owner of the garden he was in. The pet needed treatment.  
So Mr W contacted RSA as he had public liability insurance included in his pet insurance. 
But RSA said Mr W wasnt covered when taking his dog to work.
Mr W said his dogs werent working dogs  they were just company for himself and his 
elderly clients. He wasnt using his dogs for work or financial gain. His dogs were 
companions while working. And his pet had caused accidental damage while visiting 
someone elses property so it should be covered by his policy. Mr W said hed paid half of 
the owners vet bill. And he wants RSA to either settle his claim or refund the premiums hes 
paid as the policy wasnt fit for purpose.
RSA said the incident had occurred whilst he was a paid employee. So the claim had been 
turned down because the pet insurance policy specifically excluded liability arising from any 
employment, trade, profession or business. 
RSA was sorry Mr W was unhappy with its decision. But the policy wording clearly outlined 
the exclusion. And if Mr W had informed RSA that the pet was with him while he carried out 
his work it wouldve confirmed that the exclusion applied to the liability section of the policy.
Mr and Mrs W werent satisfied with RSAs response. So they contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. Our investigator was sorry to hear about the 
circumstances leading to the claim. She understood the dogs were with Mr W as 
companions. 
But after receiving further information from the policy underwriters she accepted that the 
exclusion relating to any employment, trade, profession or business was related to the 
policyholder rather than the pet. By taking the dogs with him to work Mr W had increased the 
risk of a claim arising. And the premium paid for the policy didnt cover that risk. 
After carefully considering the terms and conditions our investigator felt RSA had fairly 
declined Mr and Mrs Ws claim in line with the policy wording. And she wouldnt be asking it 
to do anything more. 
Mr and Mrs W didnt agree with our investigator. The dogs werent with Mr W in a business 
capacity. They were there as companions. The incident happened in a small, private garden 
where Mr W happened to be working. And the wording used by RSA seemed intentionally 
disingenuous. So theyve asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the upset this has caused Mr and Mrs W. And I appreciate how RSAs decision 
to turn down their claim has added to their upset. Ill focus this outcome on RSAs decision to 
decline their claim in relation to the injury to the other pet. But I can also see Mr and Mrs W 
are unhappy they didnt receive the final response letter (FRL) sent by RSA in May 2021. 
I dont know why Mr and Mrs W didnt receive RSAs response. The letter is correctly 
addressed and unfortunately its not always possible to determine why post hasnt been 
received. But Ive not seen anything to suggest RSA didnt send the letter to Mr and Mrs W. 
And I can see our investigator has forwarded a copy of the letter for their information.
It may help to explain my role when looking at complaints about a declined insurance claim. I 
need to assess whether the insurer has acted fairly in declining the claim. And to do this I 
need to look at the reasons RSA has given and determine whether thats fair under the 
policy terms Mr and Mrs W accepted when they took out the pet insurance policy.
RSA says it declined the claim because the incident happened whilst Mr W was a paid 
employee. Mr and Mrs W have looked at the policy wording and believe they should be 
covered under whilst visiting someone elses property your pet causes accidental damage to 
personal property. Mr and Mrs W say the only difference between that wording and whats 
actually happened is that Mr W received payment for his time.
But unfortunately I think thats the key issue here. RSA says the policy has been designed 
as a person pet policy. Taking pets into a work or business environment is a higher risk than 
RSA allowed for when determining the cost of this policy. 
Ive looked carefully at the policy document. Under third party liability cover the policy lists a 
number of exceptions where cover isnt provided. I dont think it would be fair to say Mr W 
was using his dog for trade, profession or business  the pet was taken to the work location 
as a companion. It wasnt actively used as part of his work.
But there is a different exclusion relating to liability arising from any employment, trade, 
profession or business of any of your family or anyone looking after your dog with your 
permission. And the policy defines your family to include the policyholder as well as any 
partner, children, parents or other relatives who normally live with the policyholder.
I know Mr W feels very strongly that this shouldnt apply. Hes a self-employed horticulturist 
working in small, privately owned gardens. And the dogs are with him for personal company 
and for no other reason. But in this case I think RSA is right to say the liability arose from 
Mr Ws work. And therefore the exclusion noted above should apply. 
The other pet was injured because Mr Ws dog was with him while he was working. I realise 
there isnt much difference between this and Mr W helping tend a neighbours garden as a 
friend or family member. But Mr W has acknowledged he received payment for his time. So I 
dont think RSA has unfairly considered this to mean that the incident arose from 
Mr Ws employment, trade, profession or business.
For me to say RSA has done anything wrong Id need to see that its decision to decline the 
claim failed to follow the terms and conditions of the pet insurance policy. And on this 
occasion I dont think thats the case. Mr W was working and receiving payment at the time 
the incident took place. So I dont think RSA has turned down the claim unfairly.Mr W says if that is the case then they mustve been mis-sold the pet insurance policy. He 
says he wasnt able to declare his situation during the application process. And the wording 
wasnt sufficiently clear for him to avoid purchasing a policy that wasnt suited to him. RSA 
responded in the FRL that it was Mr and Mrs Ws responsibility to ensure the policy met their 
needs. It said the policy wording clearly outlined the above-mentioned clause. 
Ive thought carefully about Mr and Mrs Ws concerns. And I recognise their disappointment 
that the policy didnt meet their needs on this particular occasion. I do think the exclusion 
clause was sufficiently clear in the policy document. But if Mr W was unsure about anything 
or if he felt he didnt get the opportunity to explain his situation during the application process 
then I wouldve expected him to get in touch with RSA before accepting the policy cover. 
That wouldve given RSA the opportunity to explain that the exclusion would apply in those 
circumstances. 
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs W were hoping for. And I understand their 
upset that the claim has been declined. Id expect RSA to fairly assess each claim it receives 
against the terms and conditions of the pet insurance policy. And on this occasion I think 
thats what its done. So I wont be asking RSA to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman