DRN-3196598
The complaint
Ms E (through a representative) has complained that S.D. Taylor Limited trading as Loans at
Home (LAH) provided her with loans which she struggled to repay. In order to put things
right Ms E has asked for a refund of the interest charged and for the loans to be removed 
from her credit file.
What happened
The adjudicator upheld Ms Es complaint about all her loans. LAH did not agree with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to partly uphold 
Ms Es complaint about loans 3 - 9. A copy of the background to the complaint and my 
provisional findings follow this in italics and forms part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Ms E took nine loans from LAH between March 2017 and November 2019. A summary of
her borrowing, based on the information provided to us from LAH can be found below:
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)
1 £200.00 16/03/2017 17/08/2017 33
2 £500.00 17/08/2017 06/06/2018 45
3 £300.00 09/11/2017 15/08/2018 45
4 £500.00 06/06/2018 06/03/2019 45
5 £500.00 15/08/2018 05/06/2019 45
6 £300.00 06/03/2019 27/11/2019 46
7 £450.00 06/03/2019 27/11/2019 46
8 £600.00 05/06/2019 29/04/2020 46
9 £750.00 27/11/2019 28/10/2020 46
One of our adjudicators looked at Ms Es complaint and she upheld in full. She said for loan
1 (and all future loans) that the repayments Ms E was expected to make to LAH represented
a significant portion of her weekly income.
The adjudicator also thought that by the time loan 5 was granted that the pattern of lending
was now unsustainable and harmful to Ms E. So, loans 5 to 9 were upheld for this reason.
Ms E appears to have accepted the adjudicators findings.
LAH seems to have partially agreed with the adjudicator. It said it was only disputing the
reasons why the adjudicator upheld loans 1  4. So, it would seem that LAH agreed with the
adjudicators assessment about loans 5  9. In summary LAH has said;
While Ms Es income may have been low she was married and had no dependents.
As part of the affordability assessment the agent confirmed her husbands income to
verify that he was able to pay the expenditure stipulated in the affordability
assessment, meaning Ms E wasnt responsible for all these costs.
Verifying the husbands income was going above and beyond and shows the checks
were proportionate.
LAH also questioned what further checks would be needed, it says it asked about
income and expenditure, carried out a credit check and verified the partners income.
It considers these checks to be commensurate with a much larger value loan over a
much longer term such as a mortgage.
The weekly repayment for loan 1 represented 9% of Ms Es weekly income and 
whilefor later loans this percentage increased this also coincided with an increase 
inMs Es income.
LAH referred to the FLA Lending Code of 2006, which suggested spending more 
than 25% of gross income on repaying loans could be a sign of financial difficulties.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the time the loan was provided.
LAH needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure
Ms E could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that LAH should fairly and reasonably have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms E. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become or was becoming 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to say that LAH was required to establish whether Ms E
could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a
strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this isthe case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre
unlikely to be able to do so without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all mean for Ms Es complaint.
Loan 1
For loan 1, LAH asked Ms E about her weekly income and expenditure. It says that Ms E
declared a weekly income of £110 made up from benefits and some part-time self-employed
work. On top of this, LAH appears to have verified this through a review of Ms Es bank
statements. So, it would seem that LAH had a reasonable idea of Ms Es actual weekly
income. Although, Ive not seen the bank statements that LAH saw so I cant confirm this.
For expenditure, the agent has noted on the application form that her expenditure was
£68.50 per week, with Ms E sharing utilities with her husband. And it looks like that LAH also
verified her husbands earnings as this was noted on the application form.
Based on the repayment of £10 per week the checks that LAH carried out showed that Ms E
was likely to be able to afford the repayments she was committed to making.
However, the adjudicator thought this loan should be upheld because in their view Ms E was
expecting to pay LAH a significant portion of her income towards this loan repayment. Ive
thought about this, but I dont agree with the adjudicator.
It is of course possible that there is a point when the percentage a consumer is going to pay
a lender towards their loan repayments could lead to the complaint about the loan being
upheld. But, in this case, I dont think this loan is one which is correct to uphold. There was
no lending history and no repayment problems. The loan looked affordable based on a
proportionate check, so I consider it reasonable for LAH to have relied on this information
and therefore I dont think it was wrong for the loan to have been approved.
As this was early in the lending relationship, there wasnt at this point, any lending history to
fall back on or to indicate that Ms E was having problems. think these checks that LAH
carried out were proportionate and showed it that Ms E could afford these loans. Im
therefore planning not to uphold her complaint about loan 1.
Loan 2
This loan was taken the same day that Ms E had settled her first loan. This new loan was for
more than twice the capital amount, and Ms E was committing to pay LAH for a further 45
weeks. This led to her weekly commitment to LAH increasing from £10 to £20 per week.
LAH carried out a similar check for this loan as it did for loan 1. This time, Ms Es declared
total weekly income was noted as £142.65. This looks to have been made up of part time
work, and her benefits have been noted as being checked by a letter.
Her outgoings have been noted as £107.95. But this includes £10 she was paying towards
loan 1, that would shortly be closed. In addition, Ms E only declared she had outgoings for
transport of £67.45, mobile phone £10.50 and food at £20. All the other possible costs Ms E
couldve had (such as rent or council tax) have been noted that these are covered by herhusband.
Again, LAH wouldve thought that based on the information it gathered, the loan wouldve
been affordable for Ms E. There also wasnt any obvious repayment problems during the
term of loan 1. So, given this I think it was just about reasonable for LAH to have relied on
the information it gathered.
Ive noted that for this loan Ms E was committed to spending around 14% of her declared
income on repaying this loan. So, a slight increase in percentage terms compared to loan 1.
But I dont yet think it had reached the point where this loan wouldve looked unsustainable
for Ms E based on everything else that LAH knew about Ms E at the time.
Im therefore, intending to not uphold Ms Es complaint about loan 2.
Loans 3 and 4
Loan 3 was approved three months after loan 2 was granted (and while it was still running).
So, while Ms Es capital amount was lower, as loan 2 was running it increased Ms Es
weekly commitment to LAH from £20 a week to £32 a week.
Again, LAH carried out the same type of check as it had done for the previous two loans.
Ms E declared a similar sort of income, of £147.55 per week. This was again made up of
part time work and benefits. It doesnt seem for this loan that LAH checked these figures, as
it had done for the other loans.
LAH has noted again on the application form that Ms Es husband was responsible for the
majority of the living costs. Overall, it concluded her weekly outgoings were around £67.38
per week. But, £20 of this sum was the repayments that Ms E was already committed to
paying LAH. So, excluding her loan repayment for loan 2, her weekly outgoings were around
£47.38 per week.
So, I think it wouldve been reasonable for LAH to initially have concluded that Ms E was in a
position to be able to afford her loan repayments. However, LAH also needed to be mindful
about whether the loan was sustainable for Ms E. And, I do now think it had reached the
point where the repayment Ms E was due to make for this loan was a significant amount of
Ms Es declared income.
Ms E had been indebted to LAH for 8 months, in that time shed taken two previous loans
and was coming back for another. But, the weekly repayments that Ms E was committing to
making to LAH had increased from £10 a week (loan 1) to £32 per week, a tripling. And
while, her income had also increased, what was also increasing was the amount of Ms Es
weekly income she was committing to pay LAH. This had more than doubled from around
9% to over 20% by the time loan 3 was approved. And she now had an overlapping loan,
and this was due to run for a number of months.
So, in these circumstances, in my view, there was a significant risk that Ms E couldnt meet
her commitments without having to borrow again. So, I dont think its likely Ms E wouldve
been able to sustainably meet her commitments to LAH, for this or any subsequent loans.
A similar situation around when loan 4 was approved, this was taken the same day that loan
2 was repaid. Ms Es weekly commitment to LAH remained the same. Again, based on what
Ms E declared LAH may have thought that she could afford the repayments she was
committed to making, and while she did declare a slight increase in her income  due to
receiving additional benefits. She was again committed to being further in debt for an
additional 45 weeks, so like loan 3, I still think LAH ought to not have approved this loan.Ive thought about what LAH says about the 2006 FLA code, but the regulations and good
practice have evolved and developed over time. And Im satisfied that by now the loans were
unsustainable, as denied by the regulations (and as mentioned above) that are applicable at
the time, so the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).
Loans 5  9
For loans 5  9 it seems that LAH have agreed with the adjudicators outcome for those
loans, so I no longer think those loans are in dispute. But I would say, that I dont disagree
with the outcome the adjudicator reached, and the reasons why they reached that outcome.
So, Ive included loans 5  9 in the putting things right section below.
Response to the provisional decision
Both Ms E and LAH were asked to provide any further comments or evidence it wanted this 
service to consider by 3 December 2021. 
Ms Es representative told us it had nothing further to add and to proceed to a final decision. 
LAH hasnt responded to the decision by the deadline, despite being chased by this Service 
for its comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither LAH or Ms E has provided this Service any further comments, information or 
evidence for further consideration. I see no reason to depart from the findings that I made in 
the provisional decision. I still think LAH was wrong to have approved loans 3  9 for the 
reasons Ive outlined above. 
Ive outlined below what LAH needs to do in order to put things right for Ms E. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress LAH should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what
might have happened had it not provided lending from loan 3, as Im satisfied it ought to
have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Ms E may have simply left matters there, not
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender wouldhave been able to lend to Ms E in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Ms E would more likely than not have taken up any one of these
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce LAHs liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
LAH shouldnt have given Ms E loans 3  9.
A. LAH should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms E towards interest,
fees and charges on these loans.
B. LAH should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms E
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms E originally made
the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. LAH should pay Ms E the total of A plus B.
D. LAH should remove any adverse information LAH have recorded on Ms Es credit file
in relation to loans 3 and 4. The overall pattern of Ms Es borrowing for loans 5 - 9
means any information recorded about them is adverse, so LAH should remove
these loans entirely from Ms Es credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LAH to take off tax from this interest. LAH
must give Ms E a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Ms Es 
complaint in part. 
S.D. Taylor Limited trading as Loans at Home should put things right as directed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman