The complaint
Ms V complains that Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax) continued to apply fees to an old account 
she held with them after she had closed it, leading to late payment markers being recorded 
on her credit file and significantly affecting her.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Ms V and Halifax, so there is no need for me to repeat them again here in any 
great detail. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not 
mentioned something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its 
relevant to the issues I need to deal with. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate.  So I look at the 
issues raised and then consider all the available evidence in order to see if the business has 
acted fairly. I take into account both sides views in considering whether Halifax acted fairly. 
Where the evidence is not complete, then I think about what is more likely to have happened 
in the light of the evidence which is available. I take into account both sides views in 
considering whether Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Ms V.
Ms V closed her account in 2006 and naturally thought that was the end of matters as far as 
that particular account was concerned. But shortly thereafter a transaction was processed 
which in turn led to a £10 fee being applied to the account. Further fees were then added 
over time and the balance rose to £227.24. Ms V was unaware of this until 2019, and when 
she realised she raised a complaint. Halifax responded by accepting that they had fallen into 
error, apologised, removed the £227.14 and the late payment markers from her credit file 
They also sent her a cheque for £300 to reflect the upset and inconvenience they had 
caused.
I have considered the list of issues Ms V feels were caused by Halifaxs error, but I am afraid 
I cannot agree with her that that is so. As our investigator has already stated there could be 
any number of reasons why a business might choose not to grant a mortgage, or credit or 
even agree to open an account. A poor credit file is only one of them. I accept it might be a 
very important factor, but the point I make is that it is not the only factor and so I cant be 
satisfied that the rejections Ms V received were entirely due to Halifaxs error. Equally there 
DRN-1747315is no evidence to satisfy me that Ms Vs potential landlord declined to let a property to her 
because of the late payment markers. And the same is true for Ms Vs view that she was 
forced to live with her ex partner.
Having said all of that, Halifax clearly made a significant error and one which they did not 
correct for a very very long time. Halifax has accepted that it didnt get things right and 
because of that it should pay some compensation. And so it paid Ms V £300. Ive given 
further thought as to whether this is sufficient and in so doing Ive considered the level of 
awards this service has made for distress and inconvenience in similar cases. In addition to 
the matters I mention above, Ms V is also unhappy at the length of time it took Halifax to put 
matters right. She complained in December 2019 to Halifax yet the error on her file was not 
resolved until April 2020.
Putting all of this into the balance I think what Halifax paid is fair and reasonable. And I think 
it is enough to put matters right.
So, although Ms V will probably be disappointed with my decision, and whilst Halifax has 
indeed made an error, I cant say Halifax has subsequently acted unfairly or unreasonably 
here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
Halifax has already paid £300 to settle this complaint, and that is fair and reasonable. So my 
final decision is that I dont require Halifax to do anything else.
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman