DRN-3641564
The complaint
Mr W complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited irresponsibly granted him a conditional sale 
agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In May 2018, Mr W acquired a used car financed by a conditional sale from Moneybarn. 
Mr W made an advance payment of £4,900 was required to make 59 monthly repayments of 
around £418. The total repayable under the agreement was around £29,555.
Mr W says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included a full credit search showing Mr Ws levels 
of borrowing and any arrears or defaults. It also verified Mr Ws monthly income through his 
bank statements.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Moneybarn didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mr W didnt agree and said Moneybarn hadnt provided a copy of its credit search results 
and that his bank statements showed poor money management which Moneybarn would 
have seen had adequate checks taken place.
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before granting the finance, I think Moneybarn gathered a reasonable amount of evidence 
and information from Mr W about his income. I say this because his income was verified 
against his bank statements. Moneybarn didnt ask Mr W about his expenditure. Although it 
did complete a credit check, this wont have indicated what Mr Ws regular living expenses 
were. Although bank statements were provided it isnt clear that information about Mr Ws 
expenditure was assessed. Given the size and term of the agreement, I think it would have 
been reasonable for Moneybarn to assess the expenditure information (as well as the 
income information) contained in Mr Ws bank statements.
Moneybarn hasnt provided a copy of the credit check it completed but has said that this 
showed Mr Ws borrowing was within its lending criteria and that while there was a default 
recorded this was historic. It also noted a historic county court judgement. I have looked at 
a copy of the credit file supplied by Mr W. While this is a more recent report it doesnt show 
any defaults or county court judgments from the time of the agreement and the accounts do 
not show any arrears. Therefore, I do not find that Mr Js credit information raised concerns 
that would require further investigation.
Moneybarn was provided with two months of banks statements from Mr W. These confirmed 
his income as being around £1,800 a month, in line with the amount Moneybarn used it in its 
assessment. The statements show several transfers in and out of the account to and from 
Mr W and his wife. While these may be for living costs, I do not have further details. There 
are limited committed expenses shown in the bank statements and I do not find that had the 
statements been considered further these would have suggested Mr W was in financial 
difficulties. Therefore, without further evidence I do not find I can say that had Moneybarn 
assessed Mr Ws expenditure as well as his income that it would have found the agreement 
was unaffordable. For this reason, Im not persuaded that Moneybarn acted unfairly in 
approving the finance. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman