DRN-2619212
The complaint
Mr C has complained that he was mis-sold a policy by a company now taken over by Aviva 
Life & Pensions UK Limited.
What happened
Mr C says he thought he had bought a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 1997 
as he took it out to cover his mortgage payments if he became unwell and was no longer 
able to work. He feels the policy was unsuitable due to the negative publicity around PPI 
policies. 
Mr C complained but Aviva didnt think it had mis-sold the policy. Unhappy with Avivas 
response, Mr C referred his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Aviva had done anything wrong as 
the policy he was sold was suitable for his needs at the time and wasnt a PPI policy. 
Mr C disagreed and said the policy would cover him if he was unable to work and therefore 
he sees it as a PPI policy. And so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whether a policy was mis-sold, I will consider whether it was suitable 
based on the individual circumstances. In Mr Cs case, he says he wanted a policy which 
would cover his mortgage payments. And thought he had bought a PPI policy. 
Having reviewed the policy documents and paperwork available from the time, I can confirm 
Mr C wasnt sold a PPI policy. 
Mr C had a whole of life policy which provided the following optional cover:
Life cover
Critical illness cover
Health insurance cover
The policy schedule confirms Mr C opted for health insurance cover for a term of 22 years 
and Mr C would receive a sum of £644 per month which would increase annually, in line with 
inflation. The policy documents confirm that it included an increased mortgage option which 
meant that if Mr C moved home, his cover could be increased to match a new mortgage.
I havent seen any evidence that Mr C needed to use the policy. But if he had done, he 
would have received a monthly benefit if he was unable to work due to illness, after a 
deferred period of 52 weeks. 
I can see why Mr C thinks this was a PPI policy as those policies cover payments in specific 
circumstances such as illness, accident or unemployment. But PPI policies tend to be 
related to a specific debt only. And health insurance cover provides a benefit per month and 
isnt linked to a specific outgoing. 
As explained above, he bought health insurance cover which would pay a specific sum per 
month if he was too unwell to work. More importantly, Mr C seems concerned about whether 
the policy was suitable for him. 
As this policy would have paid out in the event of illness after the deferred period, and the 
monthly benefit was made clear in the paperwork sent to Mr C, I dont think the policy was 
unsuitable. He could have used the benefit to make his mortgage payments if necessary (as 
well as for any other outgoings). And this is what he says he asked for when he bought the 
policy in 1997. As the benefit wasnt just limited to the mortgage payments, this would be 
more beneficial to Mr C if he wasnt able to work due to illness. And so I dont think it was 
mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman