DRN-4146292
The complaint
Miss C complains JCT600 (Yorkshire) Ltd mis-sold her a tyre and alloy insurance policy on 
three vehicles she bought from them.
What happened
The details of the claim are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again here. 
Instead, Ill summarise the background and focus on the reasons for my decision.
JCT600 sold tyre and alloy insurance policies to Miss C on three vehicles she bought from 
them between November 2017 and October 2018.
Miss C says these policies were mis-sold to her at a time when she was vulnerable, and she 
had no need for the cover as she ran her own alloy wheel repair business. If JCT600 had 
carried out the necessary due diligence, Miss C feels this wouldve been realised by it. To 
put things right she asked for a refund of the premiums and compensation.
Miss C referred her complaint to this service for an independent review. The Investigator 
explained he wouldnt be considering the vulnerable position of Miss C and impact of this 
with JCT600 as this had been determined in a prior decision of this service. In light of this, 
they thought Miss C was given enough information at the time the policies were sold to make 
an informed decision as to whether the policies met her needs. And each policy came with a 
30-day cooling off period when it could be cancelled for a full refund. So, the Investigator 
didnt uphold Miss Cs complaint. Whilst shed referred to not needing the policies as she ran 
her own alloy wheel repair business this didnt change the Investigators view on the matter 
as they were satisfied shed been provided with enough information to make an informed 
decision. Further, they noted two of the policies had been sold after her business was served 
with a compulsory strike off notice.
Miss C disagreed. She explained she was in a vulnerable position which didnt allow her to 
see things for what they really were, but she doesnt feel this has been fully understood. The 
closure of her company was requested by her, also under the persuasion of the salesperson 
who sold her the policies. She explained she didnt read the paperwork and had never had 
finance or policies like this before - she trusted the salesperson. 
The Investigator and Miss C communicated about this, but these points didnt change the 
Investigators view. This matter has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of matters and points have been raised, this decision focuses on what I 
consider are the main issues. However, Ive given careful consideration to all of the 
submissions made before arriving at my decision. Having done so, Im satisfied the 
Investigator reached a fair outcome here. So, I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint in this 
matter. Ill explain why.
When selling an insurance policy on a non-advised basis, a business is required to give the 
customer information about the policy that is clear, fair and not misleading. This is to allow 
the consumer to make an informed decision about whether to buy it. If the business sells the 
policy on an advised basis, its also required to ensure the policy is suitable for the 
customers needs.
Taking everything into account, I havent seen any evidence that would allow me to safely 
determine its more likely JCT600 failed to fulfil its obligations in relation to this matter. I say 
this because Miss C acknowledges she was given the relevant information by JCT600 which 
sets out the terms of cover. And I note she had the option to cancel each policy for a full 
refund within 30 days. 
Whilst I appreciate she says she trusted the salesperson and didnt read the information she 
was given, it was ultimately Miss Cs choice to do this. It doesnt necessarily follow from her 
decision not to read the policies that JCT600 failed to fulfil its obligation to give her 
information which is clear, fair and not misleading. And I havent seen sufficient evidence in 
this complaint to say it has or that the policies werent suitable for Miss C at the time. Im 
therefore satisfied, on balance, JCT600 didnt mis-sell the policies to Miss C. 
Finally, Im not ignoring the fact Miss C says these policies were sold to her at the time she 
was vulnerable. But, as explained by the Investigator, the issue of Miss Cs vulnerability in 
relation to her dealings with JCT600, including its due diligence, has already been 
determined in a prior decision of this service. That decision found the vulnerability policy of 
JCT600 wasnt triggered in its dealings with Miss C. In light of this, its not a matter Im able 
to revisit in this complaint.
I recognise Miss C will be disappointed with this outcome as she feels the business needs to 
be held to account. But my decision ends what we  in trying to resolve her dispute with 
JCT600  can do for her.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept or reject my decision 
before 20 December 2023.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman