DRN-2414223
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) is holding him liable for four payments he 
says he didnt make or otherwise authorise on his credit card account.
What happened
Mr R has a credit card account with Lloyds. In October 2019, fraudsters tricked him into 
sharing his credit card details which enabled them to make four payments, totalling around 
£7,881.93.
Mr R had purchased an item through a well-known online vendor. He searched online for a 
contact number for the online vendor as he wished to speak with them about the item hed 
ordered - he believed there were missing parts. Mr R called the number he found online. 
Unfortunately, this number went through to fraudsters. Mr R was told by the fraudsters that 
they couldnt hear him and so they called him back. 
 
After discussing the item he bought Mr R says he was told hed receive a refund and the 
fraudster asked him for a card number so they could process the refund. Whilst on the 
phone to the fraudster Mr R received a text message from Lloyds. Mr R says he was told to 
reply yes to the message. Mr R told us he questioned the amount in the message but was 
told by the fraudster that it was a dummy transaction/amount to verify the card hed given. 
Mr R says he replied yes to the first text message.
Mr R explained he became suspicious when he received a further text message which he 
was again told to reply yes to. Mr R says he hung up the call and then contacted Lloyds 
about this. During this call Lloyds identified four pending purchases (and no refunds) which 
the fraudsters had put through using the credit card details Mr R had provided.
Lloyds looked into Mr Rs complaint and concluded it was not willing to refund him for the 
four transactions. In summary, Lloyds said Mr R willingly gave his credit card details to the 
merchant therefore it is unable to treat this matter as fraudulent. It said it sent a text 
message for each payment which included the value of the payment, the recipient and asked 
Mr R to confirm the transaction was made by him.  And, each time, Mr R replied to say the 
transactions was genuine and so it was processed. Because of this, Lloyds refused to 
provide a refund as it took reasonable steps to verify the payments with Mr R. 
Remaining unhappy, Mr R referred the complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
looked into things and recommended it be upheld. She said demonstrating that a customers 
personalised security details were used to make a payment isnt enough for Lloyds to 
determine it was authorised. She said Lloyds needed to demonstrate that Mr R has either 
made the payments himself by carrying out all the steps necessary to do so, or that he gave 
permission for someone else to make a payment on his behalf. 
Our investigator explained that while Mr R provided the fraudsters with his card details, he 
hadnt entered any details, or chosen a recipient, nor had he chosen an amount to pay. The 
investigator concluded that Mr R hadnt authorised these payments nor had he given 
permission to a third party to make them on his behalf.
Lloyds disagreed with the view reached by our investigator. It reiterated that Mr R made a 
call and provided his card details within this. That he responded to text messages which it 
says clearly confirmed the payment  and that the beneficiary of the payments wasnt the 
business he thought he was dealing with. 
Lloyds said it is clear he has authorised and consented to these payments by his actions 
and the bank cannot see how it would not be clearly evident to the customer that by saying 
yes to these texts his card would be debited. By doing so the transactions (which were on 
hold up to that point) completed. If he had replied no the amounts would not have been 
taken.
It also raised that if Mr R was a regular user of the known online vendor, he wouldve been 
aware of their procedures when he was making purchases with them. Lloyds added that it is 
its understanding that the online vendor would not ask for a customers card details for 
security purposes.
 
As Lloyds disagreed, the case has been passed to me to consider and issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will now explain why. 
In line with the Payment Service Regulations 2017, the starting position is that Mr R isnt 
liable for payments he didnt authorise himself or give permission to a third party to do so on 
his behalf. Having carefully considered the information available, Im satisfied Mr R didnt 
follow the steps necessary to authorise the four payments.
 
By Mr Rs own testimony, which I find he has been consistent with, is that he believed he 
was providing his card details in order to receive a refund. From what he has told us, the 
fraudster said the text message was a dummy transaction to verify the card details and that 
no funds would be debited. So, I think it follows that Mr R was not aware of the specific 
details in relation to the transactions made, such as the chosen recipient, the amount of the 
payments and so on. When Mr R provided his details to the fraudster in the call this was on 
the understanding that the information was being used for a different purpose- namely for a 
refund. And while I do recognise Mr R did give his card details to the fraudster I cant fairly 
and reasonably conclude that in him doing so he authorised its use. 
With the above in mind, Im also not persuaded Mr R gave the third-party permission to 
undertake a payment instruction on his behalf. Again, this is on the basis that Mr R provided 
the details in the call on his understanding that this was to verify his card for the purpose of a 
refund. 
I note Lloyds comments about the content of the text messages.  And, from the information 
Ive reviewed, there is a slight difference in the information provided around the text 
messages. Lloyds has said text messages were sent for all four transactions which Mr R 
replied to, whereas Mr R recollects replying yes to the first text message and then 
becoming suspicious on receiving another message. While Ive not seen a copy of the exact 
messages Mr R is said to have been sent for all four payments, Lloyds has provided us with 
an example of the information that would have been contained within those text messages. 
This would have included the date and time of the transaction, the amount of the payment 
and who the payment was to  the merchant. I recognise that if Mr R had stopped to consider the information within the messages carefully, he might have found those things 
unusual and/or in contradiction of what the fraudster was telling him. However, Im mindful 
Mr R was on the phone to the fraudsters at the time the text message was received and they 
were guiding him through the process.  And, at the time of the first text message, he 
believed he was speaking to the genuine online vendor. Given this, I think it is more likely 
than not Mr R took what was being said to him over the phone at face value and therefore, 
didnt feel the need to scrutinise the contents of the messages. I also dont think his failure to 
pay closer attention to the text messages means he authorised the payments. 
Lloyds has also said that if Mr R was a regular user of this online vendor, he wouldve been 
aware of their procedures when he was making purchases with them. And it doesnt think 
the online vendor would ask for a customers card details in these circumstances. However, 
Mr R has told us that, at the time, he hadnt had much experience with getting refunds with 
the online vendor and this was his first direct contact with them by phone. But in any event, 
Im not persuaded in the particular circumstances of this complaint that this aspect makes a 
difference to the outcome of this case. Mr R was tricked by the fraudsters into believing he 
was speaking with the legitimate online vendor.
Overall, when taking everything Ive seen and been told into account, Im satisfied Mr R 
didnt authorise the four payments and so I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for 
Lloyds to hold him liable for them.
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint.
 
Lloyds Bank PLC should rework Mr Rs credit card account as if the four payments had 
never taken place. This will include removing any interest, fees or charges that were applied 
to those payments. If, by doing so and taking into account any repayments Mr R has since 
made, this puts Mr Rs credit card account into a positive balance situation, then 
Lloyds Bank PLC should also add simple interest to that positive balance at a rate of 8% per 
annum calculated to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman