DRN-2433924
The complaint
Mr R complains as sole proprietor of a business. He is unhappy that The National Farmers' 
Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited trading as NFU Mutual (NFUM) has refused to pay 
his claim under his farm policy for theft of a number of tools and pieces of equipment from 
the business premises.
What happened
In February 2019 a container on Mr Rs premises was broken into and a number of tools and 
items of equipment were stolen. Mr Rs son, who ran a separate business from the same 
premises made a claim on his own policy, but because he had failed to disclose information 
when renewing his policy his insurer wouldnt pay the claim and cancelled his policy.
Mr R made a claim for the tools/equipment on his own policy. After reviewing the claim 
NFUM said it wouldnt pay the claim. This was because it wasnt satisfied that the tools and 
equipment belonged to him. Rather they belonged to his son who had declared in the course 
of his claim that they belonged to him. Mr Rs son also said this to the police. NFUM said 
that the only receipts available showed that the tools and equipment were bought by his son.
Mr R explained that he and his son frequently used each others tools and it was insignificant 
to them who owned them. For the most part he had lent the money to his son to enable him 
to buy tools. He further pointed out that two items of equipment were named on his policy 
schedule and that the NFUM rep who visited him at his last renewal assured him that all the 
tools in his schedule would be covered. He also said the same rep had advised him to make 
a claim on his policy after his sons claim was unsuccessful.
NFUM still wouldnt pay the claim. On referral to this service our investigator said she didnt 
feel that there was enough evidence to show that the tools/equipment belonged to Mr R 
rather than his son, so NFUM had acted reasonably in declining the claim.
M R didnt agree and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I understand that Mr R is upset that his claim has been rejected and that his claim 
was treated with suspicion. I can say that whilst it had its concerns about the presentation of 
the claim NFUM accepts this was a genuine claim. I understand that the reason why the 
claim was initially made under Mr Rs sons policy was because Mr R didnt want to make a 
claim under his own policy. I accept that in some circumstances items can be covered by 
more than one insurance policy.
When investigating any claim an insurer has the right to demand information. In theft cases 
that information usually relates to the ownership and value of the items stolen. Mr R and his 
son although working from the same premises run separate businesses which are 
separately insured. And Mr Rs policy is clear in that it applies to his business, not his sons 
business. NFUM asked for evidence that Mr R owned the items stolen. Its particular concern 
was that in making his claim, Mr Rs son said that he owned all the items stolen. The only 
receipts Mr R was able to produce were in his sons name. And though Mr R may have lent 
his son the money that doesnt mean Mr R owned the items.
I fully understand that two businesses operating from the same premises can use each 
others equipment. But they do appear to me to be different businesses and the bulk of the 
tools/equipment stolen seem to me to relate more to Mr Rs sons business than to Mr Rs. 
I have to be impartial and consider the matter from both sides. If Mr Rs sons claim had 
succeeded his insurance would have paid out on the basis that all the items were owned by 
him. So Its understandable that NFUM, when considering the claim asked for information 
concerning the ownership of the items. And essentially Mr R has been unable to prove 
ownership. Any receipts provided indicate that they are in Mr Rs sons name. When there is 
no evidence of ownership or as here the evidence shows that Mr R wasnt the owner, its 
reasonable for NFUM to say that it required proof that Mr R was the owner.  Under those 
circumstances I think that NFUM acted reasonably in demanding evidence that Mr R owned 
the items stolen. And when it didnt get that evidence it was entitled in my view to decline the 
claim.
On Mr Rs point about NFUMs rep saying the tools in the schedule were fully insured, I 
accept that on the face of it if items are specified in a policy schedule then that might be 
regarded as evidence of ownership. But one of the items very clearly belonged to Mr Rs son 
(there being a receipt for it in his sons name), and he managed to recover it. In those 
circumstances I again think it reasonable for NFUM to ask for evidence of Mr Rs ownership.
With regard to making a new claim, from reading the reps account he says he may have 
said that if other items were stolen Mr R should bring them to the attention of the loss 
adjuster. But I cant say whether the rep was in full possession of all the facts. As Ive said 
its possible for items to be covered by more than one policy. I dont think this affects my 
decision that NFUM was entitled, having considered all the facts, to decline the claim.  
 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman