DRN-2735778
The complaint
Mr G complains that Buckinghamshire Building Society didnt transfer his money by faster 
payment.
What happened
Mr G says he asked Buckinghamshire to close his account and transfer the money to an 
account he provided details of. He says the money hadnt reached the account and called 
Buckinghamshire and it told him the money hadnt been sent by faster payment but by 
BACS. Mr G says the money was needed for a friend of 45 years whom he let down as a 
result of the delay. He also complains about how Buckinghamshire dealt with his complaint 
and says it offered him £250 compensation before later offering £25.
Buckinghamshire says it received Mr Gs letter dated 26 September 2020 on 29 September 
2020 and sent the money to the designated account. It says the account terms and 
conditions allow it to transfer the money by faster payment, BACS or CHAPS and Mr G 
didnt tell it about any time constraints or urgency in processing his request. 
Buckinghamshire says its staff didnt end any calls with Mr G but when a call dropped it 
called Mr G back. It also says it didnt agree to pay Mr G £250 but offered him £25 as a 
gesture of goodwill.
Mr G brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator didnt 
think Mr G told Buckinghamshire about any urgency for the transfer and it acted in line with 
account terms and conditions. The investigator thought Mr G received the money on 1 
October 2020 and hasnt explained why that time period had such an impact on his ability to 
help his friend. And thought Buckinghamshire had offered £25 as a goodwill gesture not 
£250.
Mr G doesnt accept that view and in summary says his pain and upset in letting his friend 
down has not been considered. He also disagrees with how Buckinghamshire dealt with his 
request and says the account leaflet doesnt say how the transfer will be made. He also 
questions why different methods are used for the transfer of money.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr G will be disappointed by my decision and how strongly he feels about what 
took place.
I have looked carefully at the letter Mr G sent to Buckinghamshire on 26 September 2020. I 
find that letter told Buckinghamshire to close the account and transfer the money. I dont 
think Mr G made any mention of the potential urgency of the transfer or that he needed the 
money for any specific purpose. If Mr G needed the money urgently to help his friend, then I 
would have expected him to have told Buckinghamshire that or at least spoken to it to 
ensure the money was transferred as soon as possible. Im satisfied that Buckinghamshire 
couldnt have known about the urgency of the transfer from Mr Gs letter and wasnt told 
about it.
I have looked at the account terms and conditions which I think Mr G would have agreed to 
when the account was opened. Those terms and conditions make clear that a transfer may 
be done by BACS, faster payment or CHAPS. There is no dispute here that the transfer was 
made by BACS and so Im satisfied Buckinghamshire has acted in line with those terms and 
conditions and so hasnt made a mistake or acted unfairly. I appreciate Mr G says that 
information is not contained in the account leaflet, but Im satisfied for the reasons I have 
explained the information is in the account terms and conditions. I also appreciate Mr G says 
that other banks use faster payments and that Buckinghamshire may have in the past. But I 
dont think that matters as the terms and conditions are clear, that one of the three methods 
may be used.
I can see that Mr G received the money in his account on 1 October 2020. I think that even if 
Buckinghamshire transferred the money by faster payment the difference in receiving the 
money would have been minimal in any event and make it clear that on occasions faster 
payments are not completed in the same working day. I dont think Mr G has explained why, 
what may have been, a minimal delay had such a significant effect on his ability to help his 
friend.
Buckinghamshire has given us a full transcript of the calls between it and Mr G. Im satisfied 
that Buckinghamshire fairly explained what had taken place and called Mr G back when the 
calls dropped. And that it dealt appropriately with Mr G during the calls. I dont think 
Buckinghamshire ever offered Mr G £250 compensation but said it would consider his 
request for that amount of compensation. 
Overall, Im satisfied Buckinghamshire has dealt fairly with this complaint and hasnt made a 
mistake. In those circumstances I cant fairly order it to do anything further in the 
circumstances of this complaint and think this brings an end to what we in trying to resolve 
this dispute informally can do. If Mr G wishes to accept the £25 gesture of goodwill, then he 
will need to contact Buckinghamshire about it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman