DRN-2907073
The complaint
Mrs I complains Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc (trading as Hitachi Personal Finance) gave her two 
unaffordable loans, one of which it agreed to the same day it had declined another loan 
application shed made using a different email address.
What happened
Mrs I took out two loans for £7,500 and £3,000 in April and May 2016 respectively from 
Hitachi Personal Finance. She repaid the loans in December 2016.
In 2020 Mrs I complained to Hitachi Personal Finance saying that the loans shed taken out 
were unaffordable. She said, when she complained, that shed had another application for a 
loan declined on the same day the second loan was approved. She also said shed used a 
different email address when making that application. Finally she said that the details shed 
given in her application werent accurate as shed put it together in a hurry.
Hitachi Personal Finance looked into Mrs Is complaint and said it didnt agree the loans 
were unaffordable given the credit checks it had done. Mrs I was unhappy with Hitachi 
Personal Finances response and so complained to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Is complaint and, having asked for additional 
information about her finances and circumstances at the time, said that they didnt think 
Hitachi Personal Finance had lent irresponsibly. Based on Mrs Is bank statements in the 
three months leading up to the loans, for example, our investigator thought Mrs I had enough 
income to pay and sustain the loan.
Mrs I disagreed with our investigators conclusions, saying that the main point of her 
complaint was that shed had another application for a loan declined on the same day the 
second loan was approved, that shed used a different email address when making that 
application and this showed her loans must have been unaffordable. Our investigator looked 
into Mrs Is complaint further but said they didnt agree based on additional evidence they 
received. Mrs I asked for a decision from an ombudsman. So, Ive considered this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs I was about to get married, amongst other things, at the time she made the applications 
she did to Hitachi Personal Finance.
I can see that Mrs I made a total of four applications in April and May 2016, one of which 
was declined. Ive seen the reasons why the application  which was for £12,500  was 
declined. I can also see that the application was declined over two weeks before Mrs Is 
second loan  which was for £3,000  was approved rather than on the same day. Im 
satisfied that the reasons for the loan being declined were appropriate ones, and that the 
email address Mrs I supplied when making her applications had no bearing on the lending 
decision.
I agree with our investigator that Hitachi Personal Finances checks werent good enough 
and I can see some of the information Mrs I supplied was inconsistent. However, I also 
agree that had it done more detailed checks, it would have had no reason to think the 
lending was likely to have been unsustainable and, in turn, unaffordable.
Given everything Ive just said, I dont think it would be right to uphold this complaint as I 
dont think the business has treated Mrs I unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2022.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman