DRN-2879793
The complaint
W, a limited company, complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc turned down its claim for storm 
and escape of water damage under its commercial property insurance policy.
All references to AXA include its appointed agents.
W is being represented in this complaint by a third-party, S. But for ease of reference Ill refer 
to W directly in my decision.
What happened
Around September 2016, W raised a claim to AXA for damage to its property. It said the 
damage was caused by a storm/escape of water. Gutters were unable to cope with a 
torrential rainstorm and had overflowed, which caused water to penetrate into the property.
AXA appointed a loss adjuster to validate the claim and cause of damage. The loss adjuster 
said there was a condition precedent to liability which concerned the maintenance of the flat 
roof area. They didnt think the condition had been met. And they said the internal damage 
appeared to be gradual, as opposed to a one-off event. So, they recommended the claim be 
turned down.
W said the roof had been inspected and maintained, and the ingress was due to a one-off 
torrential storm, so the claim should be accepted.
AXA carried out further investigations and said the evidence showed a serious lack of 
maintenance to the roof area. So, it maintained its decision to turn down the claim.
W didnt agree and referred the matter to our service. In summary, it said:
There were long periods of inactivity on the part of AXA during the claim.
AXA had ignored its written evidence which showed the roof has been inspected 
annually.
That it wasnt a condition of the policy to provide written evidence of the roof 
inspections.
The damage being claimed for wasnt due to a lack of maintenance but instead 
happened suddenly following heavy rainfall.
The loss adjusters investigation included an unscheduled site visit and relied on 
evidence from the tenant who arent involved in the claim.
Our investigator looked at everything and recommended the complaint not be upheld. They 
concluded it wasnt unreasonable for AXA to turn down the claim because they werent 
persuaded the flat roof condition of the policy was complied with. And they concluded the 
policy didnt cover W for gradual deterioration or wear and tear either. And in any event, the 
investigator concluded there werent storm conditions around the time of the claim and that 
the damage was most likely gradual as opposed to the result of a one-off event.
W requested an ombudsmans decision. It said the claim had been submitted under both the 
storm and escape of water perils, and therefore the policy should cover for the water ingress 
to the property.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ws policy covers it for damage so long as it isnt specifically excluded for a reason listed in 
the policy. But Ws policy also contains a condition precedent to liability set out on the policy 
schedule which says:
Roof Inspection Condition
It is a condition precedent to liability in respect of damage arising to or resulting from the flat 
roof area, that the weatherproofing of flat roofs is inspected at least once every two years by 
a qualified person and any defects rectified immediately at the insureds expense.
This condition means that AXA considers it so fundamental to the operation of the policy that 
if it isnt complied with there is no cover. And the relevant rules which apply here mean that if 
AXA can show that Ws non-compliance increased the risk of the loss that actually occurred, 
then it can rely on this to turn down the claim. 
AXA says that W is in breach of this condition because from the evidence it gathered, it isnt 
persuaded the roof was inspected or maintained. And it says this increased the risk of water 
overflowing the gutters following rainfall, as the roof had accumulated moss which got 
washed into the valleys and guttering every time it rained. 
AXA asked W for evidence that the roof had been maintained as part of its investigation. W 
provided a statement from a roofing contractor who said that the property had been checked 
annually for at least five years prior to 2018 including Roof areas  Inc guttering, flat & 
pitched roof areas and Vents.
AXA asked W for evidence of invoices from the contractor for the annual checks and any 
associated maintenance. W said that as there were no issues with the roof no invoices were 
charged as it was a longstanding client of the contractor.
AXA also conducted a further site visit. The loss adjuster concluded there was visual 
evidence the roof hadnt been maintained and supported their findings with historic images 
from the internet.
W has made a number of points about AXAs investigation. It says its done enough to show 
that the roof was inspected and maintained, and that the photos the loss adjuster referred to 
are for a different part of the property to where the ingress occurred.So, there are two different versions of events here which I need to consider. And in cases 
where the evidence is contradictory, I need to decide what weight should be given to the 
different pieces of evidence.
Having carefully considered everything provided by both parties, I am more persuaded by 
the evidence provided by AXA. I think the concerns it raised about the claim were 
reasonable in order to determine liability, as there was a clear risk from the condition 
precedent not being met. 
I say this because Im not persuaded that Ws roofing contractor wouldve done the annual 
inspections of the entire property as claimed for no charge. And the additional evidence of 
the loss adjusters testimony and historic photos show that the overall roof was in poor 
condition. 
So, overall, this doesnt lend weight to Ws statement that the roof was annually maintained. 
And therefore, I think it was reasonable for AXA to ask for invoices which showed regular 
maintenance had been carried out.
So, on balance, I consider it was reasonable for AXA to reach the conclusions that it did, for 
the reasons set out above. And so, on that basis Im satisfied its decision was in line with the 
policy terms and was fair.
I understand W feels strongly that the condition precedent was met. But in any event, there 
is an exclusion in the policy for gradual damage which AXA has also referenced. And under 
the Causes excluded section of the policy it states:
All other Damage
1) to any PROPERTY caused by
a) its own faulty or defective design or materials
b) inherent vice latent defect gradual deterioration wear and tear
It is for an insurer to show that an exclusion fairly applies. And having considered the 
evidence provided, I am more persuaded that it shows wear and tear in the roof, which the 
rainfall most likely highlighted, as opposed to a single one-off event.
I acknowledge that W submitted a claim under both the storm and escape of water events. 
But the exclusion above applies to all Property Damage, so the nature of the event being 
claimed for doesnt matter here. And therefore, its not necessary for me to consider the 
relevant tests (such as whether there were storm conditions) further to see if the claim 
should succeed.
Delays/Scope of investigations
Ive considered the overall length of time on the claim to determine if AXA is responsible for 
any avoidable delays. Having done so, it appears that the main periods of inactivity on the 
claim were as a result of AXA waiting for information from W to support the claim. I can see 
that following a period of deadlock, AXA took the decision to visit the site to move the claim 
forward. I dont think this was unreasonable in the circumstances as I can see AXA had 
already made attempts to visit the site without success.I acknowledge Ws concerns about the number of site visits AXA requested during the claim, 
and the amount of information it asked for to validate the loss. But having considered 
everything, I dont think AXAs enquiries were unreasonable given the value of the claim.
Conclusion
I find AXAs decision to turn down the claim is reasonable in the circumstances based on the 
available evidence. And I dont find it responsible for any avoidable delays or additional 
inconvenience to W, so I wont require it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about AXA Insurance UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 08 April 2022.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman