DRN-3544005
The complaint
Mrs C complains that a car that was supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with 
Blue Motor Finance wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in May 2022 in which I described what had 
happened as follows: 
A used car was supplied to Mrs C under a hire purchase agreement with Blue Motor 
Finance that she electronically signed in March 2020. She says that some faults with 
the injectors were diagnosed in April 2021 and she complained to Blue Motor 
Finance about those faults in June 2021. It arranged for the car to be inspected by an 
independent expert and then said that the issues were an injector seal and the diesel 
particulate filter which were in-service maintenance issues. Mrs C had the car 
inspected by a another garage and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that her complaint should be upheld. She didnt 
think that Blue Motor Finance had supplied Mrs C with a car that was of 
unsatisfactory quality and she didnt think that it would be fair or reasonable to ask 
Blue Motor Finance to take the car back and terminate her agreement.
Mrs C has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She has 
provided detailed comments on our investigators recommendations and says, in 
summary, and amongst other things, that the injectors are leaking but she cant have 
the seals replaced due to damage which was found there from before the car was 
supplied to her. She says that the second and third injectors are seized in the 
cylinder head and the fourth injector is damaged as the hold down bolt has no thread 
and is bent in the cylinder head bolt. She also says that the inlet manifold was 
damaged when the car was supplied to her. She says that the independent expert 
didnt do a proper inspection and only glanced at the car. She also says that the oil 
was topped up due to numerous leaks which resulted in the leaks seeping back into 
the engine making the oil level now high  and the oil has a distinct diesel smell and 
was excessively diluted.
I set out my provisional findings in that provisional decision which were that Mrs Cs 
complaint should be upheld for these reasons:
Blue Motor Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that 
it was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mrs C - whether or not it was 
of satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including 
the age and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Mrs C was about seven years old, had been driven 
for more than 74,000 miles and had a price of £8,000;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components 
within the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly 
how long that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
the car was supplied to Mrs C in March 2020 and it passed an MOT test before it 
was supplied to her when its mileage was recorded as 74,311;
she says that she didnt use the car much during the first year because she was 
pregnant and because of the government imposed restrictions in response to the 
pandemic but the car broke down in April 2021;
it was then checked by a garage which provided a detailed letter about the issues 
with the car which said:
The 1st & 2nd Injectors had oil and diesel leaking through the cam cover 
seal as well as the 4th injector. We noticed there was damage in multiple 
places on the inlet manifold which was also leaking oil. It seemed  that 
perhaps a soldering iron may have been used to try and repair this leak. I 
say this due to the evidence on the inlet manifold. We discussed with 
[Mrs C] that she would need the Rocker Cover Gasket replaced as the 
seal goes around all the injectors which are damaged and are causing the 
leaks. We advised her that we would also do an oil change and clean the 
injectors in the process which, we estimated the repairs with labour 
around £730.  We did a minor repair to try and reduce the leak from the 
inlet manifold. This slightly reduced the leak as it is cracked and will need 
replacing. We managed to remove the 1st injector and found the seal ring 
was completely damaged. When we came to removing the 2nd & 3rd 
injectors they would not come out, they seemed to be seized in the 
cylinder head. We advised [Mrs C] that she would need to seek injector 
specialists advice as we would not take liability if damage is caused to the 
cylinder head. We cleaned and returned the 1st injector and used a large 
o ring seal to try and stem the leak;
that garage then did an MOT test on the car and says that it tried to remove the 
injectors and that it:  removed the hold down bolts for the first 3 injectors but 
the 4th injector hold down bolt thread seems to be damaged and will only partially 
undo before going tight again and feels bent and it said: We also strongly 
believe that prior damage had been done to this vehicle, due to the problems with 
the hold down bolt and inlet manifold and that the car needed a specialist repair 
which could cost between £2,000 and £3,000;
it says that Mrs C then contacted it about a loss of power from the car and it 
found that the 4th injector had come loose and fuel was being forced via the cam 
cover gasket into the sump, the oil level was excessively high which had been 
diluted and diesel could be smelt so it retightened the 4th injector bolt just enough 
due to the damaged thread and changed the oil;
the cars mileage when it passed the MOT test was 78,226 miles  so the car had 
been driven for nearly 4,000 miles since it was supplied to Mrs C;
Mrs C complained to Blue Motor Finance about the car in June 2021and it 
arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent expert later than month 
when its mileage was recorded as 78,980  so the car had been driven for about 
700 miles since that MOT test;
the inspection report said: Our opinion, being based on a physical assessment, 
written and verbal information supplied, observations made by the engineer and 
our previous experience: This vehicles oil has been diluted with fuel, which has 
resulted in the oil level in the sump increasing. This is a common issue and is 
caused by a blockage of the DPF (Diesel Particulate Filter) causing the vehicle to 
go into constant regeneration. The vehicle now requires having the oil filter 
replaced, and the DPF cleaned and regenerated, prior to going back into service. There was also a seepage of fuel from number one injector seal which would 
benefit from replacement, however, the seal is a minor issue in comparison with 
the blockage of the DPF. In all other aspects, the vehicles overall general 
condition is in line with its age and reported mileage, as cleaning and 
regenerating the DPF would be classed as routine maintenance and this would 
not impinge on the vehicle being fit for purpose, now and at the point of sale;
Mrs C says that she had to stop driving the car in September 2021 and she then 
paid for it to be inspected by another garage in November 2021;
that garages findings were that the auxiliary belt has cracking, cylinder 1 has 
crank case pressure venting through injector cam cover seal, cylinder 4 has 
minor crank case pressure venting through injector cam cover seal, the inlet 
manifold has had an insufficient repair, the oil level was excessively high and the 
engine oil appears to be deteriorated and there is no clamp present on the air box 
to turbo pipe;
both the garage that inspected the car in April 2021 and the garage that 
inspected it in November 2021 have identified significant issues with the cars 
injectors (as well as other issues) and the independent expert identified a 
seepage of oil from an injector;
I consider it to be clear from that evidence that there are issues with the cars 
injectors and I consider it to be more likely than not that those issues were 
present or developing when the car was supplied to her;
Im not persuaded that its likely that those issues started in the time between the 
car being supplied to Mrs C and it breaking down in April 2021; 
the car passed an MOT test in April 2021 even though there were issues with its 
injectors so the fact that the car passed an MOT test before it was supplied to 
Mrs C doesnt persuade me that those issues werent present at that time;
I find that its more likely than not that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it 
was supplied to Mrs C and that it would be fair and reasonable for her to be able 
to reject the car;
I find that Blue Motor Finance should end the hire purchase agreement and 
arrange for the car to be collected from Mrs C  both at no cost to her;
Mrs C was able to use the car until April 2021 when it broke down and she had 
some use from it after that (but less use that she would have had if the car hadnt 
been faulty  and her use and enjoyment of the car will have been impacted by 
the issues with it and she says that shes had to hire cars and take trains for 
longer journeys as she couldnt use the car);
I consider that its fair and reasonable that she should pay for the use that she 
had from the car until April 2021 so I consider that Blue Motor Finance should 
keep the monthly payments that shes made under the hire purchase agreement 
for that period as payment of the use that shes had from the car  but I find that it 
should refund to her any payments that shes made under the agreement for the 
period since then, with interest;
Mrs C paid £900 for work on the car in April 2021 and she paid for an inspection 
of the car in November 2021  I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Blue 
Motor Finance to reimburse her for those costs, with interest (and in responding 
to this provisional decision, Mrs C should provide evidence to show the amount 
that she paid for the inspection);the hire purchase agreement shows that Mrs C didnt pay a deposit for the car 
but I find that Blue Motor Finance should remove any information about the 
agreement that its recorded on her credit file; and
these events have clearly caused distress and inconvenience for Mrs C and I find 
that it would also be fair and reasonable for Blue Motor Finance to pay her £200 
to compensate her for that distress and inconvenience.
Blue Motor Finance says that Mrs Cs own testimony regarding her use of the car supports 
the information within the independent inspection report that a lack of use and short journeys 
had caused the problems and it isnt liable for problems caused by her driving style or lack of 
use of the car. It says that the independent expert stated the injector seal was a minor issue 
and it has nothing to gain from the issues highlighted. It doesnt believe that its fair to ask it 
to pay for work that Mrs C has had done on the car without informing it and prior to raising 
her complaint  that took away its right to inspect the car to establish any liability and any 
issues with the repairs that the garage did in April 2021 are not its liability.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded that I should change my provisional decision. Both the 
garage that inspected the car in April 2021 and the garage that inspected it in November 
2021 have identified significant issues with the cars injectors (as well as other issues) and 
the independent expert identified a seepage of oil from an injector. I consider it to be clear 
from the evidence that there are issues with the cars injectors and I dont consider it to be 
likely that the damage to them has been caused by Mrs Cs driving style or her limited use of 
the car or that its been caused since the car was supplied to her. I consider it to be more 
likely than not that the damage to the injectors was present when the car was supplied to 
Mrs C and caused the car not to have been of satisfactory quality at that time.
Im not persuaded that its likely that the April 2021 repairs have caused or contributed to the 
faults with the car and I consider that its fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Blue 
Motor Finance to reimburse Mrs C for those repair costs.
I find that its more likely than not that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to Mrs C and that it would be fair and reasonable for her to be able to reject the car. 
Putting things right
I find that Blue Motor Finance should take the actions described in my provisional decision 
and as set out below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs Cs complaint and order Blue Motor Finance Limited to:
1. End the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from Mrs C 
 both at no cost to her.
2. Refund to Mrs C the monthly payments that shes made under the agreement for the 
period since the car broke down in April 2021.
3. Reimburse Mrs C for the cost of the work on the car in April 2021 and the cost of the 
inspection in November 2021.4. Pay interest on the amounts at 2 and 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple from 
the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
5. Remove any information about the hire purchase agreement that its recorded on 
Mrs Cs credit file.
6. Pay £200 to Mrs C to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience that shes 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Blue Motor Finance to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred to at 4 above. Blue Motor Finance must give Mrs C a certificate showing 
how much tax its deducted if she asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman