DRN-2889688
The complaint
D, a business, complained that their claim for storm damage under their commercial farm 
policy with UK Insurance Limited (UKI) was unfairly declined.
What happened
D made a claim on their policy for the collapse of an exposed gable wall to their farm house. 
They said the damage was caused by a storm and there had been no indication before the 
storm that there was any weakness to the structure of their farm house.
On receipt of the claim, UKI appointed a loss adjuster to review the damage and validate the 
claim. The loss adjuster agreed that storm conditions were present at the time of the incident 
but didnt think it was the primary cause for the damage. The loss adjuster appointed a 
specialist surveyor to provide a technical report of the property given the magnitude and 
severity of the damage. The surveyor agreed, he didnt think the storm was the primary 
cause of the damage either, so UKI decided to reject the claim. It said the bad weather 
highlighted a weakness in the underlying condition of the wall, rather than it being the main 
cause of the damage.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She agreed with UKI that the storm 
wasnt the primary cause of damage and the policy excluded damage caused by wear and 
tear/gradual deterioration. D disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When our service looks at a storm claim complaint, there are three questions to consider: 
1.    Do I agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said 
to have happened? 
2.    Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I will use this structure to work through the complaint. Im likely to uphold the complaint if the 
answer to all three is yes. If the answer to one of the questions is no, Im unlikely to uphold 
the complaint.
Do I agree that storm conditions occurred?
UKI agreed that storm conditions were present at the time of the incident, so this question 
can be answered as yes.
Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
D claimed for part of a gable wall that was blown over. The damage you might expect from 
50mph winds and 100mph winds will vary dramatically. The winds on the day of the incident 
were recorded at 51mph, so I would probably expect there to be light damage from winds of 
this strength, such as damage to chimneys. I think its unlikely the damage claimed for is 
consistent with damage a storm of this strength typically causes. However, I will consider the 
third question in this case in order to consider the contents of the expert report and to make 
sure I make a fair decision.
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I need to see if the storm was the dominant cause of the wall collapsing or whether the storm 
simply highlighted an existing problem with the wall. UKI rejected the claim as its surveyor 
said storm conditions on their own would not usually blow down solid stone walls of houses if 
the walls were in reasonable condition or good state of repair.
Following the loss adjusters assessment, UKI asked for a report to be compiled by one of its 
appointed experts given the damage was so severe. I think it has taken a reasonable 
approach in getting an expert view before making its own conclusion and deciding on the 
cause of the damage.
The specialist surveyor said This cottage has withstood many severe storms during its long 
history without damage to the stonework. There is no evidence that the wall has been 
damaged by impact. The storm force winds on the night of collapse would suggest that there 
was some inherent weakness in the wall which has exposed to suction (outward) pressures 
exerted by the high winds. The report explains how the wall was built in the late 1800s and 
how its construction can result in weakness over time, unless its adequately maintained.
UKI asked D if it had any works carried out to the wall in recent years. D confirmed that there 
hadnt been any recent works.
D hasnt provided any evidence that contradicts what is included in the report, so Im 
persuaded that its a fair reflection of what the circumstances were. I havent seen any 
inconsistencies in the report that make me doubt its findings. Given UKI declined the claim 
based on the experts view (i.e. the damage to the wall was primarily caused by the walls 
underlying weakness), I think UKI have made a reasonable judgement that its unlikely the 
storm was the main cause of the damage to the wall.
As only one of the three questions have been answered yes, the claim doesnt qualify 
under storm damage and I dont think the damage is covered by any other part of the policy. 
So, I think UKI have been fair in declining the claim. Therefore, Im unable to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I have set out.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require UK Insurance Limited to 
do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman