DRN-3867453
The complaint
Mr W complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) have treated him 
unfairly in relation to a subsidence claim.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well established and known to both parties, so Ive 
summarised events.
Mr Ws property suffered subsistence and he made a claim on his Lloyds policy, 
which it accepted.
Mr W told Lloyds to place him in alternative accommodation (AA) during the repairs 
and works. He said this was because he would be prevented from having continuous 
access to his bathroom and kitchen. He also raised concerns about the home 
remaining heated during the works. 
Lloyds said AA wasnt necessary and it would only provide this if the home was 
uninhabitable  which it said wasnt the case here. 
Lloyds said it offered to complete repairs on a room-by-room basis to limit disruption, 
aim to carry out repairs in the summer months and provide electric heaters, if 
necessary, to limit any impact. Lloyds said it would also replace radiators and 
windows with a short turn around to minimise any loss of heating.
Mr W brought his complaint to this Service. He was unhappy with Lloyds decision, 
and said the term uninhabitable being undefined in the policy would lead to unfair 
decisions.
Our Investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold the complaint. She 
said Lloyds hadnt done anything wrong by not defining the term. And that in the 
circumstances Lloyds had taken reasonable steps to alleviate Mr Ws concerns about 
heating and disruption.
Mr W disagreed. He said certain terms had been defined in the policy, and it was 
unfair and dishonest for Lloyds to not be upfront about what it meant by 
uninhabitable.
So, the matter has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
The subject of the claim itself isnt being disputed in this case. So, Ill focus on the 
complaint in hand. 
The policy terms say its AA cover will be provided if the private residence is made 
uninhabitable by certain insured perils. Lloyds hasnt defined the term uninhabitable. 
Mr W is unhappy about this and says it will lead to unfair application. But this is 
Lloyds commercial decision to make as to whether it defines certain words.
Mr W has said the absence of a specific definition means Lloyds will treat people 
differently based on their circumstances. Lloyds has agreed with this. And for any 
avoidance of doubt, Id actively expect Lloyds to consider the circumstances of the 
policyholder making a claim, so I have no issue with this providing the decision it 
makes is fair and reasonable.
What Ive considered is whether it has fairly applied this term in the specific 
circumstances of Mr Ws claim. As a starting point I would consider whether theres 
no kitchen or bathroom facilities, or if theres any safety concerns in play that might 
impact the wellbeing of any residents.
Here, it seems Mr W would still have access to his bathroom and kitchen during the 
works in question, but during repairs in either room he may need to engage with 
workers should he wish to use such facilities. While this may not be ideal, a degree of 
inconvenience is to be expected during a claim of this nature. And it doesnt 
persuade me the property is uninhabitable as a result. Nor that it would be fair and 
reasonable to direct Lloyds to provide AA outside of the policy terms in this instance. 
Mr W has also raised concerns about heating the home. Lloyds has said it will take 
steps to minimise the impact of any works, including providing heaters, ensuring 
quick turnaround on removal of any windows and radiators. All of these options 
sound fair and reasonable to me. 
Mr W has since said Lloyds previous offer to complete the works in summer is no 
longer possible due to contractor delays. I cant consider matters that have taken 
place after Lloyds final response letter in July 2022. So, any concerns about the 
claim after this date will need to be addressed with Lloyds in the first instance.
So, Im satisfied Lloyds has taken Mr Ws circumstances into account when handling 
the claim as wed expect. And Im not directing it to do anything further as a result.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman