DRN-3136738
The complaint
Ms L complains that The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc has unfairly recorded a missed payment 
on her mortgage. She wants TMW to amend her credit file and pay her compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused. And she also wants TMW to compensate her for loss of 
investment opportunity due to the adverse information added to her credit file.
 
What happened
Ms L took out a buy to let mortgage with TMW in July 2020. The first mortgage payment was 
due in August 2020, and Ms L set up a direct debit with TMW for this payment to be 
collected. 
In September 2020 Ms L received a missed payment letter from TMW stating that her 
mortgage was in arrears. She contacted TMW immediately and made a manual payment for 
August and September 2020 to prevent any further missed payments.
Ms L says that TMWs agents reassured her that her credit file wouldnt be impacted by the 
missed payment. But when she checked her credit file the following month she noticed that 
TMW had in fact reported the missed payment on her credit file.
Ms L complained to TMW, but it didnt uphold her complaint. It said, in summary:
Following the set up of the direct debit TMW had received notification from Ms Ls 
bank to advise that it did not accept direct debits on the account, so TMW had 
cancelled the direct debit;
TMW had written to Ms L on 27 July 2020 to advise her of this. And while it 
apologised if she hadnt received the letter, it couldnt take responsibility for the letter 
going missing in the post;
As no payment was received for August 2020 this was recorded with the Credit File 
agencies in line with regulatory and process requirements;
During her first call to the collections team the agent did advise her that this might 
affect her credit file as a missed payment. When she called again the agent advised 
that it shouldnt affect the credit file if the payment was missed was equal to or less 
than the monthly instalment. This information was correct. However, Ms Ls first 
payment was higher than her normal monthly payment as detailed in her welcome 
letter;
A credit file amendment request was raised following a further phone call but as no 
error had been made by TMW it was unable to amend her credit file.
Our investigator looked into Ms Ls complaint. She said in summary:
She was satisfied that Ms Ls bank had sent TMW an instruction stating that it didnt 
accept direct debits on the bank account. So she couldnt say TMW acted incorrectly 
when it cancelled the direct debit on her mortgage;
She could see from TMWs internal records that it had written to Ms L on 27 July 
2020 to notify her that it had cancelled the direct debit and asked her to contact TMW 
to make a manual payment for August. She accepted that Ms L had said she didnt 
receive this letter. But she was satisfied that it was sent to the correct 
correspondence address so TMW couldnt be held responsible for this letter not 
being delivered;
The records showed that TMW received the payment in September 2020. So she 
didnt think that TMW acted unfairly when it reported the payment for August 2020 as 
a missed payment on her credit file. This was a true reflection of the account;
Lenders are under a duty to report any missed or late payments on a credit file. And 
she didnt think TMW did anything wrong in reporting the missed payment on Ms Ls 
file. But it was open to Ms L to add a Notice of Correction if she wished to do so;
Ms L had said she was incorrectly advised by several of TMWs agents that the 
missed payment wouldnt impact her credit file. The investigator had listed to the call 
recordings. And she was satisfied that Ms L was given wrong information by one of 
the agents. Therefore she upheld this part of Ms Ls complaint. And she felt that 
TMW should pay Ms L £100 compensation for the incorrect information.
TMW accepts our investigators view and has agreed to pay Ms L £100 compensation. But 
Ms L does not agree. She says in particular:
She believes that TMW never sent the letter dated 27 July 2020;
TMW should also have attempted to contact her by email and telephone, or via her 
broker;
The direct debit was cancelled by TMWs error and without her consent, and TMW 
has not acted reasonably.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Ms L feels that TMW cancelled the direct debit in error. But, having 
reviewed the available evidence, I dont agree. TMW has sent this service its internal notes 
on the account. I can see from this that a direct debit was set up on Ms Ls mortgage 
account on 21 July 2020. But the notes show that TMW received a notification from Ms Ls 
bank on 27 July 2020. This said that it wouldnt accept direct debits on the account. 
On the same day, TMW wrote to Ms L to notify her that it had cancelled the direct debit after 
receiving instructions from her bank. And it asked her to contact TMW by 31 August 2020 to 
make a manual payment for August.
I note that Ms L says that she didnt receive this letter and that, in fact, she believes it was 
never sent. But, on balance, Im persuaded from the evidence Ive seen that the letter was 
sent, and that it was correctly addressed. So, while I appreciate that Ms L says that she 
didnt receive it, I am not persuaded that this was due to TMWs error.
Ms L also says that TMW should have made attempts to contact her by other means. But, 
although Ive considered what she has to say, I dont agree. Im satisfied that the fact TMW 
sent a missed payment letter was in line with industry requirements and practices.
TMW didnt receive the August payment until September. So when TMW recorded the 
payment for August 2020 as a missed payment this was a true reflection of the account. Our 
investigator has explained that TMW has a regulatory duty to record information accurately. 
And I am satisfied that this is what it did here, although I appreciate that the missed payment 
was not intentional.Ms L has said that she was reassured by several of TMWs agents that the missed payment 
wouldnt impact her credit file. And Ive also listened to the call recordings. Having done so, I 
agree with our investigator that Ms L was given wrong information on one call. 
It was clear from the call recording that Ms L was concerned about the impact of the missed 
payment on her credit file. So I think to find out later that she had been given incorrect 
information would have been distressing for her. 
 
Putting things right
Our investigator suggested that TMW should pay Ms L £100 compensation for the incorrect 
information given to her, and TMW has agreed to make this payment. And, although I 
appreciate that it is not the outcome Ms L was looking for, I also find it to be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc to 
pay Ms L £100.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Alison Cribbs
Ombudsman