DRN-2189816
The complaint
Miss B complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited declined her claim after she 
reported her car had been stolen and damaged.
What happened
Miss B insured her car with Admiral. On 17 March 2019 she received a call from the police 
asking her if she was the registered keeper of the car. She was asked to join them outside 
and accompanied them to where her car had been found crashed into a wall near to her 
home address, just a few metres from where shed parked it. When the car was found the 
handbrake was off, the windows were open and Miss B said some items, including her 
Satnav and some sunglasses had been taken. The interior of the car was wet, as it had been 
raining. Miss B still had both keys for the car in her possession. The police closed the 
windows and moved the car back to where Miss B said shed parked it.
Miss B contacted Admiral on 17 March 2019 to report the theft of her car. She told them that 
her car had been stolen at some point during the night. She said shed locked it and left it 
secure, with the windows shut, parked about 50 yards from her home in the early hours of 
the morning on 16 March 2019, when she returned from work. And she used a taxi to get to 
work later on 16 March, as some roads were closed, and others expected to be very busy 
due to a sporting fixture. She provided evidence to Admiral to confirm this booking. So shed 
had no reason to check her car on 16 March, and the next time she saw her car was after 
the police called her.
The police became aware of the car as they received an online report of a suspicious 
insecure vehicle. Car looks stolen (windows open, stuff everywhere) and is half crashed into 
a wall on the pavement. 
Theres a brief police report, which Admiral obtained some months after Miss B made her 
claim. This records that her car had been broken into, by forcing the windows, and a Satnav 
and a battery booster were stolen. The handbrake had been released and the car had been 
rolled about 10 yards into a wall. There was minimal damage to the car and the wall. Its 
noted that there was no CCTV and no forensic evidence, as the windows were left open and 
the car was soaked due to heavy rain.
When Miss B first called Admiral, on 17 March 2019, she reported damage to the passenger 
side bumper, a dent to the wheel arch and possible damage to the wheel. On 20 March 2019 
she called them again to report shes found further damage to the drivers side wing mirror, 
which was broken and damage to one of the fog lights.
Admiral arranged for the car to be collected by one of their authorised repairers. When they 
inspected the car, they didnt find any theft related damage, so Admiral instructed engineers 
to prepare a report. This report said that it appeared the car was fitted with an engine 
immobiliser and, if access had been gained forcibly or it was insecure, it wouldnt have been 
possible to drive it without access to one of the keys. The report considered the images Miss 
B had provided of areas of panel and door/window seal misalignments, and said there was 
nothing to confirm, or refute, whether this was as a result of attempts to gain entry to the car. 
But concluded that there was no obvious distortion to the door trims, or seal, consistent with 
crude prying. So the report concluded that any attempt to gain entry to the car was done by 
someone with appropriate experience and professional tools.
Miss B has provided evidence confirming the expected heavy traffic on the day of the 
incident and that strong winds and heavy rain had been forecast. She suggested to Admiral 
that water entering her car, through the gap by the broken drivers wing mirror, could have 
caused the windows to open. The report considered this but said that water getting into the 
car wouldnt have caused the electronic windows to open.
Based on this report Admiral declined Miss Bs claim saying shed made a deliberate attempt 
to mislead them with the account shed provided of the incident. Miss B didnt accept this 
and raised a complaint. Admiral didnt uphold her complaint. They said forensic engineering 
evidence had been obtained before reaching their decision to decline her claim. The report 
had said that entry to her car could only have been gained by someone with experience 
using very specific equipment. And they said It is implausible to suggest such a thief did this 
to simply push the car into a wall. And as the report said that water wouldnt have caused 
the windows to open, a legitimate key must have been present for this to happen.
Miss B then complained to our service. Our investigator considered the case and said it 
wasnt his role to assess Miss Bs claim or make any comment on whether fraud had been 
committed. His role was to decide whether Admiral had acted fairly. And he said that the 
industry guidelines (ICOBS) state that an insurer must not reject a claim unreasonably. 
Our investigator considered the evidence both parties had provided. Miss B told us that she 
was concerned that Admiral had reached their decision without seeing the police report, and 
theyd recorded the wrong location for where shed parked her car. He said Admiral had 
spoken to the police to establish what had happened, and he felt they had enough 
information, without seeing the police report to reach a decision. And although Admiral had 
initially recorded the wrong location for where the car had been parked, as it had only been 
moved a couple of metres, he didnt think this had affected their investigation.
He said the circumstances of the case were unusual and not easy to explain. But Admiral 
had appointed experts and used the information they provided to reach their decision. So, 
our investigator felt that Admiral had carried out a thorough and fair investigation of the 
claim. And theyd met their obligations to handle Miss Bs claim promptly and fairly and 
hadnt unreasonably rejected it. 
Miss B was concerned that shed been added fraud databases, but Admiral had confirmed 
this hadnt been done, although the terms and conditions of her policy would have allowed 
them to do this. So our investigator didnt recommend Miss Bs complaint was upheld. 
Miss B didnt accept our investigators opinion so the case has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not my role to decide what happened to Miss Bs car in March 2019 and how it came to 
be found rolled into a wall, near to where shed left it parked. My role is to consider whether 
Admiral carried out a reasonable investigation and considered all the relevant evidence, 
before reaching their decision to decline her claim.When they declined her claim, Admiral told Miss B that they believed she hadnt provided an 
accurate account of the circumstances of the incident. While they may have highlighted what 
they considered to be a number of inconsistences in her account, their main concern 
appears to have been that they didnt accept anyone could have gained access to the car 
and opened the electronic windows without a key.
Ive listened to calls between Miss B and Admiral. Ive noted that she agreed a wrong 
location for where her car was parked with Admiral. But from the call I understand how the 
wrong location was identified, they decided the car had been in the next side street, to where 
it was parked, by identifying it on an online map. But I dont think this was central to 
Admirals concerns about Miss Bs account. 
When the car was inspected by Admirals authorised repairers, they reported that there was 
no evidence of theft related damage. Because of this Admiral instructed forensic engineers 
to examine the car, to establish how whoever moved it had gained access. This is what I 
would have expected Admiral to do in these circumstances.
The car was found with all its windows open. The forensic engineers didnt find any 
conclusive evidence that the windows had been forced. They said that without access to the 
keys it shouldnt have been possible to drive the car. I dont think theres any evidence that it 
was driven as it was only moved a short distance from where it had been parked. The police 
recorded that the handbrake had been released, and I havent seen anything to suggest that 
this wasnt the reason the car moved from where it had been parked by Miss B.
Miss B has said that there was some damage to the window seal on the drivers door, which 
she thinks was caused when someone gained access to the car. Shes also said that water 
entering the car, through the gap left by the broken drivers side wing mirror, could have led 
to an electrical fault causing the windows to open. 
The engineers report obtained by Admiral considers both these points. Although before I 
look at what the report says, I have to say that its unfortunate that there was a mistake in 
the letter Admiral sent to Miss B about the report. They originally told her water entering the 
car would have caused the windows to open, rather than wouldnt. This led to Miss B 
believing that Admiral were ignoring the evidence of the engineers, as it didnt support their 
decision.
The engineers didnt inspect Miss Bs car. Their comments are based on photographs and 
vehicle specifications. The report says that images provided by Miss B show areas of panel 
and door/window seal misalignments. But goes on to say theres nothing to confirm, or 
refute, whether this was caused by an attempt to gain access to the car. And that there was 
no obvious distortion to the door trims or seal consistent with crude prying. Therefore any 
attempt to gain entry was by someone with appropriate experience and professional 
unlocking tools. And the report also says that water entering the car wouldnt have caused 
the electronic windows to open.
Miss B has also suggested that some undiscovered fault may have caused the windows of 
her car to open. This may be the case, but this is speculation, rather than evidence. And I 
can only consider the evidence that is available.
Admiral didnt obtain the police report until some months after theyd made their decision on 
the claim. Miss B believes they should have waited until they the police report before making 
any decision. I can understand why she wanted Admiral to consider the police report, but I 
dont think it really adds much to the evidence thats available. The police didnt carry out any investigation, they simply attended the scene of a reported 
suspected stolen vehicle, spoke to the owner, Miss B, recorded what she told them and the 
condition of the vehicle, and moved it back to where she told them it had been parked. 
While the report does say Person or persons unknown have approached secure parked and 
unattended motor vehicle and by unknown means forced windows open and have entered 
vehicle removing sat Nav and battery booster and releasing handbrake, persons then made 
good their escape. This is just a preliminary observation, which wasnt followed up, as due 
to the heavy rain the inside of the car was soaking wet, and the police told Miss B thered be 
no forensic evidence.
While I think there remains some doubt about what happened to Miss Bs car in March 2019, 
Im only considering whether Admiral carried out a reasonable investigation. And based on 
the evidence Ive seen, I think they did. I have sympathy for Miss B and Im pleased to note 
that her details havent been added to any fraud databases. But I wont be asking Admiral to 
do anything.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Bs compliant 
against Admiral Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman