DRN-3783926
The complaint
Mr W complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) has failed to refund 
£100,000 he says he lost to an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. But in summary, Mr W 
sent £100,000 to a Danish Bank (Kovenhavns Andelskasse Bank) the funds were intended 
to be used for forex trading with Swisspro Asset Management AG (Swisspro). Mr W was 
promised payments from Swisspro but he did not receive the promised payments. Swisspro 
entered liquidation in 2019. Mr W did not receive his £100,000 back.
Mr W raised a complaint with Halifax in 2021 as he believed that it should have stopped the 
payment. He therefore requested that Halifax refund him. Halifax declined to do this.
One of our investigators looked into this matter and they did not think that Halifax had done 
anything wrong. Mr W disagreed and therefore his complaint has been passed to me to 
issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
The relevant regulations and industry guidance makes it clear that banks have a duty to 
protect consumers from the risk of financial harm, including fraud and scams. But the 
obligation to warn customers of the risk of such financial harm will only reasonably have 
been engaged if there were sufficient grounds for suspecting the payee was a fraudster; 
meaning that Halifax could have delayed the payment(s) while concerns about the payee 
were discussed with Mr W.
So, I would need to be satisfied that there were concerns that Swisspro Asset Management 
AG (Swisspro) was operating a scam when Mr W made the payment of £100,000 in his 
Halifax branch on 13 June 2018 in order to expect Halifax to have done anything further 
here. Ive consulted the official organisations that publish warnings about merchants that 
operate in the UK and abroad, including the Investor Alerts Portal of the International 
Organisation of Securities Commissions (IOSCO), as well as the FCAs own warning list. 
These watchlists, along with other reputable sources, lead me to believe that there were no 
warnings about Swisspro at the time Mr W made his payment.
At the time Mr W made his payment, Swisspro was a legitimate fund management company 
that was authorised by the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority (FINMA). I 
appreciate it later filed for bankruptcy in 2019 and that comments made during this process 
suggest that it may have been operating as a Ponzi scheme, but that does not mean that 
Halifax should have been aware that it was operating fraudulently when the payment was 
made. Rather, Halifax at the time would only have known that Mr Ws money went to a 
business that was operating legitimately in another jurisdiction at the time. 
Overall Im not persuaded that there was any reason for Halifax to have been aware that  
Swisspro was fraudulent or operating a scam at the time of the payment. As a result, 
Halifaxs duty to intervene wasnt triggered. Therefore, I dont consider the bank acted 
unfairly by preventing or failing to intervene in the payment being made. 
Mr W has further raised concerns that Halifax ought to have done more in terms of anti-
money laundering checks due to the money being transferred to a Danish bank that was 
under investigation. Id like to reassure Mr W that I have considered all the relevant law, 
regulations and good industry practice when considering his complaint. This includes anti-
money laundering regulations, because although non-compliance with these regulations is 
more a wider matter for the regulator rather than our service, it is still something we consider 
when looking at whether a business could have prevented a fraud or scam. 
Ultimately, Im not persuaded there was anything suspicious at the time that ought 
reasonably to have concerned Halifax, or that it had any reason to suspect that Mr W was 
attempting to launder money himself. I understand the Danish bank may have been under 
investigation from the Danish authorities at the time. But I wouldnt have expected Halifax to 
have known this, or to have prevented a payment being made to the bank as a result, given 
it was going to a seemingly legitimate company. So, I dont consider there to be any basis in 
which Halifax can fairly on reasonably be held liable for his loss on this basis either. 
Ive also thought about whether Halifax ought to have done anything to recover the funds 
after Mr W reported his loss. Mr W didnt dispute the payment with Halifax until October 
2021. Given the investment company has since become insolvent, it would be highly unlikely 
that the bank could have recovered any funds, particularly given it was around three years 
after the payment had been made. Halifax also wouldnt have been under any obligation to 
consider refunding the payment under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code 
either, given the payment was made before the Code came into force.
Finally, Mr W has explained that he was a vulnerable consumer at the time of the transfer as 
he had recently suffered a bereavement. And that this combined with the transaction being 
unusual for his account should have meant that Halifax denied the transfer or at the very 
least provided a warning. But I dont think that this was the case, ultimately Mr W was 
transferring funds for a regulated investment with no warnings at the time via a bank that at 
the time appeared to be legitimate. I accept with the benefit of hindsight both companies 
may not have been operating correctly but Halifax was not to know this at the time so I dont 
think it did anything wrong in allowing the transfer.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr W, and Im sorry to hear he has 
lost a significant amount of money. However, in the circumstances, I do not consider it would 
be fair and reasonable to hold Halifax liable for his loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman