DRN-2866773
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) failed to provide an emergency 
boiler repair service when she needed it because they were unable to locate her policy, and 
she had to pay a gas engineer privately to come out.         
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out a home insurance policy which included a home assistance policy 
with IPA on 28 November 2020. On 27 December 2020 their boiler broke down and Mrs B 
contacted the emergency helpline. She got through to a recorded message advising that 
there was a high call volume and to try again later. Mr B is disabled, Mrs B is in poor health, 
and they had no heating or hot water. 
Mrs B then rang the home insurers help team, who were unable to locate her policy. The 
agent provided Mrs B with details of an authorised contractor who could help and also 
details of the policy validation team so she could verify her policy that could not be located.  
Mrs B e mailed her policy copy to the validation team but they were closed due to the 
Christmas holidays. 
Mrs B then contacted a local gas engineer who came out on 28 December 2020 and advised 
that it would cost £500 to repair the boiler. Mr and Mrs B decided that in view of the cost of 
the repair making it uneconomical to repair, they would have a new boiler instead, and the 
engineer fitted this on 30 December 2020 at a cost of £1700. 
Mrs B contacted IPA to complain about their lack of service. They sent their final response 
on 8 January 2021. They said that on the night in question they had a high volume of calls 
and that they were unable to locate the policy as the details had not been passed to them by 
the home insurer. They offered £250 towards the cost of the new boiler as under the terms 
of the policy, as that is the amount they would have contributed if they had sent one of their 
own engineers, and they were unable to repair the system.  
Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with this response and brought the complaint to us. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and decided that the offer 
from IPA was fair. 
Mr and Mrs B disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case came to me to review.
  
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint. My provisional findings were as follows:
I have thought about what has happened, and also about what should have happened if IPA 
had found Mr and Mrs Bs policy details on the system. 
If things had happened as they should have, Mrs Bs call would have been answered, the 
policy located, and an engineer dispatched. It is likely that as Mr B is disabled and Mrs B has 
poor health, that they would have been treated as a priority, and so a visit would have 
probably taken place quite quickly given the lack of heating and hot water. This didnt 
happen as the policy could not be found on IPAs system and so Im satisfied that something 
went wrong, and the error is IPAs . 
However, it is unlikely that the outcome would have been any different. The IPA engineer is 
likely to have reached the same findings as the engineer who did come out, which was that 
the repair was expensive, and it was more economical to replace the boiler.  
 
Under the terms of the policy, at page 42, it says, If in the opinion of our authorised 
contractor, we are unable to repair your boiler/hot water system, we will pay you £250 
towards buying a replacement boiler or heating system 
In view of this, Im satisfied that IPAs offer of £250 towards the cost of the new boiler is a fair 
outcome for this part of the complaint, as its the same amount that Mr and Mrs B would 
have received if IPA had sent an engineer themselves who was unable to do an economical 
repair.  IPA would never have paid the full cost of a replacement boiler, and so thats not 
something I can award.  
However, I also have to consider whether the fact that things did go wrong has caused any 
additional inconvenience or upset to Mr and Mrs B. 
On the day that the boiler broke down it was the period between Christmas and New Year, 
and weather reports for 27-30 December 2020 show the temperature to be between a low of   
-3 and a high of 5 degrees. I am satisfied that in these circumstances, being told that your 
policy could not be located and that you were not eligible for a service that you know you 
have paid for was upsetting for Mr and Mrs B. They were asked to send through their policy, 
but the team who would have looked at this were closed, and so Mr and Mrs B 
understandably resorted to obtaining their own engineer to ensure they got a speedy repair. 
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that IPAs failing caused unnecessary emotional distress 
and trouble. 
In view of that I propose to award an additional payment in compensation. I consider that  
£100 is merited for the upset caused. I understand that the payment of £250 has already 
been made.
 
In the light of these findings, I therefore intended to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint in part, 
and I invited the parties to comment. 
IPA have accepted my recommendation. Mrs B has responded on behalf of both Mr and Mrs 
B. She has said that on the day the claim was made she did everything right and IPA did not 
respond. She points out that they purchased the policy to cover expensive emergency boiler 
repairs, and believes that if they had come out, the boiler would have been repaired. She 
accepts that they would not have been eligible for a new boiler but feels that more 
compensation should be awarded.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered Mrs Bs response. I can understand that being in an emergency situation 
and having been told that their policy could not be found would have been stressful, and that 
is why I have made an award for the trouble and upset caused by the policy not being 
located. Im not able to say whether IPAs engineer would have been able to repair the boiler, or what the cost would have been, but I am mindful that Mr and Mrs B chose to have 
a replacement boiler rather than the £500 repair by the independent engineer, and IPA have 
already paid them the £250 that would have been due under the policy if that had been the 
advice of their engineer.    
 
I am therefore making my final decision for the reasons Ive summarised above.  
My final decision
 My decision is that Inter Partner Assistance SA should make a payment of £100 to Mr and 
Mrs B in addition to the £250 they have already paid 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman