DRN-4110444
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money she lost after she fell victim 
to a task-based job scam.
Mrs W is making her complaint with the assistance of a professional claims management 
company, who Ill refer to as the CMC. 
What happened
On 5 February 2022, Mrs W sent £800 from her Monzo account in connection with a task-
based job scam. The CMC explains she was introduced to the platform by her husband, who 
had in turn been introduced by a colleague whod been using the platform to make extra 
money. The CMC says Mrs W was added to a social media messaging group that had 
hundreds of members and that she saw lots of positive reviews online. 
The CMC explains that in order to start working tasks, a user created a profile, downloaded 
an app and paid a deposit to unlock a number of tasks to complete to earn money. It says 
that users were rewarded for signing up other members. It explains the app looked very 
professional, with a logo similar to a genuine social media platform, leading many users to 
believe they were affiliated. The CMC says the app had excellent reviews and that some 
people had been able to successfully withdraw some amounts of money until the app went 
offline. The CMC did not say whether Mrs W had been able to withdraw any funds. 
The CMC submitted a complaint directly to Monzo on 11 March 2022 and referred the 
complaint to us on 31 March 2022 when it had not received a final response. 
Monzo issued its final response on 1 April 2022 saying it had not yet been able to investigate 
the matter because it had insufficient information about Mrs Ws claim. Monzo asked if 
Mrs W could report the claim directly so it could review the transactions in dispute.
The CMC said it had already provided Monzo with enough details about the scam. When the 
complaint was allocated to our Investigator, he agreed that he could investigate whether 
Monzo has any responsibility to refund the money Mrs W sent from her account without 
Mrs W needing to contact Monzo directly.
On 15 March 2023, our Investigator contacted the CMC and asked it to provide more details 
specifically about Mrs Ws experiences. He wanted to know why Mrs W was persuaded the 
situation was genuine and asked the CMC questions about the return that she was promised 
and the time scale. 
On 31 March 2023, our Investigator issued his view. He didnt recommend the complaint 
should be upheld. In his view, he explained hed requested additional information from the 
CMC but hadnt received a reply, so assessed the case with the information he had. He 
explained it wasnt clear how Mrs W could make a return that exceeded the deposit shed 
been asked to pay. Based on what he had to go on, he thought that Mrs W had taken a lot 
on face value. He didnt think he could fairly say that Monzo should reimburse Mrs W under 
the provisions of the Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement 
Model Code (the CRM Code), which Monzo has agreed to adhere to and was in force at the 
time Mrs W sent the money. He said he would consider any more evidence that either party 
wanted to submit.
The CMC acknowledged it had received the view and confirmed it would respond before the 
deadline. The CMC asked for an extension to the deadline as it was trying to gather more 
information relating to the complaint. Our Investigator agreed.
When the CMC responded, it said that Mrs W should be refunded in full because this was a 
convincing scam and it believed she had a reasonable basis for belief. It highlighted factors 
that it felt contributed to Mrs Ws decision to sign up. In summary, the CMC said Mrs W 
being introduced by her husband gave her a sense of security about the legitimacy of the 
scheme. It said the app was professional and well designed and that the management was 
very convincing in explaining the process and how they were going to make money. It 
referred to the size of the social media messaging group and numerous positive online 
reviews. It said the validity of the company was heightened when people on the social media 
messaging group stated they received money back. It said the platform had extremely 
convincing Companies House documentation and it was believable that people could make 
money through remote working. It said Mrs W had carried out online research and found no 
negative reviews. It said we should take into account the sophistication of the scam. 
Our Investigator said there was still little evidence to suggest that any profits would outweigh 
what was put in so it was hard to see how any money could be earned from the scheme. He 
pointed out there was very little evidence to show how the account Mrs W paid was linked to 
the scheme. Overall, he thought Mrs W should have taken a more cautious approach. The 
CMC asked for the complaint to be referred to an Ombudsman, so the matter has now been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have not seen sufficient evidence to fairly say that Monzo should be 
responsible for refunding the money Mrs W sent.
I think its important for me to state at the outset theres no question in my mind that Mrs W 
has fallen victim to a scam. I agree with the CMCs broad submissions that this was a 
fraudulent scheme. But this, in and of itself, is not enough for me to say that Monzo should 
be held liable for some or all of Mrs Ws loss. This needs to be assessed on a case-by-case 
basis as the facts and circumstances for each individual consumer will vary considerably, 
even though the underlying scam has impacted many victims. 
For me to say that Monzo is responsible for reimbursing Mrs W, I would need to be satisfied 
that Monzo ought reasonably to have recognised she was at risk of financial harm from fraud 
at the time she was making the payment and the banks failure to intervene caused her loss; 
or that Mrs W ought to be reimbursed under the CRM Code that Monzo has agreed to 
adhere to. 
I dont think Monzo should have identified the payment of £800 that Mrs W made as 
presenting a fraud risk. It was an unremarkable payment, it didnt form part of any clear 
pattern and I dont think I can fairly say that it was unusual enough so that Monzo ought fairly 
to have challenged it at the time. 
So Ive gone on to consider whether Monzo should refund Mrs W because of the principles in the CRM Code. The CRM Code sets out exceptions. If an exception applies, Monzo can 
choose not to reimburse Mrs W for the loss. As Monzo did not need to give an effective 
warning for a payment that was low and did not present a clear APP scam risk, the 
exception particularly relevant to this case is whether Mrs W made the payment without a 
reasonable basis for believing that: the payee was the person she was expecting to pay; the 
payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom she 
transacted was legitimate.
To consider whether it is fair to apply this exception, I need to consider the steps Mrs W took 
to reassure herself about the legitimacy of the situation and whether it was reasonable for 
her to proceed with the payment.
But from what has been said and provided, I cant be as sure as I would need to be that 
Mrs W had a reasonable basis for proceeding with the payment. Ive not seen clear and 
specific detail about the independent research Mrs W did before sending the money. The 
CMC says Mrs W completed the checks that you could reasonably expect of an ordinary 
person. But it has referred to online research in generic terms. It has provided a screenshot 
of an internet search, but that screenshot is undated, and it is unclear whether this is 
information Mrs W saw at the time. The CMC has said that Mrs W found no negative reviews 
or signs of concern, but it has not supported specifically why Mrs W was reassured. It has 
referred to the app looking legitimate and to her husbands colleague successfully making 
money, but it has not provided any supporting evidence to show what Mrs W saw. As such, 
I dont know what Mrs W relied on before deciding to make this payment, and this is vitally 
important detail as it was key to her decision to pay money as part of this scam. 
Ive not seen any correspondence that may have been exchanged between Mrs W and the 
platform such as an employment contract or details of how the opportunity was meant to 
work, and Ive not been provided with any details to show what tasks were given to Mrs W 
upon signing up or what she was expecting to receive if she completed them. I consider that 
what the CMC has said about the premise of this scam leans heavily on what it has been 
told generally by other victims rather than what Mrs W thought and understood about the 
opportunity at the time. 
The CMC has said that the platform had extremely convincing Companies House 
documentation and has provided screenshots. But in these screenshots, the platforms 
registration wasnt filed until 10 February 2022, which is five days after Mrs W made her 
payment. As such, I cant place much weight on them as credible evidence to support why 
Mrs W believed the opportunity was legitimate. I believe this is a document that has been 
shared as part of the wider group of those scammed, rather than something Mrs W 
specifically saw, researched, or relied on, when deciding to make the payment.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mrs W and I can understand why she wants to try 
and recover the money shes lost. She sent her money in good faith and did not receive 
anything in return for it. But I cant fairly hold Monzo responsible for the actions of a 
fraudster.
Having considered everything thats been said and provided, Im satisfied Monzo processed 
Mrs Ws payment correctly and that no funds remained to be recovered once it knew what 
had happened. I also think the relevant exception to reimbursement under the CRM Code 
applies here. Ive not seen enough to be able to say that Mrs W had a reasonable basis for 
believing this opportunity to be legitimate at the time she made the payment and in all the 
circumstances as they have been presented to me. As such, I have no fair and reasonable 
basis on which to say Monzo should be required to refund the money Mrs W lost. My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman