DRN-4202660
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy Aviva Insurance Limited turned down a claim Mr G made on their 
legal expenses insurance policy. 
What happened
In May 2022 Mr G contacted Aviva to make a claim. He said after leaving the firm he worked 
for (in which he was also a shareholder) the companys accountants had assessed the value 
of his shareholding. He thought the valuation was wrong and had been carried out 
negligently (and provided counsels opinion in support of that). And he sought assistance in 
bringing a claim. 
Aviva considered whether the claim was covered under the consumer disputes section of the 
policy and didnt think it was. That was because there was no agreement between Mr G and 
the accountants to carry out the valuation; it was between them and his former employer. It 
also said the policy only covered disputes about an agreement taken out for personal and 
not business use. 
Our investigator accepted that the outcome of the valuation was for Mr Gs personal benefit 
(as it related to the value hed receive for his shares). But she didnt think hed arranged the 
contract or paid for it personally. It was his former firm which had done that. So she thought 
Aviva acted correctly in concluding his claim wasnt covered. 
Mr G didnt agree. He said the accountants had acted for him in a personal capacity in 
relation to his own tax affairs and he thought they owed him a duty of care when preparing 
the valuation report. Hed made payment (albeit indirectly) for the report through a deduction 
in the value of his shareholding. And while the value of his claim was substantial that 
shouldnt preclude him from benefiting from the cover offered by his legal expense policy in 
his capacity as a consumer. 
So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Aviva has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Mr Gs policy. He feels the accountants had a 
duty of care (because of work theyd carried out for him personally). However, while that 
might be relevant to a claim against that firm for professional negligence, that isnt one of the 
insured events covered by his legal expenses policy.
I think the only insured event his claim might fall under is consumer disputes which covers 
a dispute regarding an agreement for the sale, purchase, or hire of goods or services that 
are not for your business. And its for the insured to show an insured event under the policy 
has taken place (if they can its then for the insurer to show that an exclusion or condition 
applies which means it can turn down an otherwise valid claim).
In this case Mr G has said although his underlying claim is substantial that shouldnt impact 
whether hes covered under this part of the policy. And hes highlighted other high value 
claims the policy could potentially cover. I agree with him on that. I dont think the for your 
business wording of the consumer disputes clause would preclude cover in his case either. 
Mr G had left the firm he worked for and the amount hed receive for the shares he held was 
something hed personally benefit from. 
But Aviva says the agreement in this case was between his former employer and the 
accountants firm. And I can see that under the terms of his shareholding agreement with his 
firm it was for them to instruct the accountants to carry out the valuation (and I understand 
Mr G had resigned at the point that was done). I havent seen clear evidence to show he 
entered into the contract in question (and hes acknowledged he didnt make direct payment 
for it). 
But unlike other similar policies Mr Gs doesnt say the agreement must be one hes taken 
out. So I dont think Aviva can rely on the fact he didnt, in isolation, to turn down the claim. 
However, I think its reasonable to say that for cover to be provided the agreement in 
question must be one under which he has a right to take action for a breach of its terms. I 
think thats supported by the fact the policy excludes any claims made by anyone other than 
you or your family
If Mr G was able to show the agreement did give him the right to do so (so for example if he 
met the provisions of the Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999) this might be a claim 
his policy should cover. But in this case I dont think Mr G has provided a copy of the 
contract between his former firm and the accountants they instructed. I appreciate he did 
provide some legal advice from his counsel. But while that references the shareholders 
agreement between Mr G and his former firm it doesnt demonstrate Mr G would have the 
right to take action for a breach of contract in relation to an agreement between his former 
firm and its accountants. And I havent seen other evidence to show that would be the case.
I can understand why it might be difficult for Mr G to obtain further information on this but, as 
Ive explained, its for him to show that an insured event under the policy has taken place. I 
dont think it was unfair of Aviva to conclude, on the basis of the evidence that was available, 
Mr G hadnt done that. Nevertheless, if he is able to provide specific information about this 
contract which could impact the coverage position Id expect Aviva to review matters. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to accept or reject my decision before 
23 August 2023. 
James Park
Ombudsman