DRN-4435589
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy Nationwide Building Society wont reimburse them in full for the 
money they lost when they fell victim to a scam.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C fell victim to a safe account scam. After Mr Cs details were compromised via 
a phishing text, he was contacted by individuals claiming to be from his credit card provider 
and from Nationwide.
Mr C says he was told that his accounts were at risk and that he needed to move his money 
into an account he held with an e-money provider (which Ill call R) and then from there on 
to an account belonging to a third party, who he was told was the branch manager at 
Nationwide. Mr C was then encouraged to also tell Mrs C to transfer her funds from her sole 
accounts with Nationwide to Mr Cs account with R and then on to the third party. 
Unfortunately, and unknown to him at the time, Mr C was actually speaking with fraudsters.
Believing that he was genuinely dealing with legitimate banking institutions, Mr C ended up 
moving significant funds from he and Mrs Cs joint account to his account with R and on to 
the scammer. Mrs C also made significant payments from her sole accounts with 
Nationwide. In total, Mr and Mrs C transferred over £64,000. £53,800 of this was lost from 
the joint account that is the subject of this complaint.
Mr C realised they had been the victim of a scam later that day, and immediately reported 
the matter to Nationwide (and to R) to see if it could help stop the payments or recover their 
funds. Nationwide logged the fraud and contacted R, to see if any funds remained that could 
be recovered. But ultimately Nationwide did not feel the payments were unusual enough to 
have been flagged for further checks, and in any case considered that the loss had been 
from Mr Cs account with R, and so felt R should bear responsibility for that loss. Nationwide 
did though pay Mr and Mrs C £100 to recognise that there had been delays in its complaint 
process.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs C referred the matter to our service. One of our Investigators looked 
into the complaint. Overall, they considered that while Mr C had authorised the transfers 
(albeit as a result of a scam) Nationwide should have done more to intervene on the third 
transfer. They felt Nationwide should have contacted Mr C directly to ask some questions 
about what was going on, and considered that, had Nationwide done so, it was more likely 
than not the scam wouldve unravelled, and the loss from that point on wouldve been 
prevented. Our Investigator also considered that Mr and Mrs C werent partly to blame and 
shouldnt bear any responsibility for the loss from that third payment onwards.
However, our Investigator also noted that R had agreed to refund £48,514.03 to Mr C. And 
given that this refund was more than the value of the loss incurred from the third payment 
onwards, the Investigator did not recommend that Nationwide make any further refund.
Nationwide accepted the Investigators findings, but Mr and Mrs C disagreed. So as no 
agreement could be reached this case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusions as our Investigator, and for largely the 
same reasons. 
Firstly, Id like to make it clear that this complaint relates only to Mr and Mrs Cs joint 
account. I will refer to Mrs Cs sole accounts for context, but am not making any findings 
regarding Nationwides actions relating to Mrs Cs sole accounts.
Its not disputed that Mr C authorised the payments from he and Mrs Cs joint account that 
are in dispute here. So as per the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (which are the 
relevant regulations in place here) that means Mr and Mrs C are responsible for them. That 
remains the case even though Mr C was the unfortunate victim of a scam.
Because of this, Mr and Mrs C are not automatically entitled to a refund. But the regulatory 
landscape, along with good industry practice, also sets out a requirement for account 
providers to protect their customers from fraud and financial harm. And this includes 
monitoring accounts to look out for activity that might suggest a customer was at risk of 
financial harm, intervening in unusual or out of character transactions and trying to prevent 
customers falling victims to scams.
Taking the above into consideration, I need to decide whether Nationwide acted fairly and 
reasonably in its dealings with Mr and Mrs C, or whether it should have done more than it 
did.
I acknowledge that the first two payments made as part of the scam were relatively big, but 
they were to an account with a legitimate banking institution in Mr Cs own name, so I dont 
think it was until the pattern of several large payments in a short space of time began to 
emerge that I would expect Nationwide to have stepped in. I therefore agree with our 
Investigators finding that, by the time Mr C attempted to make the third payment to his 
account with R, Nationwide should have been on notice that something potentially untoward 
was going on, and so should have contacted Mr C to get to the bottom of what was 
happening.
Ive thought carefully about what wouldve happened had Nationwide insisted on direct 
contact with Mr C before processing any further payments. Theres obviously a balance to 
strike, but Nationwide ought fairly and reasonably to have satisfied itself that Mr C hadnt 
fallen victim to a scam, and Im persuaded it couldve done this by asking a few open-ended 
questions of Mr C prior to processing any further payments.
Mr C doesnt appear to have been given a cover story to use by the scammer, so I think he 
would likely have explained what was happening, and I consider it likely that the spell of the 
scam would then have been broken and that Mr C wouldnt have proceeded with the 
payments. So I think Nationwide could have prevented the losses Mr C incurred from the 
third payment onwards.
Given that finding, I would usually recommend that Nationwide refund all the payments 
made from the joint account from the third payment onwards  a refund of £33,900. But Mr C 
has already received a refund in excess of that amount direct from R. The refund provided 
by R is, in fact, high enough to cover all the payments made from the joint account from the 
third payment onwards, and Mrs Cs payments from her own account, plus a bit extra.On this basis, I dont consider it would be reasonable to ask Nationwide to refund any of Mr 
and Mrs Cs losses as Rs refund already covers the loss from the joint account from the 
third payment onwards, and I dont consider Nationwide has any obligation to refund the first 
two payments for the reasons set out above. 
I know this will be very disappointing for Mr and Mrs C, as its clear they feel very strongly 
that Nationwide should bear some responsibility for what has happened, but I hope they will 
understand the reasons for my decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman