DRN-4247230
The complaint
Mr N has complained about the way Covea Insurance plc (Covea) has handled a claim he 
made under his buildings insurance policy for damage to his property caused by a storm. 
What happened
Mr N told us that in December 2022, after opening a French door in his living room, the wind 
caught the door and swung it open, damaging the hinges.
A few weeks later he could see the wooden floor under the French doors had discoloured 
and smelt damp. He said it looked like the floor had slightly lifted and he noticed a gap at the 
top and bottom of the French doors. 
Mr N notified Covea of his claim and provided it with photos and quotations for repair. Covea 
paid Mr Ns claim in relation to the door but declined to cover the damage to the floor on the 
basis that it was caused by wear and tear and hadnt been damaged by the storm.
Unhappy with the claim decision, Mr N complained to Covea and received its response not 
upholding the complaint on 9 June 2023. 
Mr N then referred his complaint to this service and one of our investigators looked into what 
had happened. On 14 July 2023, she issued a view also not upholding the complaint. Mr N 
then requested an ombudsmans decision on the complaint.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Mr N is unhappy that Covea accepted his claim for damage to his French door, caused by 
the storm, but didnt accept his claim for damage to the surrounding floor.
So, Ive considered the claims decision reached by Covea to see whether it was made in 
accordance with the policy terms and conditions and was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
When our service considers complaints about claims for storm damage, we ask ourselves 
three questions. Unless the answer to all three questions is yes, its likely that the claim 
wouldnt succeed. The three questions we ask are:
Were there storm conditions on or around the date of reported damage?
Is the damage reported consistent with damage typically caused by a storm?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage?
Ive next gone on to consider each of these questions in turn. 
Were there storm conditions?
On its complaint investigation form, Covea noted a local windstorm with maximum gusts of 
41 mph, on Monday 19 December 2022. So, its accepted that there were storm conditions 
around the date of the reported damage.
Is the damage consistent with storm damage?
The damage in this case, that is, of French door hinges being bent, and water subsequently 
ingressing into the property is consistent with damage typically caused by storm force winds. 
Was the storm the main cause of damage?
Mr N says that a few weeks after the storm occurred, he noticed the wooden floor under the 
doors was discoloured, he could smell damp and the floor seemed like it was slightly lifting. 
Due to the potential cost of replacing the flooring, Covea sent its loss adjuster to the property 
to validate the claim. In the subsequent report, the loss adjuster said the damage to the floor 
in front of the doors was due to wear and tear and there was nothing to suggest that water 
had ingressed through the frame. The report noted that there was crowning to the area, but it 
said that wasnt as a result of a recent one-off issue. In addition, the report said the top 
veneer of the oak had become detached and there was a gap on the frame due to missing 
silicone, unrelated to storm damage. 
Mr N said that as Covea had accepted the claim in relation to the door, it also was obliged to 
accept the claim for the damage to the floor, which he believed was connected.
Ive carefully considered all of the available evidence in coming to my decision on this 
complaint. On the one hand Mr N says the floor damage only became apparent a short time 
after the storm had occurred. On the other hand, Covea have provided its loss adjusters 
technical report in support of its view that the damage was caused by fair wear and tear. 
Where the evidence is inconsistent or contradictory, as it is here, I make my decision based 
on the balance of probabilities, that is, what I think more likely than not, happened, given the 
available evidence and surrounding circumstances.
Under paragraph 3 of section 14 of Mr Bs policy, it explains Covea will not pay for: Any 
loss, damage or liability arising from wear and tear or damage that happens gradually over 
time. 
Having carefully considered the available evidence, I think it more likely than not, that the 
damage to the floor near the French doors was caused by gradual wear and tear. So, Covea 
has acted within the policy terms and conditions and has fairly declined Mr Ns claim. I 
therefore do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given in this final decision, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman