DRN-2163025
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In 2001 Mr and Mrs B took out PPI during a meeting at a Halifax branch when they were 
arranging their joint mortgage. The policy covered Mr B and it protected the monthly 
mortgage repayments in the event that he couldnt work. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs B disagree with the adjudicators opinion. Their main complaints are that they 
werent told PPI was optional and they didnt know that theyd got PPI  they say it isnt 
something theyve ever wanted with a mortgage and that Mr B didnt knowingly sign up to 
have it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Heres why I say this.
Although PPI was taken out just for Mr B, as this was a joint mortgage with Mrs B, Ive 
looked at both their circumstances at the time. 
Its understandable that Mr and Mrs B mightnt be able to remember in detail everything that 
happened when they arranged the PPI. This was a long time ago and so what they say isnt 
enough on its own for me to be able to uphold their complaint.
I have to decide what I think is most likely taking into account all the information Ive got and 
the wider circumstances. 
It looks like Mr and Mrs B discussed taking out PPI alongside their mortgage. 
I can see that theres a section on their mortgage application headed Accident, Sickness 
and Unemployment insurance. This gives brief details of the protection this offers and gives 
applicants the chance to sign if theyd like to take it out.
On Mr and Mrs Bs signed mortgage application this part of the form has been left blank  so 
I think they understood that having PPI was optional. 
As well as completing the mortgage application paperwork to arrange the borrowing they 
wanted, I've also seen a copy of the separate PPI application which Mr B completed. 
Mr B put his name down as the person to be insured, completed some questions to confirm 
he was eligible to take out this cover and signed the completed form to take out the policy. 
Their mortgage was a long term financial commitment and their home couldve been at risk if 
Mr and Mrs B found themselves unexpectedly unable to keep up the monthly mortgage 
repayments. I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs B decided they wanted to protect their 
home by taking advantage of the benefits that PPI offered. 
On balance, I find that Mr and Mrs B wouldve known it was up to them to say if they wanted 
the PPI and it was added on to their mortgage account when they chose to take it out for 
Mr B.
Halifax recommended PPI and it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable. 
Mr B was eligible for the policy. He was covered for accident, sickness and unemployment. If 
he made a successful accident or sickness claim the policy couldve paid out for up to 
24 months per claim. 
This couldve been useful  particularly as it doesnt look like Mr and Mrs B had any other 
ways to pay the mortgage for long if Mr B wasnt working. 
The policy provided long term protection as Mr B couldve made repeated claims on it. 
The mortgage was taken out over a 20 year term when Mr B was the main earner. So I think 
its likely that losing Mr Bs income wouldve had a substantial impact on Mr and Mrs Bs joint 
financial circumstances  PPI protected them against that risk. 
So, overall, I think that Halifaxs recommendation was suitable. 
Its possible some of the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. But it doesnt look as if Mr B wouldve been affected by any of the 
things the policy didnt cover. So, I dont think its likely that having more information about 
the policy exclusions and limitations wouldve put them off taking out the PPI. 
I dont know what information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs B about the monthly policy cost. But 
they chose to take out cover when they didnt have to. And there was an indication of the 
likely cost set out on the application they filled in to get the policy. So they wouldve had 
some idea of the monthly premium and they seem to have been happy to pay it at the time. 
As Mr and Mrs B also chose to buy some extra benefit to protect mortgage related costs, as 
well as the mortgage monthly repayments, it doesnt look as if paying for the cover was a 
problem for them. 
Mr and Mrs B couldve cancelled the policy at any time without incurring any extra cost if 
they no longer wanted to pay for it.  Overall, its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold  but 
I dont think this wouldve made any difference to what happened. I think Mr and Mrs B still 
wouldve decided to buy the policy for Mr B even if theyd been better informed as the PPI 
gave them useful protection in their particular situation. 
So, overall, I dont find that Mr and Mrs B lost out as a result of anything that Halifax did 
wrong. This means there isnt anything Halifax needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman