DRN-2079634
The complaint
Mr W complains that QIC Europe Ltd has turned down a claim he made on his home 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W got in touch with QIC to make a claim after his garage door broke. A wire on the door 
snapped while Mr W was holding it. Unfortunately, Mr W suffered an injury. So he wanted to 
claim both for a replacement door and for personal injury.
QIC turned down Mr Ws claim. It said the policy didnt include personal injury cover. And it 
didnt think the damage to the garage door was down to something the policy covered. It 
also thought the claim wouldve been excluded in any event. Thats because Mr W had told it 
the doors design had been faulty. And QIC thought the wire had likely snapped because of 
wear and tear. Both of these causes are specifically excluded by the policy terms.
Mr W was unhappy with QICs decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. He felt itd been reasonable 
for QIC to turn down the claim based on what Mr W had said happened. He felt the 
exclusion clauses itd referred to were common in home insurance policies and he thought it 
was reasonable for QIC to rely on them. So he thought it was fair for QIC to turn down Mr 
Ws claim. And he also didnt think the policy included cover for personal injury.
Mr W disagreed. He asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think it was fair for QIC to turn down Mr Ws claim. Ill explain why.
Insurers set out what they do and dont want to cover in their policy terms. For a claim to be 
paid, it needs to be caused by something thats covered by the policy  which we generally 
call an insured event. In this case, Mr W told QIC his door broke because a wire snapped. 
So Ive looked carefully at the terms and conditions of Mr Ws policy to decide whether I think 
QIC considered his claim fairly.
The buildings section of the policy says:
In the event of damage to buildings which are owned by you or for which you are 
responsible, at an insured address shown on your schedule because of an Insured Cause, 
we will pay the cost incurred of repairs, replacement or reinstatement.
Mr Ws policy defines what QIC means by an insured cause and it sets out an exhaustive 
list. This includes: storm; fire; flood; escape of water or oil; theft; malicious vandalism; 
subsidence or collision.
Its a policyholders responsibility to show they have a valid claim on their policy. Ive listened 
to the call between Mr W and QIC where he described whatd happened. He told the claim 
handler that the contractor who came out to look at the door had told him the design of it was 
dangerous and it was around 34 years old. He also explained that the contractor was the 
doors designer. So it seems theyd have had expert knowledge about how the doors worked 
and how the damage was likely to have happened.
Based on what Ive seen, there isnt enough evidence to suggest that the wire snapped 
because of damage caused by one of the insured causes the policy covers, like a storm or 
flood. And bearing in mind what Mr W told QIC, I think it was reasonable for it to conclude it 
was most likely that the door broke either because of a design fault or because of wear and 
tear to the wire. Both of these things are specifically excluded by the policy terms. Ive 
looked carefully at Mr Ws policy schedule, and its also clear that he chose not to take up 
accidental damage cover, which may provide broader cover in some circumstances. 
Having listened to the call, its clear that the call handler told Mr W they thought his claim 
would be covered. I can understand how frustrating it mustve been when he then found out 
that the claim was being turned down. But it seems that Mr W had already replaced his 
doors at the point this call took place, so I dont think he lost out as a result of the 
conversation. This means I dont think I can fairly direct QIC to pay his claim on this basis.
Overall, I think it was fair for QIC to turn down Mr Ws garage door claim.
Im sorry to hear Mr W suffered an injury when the door broke and that hes needed 
treatment since. But having considered Mr Ws insurance policy, cover for personal injury to 
a policyholder simply isnt included. So while I sympathise with his position, this simply isnt 
something Mr Ws policy covers.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman