DRN-2398173
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) 
mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr W bought the policy in November 1999 at the same time as applying for a credit card by 
postal application.
The policy cost no more than 70p per £100 of Mr Ws outstanding monthly statement 
balance. And if he was too ill to work or made involuntarily redundant, it would have paid off 
10% of his balance for up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ws case. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
Barclaycard had to let Mr W know the policy was optional and it had to get his consent 
before it applied PPI to his account. 
In his initial complaint to us, Mr W said that he didnt know he had PPI. Sometime later, 
following our adjudicators opinion, Mr W said Barclaycard told him he needed to take PPI in 
order to be accepted for the card. This suggests Mr W knew he had the policy. Barclaycard 
says Mr W completed the application form himself and chose to take the PPI  its provided 
a copy of Mr Ws application form for me to consider. 
Ive thought about what Mr W has said, but I do have to bear in mind that he has been 
inconsistent in terms of whether he knew he had the policy or not. I also havent seen 
anything to suggest he spoke to Barclaycard while completing his application form. To me, it 
looks like an application form was posted to his home address, and he filled it in and 
returned it himself. So, I think Mr W would have had time to read the application and see that 
the policy was optional. 
The application form has a section about PPI and two separate boxes to tick either yes or 
no for the policy. The yes box has been ticked and the no box has been left blank. Mr W 
has signed the application form, confirming that he agrees with the selections on it. So, I 
think Mr W was aware he had a choice about buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it at 
the time. The sale took place some 21 years ago, so its understandable if Mr W doesnt 
remember this now. 
Barclaycard says it would not have given Mr W any advice. The information on the 
application form doesnt suggest Mr W would have spoken to anyone about it  theres no 
record that he did. And Mr W says himself he was never told how PPI worked. So, I dont 
think Barclaycard gave Mr W any advice, which means it didnt have to check the policy was 
right for Mr W. But it did need to give him enough information about the PPI, so he could 
decide whether to take it or not.
Its possible the information Barclaycard gave Mr W about the terms and cost of the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it should have been. But Mr W doesnt appear to have been affected by 
any of the main things the policy didnt cover, such as pre-existing medical conditions or 
unusual employment circumstances. And based on what hes said about his circumstances 
at the time, I think the policy could have been useful to him. I also havent seen anything to 
suggest Mr W could not afford the policy.
Mr W says he was entitled to three months sick pay, followed by statutory sick pay (SSP). 
He also says he had some savings he could have used. But the policy would have paid out 
in addition to any sick pay Mr W received and potentially for longer. Mr W could also have 
made repeat claims subject to a requalification period. So, I think the policy could have been 
useful to Mr W if he lost his job or if he was off sick from work. Particularly, if he was off sick 
for longer than three months, when he would only have received SSP. The policy would 
have enabled Mr W to use his savings for any other financial commitments he may have had 
at what could be a difficult time. 
So, based on everything Ive said above, I dont think better information would have changed 
Mr Ws decision to take the policy. As a result, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. That 
means Barclaycard doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Barclaycard has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because: 
Barclaycard got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr W about that. Because Barclaycard didnt tell Mr W, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclaycard has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr W any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman