DRN-4220053
The complaint
Miss F complained about the service provided by Computershare Investor Services Plc 
(Computershare) when she was unable to use its internet share dealing platform to sell her 
holdings. She said the resulting delay in the sale of her shares caused her financial loss due 
to price movements as well as a great deal of worry and stress when she was facing 
financial pressure. 
To put things right, Miss F wanted financial compensation. 
What happened
Miss F was registered with Computershare to use its internet share dealing service and so 
she expected to be able to give online instructions to sell certificated shares (Ill refer to 
these as her H shares). In August 2022, when her H shares reached a value of £5.50 per 
share, she wanted to sell at that price in order to cover a large bill. Due to a technical error, 
Computershare's online share dealing service was unavailable to her and its postal dealing 
service, which was the only alternative it could offer, was unsuitable for Miss Fs immediate 
needs. This resulted in her transferring to a broker who then handled the sale of her shares, 
achieving a price below the £5.50 per share she had originally hoped for.
When she complained about what had happened, Computershare responded with an offer of 
£25 as a gesture of goodwill for a promised call back that didnt happen.
Miss F didn't feel this went far enough to resolve things and she brought the complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into what happened. During the course of the investigation, 
Computershare agreed that Miss F was entitled to more compensation for the incorrect 
information and technical issue and offered a further £50  but didnt feel that it should pay 
the difference in the share price.
Our investigator still thought that Computershare needed to do more to put things right and 
recommended that Computershare should pay Miss F:
the difference between £5.50 per share and what Miss F achieved on sale, and
£150 in total for the overall distress and inconvenience Miss F had experienced 
which included not contacting her when Computershare said it would, giving incorrect 
information about correcting her bank details and the technical difficulty which 
couldn't be fixed which had resulted in Miss F having to go to another broker.
Miss F agreed with the investigator but Computershare disagreed. It mainly said (in 
summary):
Miss F should be compensated for the incorrect information provided, not being 
contacted and a technical issue in correcting her incorrect bank details 
there was no guarantee that Miss F would have achieved the price she wanted, even 
if she had been able to submit the sell instruction
Computershare wasnt responsible for delays Miss F encountered when using the 
broker service who arranged the sale
Miss F hadnt been aware of which valid share certificates she had in her possession 
and requested an Indemnity for 17 shares. Upon receiving a list of valid share 
certificates from Computershare, she was only missing a certificate for 3 shares
even if the technical issue had not happened and Miss F was able to instruct the sale 
of her shares, the issue with the certificates would have delayed the sale. 
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change her view and Computershare asked for the 
complaint to be referred for an ombudsman decision. The complaint came to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
As far as I can see, the background facts are well understood and essentially agreed by 
both parties so I dont think I need to say more about what happened. And, as 
Computershare has upheld Miss Fs complaint, I will concentrate on the question of fair 
redress, which seems now to be the main point in issue and the reason Computershare has 
requested an ombudsman referral.
Theres information on our website which explains the Financial Ombudsman Service 
approach. Briefly, I need to decide what I think is likely to have happened if Computershare 
hadnt made an error  in other words, if it had not been responsible for delays and poor 
service when Miss F attempted to use its internet share dealing service. I find on balance, 
even allowing for an issue with missing H share certificates, Miss F would likely still have 
been in a position to sell her H shares on 12 August 2022 when the share price was £5.50 
per share. Ill explain my reasons.
Miss F had made a mistake on 3 August 2022 when inputting bank details on 
Computershares website. This reasonably triggered a security check but it was 
unreasonable that after this, Miss F found shed effectively disabled her account due to a 
technical issue affecting the site. This meant that when the share price was at a level she 
hoped to achieve, she couldnt initiate the sale. I think it's reasonable to say that had the 
online service been available, Miss F would've instructed the sale of the shares she had 
certificates for as soon as the price per share reached £5.50, as this was her intention 
when she entered the incorrect details. 
Although she had spoken on the phone to Computershare on 4 August 2022, she didnt 
hear back until it emailed her on 10 August 2022 explaining that her options were to use its 
postal service or involve an external broker and shed need to check she had all her share 
certificates. It also set out the process Miss F needed to follow to obtain an indemnity from 
Computershare for any lost share certificate before it could issue a replacement. 
Computershare apologised for this late response and I think it's fair to say that if 
Computershare had provided a better service, Miss F could have taken things forward 
sooner. Computershare said it could send a replacement certificate within five days of 
receiving a completed indemnity. The quickest way to apply for an indemnity was to phone 
its contact centre and pay by credit card or use its secure payment system  so this 
wouldve been very quick to do. 
I agree with our investigator that its reasonable to expect that it shouldnt have taken 
longer than a week or so to resolve the issue of the three missing share certificates. And 
had Miss F known all this on 4 August 2022, its fair to assume that by 12 August 2022, its 
likely she would have been in a position to sell all her shares on that date. I agree with the investigator that in order to put Miss F into the position she would have 
been in, had Miss F sold all her H shares on 12 August 2022, Computershare should 
reimburse Miss F for any resulting loss on the sale of those shares. 
I've also thought carefully about the emotional distress and worry Miss F told us she 
experienced. I can understand why this was such an anxious time for her. There was a 
significant amount of money at stake and she was relying on selling these H shares at the 
best price she thought she could achieve to raise enough money to pay a big bill. In 
coming to my decision, I've taken into account that Computershare has acknowledged that 
Miss F should be compensated for the incorrect information it provided, not contacting her 
when it said it would and the technical issue to do with correcting her incorrect bank 
details. Computershare hasnt said if it agrees the figure of £150 suggested by the 
investigator, but I think £150 is fair compensation to reflect the impact on Miss F of the 
delays and shortcomings in the service Computershare provided to her on this occasion.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Miss F confirmed safe receipt of the provisional decision.
Computershare reiterated the point that it didnt offer the option to sell shares at a price limit, 
either through its Investor Centre or Postal Dealing service, so if Miss F had used its service 
to sell, she would not have been guaranteed the price that she thought she was going to 
achieve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken carefully into account everything thats been said in response to my provisional 
decision. 
Computershare hasnt provided me with any new information that changes what I think about 
this case. Id already considered all the main points mentioned above when thinking about 
my provisional decision. I have addressed in my provisional decision all the points which 
have a bearing on the outcome. I accept that Miss F wouldnt have been able to guarantee 
her selling price, but Ive explained why I think Miss F wouldve likely wanted to execute the 
sale on 12 August 2022, so it follows that Computershare should reimburse Miss F for any 
resulting loss on the sale of those shares at a later date. 
So I still think its fair to uphold this complaint for the reasons I explained more fully in my 
provisional decision. 
Putting things right
To put things right for Miss F, Computershare should take the following steps:
compare the price Miss Fs H shareholding achieved on sale (Ill call this value A) 
with the price she would have achieved if Computershare had completed the sale 
of her H shares on 12 August 2022* (Ill call this B). 
If B is greater than A (in other words, Miss Fs shares sold for less than they would 
have done had Computershare not prevented Miss F completing the sale on 
12 August 2022) then Computershare should pay the difference to Miss F to 
reimburse her.
Computershare should set out the figures it relies on and its calculations in a clearly understandable way so that Miss F can see how the amounts have been 
worked out.  
Pay Miss F £150 in total to reflect the stress and anxiety Computershare caused 
her. So, to be clear, if it has already paid any of the redress it offered previously, 
this can be offset against this amount.
*Computershare should use the average H share price over the course of 12 August 2022 
in its calculations.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Computershare Investor Services Plc to pay Miss F as set 
out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman