Page 1 of 4The complaint
Miss M complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd (hereafter Zurich) unfairly declined her claim 
for a lump sum income protection payment.
What happened
The background to this complaint is known by both parties, so I have only provided a very 
brief summary of what happened below.
Miss M has access to a group income protection policy through her employer. The policy is 
underwritten by Zurich and is designed to provide a regular benefit in the event of a member 
becoming incapacitated and unable to work. The policy also has the provision for a lump 
sum benefit, of two times a members annual salary, to be paid after a period of three years.
In 2016 Miss M suffered a stroke and made a claim on her employers group income 
protection policy, which Zurich accepted. After three years of benefit Zurich considered Miss 
Ms eligibility for the lump sum too, but went on to decline this aspect of her claim. 
Zurich explained the lump sum benefit was assessed against a suited occupation definition, 
which meant a member had to evidence they were not only unable to work in their current 
employment, but also in any other occupation too. And it said the available medical evidence 
alongside Miss Ms experience and skills all lent itself to demonstrating that a suited 
occupation was a plausible opportunity for her.
Miss M complained about that decision and raised concerns about the way Zurich had 
applied the suited occupation term. She said the available evidence supported her being 
unable to work in either her current employment or any suited occupation. But Zurich 
maintained its position, so Miss M referred her complaint about the declinature to this 
service.
Initially, our investigator didnt think Zurich had done enough to demonstrate that it had 
declined the claim reasonably. However, they learnt they hadnt seen all the available 
evidence Zurich had relied on when reaching its decision, so took another look at things. 
Having done so, they didnt think Zurichs position on either the medical evidence not 
suggesting Miss M was unable to carry out any other occupation, or its declinature of the 
claim was unreasonable. So, they didnt recommend Miss Ms complaint be upheld.  
Miss M disagreed at length and also provided further evidence to support her position which 
Zurich, and then our investigator, considered. Neither changed their position on matters, so 
the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
DRN-2931725Page 2 of 4Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Miss M feels very strongly about her position and I empathise with the impact 
she says the stroke in 2016 had on her, but I will not be upholding this complaint for largely 
the same reasons as the investigator before me. 
I think it important to highlight that I will not be commenting on every piece of evidence or 
argument thats been presented. My findings will focus on those matters I consider central to 
the outcome of this complaint. 
In line with the relevant rules and guidelines Zurich must consider claims both promptly and 
fairly, and must not reject them unreasonably. 
The terms and conditions of the policy show that a members eligibility for the lump sum will 
be assessed against the suited occupation definition below:
Suited
The member cannot perform the Material and Substantial Duties of their current 
employment, or any other occupation they could do because of their transferable skills at 
that time.
Any other occupation should provide a reasonable, though not necessarily comparable, 
salary and status to the current occupation.
When we assess transferable skills, well consider training and experience.
So, apart from demonstrating that she was unable to perform in her own role, Miss M also 
needed to demonstrate that shed be unable to do so in any other occupation too.
Miss M has provided much evidence and commentary which she says supports her position. 
But Im not persuaded I can fairly conclude that Zurichs interpretation of the medical 
evidence is unreasonable. Without referring to every item, Ill explain why:
In July 2016 a Consultant Stroke Physician said Miss M had no residual neurological 
physical deficits following her stroke and explained she could return to work again 
from September as the stroke therapists have suggested.
In April 2017 a Clinical Psychologist and an Occupational Therapist (OT) saw Miss M 
for an initial assessment to support her return to work. They noted Miss M felt 
anxious about returning to work given her confidence, her concern about what 
colleagues may think, and her reduced concentration and ability to retain information. 
They also said Miss M was under no financial pressure to return to work because her 
employer had a scheme which would provide salary protection for three years. They 
noted Miss M was making good progress, and they said Given she does not feel 
ready to return to work at the present stage we recommend that she extend her sick 
leaveto allow for a vocational rehabilitation programme which will focus on 
reviewing her work goals, fatigue management, having neuropsychological 
assessment and eventually support a phased return to work.
In March 2018 a Cognitive Behavioral Psychotherapist referred to Miss M as having 
made a good recovery from her stroke but feeling vulnerable about herself and her 
future.  Page 3 of 4In April 2019 a Senior OT said Miss M had reported fears of returning to her previous 
job, especially as a number of her team had left. They spoke about her returning to 
work and in doing so said, She describes a lack of confidence and being unsure how 
she would manage in the advertising industry. However, she has looked at 
alternative job roles and is unsure which direction to take.
The Senior OT also noted that it was, a complex situation, but (Miss M) feels that it 
would be helpful to at least commence a work trial in her prior industry.
In May 2019 the Senior OT also set out that Miss M was arranging a meeting with 
her employer to discuss options around returning to work. They explained a cognitive 
assessment would help to identify any beneficial strategies for Miss Ms return, and 
they spoke about the benefits of Miss M commencing a phased return to work too.
In May 2019 an Assistant Psychologist and a Highly Specialist Clinical Psychologist 
explained theyd competed a cognitive assessment because Miss M was considering 
returning to work. They reported Miss Ms results as positive and said, she 
performed well across the cognitive domains. 
They also said the results suggest that she has some subtle cognitive difficulties 
following her stroke mainly around the speed at which she processes information.. 
In relation to Miss M resuming work they said, it may take her a little longer to do 
tasks, particularly more complex tasks which involve a number of cognitive 
processes. However, as tasks become increasingly familiar she is likely to find that 
she will carry them out more effectively. 
And they also said, Within the next 6 months we anticipate that (Miss M) will be in a 
better position to consider returning to work with adjustments in place into a similar 
role with an alternative, more supportive (x) agency/company or to commence a 
different career pathway.
In May 2019 Miss Ms GP completed a claims medical report which provided an 
update on Miss Ms health. The GP also answered a number of questions in relation 
to Miss Ms ability to return to work. For example, when asked whether it would be 
beneficial for Miss Ms recovery to consider a fully supported graded return to work at 
that point in time, the GP said, yes but in a different work environment.. The GP 
also said yes when asked whether Miss M would be able to consider a lesser, or 
different, role for a new employer. 
In August 2019 following a review with a vocational rehabilitation service, an OT 
wrote to Miss Ms GP and said, We agree that working in a fast paced (x) 
environment in a (x) role which required emotional resilience, long working and 
working to tight deadlines may not be something (Miss M) could sustain physically or 
emotionally. We therefore explored alternative careers options and (Miss M) 
expressed that she would be keen to explore working with children.
In September 2019 a Highly Specialist Clinical Psychologist wrote to Zurich and 
explained why they did not consider Miss M to be fit to return to work at the present 
time. 
Much of the medical evidence in this complaint shows a variety of different professionals 
working with Miss M to facilitate a return to work, to develop new skills, and to gain new 
experiences. And the focus of this seems to have related to a phased return, a return to a 
different role with her current employer, and a different role within another employer Page 4 of 4altogether. 
As our investigator rightly highlighted, although some of the medical evidence does 
reference Miss M being unable to work, it is important for it to be considered in the round. 
Having done this, Im not persuaded that Zurichs interpretation of the medical evidence not 
demonstrating an inability to perform either the material and substantial duties of Miss Ms 
current role or any other occupation is unreasonable. 
I acknowledge the witness statements and articles Miss M provided as further evidence to 
support her position. The witness statements certainly add further background to the nature 
of Miss Ms role and the pressures within her industry. But they are subjective, and I dont 
think Zurich unfairly concluded they didnt provide a professional opinion and were from 
parties that could not be considered independent.
Both parties are aware of Miss Ms current role, and I note Zurich has said many of the skills 
and experience required to undertake it were not specific to a sole industry. Zurich has 
identified other roles, or occupations, it feels Miss M could do because of her transferable 
skills  with examples being but not limited to, a similar but more junior role in the same 
employer, industry or another industry; a supervisory or line management role within another 
industry or an office environment; or a role within creative production which Miss M had 
previously identified for herself. 
Having looked at the skills and experience Miss M has, including those gained through her 
current role, I too agree that she appears to have many which could be considered 
transferrable. And I am not of the opinion that Zurichs position on the transferability of her 
skills and the ability to perform within any other occupation is unfair.
I realise Miss M will likely be further disappointed by this, but having considered everything 
that has been made available to me in this complaint, I am not persuaded that Zurich 
declined this claim unreasonably. Again, I empathise with the impact Miss M says the stroke 
had on her and I do of course wish her health well, but I will not be interfering with Zurichs 
decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman