DRN-3393908
The complaint
Miss C complains that Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream irresponsibly gave her 
unaffordable loans.
What happened
Lending Stream provided loans to Miss C as follows: 
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments AmountHighest 
Repayment**
111/09/2019 20/03/2020 6 £120.00 £42.94
214/01/2020 22/04/2020 6 £300.00 £148.20
313/02/2020 22/04/2020 6 £300.00 £236.06
415/03/2020 22/04/2020 6 £70.00 £235.39
                                    6 month break in lending
522/10/2020 22/04/2021 6 £1,000.00 £335.35
613/01/2021 22/01/2021 6 £150.00 £388.22
723/04/2021 03/09/2021 6 £540.00 £179.59
809/07/2021 09/09/2021 6 £470.00 £351.00
**including overlapping loans
When Miss C complained to Lending Stream it didnt uphold her complaint about loans1-6 
but said it could see that it might not have been a good idea to have provided loans 7-8. So 
Lending Stream offered to uphold Miss Cs complaint in respect of these two loans and 
made her an offer of redress in line with what wed expect a lender to do in these 
circumstances. 
Miss C didnt feel this was enough to resolve things  she particularly thought loan 5 
should also have been upheld - so she brought her complaint to us. 
Lending Stream had already agreed to uphold Miss Cs complaint about loans 7  8, so our 
adjudicator concentrated on looking at loans 1-6. 
Our adjudicator didnt think she had seen enough to say that Lending Stream shouldnt have 
provided loans 1,2,3,5 and 6. But she thought that Miss Cs application for loan 4 ought to 
have alerted Lending Stream to the possibility that she was having problems managing her 
money and realised it was unlikely that she would be able to sustainably repay this loan and 
so not have provided it. Our adjudicator set out the steps Lending Stream needed to take to 
put things right for Miss C. 
Lending Stream didnt accept our adjudicators view and asked an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. In brief summary, it said:
Miss C had disposable income well in excess of the amount needed to comfortably 
support repayments for all of her outstanding borrowing
her track record suggested she was using the loans rationally and sensibly
loan 4 was for a much lower amount so there was no evidence that Miss Cs financial 
situation was deteriorating
to suggest that the number of loans alone was a reason to uphold a complaint was like 
saying a series of credit card transactions would be unsustainable even if within the 
card limit  which would be a baseless argument.
So the complaint comes to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short--term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss C could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending 
was sustainable for a consumer. These factors include, amongst other things:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income)
the greater the number and frequency of loans and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Lending Stream was required to establish whether Miss C could sustainably repay her loans 
- not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. Whilst loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties. And 
in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments - as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make 
their repayments without borrowing further. 
Taking all this into account, Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and 
information provided and thought about what this all means for Miss Cs complaint.
As far as I can see, Miss C hasnt objected to what our adjudicator said with respect to not 
upholding her complaint about loans 1,2,3,5 and 6. So I dont think I need to say more about 
these loans except that Ive reviewed them and independently reached the same conclusion 
as our adjudicator. I havent seen enough to say that Lending Stream shouldnt have 
provided these loans  so Im not upholding this part of Miss Cs complaint.   
But, like our adjudicator, I dont think Lending Stream shouldve provided loan 4. Ill explain 
why I say this.
Looking at loan 4, Lending Streams income and expenditure checks suggested that it 
looked like Miss C shouldve had disposable income of around £930 after paying all her 
other monthly outgoings. 
But I think, at this point, Lending Stream shouldve realised that it seemed unlikely this was 
the case in reality. I say this because, by the time she asked for loan 4, Miss C already had 
three other outstanding short-term loans which suggests to me that she was finding it hard to 
get on top of her money problems and her financial difficulties were likely ongoing. Its hard 
to understand otherwise why someone with this amount of disposable income would have 
applied to borrow £50  which is the amount Miss C seems to have asked for when she first 
approached Lending Stream about loan 4. Miss C ultimately borrowed just £70  and signed 
up to repay double this amount over the loan term, which seems to me to be a very 
expensive option for someone who, on the face of it, appeared not to need to borrow at all. 
So although the loan mightve appeared affordable on a simple pounds and pence 
calculation, I think Lending Stream shouldve realised that Miss Cs borrowing record painted 
a picture of a person struggling with debt. And despite what shed told Lending Stream about 
her finances, it showed that Miss C was having serious problems managing her money. So 
I think Lending Stream shouldve realised when Miss C asked for loan 4 that it wasnt likely 
to be sustainable and it shouldnt have provided loan 4 to Miss C.
In coming to my decision Ive carefully considered Lending Streams response to our 
adjudicators view  but for the reasons I've explained, this doesnt affect my decision. 
Repaying her loans without too much apparent difficulty and settling them early doesnt 
mean that Miss C was able to do so in a way that was sustainably affordable for her. And Im 
not persuaded that the analogy Lending Stream seeks to draw between short-term loans 
and using a credit card means it would be fair and reasonable for me not to uphold Miss Cs 
complaint about loan 4. These are different financial products and I dont think a comparison 
can usefully or fairly be made here between repeatedly borrowing short-term loans as 
opposed to multiple drawdowns on a revolving credit account.   
For these reasons, Im upholding Miss Cs complaint about loan 4.As Lending Stream has already agreed to refund all interest and charges in relation to 
loans 7-8 and to amend Miss Cs credit file in line with what we would expect a lender to do 
in these circumstances, I havent considered these loans further. Lending Stream has said it 
will do everything that we would tell it to do if we upheld the complaint about loans 7-8  so 
theres nothing further for me to do in this situation.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Miss C to repay the principal amounts that she borrowed 
because she had the benefit of that lending. But she has had to pay interest (and possibly 
charges) on loans that shouldnt have been provided to her  so thats unfair. 
Lending Stream has already agreed to put things right in relation to loans 7 and 8, so if it 
hasnt already, it should now do what it has said it would to settle that part of Miss Cs 
complaint. 
In addition, Lending Stream should also take the following steps: 
A. add together the total of the repayments made by Miss C towards interest, fees and 
charges on loan 4, not including anything it has already refunded.
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Miss C which 
were considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Miss C originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Pay Miss C the amounts calculated in "A" and "B".
D. Remove any adverse entries Lending Stream has recorded on Miss Cs credit file 
for loan 4.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest. Lending 
Stream must give Miss C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
I partly uphold Miss Cs complaint and direct Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream to 
take the steps set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman