DRN-1967080
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that they were left without life cover for a period of 43 days because 
of an IT error by HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC). 
What happened
In May 2019, Mr B enquired about replacement life cover with HSBC before leaving his 
employment with them. He later received an email indicating that there was an issue which 
meant HSBC was unable to assist him take out life cover, but it was looking to try and 
resolve the issue as a matter of priority. 
In early June 2019, HSBC emailed Mr B to make him aware that an interim solution had 
been found, which would enable him to get a quote and apply for cover on best rates. HSBC 
said hed have to do this by 12 June 2019 after hed left HSBC.
Mr and Mrs B say on 10 June 2019 they managed to get a quote and tried to proceed with 
the application, however Mrs B was having issues with the application form with regards to 
date moved into current address. 
HSBC said the reason why Mrs Bs application couldnt be progressed was because it was 
received without any medical information, this was because Mrs B didnt log into her account 
using her Digital Secure Key (DSK). 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
 
A screenshot provided by HSBC shows Mrs Bs address was entered correctly on 11 
June 2019. Despite this she was still experiencing an error on the application form on 
12 June 2019 as it wasnt showing the correct information regarding the date she 
moved into her new address, and consequently Mrs B couldnt complete her 
application. 
So, Mr and Mrs B were unable to complete the application for life cover because of a 
systems failure at HSBCs end, and not because Mrs B hadnt logged into her 
account via DSK. 
HSBC should pay Mr and Mrs B £200 compensation for trouble and upset caused.  
 
Mr and Mrs B say that whilst theyre pleased the complaint has been found in their favour, 
they remain unhappy it has taken nearly a year to resolve, as such the compensation is 
unacceptable. They were originally asking for £430 which amounts to £10 for each day that 
theyve been without life cover.  
HSBC accepts the investigators findings. It explained that the application was undertaken 
on an older system which has now been revamped. But the reason for the application not 
being able to progress remains unknown. Given the passage of time, the information can no longer be interrogated. Regardless of the reason, the application couldnt progress and its 
sorry for that. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I think its likely that a systems failure at 
HSBCs end prevented Mr and Mrs B from progressing their application for life cover 
although its not entirely clear why this happened. 
I also think the recommendation to pay Mr and Mrs B £200 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused  by HSBCs error  is broadly fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs B feel that they were without life cover for 43 days, but I dont agree 
that this was the case, because they were yet to obtain life cover. There was also no 
guarantee that theyd get cover to start on or around the date of their application because 
these things can take time. In any case I dont agree that this means they should be paid 
£10 a day (for the 43 days) before the cover went live.   
If Mr and Mrs B wanted cover sooner, they couldve gone elsewhere (if it was a priority), but 
it seems they were prepared to wait to proceed with HSBC  to get what they wanted  
probably because the terms were more favourable. So, in the circumstances I dont agree 
that Mr and Mrs B are entitled to any more compensation, other than recommended by the 
investigator.  
I appreciate Mr and Mrs B will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as 
the investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what they want to hear. Whilst I appreciate 
their disappointment, Im not going to ask the business to do anything further other than to 
follow his recommendation.   
 
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Mr and Mrs B £200 compensation for trouble and upset 
caused. 
My final decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 August 2020.Dara Islam
Ombudsman