DRN-3567261
The complaint
Mr J complains that Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd unfairly turned down a claim on his roadside 
assistance insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Js car broke down, so he called Bastion to claim on his policy. Bastion reviewed the 
claim and turned it down as they said his car was still mobile. Mr J then arranged for a 
different recovery for his car and paid £169 to have it recovered. He also complained to 
Bastion and provided images of the issue with his car.
Bastion reviewed the complaint and said while they didnt think they acted unfairly by turning 
down his claim, upon reviewing the images said the claim should have been covered. 
Bastion then offered to reimburse what Mr J paid for recovery, minus his policy excess. 
Bastion said Mr J accepted this in full and final settlement of his complaint, but Mr J referred 
his complaint here as he wasnt satisfied the complaint was resolved. He said hed spent 
several hours at the side of the road and due to a medical condition needed to go to the 
toilet regularly at the side of the road which caused him unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and explained while Bastion had said it had been 
resolved in full and final settlement, Mr J didnt agree. He said it wasnt clear if the settlement 
had been paid and Mr J had suffered additional distress and inconvenience due to Bastion 
incorrectly declining the claim originally. Because of this he recommended Bastion also pay 
an additional £125 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Bastion didnt agree and said it had resolved Mr Js complaint but offered to pay him an 
additional £50 compensation. Mr J didnt accept this and so Bastion increased it to £75 
which Mr J also didnt accept. Bastion then withdrew the offer of compensation and said it 
wasnt fair and reasonable for this service to consider the complaint as a full and final 
settlement had been agreed. 
As Bastion disagreed with our investigator the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied Bastions offer to refund Mr J what he paid for recovery, minus the policy 
excess, is a fair and reasonable amount to put him back in the position he would have been 
in had his claim not been declined originally. In this decision I will therefore focus on whether 
Bastion should also compensate Mr J for the distress and inconvenience he suffered by his 
claim being declined. 
Bastion has said our service couldnt consider this complaint as a full and final settlement 
had been agreed. While I agree that when a full and final settlement is agreed between both 
parties it may be that we decide a complaint isnt one well consider. However, in this case, 
as Bastion has made two further offers of additional compensation, I dont see a reason not 
to consider this complaint.
As Mr Js claim was declined, he then had to arrange another recovery which meant he 
unfortunately spent several hours at the side of the road. Hes also explained he has a 
medical condition which means he needs to go to the toilet frequently and this caused him 
additional unnecessary distress and inconvenience. If Bastion had originally accepted Mr Js 
claim, then he wouldnt had had this unnecessary distress and inconvenience. Im therefore 
satisfied that £125 is a fair and reasonable amount of compensation for this. To put things 
right Bastion should pay this amount to Mr J, on top of the refund for what Mr J paid to have 
his car recovered. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd to pay Mr J:
The £169 he paid for recovery, minus the policy excess, if not already paid
£125 for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman