DRN-2555303
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc (previously National & Provincial) mis-sold him an 
endowment policy in 1990. He complains that secret commission may have been paid during 
the sale, but also that he wasnt made aware of any risks associated with it. 
What happened
Santander was unable to consider the complaint as it couldnt locate any information about 
an endowment policy. 
Our investigator considered the information provided by Mr S, which included fines against 
various businesses for mis-handling mortgage endowment complaints, and information from 
Santander to show the searches it had done, and enquiries carried out. However, he wasnt 
persuaded there was sufficient evidence on which to reach a fair and reasonable outcome  
the evidence didnt show who sold the policy, nor its features, such as the sum assured or 
fund invested into, that would enable a suitability assessment to be carried out, or to 
establish if there was any secret commission. 
Mr S has asked for the matter to be reviewed. In summary, he believes Santander likely has 
information it hasnt shared with us, given businesses can and do retain information from a 
long time ago; he doesnt accept policy information has been destroyed in accordance with 
any data protection requirements. In arguing this he has referred to his investigations finding 
other policies  but also that his mortgage endowment had been with Friends Provident (now 
Aviva) and which was surrendered in 1996. He also believes the sale of his policy should 
have formed part of a review following a £1million fine in 2002, but nothing was done at that 
time. 
Mr S is also unhappy that Aviva initially indicated that there was information and latterly told 
him there wasnt. He believes this might be due to a recent business agreement between 
Aviva and Santander, and that Santander might have passed the endowment file on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr S feels very strongly about his complaint. And although I have only 
summarised the background and what has happened, including Mr S arguments, I would 
like to reassure both him and Santander that I have read and considered everything 
provided. In deciding this complaint, it isnt my role to comment on every point made  
rather, my findings will concentrate on the crux of the issue  whether Santander (or its 
predecessor) is responsible for the selling the endowment policy, and if so, whether it was 
suitable and if any secret commission was paid. 
I would begin by acknowledging that Mr S has provided a lot of information about 
endowment policies in general, and endowment mis-selling, including fines various 
businesses have incurred over the years. However, when considering whether a policy has 
been mis-sold, I not only need to know details of the policyholder at the time of the sale, I 
also need to know details of the policy itself. That a business might have been fined might 
speak to a wider picture about its practices, but a complaint will rarely, if ever, turn on a fine 
by the regulator. 
When complaining to Santander originally, Mr S completed a questionnaire in which he set 
out a partial policy number. It was for that reason Santander contacted Phoenix (as the 
number indicated it might relate to a Royal & Sun Alliance policy). Santander has provided 
evidence that Phoenix doesnt have any records of a policy. Santander has also provided 
evidence that it has sought information from its own records but that all that was found was a 
list of mortgage transactions  there wasnt a mortgage file that might have shed more light 
on any endowment policy details. 
I understand Mr S doesnt believe that information has been destroyed. In arguing this, he 
has referred to many businesses buying books of business from other companies and that 
he has had some success in tracing old policies. As the investigator explained when 
businesses by books of business from other companies, they are usually made up of live 
policies, which doesnt apply here. And although Mr S has had success in locating the policy 
in question, it appears that was as a result of Mr S contacting businesses to find out if he 
was ever a customer. I wouldnt expect Santander to make enquiries of all endowment 
providers on the off chance that Mr S might have been a customer; rather it relied on the 
information Mr S provided in the questionnaire, which I find reasonable. 
 
Whilst I accept that Mr S believes differently, I havent been provided with any persuasive 
evidence from Mr S, or anyone else, that Santander is withholding information from us or 
that it has passed information to Aviva. And contrary to Mr S arguments, both the Data 
Protection Act 1998, and the more recent GDPR, both require businesses to only keep data 
for as long as necessary. Mr S ceased to be a customer in 1998 when the mortgage was 
repaid and so it wouldnt have been necessary to keep data about that.  
Mr S has also argued that many people keep information such as receipts, bank statements 
and other such information. That may be so, but people also dont keep this information. 
Indeed, Mr S hasnt been able to provide policy information himself, presumably because he 
no longer has it, or it has been lost over the years. Unfortunately, that is quite often true of 
information and evidence from events which happened so long ago. 
The list of mortgage transactions provided does indicate that the mortgage was a part 
endowment. And it would appear the mortgage changed fully to repayment at some point in 
1996, which is the same year the policy with Aviva was surrendered. And whilst we know 
that the mortgage was part endowment, and that an endowment was surrendered in 1996, 
for over £3,200, that in itself doesnt show who is responsible for the sale of the policy.  
But even if I did accept Mr S assertions about who sold the policy at face value, we still 
wouldnt be able to reach a fair and reasonable outcome about the suitability of the policy or 
secret commission. Thats because we dont have enough information about it. Although we 
have the surrender value, that alone isnt enough for us to conduct an investigation. We 
would need to know the sum assured, the monthly premium, the original term and what fund 
the policy invested into. And wed also need to know what commission, if any, was paid. 
Neither Santander nor Mr S has been able to provide that information about the policy. In the 
circumstances, it isnt possible to reach a fair and reasonable outcome about whether the 
endowment was suitable; and it wouldnt be possible for any business to carry out a 
meaningful redress calculation, such that Mr S would be fairly compensated, even if I could 
conclude something had gone wrong. Overall, I dont uphold this complaint as there is insufficient persuasive evidence on which to 
reach a fair and reasonable outcome, or therefore find that Santander (or its predecessor) 
did anything wrong. 
Finally, just for completeness, I note Mr S believes Aviva has more information than it shared 
with him, because of a call he had with a member of its staff. Im afraid that isnt something I 
can consider in a complaint against Santander. Should Mr S wish to pursue that further, he 
can of course do so. I also note that Mr S has referred to a fine the regulator imposed in 
2002, of £1million, and his belief that his policy should have been investigated as a part of a 
review the regulator required into 44,000 policies. However, it should be noted that fine was 
against Abbey Life Assurance, which was an entirely separate company to Abbey National  
now Santander. As such, any policy he had, if it had been sold by a predecessor to 
Santander, wouldnt have formed part of that particular review (I am aware that Abbey 
National itself was later fined). 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman