DRN-2076261
Complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy that Miss T
applied for in 2006. This policy commenced in January 2007 after completion of the
mortgage. Miss T says Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold the MPPI.
Background 
Our adjudicator thought we should uphold the complaint. Santander disagreed so the
complaint has come to me to decide.
In my provisional decision of 6 July 2020, I set out why I wasnt minded to uphold the 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision. Neither Santander nor Miss T made any further comments.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
Miss T says she doesnt recall taking the PPI while Santander said she agreed to taking it
following a recommendation it made during a meeting in branch. Not all the documents are
still available from the time of sale which is understandable given how long ago the policy
was sold. But where there is limited information available, I have to decide what I think is
more likely based on the information and evidence that is available, including Miss Ts
testimony.
Ive seen a copy of the mortgage application summary that was prepared after the meeting
Miss T had to apply for her mortgage and MPPI. In it there was a separate section for MPPI.
There has been an electronic tick placed in the section requesting MPPI cover. There was a
section to tick to decline cover instead, but this was left blank. Ive also seen a welcome
letter that was sent with an insurance schedule attached after her policy commenced  had
she not agreed to take MPPI, I wouldve expected her to question what this was at the time.
Weve seen a number of cases from around the time Miss T bought her MPPI, and
Santander usually made it clear the policy was optional and would ask customers to agree to
the MPPI before adding it to their account as part of its usual process. Ive seen nothing to
make me think its usual process wasnt followed in this case.
Overall, while Ive thought carefully about what Miss T has said, I think its more likely
Santander made it clear that Miss T didnt have to take out the MPPI and she chose to take
it out, although given how long ago the policy was sold, I can understand why she may no
longer remember this.
Santander recommended the MPPI to Miss T so it had to check that the MPPI was right for
her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For
example, she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI cover and she
seems to have had a need for the cover.
Miss T told this service she was working less than 16 hours a week when she took the MPPI
and this is significant. To be eligible for the policy, Miss T needed to work at least 16 hours a
week. Based on Miss Ts testimony, our adjudicator felt she wasnt eligible for the policy, so
Santander was wrong to have recommended the MPPI and felt the policy was mis-sold.
But Santander has sent in a copy of Miss Ts payslip from 2006 showing she was contracted
to work for 16 hours a week at the time she applied for the MPPI. Based on this, I dont think
Santander was wrong to recommend the MPPI to her as she wouldve been eligible for the
policy at the time it sold it to her.
Its not uncommon for many months to pass between a customer applying for their mortgage
and MPPI and for the mortgage to complete and the MPPI to start  which is what happened
in Miss Ts case. Although her policy didnt actually start until January 2007, Ive seen no
evidence her circumstances changed in that time. Miss T had been with the same employer
for over seven years when the MPPI policy was sold, and she went on to complete the
purchase of the property a few months later  had she lost her job in that time, or had a
significant reduction in hours, I wouldve expected her to have contacted Santander about
this. I think its more likely she was still in employment, working at least 16 hours a week,
when the policy started. So, I think Miss T was eligible for the policy.
Miss T says her employer wouldve provided her with good sick pay had she been off work
due to illness or injury. But this policy wouldve paid out on top of her sick pay for up to 12
months for accident or sickness. It also wouldve paid out for up to 12 months if shed
become unemployed. So I think she couldve found the policy useful in the event she found
herself unexpectedly out of work  especially as she was solely responsible for this
mortgage.
Its possible the information Santander gave Miss T about the MPPI wasnt as clear as it
shouldve been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.
And it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like
it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the MPPI would have put her off
taking out the cover.
A mortgage is a significant commitment and the consequence of not being able to make your
repayments can be serious. Overall, I dont think Santander was incorrect to recommend the
policy to Miss T so I dont think it was mis-sold.
Ive also thought about whether Santander needs to give Miss T some of the commission
she paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and new rules and guidance dont apply to certain
types of mortgage agreements  including a regulated mortgage. As Miss Ts mortgage
was a regulated mortgage taken in January 2007, they dont apply. So Santander doesnt
need to refund any of the commission Miss T paid for the MPPI she had with that mortgage.
In the absence of any new points for me to consider, I find no reason to depart from my 
original findings as set out in my provisional decision. With this in mind, I dont uphold this 
complaint. My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2020.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman