DRN-2361122
The complaint
Mr F complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have been set out by the 
investigator so I wont repeat them again here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
a new car was supplied to Mr H under a hire purchase agreement with BMW 
Financial Services that he signed in November 2018;
BMW Financial Services, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that 
it was of satisfactory quality at that time - whether or not it was of satisfactory quality 
will depend on a number of factors, including the age and mileage of the car and the 
price that was paid for it;
as the car that was supplied to Mr H was a new car with a price of £43,683.99, I 
consider that it was reasonable for him to expect that it would be free from even 
minor defects;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
Mr H returned the car to the dealer in May 2019 because it was making a squealing 
noise  the technicians notes say heard brake squeal on road test, describe the 
actions that were then taken and say that the noise was no longer present when the 
car was taken for a road test;
but Mr H continued to have issues with a squealing noise so he returned the car to 
the dealer in June 2019, only three weeks after the May 2019 visit, and the 
technicians notes say: carry out road test, found high pitch squealing noise evident 
from PSR for approx. 10 seconds then goes away again; and the notes then 
describe the actions that were taken and say all was ok when the car was taken for a 
road test;
but Mr H says that an intermittent squealing noise continues to occur so he 
complained to BMW Financial Services  it says that when the car was tested for the 
second time there was a slight squeal on an incline which can be deemed normal on 
any vehicle  it also says that no squeal was found on road testing and no fault was 
found;
Mr H complained to this service and our investigator said that he believed that the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality so he recommended that BMW Financial Services 
should: end the agreement and collect the car; refund any deposit paid by Mr H with 
interest; remove any adverse information from his credit file; and pay him £150 for his 
distress and inconvenience;
Mr H says that he continues to experience an intermittent squealing noise from the 
car but, although hes been asked to provide a video or recording of that noise, he 
hasnt done so and theres no independent evidence to show that the car does make 
a squealing noise;
but the dealer inspected the car in May and June 209 and both times it confirmed 
that there was a squealing noise, remedial work was undertaken and it said that 
there was then no such noise  but both times the noise has returned;
I consider it to be more likely than not that there is an issue with the car that is 
causing it to make an intermittent squealing noise and I dont consider that its 
reasonable to expect a new car that cost £43,683.99 to make a squealing noise 
when its being driven  and nor do I consider that such a squealing noise would be 
deemed to be normal;
for those reasons I find it to be more likely than not that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied to Mr H; and
the dealer has repaired the car twice but the issue continues so, in these 
circumstances, I find that it would be fair and reasonable for BMW Financial Services 
to allow Mr H to reject the car.
Putting things right
I find that BMW Financial Services should end the hire purchase agreement and arrange for 
the car to be collected from Mr H  both at no cost to him. The agreement shows that no 
deposit was paid by Mr H for the car. He says that he made a payment of £2,000 to the 
dealer and our investigator believed that the payment was used to pay-off some negative 
equity under an earlier agreement but BMW Financial Services hasnt confirmed whether or 
not Mr H did pay a deposit. If he did pay a deposit for this car I find that it would be fair and 
reasonable for it to refund that deposit to him , with interest.
Mr H has been able to use the car and, although he may have suffered some 
embarrassment as a result of the squealing noise, Im not persuaded that it would be fair or 
reasonable in these circumstances for me to require BMW Financial Services to refund to 
Mr H any of the monthly payments that hes made under the agreement. I consider that its 
fair and reasonable for it to keep those payments as payment for the use that hes had from 
the car. 
Ive seen no evidence to show that BMW Financial Services has recorded any adverse 
information about the agreement on Mr Hs credit file  but, if it has done so, I consider that it 
should remove that information. These events have clearly caused some distress and 
inconvenience to Mr H. I find that it would be fair and reasonable for BMW Financial 
Services to pay him £150 to compensate him for that distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint and I order BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited to:1. End the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from 
Mr H  both at no cost to him.
2. Refund to Mr H any deposit that he paid for the car.
3. Pay interest on any deposit at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
4. Ensure that no adverse information about the hire purchase agreement is 
recorded on Mr Hs credit file.
5. Pay £150 to Mr H to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires BMW Financial Services to deduct tax from any interest 
payment made under 3 above. BMW Financial Services must give Mr H a certificate showing 
how much tax its deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman