DRN-4066890
The complaint
Ms S complains that PayrNet Limited restricted access to her account and returned her 
funds to source. 
What happened
Ms S had an account with one of PayRNets agents. To keep things simple, I'll refer to 
PayRNet in this decision 
In November 2021 PayRNet restricted Ms Ss account. On 11 November 2021 Ms S 
received a payment of £685.31 from her benefits. 
Ms S contacted PayRNet to ask why she couldnt access her money. PayRNet explained 
they were having service issues. But Ms S wasnt satisfied with their response and raised a 
complaint. 
On looking into Ms Ss complaint, PayRNet thought they acted fairly in withholding Ms Ss 
funds, but said they could have responded to her complaint more quickly  and offered £50 
compensation. 
On 13 December 2021 PayRNet informed Ms S that they were in the process of returning 
her funds to source. However, they informed Ms S that due to internal processing delays 
they were having trouble returning these funds. 
Ms S didnt accept the offer from PayRNet. She remained unhappy that the electronic money 
provider hadnt returned her funds, and brought her complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators picked up the complaint. PayRNet advised our service that they 
successfully returned some of the funds to source on 14 February 2023. £161.16 to one of 
Ms Ss accounts, and £528.47 to the department of work and pensions (DWP). 
Ms S said she wasnt able to find the £161.16. Ms S explained that she received the 
payment for wages, but wasnt able to provide proof. 
Our investigator asked PayRNet why theyd only returned £528.47 to the DWP, and not 
Ms Ss full benefit payment but they didnt reply. 
Our investigator didnt think PayRNet had acted fairly. She thought PayRNet should return 
the remainder of Ms Ss funds from the DWP, pay 8% and give £100 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused.
Ms S responded to query the DWP payment, and advised shed only received £8.47 and 
therefore had £676.84 outstanding. Our investigator reviewed their opinion, and issued a 
second view amending the redress. She recommended that PayRNet pay Ms S £676.84, 
plus 8% on the entire payment from DWP to the date of repayment and £100 compensation. 
PayRNet didnt accept our investigators recommendation in full. They agreed to pay Ms S 
£100 in compensation, and 8% on the funds from the date of restriction to the date of 
release however they disputed the funds werent returned to source. PayRNet reiterated that 
they returned £528.47 on 14 February 2023. 
Our investigator didnt agree. And advised PayRNet that the burden of proof was on them to 
show the funds had been correctly returned. But the business didnt respond. So the case 
has been passed to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint in less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking this 
approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the most important issues here. Our 
rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach 
what I think is the right outcome. I do stress however that Ive considered everything that 
Ms S and PayRNet have said before reaching my decision.
PayRNet are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and 
existing relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts  
either in full or partially while they carry out their review. 
Ive looked at what happened here and it appears that Ms Ss account was flagged for 
review after a payment was received in October 2021. I understand that Ms S may have 
found this inconvenient but PayRNets terms are clear in detailing their ability to review 
accounts and suspend them when necessary  and I think they initially followed these terms 
and conditions fairly. It follows, I cant say they acted unfairly in blocking access to Ms Ss 
account. 
Ive moved on to consider whether PayRNet acted fairly in holding on to Ms Ss funds. 
PayRNet withheld two sets of funds into Ms Ss account, one payment of £161.16 and one of 
£685.31. Ive considered the £161.16 payment first. Our investigator asked Ms S for proof of 
entitlement to the funds. Ms S advised she thought the funds were wages either for her or 
her husband, however she wasnt able to provide specifics or evidence for why the funds 
were sent to her. I understand its inconvenient for Ms S that shes unable to locate the funds 
but because of the lack of proof of entitlement provided by Ms S I cant say PayRNet acted 
unfairly in returning them to source. 
Ive also thought about whether PayRNet acted fairly in withholding the £685.31 payment 
from DWP. And I dont think they did. Generally, our service expects a business to allow a 
customer access to benefits or salary  funds which obviously belong to a customer. 
PayRNet havent given a justifiable reason why Ms Ss benefits werent released to her. And 
Im satisfied that they should have given Ms S access to her benefit funds on 
11 November 2021  when they arrived into her account. 
PayRNet have argued that they returned most of Ms Ss funds to DWP on 
14 February 2023. And Ive seen a screenshot from PayRNet which shows £528.47 was 
returned to DWP on this date. But, Ive also seen a copy of correspondence Ms S had with 
the DWP, dated 23 February 2023 which advises theyve only received £8.47 of the 
£528.47. I appreciate that PayRNet are insistent they returned a much higher level of funds 
 but from what DWP have advised Im satisfied Ms S still hasnt received the funds which shes rightfully entitled to. It follows Ill be asking PayRNet to return the remaining funds to 
Ms S.  
If DWP do locate the remaining funds and offer to return them to Ms S, Id expect Ms S to 
advise DWP to contact PayRNet and return the funds.  
Putting things right
Im satisfied that Ms S experienced inconvenience when chasing PayRNet to get information 
about the status of her funds  for this reason I think PayRNet should pay her £100 
compensation.
Ill also be asking PayRNet to return £676.84 to Miss S, from the date the funds were 
restricted to the date they were returned, and 8% interest on the full payment from DWP to 
repay Miss S in being deprived of her funds. 
My final decision
My final decision is I direct PayRNet Limited to:
Pay Ms S £100 in compensation for the inconvenience caused
Pay Ms S £676.84, and pay 8% simple interest from 11 November 2021 to the date 
the funds are returned. 
Pay 8% simple interest on £8.47 from 11 November 2021 to 23 February 2023 
HM Revenue & Customs require PayRNet to withhold income tax from the abovementioned 
interest. PayRNet should give Ms S a certificate showing how much is taken off if she asks 
for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman