DRN-2331437
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that he cant hand his car back and voluntarily terminate his finance 
agreement for it after making half of the monthly payments. Black Horse Limited (Black 
Horse) trading as Land Rover Financial Services have said that half of the total amount 
payable needs to be paid and this would include the final balloon payment and the charges 
for credit, not just the monthly payments.  
What happened
Mr K signed a finance agreement on 4 October 2017 to acquire a new Range Rover. This 
was a 4-year hire purchase agreement (PCP) for a cash price of £57,068. Mr K paid a 
£5,900 deposit, and the finance agreement confirmed 48 monthly payments of £491.17 with 
a guaranteed future value/final payment of £36,171.
 
Part way through the agreement, Mr K contacted Land Rover Financial Services to ask to 
return the car with nothing further to pay. He explained he had been told when buying the 
car that once he had made 50% of the monthly payments, so after 2 years, he could hand 
the car back with nothing further to pay.
 
Land Rover Financial Services explained that to terminate the contract, Mr K needs to have 
paid 50% of the total amount payable, not just 50% of the monthly payments. Mr K 
complained, and in their final response letter sent to him on 26 August 2020, the business 
did not uphold his complaint. They said that if he wanted to terminate the agreement, he 
would need at that time to pay a further £10,223.80.
 
An investigator here has looked at Mr Ks complaint and not upheld it. They felt that the 
agreement Mr K signed confirmed the correct voluntary termination information and did not 
agree that the hire purchase had been misrepresented to him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is about what Mr K was told by the broker which arranged the finance with 
Black Horse. However, Black Horse is responsible for what was said during these 
negotiations by way of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Mr K is alleging there was some kind of misrepresentation. So, I have considered if the 
broker made a false statement of fact that persuaded Mr K to do something he might not 
have done otherwise. Mr K believed he could make half the monthly payments and hand the 
car back, however the actual position is that he must pay half the total payable under the 
finance agreement. 
 
There isnt a written or recorded record of what Mr K was told by the sales advisor. And it 
appears the advisor is not available for comment on what happened. I have of course 
carefully considered what Mr K has said, but after doing so I am not persuaded that he was 
told something different to the actual position as laid out in the finance agreement. It seems 
likely that Mr K unfortunately misunderstood what was meant by paying half to voluntarily 
terminate. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable here, I have then looked at what other 
opportunities there were for Mr K to have understood the correct details of the agreement.
I have looked at the finance agreement itself. On page 1, in the Important Information 
section, headed TERMINATION: YOUR RIGHTS, it confirms that the agreement can be 
ended if the customer writes to the finance provider and gives the car back. This is provided 
the customer has given them half the total amount payable under this agreement, that is 
£32,823.58. That figure is half the total amount payable including charges for credit. It 
confirms that if the customer has already paid that amount, they will not have to pay any 
more.
If Mr K expected to hand the car back after 24 months, with a £5,900 deposit and 24 monthly 
payments of £491.17, I think it would be clear to him that this would be a long way short of 
the £32,823.58 required to terminate the agreement. I have thought about whether Mr K 
would reasonable have been expected to read and understand the details about voluntary 
termination and the total cost of this to him. In doing so, I note the key details were not 
hidden several pages into the terms and conditions. They were highlighted on page 1 of the 
agreement, with a termination figure in pounds and pence. Mr K has said this was an 
important issue to him, so had this been the case, I would have expected him to have 
checked this readily available information. 
 
I also note that the car needed ordering, so it was several weeks between the paperwork 
being signed and the car being delivered. Even if he had felt he hadnt had the time to read 
all the agreement when ordering the car, this meant Mr K did have the chance to read and 
check the paperwork afterwards. He could then have asked questions about anything that 
didnt match his understanding.
  
Mr K has also provided us with some emails between himself and the dealership from 
August 2017. These emails are discussing potentially buying the car through a different type 
of finance agreement, what Land Rover call an APP plan. This would involve making a large 
up-front payment, no monthly repayments, and then a minimum future value/balloon 
payment at the end of 2 years or 3 years.
 
In the email conversation, the sales advisor is then discussing the differences between the 
APP agreements and the PCP agreement which had already been quoted for. They 
highlighted the difference in interest rates to Mr K, with the PCP at 4.9% APR and the APP 
at 6.9% APR. They say, Let me know if you just wish to stick with the existing 4.9% APR 
PCP as thats clearly the best value route to go.
 
Mr K feels this is an example of misleading information provided to him which influenced the 
finance agreement he took out. The emails also confirm that conversations were going on 
around different lengths of finance agreements. I would agree this statement isnt very clear. 
However, for this to be a misrepresentation of the contract, it would need to be a fact which 
is untrue, and which persuaded Mr K to enter into the agreement.
 
I am satisfied that this is an opinion given by the sales advisor, not a fact. The discussion is 
about the interest rates, so it would appear this comment links to that, suggesting that the 
advisor believes the lower APR is the best value. I dont think this comment is factual, but is 
a fairly vague reference to value, which in itself could relate to many different things. I am not 
persuaded that this statement directly led Mr K to enter into the PCP agreement. While I have considered what Mr K says, in these particular circumstances, I am not 
persuaded that there has been a misrepresentation of the finance agreement. 
In summary, I am satisfied that despite a potential misunderstanding about the amount 
needed to voluntarily terminate the agreement, the broker provided Mr K the correct 
information in the agreement and Mr K had a reasonable opportunity to question anything 
which didnt match his understanding. I am also not persuaded that Mr K has been given 
inaccurate facts that have caused him to act to his detriment. As a result, I dont require 
Black Horse trading as Land Rover Financial Services to do anything further.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2021.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman