DRN-2932611
Complaint
Miss D and Mr H says that Everyday Lending Bank Limited (Everyday Lending) unfairly 
sent threatening letters even after Mr Hs account went into a debt management plan. 
Theyre also unhappy with the amount outstanding on the guarantor loan.
Background
Miss D and Mr H also initially complained that Mr H shouldnt have been provided with his 
loan in the first place, as it was unaffordable. But weve already separately explained why we 
cant look at their concerns about that matter. So this decision is only looking at Everyday 
Lendings actions in relation to the collection of payments.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss D and Mr Hs concerns. He didnt think that 
Everyday Lending had done anything wrong or treated Miss D and Mr H unfairly and so 
didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Miss D and Mr H disagreed and so the complaint 
was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im not upholding Miss D and Mr Hs 
complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
Miss D and Mr H are unhappy that the outstanding balance on Mr Hs loan increased. I can 
understand why this would be concerning. However, the balance on Mr Hs loan increased 
because there was a period where the reduced payments being made to the loan werent 
enough to cover the monthly interest. As a result, when further interest was added this led to 
the balance increasing. This was especially the case when Mr H (or Miss D) on his behalf 
didnt make any payments at all for a period. Im satisfied that the terms of the agreement did 
permit Everyday Lending to add interest in this way.
That said, I would expect a lender to exercise forbearance and due consideration in 
circumstances where a borrower may be experiencing difficulty. And I can see that Everyday 
Lending made a significant adjustment to Mr Hs account, reducing the balance, once 
payments resumed through the debt management plan in April 2021. So Im satisfied that 
Everyday Lending did react to what it was being told by Mr H and that it didnt act unfairly or 
unreasonably in relation to the outstanding balance. 
I now turn to the communications Miss D and Mr H received. 
Miss D and Mr H are unhappy that Everyday Lending continued sending them letters while 
the account was included in a debt management plan. Ive thought about what Miss D and 
Mr H have said and why they might have found receiving these letters distressing. However, 
having reviewed the notes it looks like the initial debt management plan Mr H tried to set up 
failed. The notes on file suggest that this because Mr H was unhappy with the services of the 
initial debt management company he contacted. As this was the case, the arrears on the 
account continued to accrue.
I think it is also worth me explaining that Everyday Lending was required to keep Mr H (and 
Miss D as his guarantor) updated on the arrears on the account under the terms of the 
agreement. It wouldnt have been fair and reasonable for Everyday Lending to have taken 
steps to bring Mr Hs account up-to-date in circumstances where it hadnt kept him (and  
Miss D) updated about the increasing arrears. 
Furthermore, while I appreciate Mr H and Miss Ds unhappiness at the content and tone of 
the letters  they feel that they were threatening  there is a set format and prescribed 
warnings which all lenders  including Everyday Lending  are required to use when 
notifying borrowers of arrears on an account. Having reviewed the letters, Im satisfied that 
they were in accordance with what Everyday Lending was required to send.
So while Ive thought about what Mr H and Miss D have said about the letters, Im satisfied 
that Everyday Lending didnt act unfairly or unreasonably when sending them.
Overall and having considered everything, I have not been persuaded to uphold Miss D and 
Mr Hs complaint. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Miss D and Mr H  
especially as they appear to have been waiting some time for an answer. But I hope that 
theyll understand the reasons for my decision and at least feel that their concerns have 
been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss D and Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D and Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman