DRN-3674841
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the poor condition of her car when it was returned to her, following its 
repossession, by Creative Finance Corp Ltd trading as Motorkitty (CFCL) 
What happened
In 2018 Mrs S was given a loan by CFCL for £1,000 secured against her car. The car was 
repossessed as Mrs S was having some difficulty in repaying the loan. Mrs S complained 
that the loan shouldnt have been given to her. The complaint was brought to our service and 
one of our ombudsmen upheld her complaint. Part of the ombudsmans final decision 
directed CFCL to return Mrs S car to her and to arrange an affordable suitable repayment 
plan if a balance remained outstanding on the loan. 
Mrs S said when her car was returned to her, she found the following issues with it: 
the battery was dead
writing on her windscreen
rubbish in the car
rusty brake pads and calipers
Mrs S says she replaced the car battery and booked the car into a garage for an inspection, 
where they advised the brake pads and calipers needed to be replaced. Mrs S said she paid 
over £650 on the repairs to her car. Mrs S said that CFCL told her she still owed them a 
balance on the original loan and have placed a finance marker on the car, which she 
believes prevents her from selling it on.
Mrs S said shes lost out financially due to the cost of repairs, and that the situation has 
caused her stress, anxiety and has made her ill. Mrs S says to resolve matters she wants 
CFCL to write off the remaining balance, remove the finance marker and compensate her for 
the repairs carried out on the car.
In December 2021 Mrs S brought her complaint to our service.
CFCL responded to Mrs S complaint advising theyd never driven the car while it was being 
held and said it was taken to an auction housed to await its sale. They advised the worn 
brake pads were not their liability. CFCL however offered to write off the balance if a 
settlement could be arranged.
In an email to our investigator dated 15 June 2022 CFCL confirmed the loan balance was 
written off by them. 
Having considered all of the evidence, our investigator said that CFCL hadnt acted fairly in 
the circumstances. However, as the outstanding balance of the loan was written off and 
there was no evidence of repairs carried out on the car, our investigator recommended that 
CFCL should pay Mrs S £50 compensation for the condition of the cars interior when it was 
returned to her.
CFCL didnt respond to accept or reject our investigators view so the complaint has ben 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Mrs S complaint focusses on four elements:
The condition of the cars interior and windscreen 
The repairs she had carried out to the car
The outstanding balance on the loan 
The finance marker on the car
Ive looked at each point individually in consideration of whether CFCL have acted fairly in 
the circumstances. 
interior of the car and windscreen 
In March 2021 Mrs S provided us with photos showing the state of her cars interior and 
windscreen. The photos show the windscreen had writing on it, rubbish in the passengers 
front seating area and a tyre and other objects in the boot area with the back-passenger 
seats pulled down. Mrs S said she was mortified with the condition. Having considered the 
photos provided Im persuaded Mrs S received the car in that condition when her car was 
returned to her, and Ive no reason to doubt that the condition of the cars interior and 
windscreen was considerably different to when Mrs S had it repossessed. So, in the 
circumstances I think its fair that CFCL compensates Mrs S for this and Im in agreement 
with our investigator that £50 is a fair recognition of the poor condition of the cars interior 
and windscreen when it was returned to Mrs S.
the repairs carried out 
Mrs S said she paid £650 to have the battery replaced, the brake pads and calipers repaired. 
However, Mrs S wasnt able to provide any evidence of this, for example in the form of a 
receipt, job cards or diagnostic reports. So, Im not able to confirm whether there was any 
damage to the car, or what may have caused it. Having considered the car was likely to 
have remained idle following its repossession, I think its fair to say there may have been 
some impact to the car as a result, for example to the battery through lack of use. I havent 
seen any evidence that says CFCL were responsible for the regular maintenance or running 
of the car to ensure it had a level of activity. So, Im not persuaded itd be fair to ask CFCL to 
pay Mrs S £650.outstanding loan balance and finance marker
Mrs S complained that CFCL said she had an outstanding balance to pay and maintained a 
finance marker on her car. In an email to us dated 15 June 2022 CFCL confirmed the 
balance had been written off, they provided screenshots to evidence this and that theyd 
removed the finance marker. In the circumstances Im satisfied with the action taken by 
CFCL and wont be instructing them to do anything further in relation to this part of the 
complaint.
My final decision
To settle the complaint Creative Finance Corp Ltd trading as Motorkitty has already written 
off the outstanding loan balance and removed the fianc marker that was applied. I think this 
is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that in addition to what theyve already done, I instruct Creative Finance 
Corp Ltd trading as Motorkitty to pay £50 compensation to Mrs S, in recognition of the 
inconvenience caused due to the condition of the interior of the car when it was returned to 
her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman