DRN-4054007
The complaint
Mrs P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) failed to make reasonable adjustments 
for her disabilities when dealing with her ISA account. She says HSBC failed to properly 
contact her before it sold shares held within the ISA account and transferred the proceeds to 
a cash ISA. 
Mrs P is being represented in this complaint by her daughter and so I will make reference to 
her whenever appropriate. 
What happened
In November 1994, Mrs P invested in shares held within an ISA wrapper with HSBC. HSBC 
wrote to her in March 2021 to explain that it was no longer accepting investments into this 
ISA. HSBC wrote again to Mrs P in July 2021 to explain that it would be closing this ISA 
product. This letter explained that Mrs P could either apply for a new stocks and shares ISA 
account with HSBC and transfer her holding, transfer the shares into another ISA account or 
instruct them to close the ISA and withdraw the money. It also explained that if Mrs P didnt 
provide an instruction by 2pm on 29 September 2022, it would sell the shares and open an 
HSBC cash ISA, and transfer the proceeds into this.
HSBC sent Mrs P a further two letters explaining the same in August 2022 and September 
2022. However, as Mrs P didnt respond and provide HSBC with any instruction, it wrote to 
her on 6 October 2022 explaining it had sold her shares and would transfer the proceeds 
into her new cash ISA on 17 October 2022.
Mrs Ps daughter has explained that her mother has macular degeneration and dystonia, as 
well as having hearing issues which means she has difficulty using a telephone. In addition 
to this, in December 2022, she was unfortunately diagnosed with Alzheimers disease. Mrs 
Ps daughter has also made us aware that her mother was on the build up to a heart
valve replacement operation at the time. It was around this time that Mrs Ps daughter 
became her mothers lasting power of attorney and also discovered the letters from HSBC. 
Mrs Ps daughter complained to HSBC on her mothers behalf, as she felt HSBC hadnt done 
enough to check her mothers health. She said HSBC was under a legal duty to make 
reasonable adjustments such as using a different form of contact and quoted the Equality 
Act 2010. She also said HSBC ought to have been aware her mother was 93 years old and 
so it could have tried phoning her. Mrs Ps daughter believes her mother would have 
transferred the shares as she holds the same shares in an ISA account with another 
provider.
HSBC considered the complaint but explained that it didnt think it had acted unfairly. It said 
it was unaware of Mrs Ps medical issues and confirmed no power of attorney had been 
registered on the account. If there had been, it said it would have written to Mrs Ps daughter 
instead of Mrs P. Despite it saying no error had been made, HSBC did offer £200 
compensation as a goodwill gesture.
Mrs Ps daughter didnt accept HSBCs answer as Mrs P had made a loss trying to rectify 
HSBCs actions, missed out on a dividend payment, and suffered distress and 
inconvenience as a result. So she referred the complaint to this service for an independent 
review. 
An investigator at this service considered the complaint but didnt think HSBC had acted 
unfairly. In summary, they said:
Only a court can decide whether a firm has breached the Equality Act 2010.
They acknowledged that a firm is required to make reasonable adjustments for those 
with protected characteristics, which includes disability.
HSBC has a policy in place to identify vulnerable consumers, but this requires 
contact with them. As Mrs P hadnt had contact with HSBC for over ten years, it 
wasnt aware of her disabilities. 
They didnt think it was fair or reasonable to expect HSBC to provide reasonable 
adjustments for something it wasnt aware of. 
They were satisfied that HSBC had written to Mrs P to make her sufficiently aware of 
the actions it would take.
HSBC were closing an entire product here and it has confirmed that it had to contact 
thousands of consumers. So they didnt think it was reasonable for HSBC to contact 
those who didnt respond to letters by telephone.
Mrs Ps daughter didnt accept the investigators findings. In summary, she said:
HSBC never made her mother aware of its policy for dealing with vulnerable 
customers. Her mother has never used a computer as her dystonia means she 
cannot effectively use a keyboard. Had she received and read the policy before her 
disabilities began to substantially affect her, Mrs Ps daughter felt her mother could 
have contacted HSBC and told it about her health issues. 
HSBC ought to have contacted her mother regularly to make sure she did not need 
assistance given it was aware of her age. 
The burden should never be on the vulnerable person to make contact and explain 
their difficulties  it is for the service provider to make reasonable enquiries.
It is not enough to give clear repeat information in letters to a person not able to 
understand them or act on them because of their disability.
HSBC was able to make itself aware of her mothers disabilities by reasonable 
enquiry but failed to do so. A call to her would have made HSBC aware of her health 
issues. 
She asked HSBC to tell her how many people took out the ISA and how many people 
did not respond to the correspondence, as she felt these factors were highly relevant 
to determine how reasonable it was for HSBC to call consumers who hadnt 
responded. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs Ps daughter says she feels HSBC has discriminated against her mother 
given the problems she experienced. I can understand why she feels this way but having 
looked at all the evidence I dont think HSBC has done so. Nor do I think HSBC has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably. I hope that it helps Mrs P and her daughter to know that someone impartial and independent has looked into their concerns.
Its not our role to say whether a business has acted unlawfully or not  thats a matter for 
the Courts. Our role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. In order 
to decide that, we have to take a number of things into account including relevant law and 
what we consider to have been good industry practice at the time. So although its for the 
Courts to say whether or not HSBC has breached the Equality Act 2010, were required to 
take this act into account, if its relevant, amongst other things when deciding what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
The Equality Act 2010 says that businesses have a duty to make reasonable adjustments for 
customers who are placed at a substantial disadvantage due to their disability. However, in 
law, HSBC is only required to make adjustments which are reasonable, and ones that dont 
fundamentally alter the nature of its service. Thats relevant law and Ive taken it into account 
when reaching my decision.
I can see that Mrs Ps daughter has told our service that her mother is registered disabled. 
But HSBC has said Mrs P never made it aware of this until December 2022 when the 
complaint was raised. I understand Mrs P only ever held a savings account with HSBC, in 
addition to the ISA in question. And that this savings account was closed around ten years 
ago. HSBC says it had no direct contact with Mrs P during this time. I appreciate Mrs Ps 
daughter says she expected HSBC to contact her mother more regularly, especially 
considering her age. However, I dont agree. I say this as HSBC hasnt had any banking or 
advisory relationship for it to need to contact Mrs P regularly and so it hasnt had an 
opportunity to identify Mrs Ps vulnerabilities. So I dont think it would be fair for HSBC to be 
expected to make any reasonable adjustments when it wasnt aware of the need to do so. I 
appreciate Mrs Ps daughter thinks the onus should be on the firm to reach out and that the 
burden should never be on the vulnerable person to do so. Whilst I agree that under the 
Equality Act 2010, HSBC has an anticipatory duty which means it needs to make sure that it 
foresees barriers before they cause a problem for consumers, this relies upon HSBC being 
aware of a consumers disability in order for it to anticipate any barriers. And in Mrs Ps case 
Im satisfied HSBC wasnt provided with any information regarding her disabilities to 
understand the barriers she faced and the reasons why it was required to depart from its 
usual course of business.
HSBC sent several letters giving Mrs P notice of the changes it was introducing and allowing 
her time to give an instruction. As it had no knowledge of Mrs Ps need for reasonable 
adjustments, I dont think it needed to do anything more. I appreciate Mrs Ps daughter feels 
HSBC ought to have called Mrs P when it hadnt received an instruction form her. However, I 
dont think it would have been reasonable for HSBC to do so. Not only because of the 
potential volume of consumers it may have needed to contact by telephone, as the 
investigator alluded to. But fundamentally because HSBC wasnt aware of Mrs Ps 
disabilities. HSBC had given several options to Mrs P, which included not responding to the 
letter and having the proceeds of the share sales transferred to a cash ISA. HSBC had no 
indication of Mrs Ps investment intentions and so I think it was entirely feasible for HSBC to 
conclude that Mrs P was happy to have her shares sold and the proceeds be transferred to a 
cash ISA. I think it would possibly be a different scenario had HSBC not given this option. 
Taking into account all of the above, I cant fairly conclude that HSBC has treated Mrs P 
unfairly. I acknowledge that HSBC has made Mrs P a goodwill gesture offer of £200 and so if 
she wants to accept this she would need to contact HSBC directly. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman