DRN-3204974
The complaint
Miss R complained her claim was unfairly declined under her home insurance policy with 
AXA Insurance UK plc (AXA).  
What happened
Miss R made a claim on her policy. Miss R said a roof tile on her home had become 
dislodged. She wasnt sure when it happened, but she said due to the heavy rainfall, water 
had penetrated the bedroom ceiling and caused damage by cracking the plaster work and 
damaging the bedroom carpet. She thought the recent storm conditions had caused the 
damage.
AXA requested that Miss R provide reports on the damage from her local contractors. AXA 
said the weather conditions didnt support storm conditions were present around the time the 
damage was identified. AXA reviewed reports provided by Miss Rs local contractors. AXA 
said the reports highlighted that there were signs the nails that held the roof tiles in place 
had come to the end of their lifespan. AXA said the policy doesnt cover damage caused by 
wear and tear, gradual causes or maintenance related issues. So, based on its review of the 
evidence AXA declined the claim.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She said she didnt think the storm was 
the main cause of the damage, she thought it merely highlighted a problem with the roof that 
was already present. She also didnt think the claim was covered by other parts of the policy. 
Miss R disagreed, so the complaint has been referred to an ombudsman.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 9 November 2021. I said:
Miss R thought her damage was storm related, so I have reviewed the complaint on this 
basis. When our service looks at a storm claim complaint, there are three questions to 
consider: 
1.    Do I agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I will use this structure to work through the complaint. Im likely to uphold the complaint if the 
answer to all three is yes. If the answer to one of the questions is no, Im unlikely to uphold 
the complaint.
1. Do I agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened? 
AXA declined the claim as it said there werent storm conditions at the time of the incident. 
AXA said the weather conditions recorded around the time of loss do not meet the criteria 
reported in the policy. We did however allow for you to supply a report for consideration, 
however, [it] appears based on the comments above and weather conditions reported, the 
incident is not due to a one-off event of storm damage.
AXA said the policy has a definition of storm conditions. AXA said the policy definition of a 
storm is a period of violent weather with wind speeds of at least 55mph, or rainfall of at least 
25mm per hour, or snowfall of at least 30cm in 24 hours, or hail of such intensity that it 
damages hard surfaces or breaks glass.
AXA said, the highest wind speed recorded in your area around the time of loss was on the 
27th December 2020 which was 50mph.
I have checked our own weather reports and have seen that gusts were recorded at 57mph 
on 27 December 2020. Given this is consistent with AXAs definition of a storm, I think AXA 
has been unfair to say a storm didnt happen around the time of the reported incident. So, as 
the answer to this question is yes, Im going to consider the next question.
2. Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
It wouldnt be unusual to expect some roof tiles to become dislodged during a storm, so yes, 
I would say the damage is consistent with what a storm typically causes. 
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
AXA decided not to send its own contractor to review the damage caused by the storm, but 
instead chose to rely on the evidence provided by Miss Rs local contractors.
AXA said, comments from your own trades confirm the nails were worn which is otherwise 
known as nail fatigue. This is a sign that the nails have come to the end of their lifespan, 
perhaps due to natural weathering over a long period of time. Unfortunately, the policy does 
not cover you for wear and tear, gradual causes or maintenance related issues.
No photos have been provided of the damage, so Im reliant on the reports provided by the 
local contractors. I have reviewed what the reports showed.
Miss Rs own contractor said [the] roof was inspected, and the cause of problem is that two 
roof tiles have become displaced due to the supporting nails becoming loose and slightly 
worn and causing [a] slight split to the membrane. Tiles are intact and just need to be 
manoeuvred back in place and secured to ensure that they do not lift again. Probable cause 
for the tiles to have become displaced is due to high winds getting underneath and lifting the 
tiles. Roof is in average condition due to the age of the property and upon inspection seems 
to be no evidence of any further problems and flashing and grouting around chimney breast 
is also intact.
A second contractor also inspected the damage and said I attended the property and 
inspected the roof for emergency repair. Upon inspection of the roof it was apparent that two 
roof tiles had become dislodged and had slipped leaving part of the roof open to the 
elements. Tiles had only slipped and both tiles were undamaged and just need to be put 
back in place and secured with new nails and clips if required. Reason for tiles slipping was 
probably due to windy conditions and corrosion of nails. In order to rectify the problem, tiles 
need to be placed back in situ with new nails as it would appear there is some corrosion to 
the old nails due to the age of the roof. Following a brief inspection, it would appear there is 
no further weakness/loosening of any of the surrounding tiles and the rest of the roof is 
intact. Roof is in average/good condition considering the age of the property.
AXA declined the claim as it didnt think there were storm conditions at the time of the 
incident, and it said the policy didnt cover Miss R for either maintenance related issues or 
gradual operating / wear and tear issues.Ive already said storm conditions were present at the time of the reported incident and these 
would be enough to have caused damage consistent with a storm. Both reports stated windy 
conditions is likely to have been a factor in causing the damage. I think this is likely due to 
the storm, however, I need to decide if I think this was the main cause of damage. If I think 
the storm was the main cause of the damage Im likely to uphold the complaint. If not, then 
Im likely to not uphold the complaint.
As the storm has been evidenced, AXA are now relying on the exclusion clause within its 
policy to decline the claim. Its AXAs responsibility to provide robust evidence there was a 
different significant cause other than the storm that caused the damage. AXA has used the 
contractors reports to argue that the nails supporting the tiles had come to the end of their 
lifespan, which then caused them to come loose and lift in the wind.
I dont find the evidence provided by the contractors to be persuasive as I think there are 
contradictions in the report and there is no photographic evidence to support what theyve 
said. Neither contractor thought the roof was in generally poor condition, one used the term 
average condition and the other said average/good condition. I think if fatigued nails 
was the main reason for the damage, I wouldve expected the contractors to have spotted 
other wear and tear issues with the roof.
Therefore, I intend to uphold this complaint, as I dont think the evidence AXA has relied on 
to support its use of the exclusion clause is reliable or persuasive. I think if AXA did want to 
rely on the exclusion clause, it would need to provide more robust evidence, which ideally 
would be supported by photographic evidence. As Im not convinced by the evidence 
supporting wear and tear, I think its most likely that the storm was the main cause and a 
significant factor in disturbing the tiles on the roof. This led to rainwater entering the house 
and causing the damage. As I have answered yes to all three questions, I intend to uphold 
this complaint. So, I dont think AXA has been fair in declining the claim, I dont think it has 
provided robust evidence to support its decision.
I intend for AXA to settle Miss Rs claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy. For the delay in settling her claim, I intend AXA to pay Miss R £150 for the distress 
and inconvenience it has caused her. The delay will have meant her house was left in an 
unsatisfactory state for longer than it needed to be.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss R accepted my findings and didnt have anything more to add.
AXA didnt reply to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. For the reasons I have given I intend AXA 
Insurance UK plc to:Settle Miss Rs claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy
Pay Miss R £150 compensation  for the distress and inconvenience the delay has 
caused
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman