DRN-3308179
The complaint
Mr H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as First Direct have applied a less 
favourable exchange rate to funds being transferred into his account from an account 
abroad. 
What happened
Mr H says he was dealing with his late mothers estate which was abroad; and so it was 
necessary for him to deal with her bank in that country.
Mr H says he asked the bank abroad to transfer funds as settlement of his late mothers 
estate directly to his sole account with First Direct. 
Mr H says the bank abroad quoted what the source funds would be. And using the standard 
mid-market bank rate listed on a financial website he worked out the exchange rate was 
0.559166 when the transaction occurred on 16 April. Mr H says when First Direct applied the 
exchange rate on 16 April there was a difference of over £800. So the amount received was 
less than expected because the exchange rate First Direct used differed to that which Mr H 
had seen on the financial website. 
Mr H wasnt happy and so complained to First Direct. First Direct said the rate applied is a 
live rate provided by HSBC Treasury at the time it received the payment from the 
international bank, and as such it has no control over adjusting it. It said a margin is also 
applied to payments. First Direct said it is able to provide an indication of the likely costs of a 
transfer to customers before transfers are arranged. 
Mr H wasnt happy with the response. He says he has lost over £800 from his mothers 
estate. Mr H wants First Direct to apply the standard exchange rate as he did and refund him 
the £800. Mr H also believes the rate used by First Direct is unfair and, given the size of the 
transaction, it should have contacted him so he could have made an informed decision. So 
he referred his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into things for him and didnt uphold the complaint. She said the rate 
Mr H had seen was an interbank mid-rate which isnt offered to customers. She said Mr H 
didnt check the likely cost with First Direct prior to making the transfer and so she was 
unable to hold it responsible. 
Mr H wasnt happy with the response received. And so the complaint has been referred to 
me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding the complaint. Ive focused my comments on what I think 
is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific point its because I dont think it affects 
the outcome. But I want to assure Mr H I have considered the points he raised together with 
the information I have been provided.
I think its perfectly understandable that when someone is transferring money from overseas 
they want to minimise the cost of that by achieving the best possible exchange rate and 
reducing or avoiding any fees involved. So Ive got sympathy for the situation Mr H finds 
himself in. But what I have to decide is whether the higher costs he ended up paying was 
because of anything First Direct have done wrong. And from what Ive seen I dont think it 
was. 
I appreciate Mr H is unhappy with the amount he received following the transfer from his 
mothers account. I can understand why that is. But the account website says that where a 
payment is received the bank will convert it into sterling using the first direct exchange rate 
at the time the cash is received. Thats what happened here. I appreciate the rate may be 
different to what might have been available from other banks or the wider market. But First 
Direct is entitled to make its own decision about what rate to set. 
Mr H has said he believed First Direct would offer a market-competitive rate. The account 
terms state, the most up-to-date First Direct Exchange Rate. It doesnt appear Mr H had 
any contact with First Direct before making the transfer. First Direct have said it would have 
given Mr H an indication of the likely cost if he had asked before making the transfer. But 
theres no requirement for First Direct to contact a customer in these circumstances, to say 
what rate it will use and what the costs will be.
So for the reasons explained I dont think First Direct has done anything wrong here. Im 
sorry to bring Mr H what I know will be disappointing news. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman