DRN-3286278
The complaint
J complained about the customer service provided by Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) 
and about the subsequent closure of their business bank account. 
What happened
J, a limited company, had a business bank account with Barclays. On 29 October 2020 J 
had a telephone conversation with a Barclays relationship manager about additional 
borrowing. J raised a complaint during the phone call, as they were unhappy with how they 
were spoken to.  
Barclays sent J a letter on 19 November 2020 informing them that it was closing their 
business bank account, effective from 18 January 2021. 
Barclays responded to Js complaint on 4 January 2021. Barclays agreed that the 
vocabulary used by the relationship manager was not professional and it understood why 
this caused offence. It offered £100 compensation to acknowledge the upset caused. 
Barclays also said it was required, as a responsible lender, to ask questions and gather 
further information where necessary. 
Barclays closed Js business bank account on 18 January 2021.  
J phoned Barclays on 19 January 2021 as they said they were unable to access online 
banking. They then raised a complaint about the account being closed and about not 
receiving the closure letter sent in November 2020.  
Barclays responded to the second complaint on 24 February 2021. It said the service 
received during the phone call made on 19 January 2021 could have been better and offered 
£75 by way of an apology. Barclays said the decision to close the account was carefully 
considered using a strict internal review process. So, it said it acted fairly in closing the 
account and followed the correct process in communicating the closure to J. 
J brought the complaint to this service, but our investigator didnt uphold it. He thought 
Barclays acted in line with its terms and conditions when it closed the account, and that the 
£175 compensation already offered was fair. 
J didnt agree with what our investigator said and so this has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding this complaint.
When J first complained to Barclays in October 2020 it was in relation to how an employee 
was spoken to during a conversation about a request for additional borrowing. The employee 
was offended by the tone of the questioning by the relationship manager. Barclays made the 
decision in November 2020 to close Js account, and J later complained about this and 
about the service provided by Barclays at that stage. So, Ive looked in turn at the service 
provided and the account closure.  
Service provided during the phone calls in October 2020 and January 2021. 
Ive listened to the phone call between the J employee and Barclays in October 2020. My 
thoughts are that while the relationship manager was speaking quite bluntly, he has 
otherwise behaved professionally. And I can see that Barclays awarded compensation 
because it thought the relationship manager could have been more diplomatic and chosen 
his words more carefully and it awarded £100 compensation for the distress caused to the J 
employee. 
I havent listened to any of the calls made in January 2021 and Im satisfied that I dont need 
to. The issues here are about the difficulty J had in getting through to Barclays when they 
wanted to discuss their account being closed  so one phone call was cut off and J was 
advised to call an incorrect number. Barclays awarded £75 by way of an apology for the 
frustration caused.     
J thinks significantly more compensation should be offered, in particular in relation to the 
October 2020 phone call. However, its important to note that this service does not award 
compensation for distress to limited companies. And this complaint has been brought by J, a 
limited company. Even if it was the case that the service provided by a business fell short of 
its own standards and so caused some distress, that distress would have been experienced 
by an individual and not the limited company. The limited company is a separate legal entity, 
which cannot experience distress. What this means in relation to Js complaint is that I am 
unable to award compensation in this regard. 
Account closure 
I understand why J were unhappy that the account was closed. But either J or Barclays are 
allowed to end the business relationship. Whats required from Barclays is that they end the 
agreement in line with the terms and conditions of the account. In this case the terms say: 
We can close an account (and stop providing any services and end this agreement) by 
giving you at least two months notice. Any benefit or services linked to your account will 
stop at the same time.
So, Ive looked at whether Barclays ended the agreement in line with the terms and 
conditions. 
I can see the account closure letter was sent to Js accountants address, which was the 
address provided by J to Barclays. So Im satisfied it was correctly addressed and sent. I 
know that J said they didnt get the letter, but Barclays are only responsible for ensuring it is 
correctly sent out. It isnt responsible for what happens to it once its with the postal service. 
The letter gave the correct amount of notice (2 months) and also provided J with details of 
what steps they might want to take prior to the account closing. 
I understand that it must have been frustrating to have the account closed without knowing 
exactly why it was happening. But, as I said, Barclays is allowed to close the account as long 
as the closure happens in line with the terms and conditions, and Im satisfied that it did. It 
isnt required to provide a reason for closing the account. My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman