DRN-2910140
The complaint
Ms W complains that Zopa Limited (Zopa) has been sending her automated emails despite 
her request that it shouldnt do so. 
What happened
Ms W complained to Zopa that despite her request to the contrary, it was sending her 
automated emails and she wanted this to stop. She made particular reference to two emails, 
one dated 4 June 2021 and one dated 6 June 2021.
Zopa responded to Ms Ws complaint and explained that it had to send her emails on 
occasions and the two emails dated 4 June 2021 and 6 June 2021 werent spam. It also 
explained that it couldnt guarantee that she wouldnt receive emails in the future, especially 
where there was a requirement on its part to send them.
Unhappy with Zopas response, Ms W referred her complaint to our service for investigation.
Ms Ws complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded that it shouldnt 
be upheld. In summary she said Zopa had acted entirely reasonably in sending the emails it 
had, in particular the two dated 4 June 2021 and 6 June 2021.
Ms W didnt agree and so her complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I can confirm that Ive come to the same overall conclusion as the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons. There is also very little I can usefully add to 
what has already been said.
For the avoidance of doubt, I would also add that Im only addressing in this decision Ms Ws 
complaint about Zopas decision to send what she views as spam or unwarranted emails.
I would also like to point out Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Like the investigator Ive considered the emails sent by Zopa, in particular the two dated 
4 June 2021 and 6 June 2021. And having done so, Im satisfied that they were all 
necessary and were all sent in good faith. I certainly wouldnt view them as spam or 
unwarranted. Im also satisfied that by sending these emails Zopa hasnt breached any of its 
regulatory obligations. 
Therefore, Im not persuaded that Zopa has done anything wrong in this case and I make no 
award or direction against it.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman