DRN-2608813
The complaint
Mr B complains that Standard Life Assurance Limited (SL) hasnt properly reimbursed him 
for costs incurred in connection with his pension policy reinstatement.
What happened
Mr B arranged to take his SL pension benefits in 2012. But he changed his mind within the 
cancellation period, and the policy was eventually reinstated. There were issues around the 
reinstatement, and this didnt happen until 2016. 
Mr B said hed incurred postage and phone costs trying to get the policy reinstated. SL 
accepted it was at fault and paid Mr B £600 to cover his costs and in recognition of the 
inconvenience caused. 
Mr B said the compensation covered costs incurred from 2013 onwards. He said hed also 
incurred significant costs trying to persuade SL that hed properly cancelled his instructions 
in 2012. Mr B said SL should pay a further £297.36 to cover those costs. 
SL said Mr B had accepted the compensation paid in 2016 in settlement of his complaint. It 
said the compensation covered all his costs and it wasnt willing to pay any more. Mr B was 
unhappy with SLs response so he referred the matter to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. She said that for the 
period Mr B was claiming for in 2012, most of his correspondence with SL was about settling 
his pension benefits. She said we wouldnt usually ask a business to cover costs associated 
with arranging benefits. The investigator didnt think there was enough evidence to show 
there had been the level of contact between Mr B and SL to incur the costs hed claimed.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. He said hed had difficulty persuading 
SL that hed cancelled his instructions within the cooling off period, and this was why hed 
been in regular contact with the business. As such, he considered it was reasonable for SL 
to cover the costs hed incurred between March and May 2012. He asked for his complaint 
to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr B says the £600 compensation paid by SL in 2016 covered the costs hed incurred from 
2013 onwards. He considers SL should also cover his costs for the period March to May 
2012 - which he says are £168.86 for mobile phone calls and £128.50 for postage.
The investigator asked SL for a breakdown of the costs that the £600 payment made in 2016 
had covered. 
SL explained that Mr B had claimed £420 to cover postage and phone calls. Hed said this 
included 11 special delivery letters, 61 first class letters and 42 second class letters. 
SLs records of contact from Mr B didnt show this level of correspondence. It accepted it 
was possible that some correspondence may have been misplaced, but it thought it was 
unlikely that it wouldnt have a record of over one hundred letters. 
SL also thought it was possible that some of the postage and calls Mr B had claimed for 
were to his bank and Royal Mail. 
SL accepted Mr B had incurred some costs, but it didnt think these were at the level hed 
claimed for. It said £250 of the £600 paid was to cover his expenses, and the remaining 
£350 was for the trouble and upset caused.
SL told Mr B about the compensation payment in September 2016. Its covering email didnt 
provide a specific breakdown of how the payment was allocated between costs and trouble 
and upset. But I think the email was clear enough to make Mr B aware that the payment 
covered both. 
To quote from SLs email, it said the following:
I fully appreciate the additional time and, in particular, the costs youve incurred to get your 
plan re-instated and settled. To say sorry for the upset weve caused you Ive paid £600.00 
to you today.
Mr B replied to SLs email to show his acceptance of the payment. He said the following:
Thank you for your email. I appreciate your gesture of the £600. I am very grateful to you for 
resolving this matter. Thanks again for your help.
So Mr B accepted SLs offer, with no indication that there were still matters outstanding 
which needed to be addressed. If there were, the appropriate point at which to raise them 
was before Mr B accepted the offer made by SL. I dont think its reasonable or fair to SL to 
accept an offer made and to then claim for further costs.
However, whilst the above alone might in my view warrant the dismissal of the complaint, 
Ive in any case thought about what SL has said about the payment breakdown in the 
context of the additional costs Mr B is now claiming for. I accept that Mr B was in contact 
with SL when he cancelled his instructions in 2012. But it seems some of that contact was by 
email, as well as letter and phone.
From what Ive seen, on balance I dont think the available evidence supports the position 
that the costs Mr B is claiming for are representative of the contact he had with SL. 
And Im satisfied that the £250 already paid by SL (within its overall payment of £600) is 
enough to cover any costs he incurred between March and May 2012. So I wont be asking it 
to pay anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman