DRN-2951391
The complaint
Mr B has complained to Broadgate Financial Management LLP (Broadgate) about advice 
he received to transfer out of the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal 
pension plan.  
Mr B is being assisted with his complaint by a professional representative.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Bs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved pension benefits, which 
included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined 
benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively members were informed they could transfer their 
benefits to a private pension arrangement.
Mr B was unsure what he should do so he contacted Broadgate for advice. After initially 
meeting with Broadgate, Mr B was referred to another firm, Ill refer to this firm as Firm B. 
This was because Broadgate didnt have the necessary permissions to advise Mr B on the 
pension transfer. 
After receiving advice from Firm B, Mr B transferred his BSPS benefits to a personal pension 
so he could access his tax free cash and use this to repay his mortgage, thereby reducing 
his monthly outgoings. The agency for the personal pension was then switched to Broadgate 
for it to provide ongoing servicing of the personal pension. 
In December 2019, Mr B with assistance from his representative, complained to Broadgate 
about the advice he had received to transfer his pension. Broadgate rejected the complaint 
as it said it hadnt given Mr B advice to transfer his pension. 
Mr B referred his complaint against Broadgate to our service. He also referred a complaint 
against Firm B. Mr Bs representative provided detailed submissions to this service, setting 
out why Broadgate is jointly responsible for the advice Mr B received to transfer his pension. 
In summary, Mr Bs representative has said that Broadgate is responsible because not only 
did it give advice to Mr B. it also had regulatory duties which meant it had to treat Mr B fairly 
and have due regard for his best interests. And its evident that Broadgate and Firm B 
worked closely together on the basis of an understanding which amounted to a joint venture. 
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators but they concluded that Broadgate 
wasnt responsible for the advice given to Mr B to transfer his pensions. So they didnt 
uphold the complaint. 
Mr B has asked for the matter for be referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B is unhappy that he was advised to transfer his benefits out of the BSPS. Its clear from 
the paperwork on file that Firm B gave Mr B that advice. Firm B had the relevant permissions 
to complete this transfer. The BSPS wouldnt have allowed the transfer to proceed if the 
request hadnt come from a firm with the correct permissions. So, in the case of Mr B, the 
transfer wouldnt have gone ahead without Firm Bs involvement. A decision has already 
been issued by this service upholding Mr Bs complaint against Firm B. This decision only 
relates to the complaint against Broadgate.
Although Firm B is responsible for the pension transfer advice, I have considered whether 
Broadgate should also be held accountable for the advice given to Mr B to transfer out of the 
BSPS.  
It seems that Mr B understood that he was being referred to another firm for the pension 
transfer advice as Broadgate didnt have the qualifications to provide this advice. So I think 
he understood the advice he received to transfer his pension came from Firm B. 
But Mr B says Broadgate gave him verbal advice to transfer. Its difficult for me to say with 
certainty what was discussed at the meetings with Broadgate as they werent recorded. So 
looking at the paperwork completed at the time, I can see that a fact find was completed with 
Broadgate before being referred to Firm B. The fact find noted that Mr B was concerned 
about his pension and changes happening with his employer. It also noted that Mr B was 
struggling financially having seen his income reduce and that he wanted to pay off his 
mortgage. Ive also seen the referral email to Firm B that suggests transferring was the best 
thing for Mr B to do because of his financial situation. So I dont doubt Mr Bs version of what 
hes said he was told by Broadgate, prior to the referral to Firm B. 
Broadgate was hoping to provide Mr B with ongoing advice, should the transfer go ahead. 
So I think its likely that it would have hoped that Mr B would transfer and may have spoken 
positively about the benefits of transferring his pension. But in my view, none of Broadgates 
interactions with Mr B in this regard ultimately caused the potential losses he may have 
suffered. 
Firm B gave Mr B the advice to transfer and without its involvement the transfer wouldnt 
have gone ahead. It was Firm Bs responsibly to ensure the transfer was in Mr Bs best 
interest before recommending that Mr B take such action. And as Ive said above, it has 
already been determined that Firm Bs advice to Mr B was unsuitable. 
Mr Bs representative has said that even if Broadgate didnt give advice, its still liable for this 
matter. It says this because it considers there was a joint venture between the two firms. Its 
referenced a previous decision issued by this service and a court case, which it considers 
supports its argument that Broadgate should be held jointly liable for advice provided by Firm 
B.  
However, this service decides each case on its own particular facts and merits. So the right 
outcome in one case may not be the right outcome in another as individual circumstances 
can vary so much. And whilst I must have regard for the law, the decision I come to on what 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, may be different to what a 
court would decide. So in deciding this complaint, Im only considering the individual facts 
and merits relating to Mr Bs dealings with Broadgate. 
Mr Bs representative also says Broadgate breached its regulatory obligations to treat Mr B 
fairly and have due regard to his best interests when dealing with Firm B. But Broadgate 
didnt have the required permissions to give advice on a pension transfer, so it couldnt be expected to advise Mr B not to transfer. When a firm doesnt have the right permissions or 
qualifications, its generally considered acceptable to refer clients to a firm that does. 
Mr Bs representative says that it represents a large number of clients that transferred away 
from the BSPS after Broadgate referred them to Firm B. However, even if this was the case, 
I think on balance its more likely Broadgate referred customers to Firm B on the 
understanding that it would provide suitable advice, rather than on the premise that Firm B 
would recommend a transfer whether it was suitable or not. 
Its not reasonable to expect a firm who doesnt have permission or qualifications to provide 
pension transfer advice, to be able to identify whether advice given by a firm who does have 
those permissions was unsuitable. I think Broadgate were allowed to rely on Firm B, who 
was regulated, had the relevant permissions and advisers with the necessary qualifications, 
to provide suitable advice.
It was ultimately Firm Bs obligation to provide Mr B with independent and suitable advice. 
And if it wasnt suitable for Mr B to transfer, Firm B - as the expert in this field  ought to 
have clearly told him. And had it done so and provided reasons why, I dont think any 
previous discussions with Broadgate would have likely made Mr B go against Firm Bs 
advice. Particularly as Mr B understood that the advice he was receiving to transfer was 
coming from Firm B. 
In summary, I think it was Firm Bs advice that caused Mr B to transfer and that its fully 
responsible for any losses Mr B may have suffered, if the advice was unsuitable. I dont think 
any loss Mr B may have suffered as a result of transferring away from the BSPS was caused 
by Broadgate. So I dont consider it fair or reasonable to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons, Ive explained above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman