DRN-3809354
The complaint
Mr C is complaining about the way HSBC UK Bank Plc handled an international bank 
transfer.
What happened
The facts of this complaint are well known to all parties so I wont set them out in detail. But, 
in summary, Mr C is complaining that he lost out because of delays HSBC caused in 
transferring money to his sister overseas. HSBC raised a fraud dispute on the payment 
which put the transfer on hold. HSBC subsequently cancelled the transfer. Mr C later called 
HSBC to query what was happening. He says HSBC advised him it would try to process the 
payment manually. HSBC ultimately sent the payment again, but took around 40 days to 
return the original payment. Mr C says he spoke to HSBC numerous times during this time 
and was unhappy that, owing to currency fluctuations, he received back less than he paid 
out. He said he was also looking for compensation for the loss in opportunity he had to 
invest that money as he said he could have invested it in a portfolio. He estimated his loss to 
be around £208. 
HSBC acknowledged it caused delays in returning the money and it paid him £250 in 
compensation and said it would cover the currency fluctuation loss. But it said there wasnt 
anything to show Mr W would have invested the funds in a portfolio. 
Our investigator thought HSBCs offer was fair. She thought HSBC had fairly compensated 
him for the financial losses hed suffered and that £250 was fair compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience it had caused. But she wasnt persuaded Mr C would have 
invested the money in something else at that time.
Mr C didnt agree with the investigators opinion. He maintained HSBC are wholly 
responsible for his loss of opportunity and he said he would have put the money into his 
investment account. He also wanted HSBC to tell him what went wrong and explain why it 
took so long to resolve this matter.
As Mr C didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC has acknowledged that it didnt handle the transfer in the way Mr C was reasonably 
entitled to expect it to do so and Mr C has lost out as a result. I note Mr C wants HSBC and 
this service to explain what went wrong, but thats not this services role. Our role is to 
assess whether something has gone wrong and, if so, whether the business has taken fair 
steps to put things right. As all parties accept what went wrong, Im not going to comment on 
this any further. The issue for me to decide is whether I think HSBCs compensation offer is 
fair. I think it is and Ill now explain why.
HSBC has agreed to refund Mr Cs loss arising from the currency fluctuation and pay Mr C 
£250 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused him. Mr C 
has accepted this offer, but for the avoidance of doubt, I also think its fair. The issue for me 
to decide is whether I think HSBC should compensate Mr C for his alleged loss of 
opportunity. I dont think it needs to.
Mr C says he would have put the money HSBC should have refunded into his investment 
account and wants HSBC to pay the rate of return he would have received during that time. 
But for me to require HSBC to do so, Id need to be satisfied he would have transferred the 
money into the account the day that HSBC first debited it into his account, but I havent seen 
anything to support this. 
Ive reviewed the account in question and I can see Mr C received a number of sizeable 
receipts of money in the six months prior to him transferring money to his sister, but he 
hadnt transferred any money out of the account during that time. I understand the receipts 
were inheritance money and Mr C was transferring the inheritance to his sister at the time in 
question. I can see he did make a number of transfers at that time  both to his sister and to 
his investment account, but there was still sufficient funds to transfer further money to his 
investment account had he wanted to do so  i.e. he could have mitigated his losses if he 
was concerned about a loss of opportunity. Im also conscious Mr C didnt transfer the 
money out as soon as he received the money back from HSBC.  
Ultimately, Im not persuaded Ive seen enough for me to say that its more likely than not he 
would have transferred the money HSBC had into his investment account at an earlier date 
had HSBC refunded it sooner. So I dont think I can reasonably say that hes lost out by 
more than what HSBC has already compensated him for.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint as 
Im satisfied HSBC UK Bank Plc has already paid Mr C fair compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman