DRN-1104220
 
The complaint
Mr D complains that AWP P&C S.A wont refund a proportion of the policy premium for his 
travel insurance policy.
Mr D will see that my decision is about a different business to the ones hes been dealing 
with and to which our investigator has referred to in correspondence. Those businesses 
were acting as AWPs agents for handling premium refunds. My references to AWP in this 
decision include its agents. The change of business hasnt affected the outcome of my 
decision.
What happened
In February 2019 Mr D bought a travel insurance policy for 12 months as hed planned to go 
to another country for about a year. The policy insurer was AWP.
Mr D travelled to that country but returned after about three months. He wanted to cancel the 
policy and get a premium refund for the remaining policy period. He said AWP no longer had 
any liability under the policy and hed made no claims on the policy. Mr D also said that if he 
cancelled motor or home insurance he would get a proportionate refund of the premium and 
travel insurance wasnt any different.
AWP refused to refund any part of the premium. It said travel insurance was a different 
product to the types of insurance Mr D mentioned and as he hadnt cancelled the policy 
within the 14 days period cooling off period detailed in the policy terms no refund was 
available. It also said the policy remained valid for other trips for the remainder of the policy 
year.
Our investigator thought AWP had acted fairly.
Mr D disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold this complaint. I have to decide whether AWP acted fairly in not refunding any 
of the policy premium to Mr D, and I think it did. Ill explain why.
The policy says:
Cancellation Rights: Your cooling off period
If your cover does not meet your requirements, please notify (AWPs agent) within 14 days 
of receiving your policy for a refund of your premium. Any premium already paid will be 
refunded to you providing you have not travelled, no claim has been made or is intended to be made and no incident likely to give rise to a claim has occurred. Please note that your 
cancellation rights are no longer valid after this initial 14-day period.
The information is in the policy under the heading Important Information and its sufficiently 
highlighted. The policy is clear that AWP only intended to give a premium refund if the policy 
was cancelled within the 14 days period and no trip or claim had been made. Mr D wanted to 
cancel the policy after the 14 days and after hed travelled so AWP didnt need to give a 
refund.
I havent seen Mr Ds policy schedule so I cant be certain if he had a single trip policy or 
multi trip annual policy. But that doesnt make a difference to my decision. If it was a single 
trip policy the policy also says If you end your trip early for any reason, there is no refund for 
any unused part of your policy so its again clear no refund is available. 
If it was a multi trip policy, as suggested by AWPs comments that Mr D could use the policy 
cover for other trips, AWP can still fairly not refund any premium. Mr D compares his travel 
insurance to car or home insurance. I take into account the type of policy being cancelled 
when deciding whats fair and reasonable. I dont think travel insurance is the same as car or 
home insurance. The policy types operate very differently. With the latter two theres a fairly 
consistent spread of risk over a year. With an annual multi trip travel policy its possible that 
a policyholder would take no trips that year and an insurer would still be able to charge for 
the annual policy.
An annual multi trip travel policy carries risk where a holiday is booked and runs for the 
period before the holiday (risk of cancellation) and then on holiday (the full risk of the policy 
up to the limits). Mr D had taken one holiday before he wanted to cancel the policy so AWP 
had carried the risk of cancellation and the holiday.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman