The complaint
Mrs M complained that shes unhappy Harvey & Thompson Limited (H&T) provided her with 
a loan knowing she was in financial difficulty. 
What happened
H&T has sent to us an acknowledgement letter dated 11 July 2019 in which it refers to 
Mrs Ms complaint received from her by email on 8 July 2019. The final response letter 
followed dated 5 August 2019 which related to a loan agreement which had been defaulted 
and showed negatively on her credit file. 
Having had the complaint referred to this service, we wrote to H&T and summarised Mrs Ms 
complaint as: Mrs M feels the loans have mis-sold to her and that they shouldve know she 
was in financial difficulty. And they didnt advise her that a default would be recorded on 
credit file, so its been done unfairly.
H&T sent its file of documents for us to investigate. A brief loan table is set out here based 
on the statements of account we have received from H&T. Its clear that Loan 2 was used to 
repay a large proportion of Loan 1. And Loan 3 was used to repay a large amount of Loan 2. 
Loan Date 
approvedApproved 
amount  
principal 
sumNet amount 
received by 
Mrs MAmount rolled 
to next loan 
(rounded 
figures) Outstanding 
sum 
1 4 November 
2016£600 £600 £623 £0
2. 7 April 2017 £750 £127 £744 £0
3. 24 August 
2017£1,244 £500 Last loan in the 
chainExact figure 
unknown
Mrs M signed a direct debit mandate on 4 November 2016. 
The statements of account from H&T end at April 2020 and so we do not know the 
up-to-date position. Mrs M has been paying £10 a month since June 2018 and in a recent 
telephone call (17 December 2020) with one of our adjudicators  which I have listened to  
Mrs M repeats that she has been paying the £10 each month.
The principal sums given to Mrs M appear to have been £600 + £127 + £500 which all add 
up to £1,227. I have excluded any pence as I am using rounded figures. 
DRN-2442056And our adjudicators opinion wa s that H&T ought not to have approved the second and third 
loans (Loans 2 and 3 of the three she had ) and set out in detail what she tho ught H&T 
should do including the corrections to her credit file. 
H&T agreed to this and said this and included a brief table of its calculations:  
Having emphasised the point above around previously acceptable processes versus 
currently acceptable processes we are however prepared to agree to the proposals set out 
in your how to put things right paragraph, recognising Ms Ms position 
The releva nt calculation i s as follows:
Interest charged £272.76
8% interest to date £80.23
Charges £0
Total payment -£200.61
The above is the net figure after deducting the residual balance of Loan 3 from the redress 
payable for Loan 2. The residual balance of Loan 3 was calculated by deducting the 
payments made from the original Principal loan (£1244 - £706.45 = £537.55).
Tax already deducted is £16.05
This was sent to Mrs M and she did not agree to it as, although it was in line with our 
adjudicators opinion and our usual approach, Mrs M has said she was expecting the 
principal sum outstanding to be written off. 
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Considering H&Ts agreement to our adjudicators opinion and having listened to the 
recorded call with Mrs M on 17 December 2020, then the outstanding issue was that Mrs M 
wishes the remaining capital balance to written off. So thats the only point I have focussed 
on as the main point relating to the original loan approvals appear to be resolved. I do set 
out the redress section in full so that both parties are clear as to what has been agreed.  
Turning to the credit file issues, Mrs M has not referred to that and our adjudicators steps to 
achieving the resolution included steps to correct Mrs Ms credit file. She said and H&T has 
agreed to do this: You should remove any adverse information recorded on [Mrs Ms] credit 
file in relation to loans two and three. So, it seems to me that this has been resolved as well. 
Turning to Mrs Ms request that the principal balance is written off, then I do not consider that 
is a decision I can come to. Mrs M has given no reason for it and it is contrary to our usual 
approach. Mrs M will have had the benefit of the principal cash sums she has received from 
H&T. The result of the agreed resolution relating to the loan approvals will mean that  
effectively  Mrs M will get Loans 2 and 3 interest free. Its only right that the money Mrs M 
received from H&T ought to be repaid to her. Having said that, I think that the figures put forward by H&T are confusing, unclear and 
difficult to understand. They will need to be updated since H&T accepted and did the 
calculations on 8 December 2020. 
So, I set out in this final decision the resolution steps to come to the correct redress for 
Mrs M and they are in the same terms as that set out by our adjud icator in her original 
opinion letter and now agreed to by H&T. But in addition, I direct that H&T explains each 
step giving clear calculations with reference to the statements of account so that Mrs M can 
see exactly how H&T has come to the figures it has come to and why it is Mrs M may have a 
balance to repay.
My understanding is that the current repayment plan is £10 each four weeks. Mrs M and 
H&T can keep that in place if both parties agree to it. 
 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress H&T should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mrs M from Loan 2, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs M may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real 
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mrs M in a 
compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mrs M would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce H&Ts liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
What H&T needs to do
H&T shouldnt have given Mrs M loans two and three.
If H&T has sold the outstanding debts, it should buy these back if able to do so and then 
take the following steps. If it is not able to buy the debts back, then it should liaise with the 
new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
I direct that H&T explains each step giving clear calculations with reference to the 
statements of account so that Mrs M can see exactly how H&T has come to the figures it has 
come to and why it is Mrs M may have a balance to repay.A) H&T should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs M towards interest, fees
and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance  here Loan 2- not
including anything H&T has already refunded.
B) H&T should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs M which
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date she originally made the payments,
to the date the complaint is settled.
C) H&T should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld
outstanding loans  here Loan 3 - and treat any repayments made by Mrs M as though they
had been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans.
If this results in Mrs M having made overpayments then H&T should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. H&T should then
refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should be
used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans: set-off is allowed.
If this results in a surplus, then the surplus should be paid to Mrs M. However, if there is still
an outstanding balance then H&T should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with
Mrs M or keep the £10 each four weeks in place. H&T shouldnt pursue outstanding
balances made up of principal you have already written-off.
E) H&T should remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Ms credit file in relation to
loans two and three.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires H&T to deduct tax from this interest. It should give Mrs M
a certificate showing how much tax deducted, if one is requested. The tax ought to be
deducted before any set-off is done.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ms complaint in part as already agreed by Harvey & 
Thompson Limited and it should do as I have directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 January 2021.
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman