DRN-3650456
The complaint
Mrs D has complained that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited, (Shop Direct), was 
irresponsible when it provided her with a credit limit of £600 on her catalogue shopping 
account. The complaint is brought to this Service on Mrs Ds behalf by a claims 
management company. But for ease I shall refer below to all actions being taken by Mrs D.
What happened
Shop Direct opened a credit account for Mrs D in July 2020 with a credit limit of £600. This 
type of credit was an open-ended or running account which Mrs D used to pay for goods 
bought from Shop Directs catalogue.
Mrs D says that her credit file at the time of her application showed that she had missed 
payments and defaulted accounts which was a clear indication of unaffordability.
In its final response letter, Shop Direct said that in addition to the information Mrs D provided 
at application, it obtained data about her via a credit reference agency. This data supported 
its decision to accept her application. It was satisfied that proportionate checks would have 
been completed at the time of her application. It didnt provide Mrs D with any credit limit 
increases. Shop Direct was satisfied the credit provided to Mrs D at the time of application 
and during the lifetime of the account was appropriate.
Our investigators view
The investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She said that as       
Mrs Ds annual salary was relatively low (around £583 per month), and the credit limit was 
around the same amount as her monthly income, this shouldve prompted Shop Direct to 
complete further checks to be satisfied that Mrs D would be able to afford to repay the credit 
in a sustainable way. So, the investigator didnt think Shop Directs checks were reasonable 
and proportionate. She said that if Shop Direct had completed reasonable and proportionate 
checks, it wouldve become aware that Mrs D didnt have any income to meet repayments in 
a sustainable way, and a review of her full credit report indicated that she was in financial 
difficulty.
Shop Direct disagreed. It said that it had verified the income provided by Mrs D through a 
credit reference agency. Based on the information provided and the clean credit file return, 
the monthly minimum payment of £42 was deemed affordable on the salary information that 
had been provided. It estimated that Mrs D should have had a monthly discretionary income 
of £161. And taking into consideration the information provided on the credit report, it 
thought it was unreasonable to have expected it to have requested bank statements from 
Mrs D. Shop Direct referred to the defaulted accounts mentioned in the investigators view 
and said there was no evidence of these on the credit file it had obtained using the address 
Mrs D had provided. It appreciated that the investigator believed Mrs Ds income was 
relatively low and it should have done more checks, but it had taken a multitude of 
information into account along with Mrs Ds income and a modest credit limit of £600 was 
provided.
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, as an ombudsman, 
to review and resolve. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs D
and to Shop Direct on 19 July 2022. I summarise my findings:
I noted that when Shop Direct lent to Mrs D, the regulator was the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC). Its rules and guidance obliged Shop Direct to lend responsibly.
Id said that Shop Direct would be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry 
practice we considered when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and 
irresponsible lending. So, I didnt consider it was necessary to set all of this out in this 
decision. 
Shop Direct needed to consider Mrs Ds ability to make her repayments over the life of the 
credit agreement within a reasonable period without Mrs D having to borrow to meet the 
repayments, without her failing to make any other payments she had a contractual or 
statutory duty to make, and without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on 
her financial situation. 
Certain factors might point to the fact that Shop Direct should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs D. These factors include: 
 Mrs Ds income, reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any credit repayments 
from a lower level of income.
  The amount due to be repaid, reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a higher 
repayment from a particular level of income.
  The frequency of borrowing and the length of time Mrs D had been indebted, reflecting the 
risk that prolonged indebtedness might signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming unsustainable.
Shop Direct said it completed a number of checks when opening Mrs Ds account. Id noted 
that it obtained some information from Mrs D and carried out a credit check. 
Having reviewed the information provided by Shop Directs credit check, I didnt think there 
was anything in the check to suggest that it would have been unreasonable for Shop Direct 
to have approved the account. Mrs D had opened one account in the six months prior to the 
credit application. She had a communications account but no loan accounts, retail accounts 
or secured credit. There was a £300 credit limit on one account (which I understood was an 
overdraft limit on a current account). Shed had no arrears in 24 months and no accounts 
were in default at the time of the check.
Mrs D had provided us with her credit report. Id noted from that report that there were two 
relatively recent defaulted accounts (in September 2019 and April 2020) and a County Court 
Judgement (CCJ) in March 2019. Id noted that these were in Mrs Ds previous name and 
the default information referred to Mrs Ds previous address. 
But it wasnt clear whether Shop Directs credit check had been made against Mrs Ds 
former name and previous address. Id asked the investigator to ask Shop Direct whether it 
had asked Mrs D for this information, and if so, whether it had made its checks against them. Shop Direct responded to say that it asks for a previous address if the customer indicates 
that they hadnt lived at their current address for more than three years. Mrs D indicated that 
she had been at her current address longer than three years and didnt provide a previous 
address. So, it had sent the credit reference agency (CRA) the name and address supplied 
by Mrs D and the CRA searched for that customer on its databases. Shop Direct also said 
that this search would also include any known name/address links that the CRA might be 
aware of. If a previous address had been supplied, then this would be searched 
automatically as part of the search. If a customer didnt supply a previous address this data 
could still get returned as a linked address if the CRA was aware of the change of address.
As there was no information in Shop Directs credit check about Mrs Ds defaulted accounts 
and CCJ, it appeared that she didnt provide her previous name and address to Shop Direct 
and the CRA didnt appear to be aware of the change of address. In the circumstances, I 
didnt think Shop Direct had acted unfairly in relying on the information in the credit file it 
saw.
Id also noted that Mrs D told Shop Direct she had an income of £7,001 and that she was a 
homemaker. She had no dependants. Her household income was £13,001. She said she 
rented her home privately. But Id not seen any information in Shop Directs file about the 
amount of rent she was paying or any other living costs.
Shop Direct appeared to have verified Mrs Ds income with a CRA and estimated her 
disposable income. As, Id not seen any information provided by Mrs D to Shop Direct about 
her regular expenditure, it appears that Shop Direct estimated her expenditure and said in its 
response to the investigators view that she had a monthly disposable income of £161. 
Id asked the investigator to ask Shop Direct what steps it took to make a reasonable 
estimate of Mrs Ds expenditure. It responded to say that Mrs Ds income was 54% of the 
total household income. It appeared to have estimated that her housing costs were £120, 
and her living costs were £392 with no credit commitments. It also said that Mrs Ds monthly 
discretionary income was £71 which I noted was somewhat lower than the figure it gave this 
Service previously. 
I thought Shop Direct should have had some concerns about the amount of Mrs Ds income 
and the relatively low monthly disposable income it had estimated. After meeting monthly 
repayments of up to £42, Mrs D wouldnt have been left with enough to cover unexpected 
costs. 
In order to satisfy itself that Mrs D would be able to repay the money shed borrowed within a 
reasonable period of time, I thought Shop Direct needed to understand that Mrs D had the 
means to do so, in other words sufficient disposable income. As I hadnt seen evidence that 
Shop Direct had gathered information about Mrs Ds regular living costs and rent at the time 
of her application, I didnt think Shop Direct could have had an accurate understanding of 
Mrs Ds disposable income and I didnt think it made proportionate checks here.
However, concluding that Shop Direct ought to have done more before lending to Mrs D 
didnt automatically mean her complaint should succeed. So, Id considered what information 
a reasonable and proportionate check would likely have produced. 
Id looked through the bank statements from around the time of her application that Mrs D 
had provided to this Service. To be clear, I wasnt suggesting Shop Direct ought to have 
done this, but these gave me some understanding of Mrs Ds expenses and how she was 
managing her money.
Id noted from the bank statements that Mrs D was paying £15 a week to a financial 
commitment. But Id also noted that Mrs D didnt appear to be paying for essential living expenses such as rent, utilities, council tax and other usual living costs (except for food, 
clothing and a phone account). Id asked the investigator to ask Mrs D if she had another 
bank account and how other living costs were paid. But we hadnt received a response.
Based on the information Id seen I wasnt able to conclude that Shop Direct shouldnt have 
agreed to provide a credit limit of £600 to Mrs D. I didnt think her bank statements showed 
any obvious evidence that she was facing problems managing her finances and I didnt think 
her finances would have appeared under so much pressure that Shop Direct should have 
declined her application or provided her with a lower credit limit. So, subject to any further 
representations from Mrs D and Shop Direct, I didnt intend to uphold this complaint. Id said 
that if Mrs D was able to provide us with the information Id previously requested, I would 
reconsider my decision. 
Mrs D hasnt provided us with the information Id requested or a response to my provisional 
decision other than an acknowledgement of it.
Shop Direct responded to my provisional decision to say that it agreed with it. It also 
confirmed its position on the discretionary income calculations. The lender said that it  
estimated Mrs Ds discretionary income using statistical data alongside specific information
provided by her and the CRAs. It believed its assessment of Mrs Ds expenditure such as 
rent and living costs was reasonable and proportionate based on the information she gave, 
and that the £600 limit provided was appropriate.
Shop Direct also explained that the original £161 figure it supplied to this Service was based 
on what its current model estimated Mrs Ds discretionary income to be. The subsequent 
figure of £71 which it provided was based on the assessment which was conducted when 
Mrs D applied for an account and was deemed to be more relevant to the complaint. It was 
sorry for any confusion the two different values had caused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time.
I note Shop Directs clarification of its discretionary income calculations and that at the time 
of Mrs Ds application, it assessed her discretionary income to be £71. As Ive said above, I 
think Shop Direct should have had some concerns about the relatively low monthly 
disposable income it had estimated. After meeting monthly repayments of up to £42, I dont 
think that Mrs D would have been left with enough to cover unexpected costs. And for the 
reasons set out above, I dont think the lender made proportionate checks in Mrs Ds 
circumstances.
Otherwise, and given that Mrs D has given me nothing further to consider, I see no
reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I
dont uphold this complaint, although I appreciate how disappointing my decision will be for 
Mrs D.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2022. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman