DRN-1908118
 
The complaint
Ms D has complained about loans granted to her by Elevate Credit International 
Limited  trading as Sunny (Sunny or the lender). Ms D says she was borrowing from other 
short term lenders at the same time and couldnt repay her Sunny loans without borrowing 
again.  She says that Sunny would have known about this had it carried out sufficient checks 
before lending to her.
Ms D brought her complaint to this Service via a claims management company. For 
simplicity, I will refer to Ms D throughout this decision.
What happened
Sunny agreed eight loans for Ms D from October 2018 to February 2019. The loans were all 
instalment loans to be repaid over six months and ranged in value from £100 to £500. The 
below table sets out some information Sunny has provided about these loans (with numbers 
rounded to the nearest pound). As the table shows many of the loans ran concurrently and 
all were repaid.
Loan Start date End datePrincipal 
(£)Monthly 
repayment 
(£)
1 15/10/2018 11/12/2018 500 167
2 22/10/2018 11/12/2018 150 49
3 25/10/2018 11/12/2018 200 65
4 21/11/2018 12/03/2019 100 33
5 01/01/2019 11/01/2019 150 46
6 08/01/2019 12/03/2019 200 67
7 11/01/2019 12/03/2019 450 150
8 20/02/2019 11/03/2019 100 33
 
Our adjudicator upheld Ms Ds complaint in part and recommended that Sunny refund all the 
interest and charges she paid on loans 4 to 8. Sunny disagreed with this recommendation 
and so the complaint came to me, as an ombudsman, for review and final decision. 
Ms D had since provided her bank statements and I included this new information in my 
considerations. I issued my provisional decision on 30 April explaining why I was thinking of 
coming to a different view of Ms Ds complaint and provisionally found that Sunny was 
irresponsible when it agreed loans 5 to 8. 
Ms D has accepted my provisional findings and Sunny has not responded. What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As before, I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good 
industry practice at the time. Neither party has provided any new information or comments 
for me to consider, so I see no need to depart from my provisional conclusions but for 
completeness I will set them out again.  
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when Ms D took out her loans. The 
relevant rules and guidance set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) said that 
for all loans Sunny needed to check that Ms D could afford to meet her repayments in a 
sustainable manner. This meant Ms D being able to meet her repayments out of her 
normal income without having to go without or borrow further.
The regulations werent prescriptive about what checks Sunny needed to carry out in 
order to reasonably assess whether Ms D would be able to meet her repayments 
sustainably. But the regulations said that such checks needed to be proportionate. This 
suggests that the same checks might not be the appropriate thing to do for all consumers, or 
for the same consumer in all circumstances.
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to 
the consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, 
Id expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
anyloan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult 
to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of 
time during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that 
repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Having considered everything, I am partly upholding Ms Ds complaint along similar lines 
to our adjudicator but for different reasons and considering the new information provided by
Ms D. I appreciate that this will be disappointing for Sunny and I hope my explanation 
below clearly explains why I have come to my conclusions.
Sunny says it asked Ms D for information about her income and expenses each time 
she applied for a loan. The lender recorded Ms Ds monthly income as just over £2,000 and 
it recorded her monthly expenses as ranging from about £800 to £1,500. Sunny also said 
that it checked Ms Ds credit record through a third-party credit reference agency and took 
into consideration her existing credit commitments, though it hasnt provided the information 
it  obtained in this way.
Ms Ds first four loans ran concurrently. Our adjudicator upheld Ms Ds complaint about 
her fourth loan onwards because he concluded that she was unlikely to be able to meet 
her payments for her loans sustainably. Sunny said, in response, that allowing its customers 
to take out loans concurrently provided them with flexibility to manage their finances and that it took this into consideration when agreeing these loans for Ms D. I dont think taking 
out these loans concurrently automatically means that Ms D was struggling with her 
finances.However, taking out loans concurrently can be an indication of financial difficulty, 
depending on the circumstances.
Ive looked at the income and expenditure Ms D declared to Sunny over this time. 
It suggests that she would have been able to afford her repayments but, as Ive 
explained, Sunny needed to check whether she could do so sustainably. When Ms D asked 
for her fourth loan, bringing her total borrowed to £950, I think Sunny ought to have enquired 
further into her monthly commitments to assess whether she had any other short term 
borrowing that might impact on her ability to meet its repayments, given the combined 
amount shed need to repay each month for several months came to over £300.
Ms D has provided her bank statements from around this time and I can see that she 
was borrowing from other short term lenders occasionally and that she had one short term 
loan outstanding when she took out her fourth loan from Sunny.
Looking at everything in the round, bearing in mind that this was early in their 
lending relationship, I havent seen enough to find that that Sunny would likely have declined 
to lend to Ms D at this point, had it looked further into her circumstances, and so I am not 
persuaded that it lent irresponsibly on this occasion.
When Ms D repaid her first three loans, she took out two more in January 2019 (loans 5 
and 6 in the above table). She then had three concurrent loans amounting to £450. 
Our adjudicator found that Sunny ought to have stopped lending to Ms D from and including 
her sixth loan because the pattern of lending at this point showed she wasnt likely to be able 
to repay any further credit sustainably. 
In response, Sunny said that Ms D hadnt borrowed from it beyond five months in total. 
Considering that when Ms D took out her sixth loan shed been borrowing for three months, 
and shed repaid loans and borrowed again once, I cant say that at the point she applied for 
loan 6 there was an established pattern of lending which showed that Ms D was likely having 
difficulty meeting her repayments.
But, as before, I do think that Sunny ought to have gathered a more comprehensive 
picture of Ms Ds finances when she applied for loans 5 and 6 and at this point verified what 
she was saying about her income and expenditure. Ms D was showing a continuing need for 
its loans, even though the figures shed declared for her monthly expenses for these loans 
had reduced considerably since shed started borrowing from it.
I can see from Ms Ds bank statements that her income was as she declared, and she 
was also receiving what seems to be regular rent contributions. However, I can also see that 
her expenditure was higher than shed told Sunny. She was repaying several loans, credit 
cards and catalogue debts, and what seem to be personal debts by standing order. In 
addition, Ms D was almost constantly in her overdraft apart from at most a few days after 
she was paid, and she had outstanding loans with two other payday lenders. 
Altogether, it seems Ms D was using her Sunny loans to meet her living costs and was in a 
cycle of borrowing from one short term lender to repay another. I think its likely Sunny would 
have learnt this, had it carried out proportionate checks here, and would not have agreed 
further credit for her.
Ms Ds financial situation hadnt changed when she took out loans 7 and 8, and I can 
see that she repaid her outstanding Sunny loans that March by taking out a short term loan 
from another provider.Putting things right
As Ive explained above, I find that Sunny was irresponsible to have agreed further credit 
for Ms D from and including her fifth loan taken out in January 2019. In order to put things 
right for her, Sunny should
a. refund all interest and charges Ms D paid on loans 5 to 8 (in other words on loans 
granted in 2019); and
b. pay interest on all these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to 
the dates of settlement; and
c. remove any adverse information about these loans from Ms Ds credit file.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must 
give Ms D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
As Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Ds complaint about Elevate Credit International Limited 
(trading as Sunny) in part and require it to put things right for her as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2020.
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman