DRN-1829707
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as Money Boat) lent to him 
in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
Mr B took out three instalment loans with Money Boat. Details of these loans are given 
below:
Loan Date taken Date repaid Amount Highest 
repayment
1 28/06/2019 29/07/2019 £400 £193.53
2 29/07/2019 28/10/2019 £450 £217.32
3 23/01/2020 06/03/2020 £200 £81.20
All three loans were to be repaid over monthly instalments, with the first two loans being 
repaid over three payments and the third loan, over four payments. The loans have been 
repaid.
Mr Bs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He sent a letter to both 
parties where he didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. He concluded that Money Boat didnt need 
to carry out any further checks at the time it granted the loans to Mr B and didnt do anything 
wrong. Mr B didnt agree with our adjudicator. 
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Money Boat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr 
B could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Mr Bs income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Money Boat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Money Boat did a number of checks before it lent to Mr B. It asked him for details of his 
income and his normal expenditure. And it then used this information to calculate how much 
disposable income Mr B had left over each month. Money Boat also used a credit reference 
agency to gather some more information about Mr Bs financial situation at that time.
Mr B took out loan 1 in June 2019. This was the first time he had approached Money Boat 
for a loan and based on what he told it, the loan would have appeared affordable for him. So 
for these reasons, I dont think at this stage Money Boat needed to do anymore in the 
checks it carried out. It then 
Mr B then asked for loan 2 on the same day he repaid loan 1, on 29 July 2019. He repaid 
this loan and took out loan 3, three months later in January 2020. Based on what Mr B told 
Money Boat about loan 2 and also loan 3, I think both loans would have appeared affordable 
for him. 
I have also seen results from the credit check that Money Boat carried out at the time in 
granted the loans. I dont think the credit search results or the other checks it carried out 
showed enough that I would have expected it to look into things further. The checks didnt 
show any other concerning information such as a reliance on other short term loans, 
bankruptcy or any court orders.
I acknowledge Mr Bs comments about his finances at the time the loans were granted, and 
that he had other financial commitments to repay. But that wasnt something he told Money 
Boat when he asked for the loans, nor do I think it is something Money Boat should have 
discovered from proportionate checks. I think it was reasonable here for Money Boat to rely 
on the information that Mr B provided about his finances when assessing the affordability of 
the loans. I dont think it would be proportionate to expect Money Boat to have gone further 
and sought to independently verify what Mr B had said. And as the information Mr B 
provided suggested that the loans were affordable for him, I dont think that Money Boat did 
anything wrong when it agreed to lend on the three occasions that it did so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2020.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman