DRN-3546879
The complaint
Mr P complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund money he lost, which he believes was 
as the result of a scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all in 
detail here. But in summary and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to 
be as follows;
Mr P agreed to buy some trainers that he had seen advertised on a social media platform. 
Mr P met the seller in person to collect the trainers on 20 October 2020, and on collection 
made a payment of £800, through his mobile banking, to the account details the seller had 
provided. Hes said that as soon as the payment had been made, the seller walked away.
 
Mr P has said the trainers were packaged when he got them. But when he inspected them 
closely, he suspected they may be fake. Mr P sent the trainers to an expert, who confirmed 
that the goods were counterfeit. Mr P contacted the seller to try and get his money back, but 
has said the seller blocked him and refused to refund him.
Mr P complained to Santander, as he believed he had been scammed. Santander looked 
into the matter and issued its final response on 30 December 2020, not upholding the 
complaint. In summary, it considered the matter a civil dispute between Mr P and the seller. 
It said that it had tried to recover the funds from the beneficiary bank (the bank to which the 
funds were sent), but the beneficiary bank had also considered the matter a civil dispute. 
Santander did acknowledge the service it had provided Mr P, when reviewing his complaint, 
wasnt to the standard it expected and, in recognition of this, credited Mr Ps account with 
£100.
Unhappy with Santanders response, Mr P then brought his complaint to our service. One of 
our investigators looked into things. Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint, as she 
considered this was a dispute between Mr P and the seller who he had made the payment 
to. In summary, she said that although she acknowledged the agreement Mr P had with the 
seller didnt go as planned, she couldnt say with any certainty the seller set out with the 
intent to defraud him.
Mr P didnt agree with our investigators view. In summary he felt strongly that this was not a 
civil dispute, and there was a clear intention by the seller to sell counterfeit goods.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
Having thought very carefully about Santanders actions, Im not intending to uphold Mr Ps 
complaint, for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. I do appreciate how 
disappointing this will be for him, but I dont think I can fairly say Santander should reimburse 
him. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive thought about the Lending 
Standards Boards voluntary CRM Code (the Code), which Santander has signed up to and 
was in force at the time Mr P made this payment.
Under the Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who is the 
victim of an APP scam. Ive thought about if the Code applies in the circumstances of the 
payment Mr P made and, in particular, whether Santander ought to reimburse him under the 
provisions of the Code. But the Code is quite explicit that it doesnt apply to all push 
payments. It says: 
DS2(2) This code does not apply to: 
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, 
services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in some way, or the 
Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier
 
Subsections (a) and (c) have been omitted as they are not relevant to this complaint.
 
Both the bank and our investigator felt the payment Mr P made formed part of a buyer/seller 
dispute and, as such, was not covered by the Code. Mr P strongly disagrees, he feels that 
he has been scammed. 
Its clear the agreement Mr P entered into with the seller did not go as planned. As Mr P has 
said that the specialists who he asked to review the items he received, have told him the 
trainers are counterfeit, and not the authentic ones he was expecting. But I cant safely say 
with any certainty, with what I know, that the seller set out with an intent to defraud Mr P. 
This means I dont think Santander is responsible for reimbursing Mr P because of any 
obligation under the CRM Code. I can appreciate why Mr P feels he has been deceived. He 
had the impression the items he purchased were legitimate. But with the evidence that is 
available to me, I cant fairly or reasonably say with any certainty that the seller was not 
legitimate and had set out to deceive Mr P. I say that as there are a number of factors, in the 
circumstances of this case, that dont carry the typical hallmarks of these particular types of 
scam or a trader setting out with an intent to defraud. Ill explain why;
- The seller, at least for a time, was still contactable after Mr P had made the payment. 
This is not typically the case with fraudsters, who more often than not are not able to 
be contacted after they have taken a victims money.
- Mr P actually received goods from the seller. More often than not, fraudsters will take 
a victims money and then not provide any goods at all. 
- In the circumstances of this case, the trainers have been delivered in person. This is 
not typical behaviour for a fraudster, given the obvious risk this brings of the fraudster 
then being identifiable and of a buyer recognising what they are purchasing may be 
counterfeit. - Evidence Ive seen from the receiving bank indicates that the seller had previously 
successfully carried out similar transactions with other customers, without any 
concerns being raised. 
- The social media page, from where the trainers were purchased, is still in operation 
and under the same name. More often than not, social media pages that are 
operating fraudulently will be taken down as a result of multiple complaints, but that 
isnt the case here.
After taking everything into careful consideration, so the testimony and evidence provided by 
both parties, on balance and when considering the individual circumstances of this case, I 
cant safely say this meets the high legal threshold and burden of proof for fraud. It follows 
that I cant fairly or reasonably say that, based on what I know, that the seller set out with the 
intent to defraud Mr P. 
This being the case Im satisfied the CRM Code doesnt apply. And I cant fairly or 
reasonably ask Santander to refund the money Mr P paid to the seller, as I dont think 
Santander treated Mr P unfairly when it said the payment he made formed part of a civil 
dispute.
 
I can see Santander paid Mr P £100 for the service it provided when reviewing Mr Ps 
complaint. I think that was fair and proportionate, given the circumstances.
I realise that my decision will be disappointing for Mr P. But overall, for the reasons Ive 
explained, I cant fairly or reasonably ask Santander to refund the money Mr P has lost.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman