DRN-3950304
The complaint
Mr C complains that Santander UK Plc gave him incorrect information about his mortgage 
and he lost out as a result.
What happened
In January 2022 Mr C called Santander to enquire about porting his mortgage from his 
existing property (property A) to a new self-build property (property B). The mortgage was a 
fixed term product which was due to expire in December 2022. Santander said at the time 
hed be able to port his mortgage to property B and Mr C says, based on this information, he 
proceeded with the build and put property A up for sale. Mr C found a buyer quickly and they 
agreed to wait until July 2022 to complete the purchase as this is when Mr C expected 
property B to be ready.
Santander says it next spoke to Mr C about the port application in February 2022. During 
this conversation Mr C was told he wouldnt be able to complete the port on property B. This 
was because the property was not being purchased and Santander said it could not port the 
mortgage to a property already owned. It let Mr C know that if he repaid the mortgage before 
the end of the product term, an early repayment charge (ERC) would be applied. 
Mr C complained to Santander about the conflicting information hed been provided. In 
March 2022, Santander said it was sorry Mr C had first been told the mortgage could be 
ported and this was incorrect. To apologise for the initial confusion it paid £40.00 to Mr Cs 
account. 
Santander said it was too early to decide about the ERC and whether this could be avoided 
and said this will need to be considered at the time the mortgage was redeemed. In July 
2022 Mr C sold property A and the ERC was applied to the redemption figure for the 
mortgage. 
Santander looked at the complaint again at this point and said that it was unable to waive the 
ERC. It said this had been applied correctly and it had provided Mr C with the information he 
needed in February to understand whether he wanted to port the mortgage or not.
Mr C brought his complaint to this service. He says when Santander gave him the wrong 
information he lost out. Had it provided him with the right information about his ability to port 
his mortgage in January, hed have had three options:
1. To go ahead with the build and purchase the property from his parents to enable the 
port of the mortgage (this would have meant stamp duty was payable on the 
purchase)
2. Go ahead with the build but attract the ERC (as happened)
3. Not go ahead with the build and wait until the mortgage on property A had expired, 
allowing it to be redeemed without the ERC (so delay the new build by six months).
Mr C says the lack of information at the right time meant he was only left with option 1 and 2 
as he felt option 3 had been removed after property A had already been advertised and a 
buyer found. He said this has resulted in considerable stress for himself and his family with 
the upset caused by having to pay an ERC that he might otherwise have been able to avoid. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint and said that they didnt think Santander needed to 
do anything else. She agreed Santander had made an error when it first told Mr C that hed 
be able to port his mortgage. But the mortgage offer for Mr C set out that an ERC would be 
applied if the mortgage was redeemed before 2 December 2022. It was redeemed in July 
2022 and so she thought it acted fairly when applying this and she felt it had considered 
whether it should have been waived. She felt the payment made for £40 was fair to 
compensate Mr C for the misinformation and it wouldnt be fair to expect Santander to do 
anything else.  
Mr C didnt agree. He said he had no choice but to continue with the sale of property A as a 
buyer had already been found and he couldnt be certain if hed sell for the same price later 
in the year. He also said he committed to works starting on property B and borrowed money 
from family to finance this which he agreed to repay when the property was completed and 
mortgaged. So it wasnt as simple as saying he could have changed plans after Santander 
provided the correct information as a number of things had already happened that he said 
couldnt be reversed. 
Our investigator maintained that she didnt think Santander needed to do anything else so 
the complaint was passed to me for decision.
I issued my provisional decision in January 2023. I explained that I thought Santander 
needed to do more to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused with the information it 
provided. But I didnt think it needed to waive the ERC. Ive copied what I said below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im planning on upholding this complaint in part. I appreciate it may still be a disappointment 
to Mr C, but Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
It isnt disputed that Santander provided incorrect information in January 2022 to Mr C. From 
what Mr C has provided and said, Im persuaded this did result in him taking steps to both 
sell property A and commit funds, borrowed from his parents, for further work to property B, 
ready for its completion in July 2022. Mr C has said these were things that couldnt be 
reversed and the impact is a considerable amount of distress on himself and his family. 
In February, not long after the incorrect information was provided, Mr C spoke with 
Santander again and it was confirmed that he couldnt proceed as hed planned, based on 
the information provided in January. If he wanted to avoid the ERC, Mr C could port his 
mortgage from property A to B, if he purchased property B from his parents. Or he needed to 
delay the sale of his house until the end of the year and redeem the mortgage after 2 
December. 
Mr C said he had a buyer in place and wasnt sure whether hed achieve the same sale price 
later in the year. So although he could have delayed the sale, there would have been a 
number of unknowns and he may have lost out with the sale price  but this is not something 
that can be determined. However, it is understandable why Mr C found the situation stressful 
when he realised his plan put in place based on the information provided was no longer an 
option. And if he wanted to complete on the sale of property A in July, he would need to pay 
the ERC and ask that Santander consider waiving this after the completion. Santander has said it correctly applied the ERC and I agree this was done in line with the 
mortgage offer previously issued. But I think its actions with the misinformation will have 
caused distress and inconvenience to Mr C and I dont think it has fairly understood or 
reflected this with the payment made.
To put things right, Santander should make a payment of £250 to Mr C to reflect the distress 
and inconvenience caused when it was made clear that the information provided previously 
was wrong. This resulted in a loss of expectation and clearly caused upset and distress to 
Mr C and I think it is right that Santander fairly reflects this.
As Santander has already paid Mr C £40.00 it may deduct this from the £250 I feel it is fair to 
pay overall.
Santander responded to confirm it accepted the provisional decision and would make 
payment of the additional £210 upon confirmation from Mr C that he accepts.
Mr C didnt accept the findings. He explained why he felt some things hadnt been given the 
consideration they deserved and he asked that I reconsider the decision. Ive summarised 
the points hes raised below:
That Mr C was reasonable to seek advice from Santander on the port of his 
mortgage and to act on this advice once received  setting the wheels in motion as 
he did. 
When the advice later transpired to be incorrect, Santander should cover the ERC as 
this only needed to be incurred because of its actions.
Mr C says the impact of borrowing money from his parents has not been truly 
understood. He said he made a promise to repay this by July 2022 (which hadnt 
been mentioned by my provisional decision). After he committed to spending this 
money  as he had with the materials and building work paid for in January and 
February  he had no choice but to proceed with the sale of his house as he couldnt 
delay the sale of this and the repayment of the loan.
Santander shouldnt have made Mr C wait until the mortgage had been redeemed 
before it would confirm whether the ERC could be waived.
Mr C also questioned whether the outcome would have differed had he not called 
Santander back so soon after the initial call, allowing it the opportunity to correct the 
incorrect information it had provided earlier. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reconsidered the information on this complaint, while taking account of the additional 
comments Mr C has made in response to my provisional decision. Ill address these below.
I agree, Mr C acted reasonably taking steps to seek advice from Santander about the ability 
to port his mortgage. And when it said this was an option, it follows that it was reasonable to 
take steps to continue with the plan he had in place which included the later transfer of his 
mortgage from property A to property B. 
When it became clear the advice was wrong and the mortgage couldnt be ported, Mr C lost out because of a loss of expectation. I know Mr C has highlighted that he only became 
aware the information was wrong soon after the initial call because he himself took steps to 
call Santander to discuss the future port. But it doesnt change the fact that soon after the 
initial mistake, Santander confirmed the mortgage couldnt be ported and it couldnt say if the 
ERC would be waived. The actions taken by Mr C between the wrong and right information 
being provided meant the options he had available were limited. And he had undertaken the 
purchase of materials and work for property B at considerable expense.
Mr C maintains that he would not have completed the work with property B had he been 
given the correct advice in January. So Ive considered whether I think it is most likely that 
he would have delayed this project.
I appreciate Mr C has said he wouldnt have gone ahead with the build had the correct 
information been given when he first called Santander. I think it is possible he would have 
waited but Im not persuaded it is the most likely outcome. 
Had Mr C been given the right information in January he would have had the three options, 
outlined in my provisional decision above. He would not have had a buyer for property A but 
the option to sell and pay the ERC on completion would have remained as well as the option 
to purchase property B or delay the build.
The port was requested to be moved to a new build property that Mr C was building. The 
planning permission was granted in February 2019 and had a standard condition that the 
work shall have begun before the expiration of two years from the date of the approval. 
While this only requires work to have commenced, the deadline for this was February 2021, 
a year before when Mr C says he undertook to have the work started. This indicates work 
had already started on the project before January 2022 when Mr C called Santander to 
enquire about porting his mortgage to the completed property. 
It may be that the work could have waited as it is evident the planning conditions had been 
met, but with it being sometime since the permission was granted and work on the project 
had started, Im not persuaded the most likely outcome is that Mr C would have waited.
Santander said it would consider whether the ERC could be waived and refunded when the 
mortgage was redeemed and it couldnt be considered until this point. I think this is 
understandable as until the mortgage was redeemed, there was no payment to consider. So 
while it would have been helpful to know from the outset, I dont think Santander was acting 
unfairly when it failed to give an answer on this sooner.  
The loan agreements Mr C has provided between himself and his parents dont include a 
repayment date. But Im happy to accept that he made a promise to repay this money when 
he said. Loans between family members can be stressful and I understand why Mr C has 
highlighted this and the desire to make sure he repaid the loan when he said he would and 
that this added pressure. Ive taken account of this when thinking about the award for the 
distress and inconvenience.
Mr C says, had he been aware that he wouldnt have been able to repay his parents in July 
as hed planned, he wouldnt have instigated the building works and needed the loan until 
later. 
Overall, I cant be sure Mr C would have definitely taken a different course of action had he 
been given different information about the port sooner. And even if he had, I cant be certain 
that hes lost out by paying the ERC. Mr C said he continued with the sale of property A 
because the future resale value wasnt guaranteed and there is a number of other 
hypotheticals around different steps being taken which mean saying Mr C is in a worse position because of the ERC and the mortgage finishing earlier isnt something I can say. 
And with all this in mind, I cant say its most likely he would have delayed the project.
Equally, I cant say whether the outcome would be different if Santander didnt inform Mr C 
until later that it gave the wrong information as each case is judged on its own merits. But 
the ERC was set out in the mortgage offer as needing to be paid if the mortgage was 
redeemed before the end of the product term. So even if given misinformation about this not 
being applicable, it has been applied correctly. 
I understand the points Mr C has made in relation to my provisional decision but with all the 
above in mind, I cannot agree it would be fair and reasonable to ask that Santander refund 
the ERC. I know Mr C feels a fair concession would be a reduced ERC, but as it has been 
applied correctly, I dont think this would be fair either. 
It is clear this situation has caused a great of stress and Mr C has explained how the 
stressful the self-build situation was too and that this compounded this. But Ive not seen 
anything which persuades me that the award I said I planned on making for this is 
unreasonable.  And I still feel an increase in the amount of distress and inconvenience is 
warranted and Santander should increase this to £250  taking account of the £40 
previously paid.    
I see no reasons to depart from the decision I set out in my provisional decision and uphold 
Mr Cs complaint in part. 
Putting things right
To put things right, Santander UK Plc should make a payment of £250 to Mr C to reflect the 
distress and inconvenience caused when it was made clear that the information provided 
previously was wrong. 
This resulted in a loss of expectation and clearly caused upset and distress to Mr C and I 
think it is right that Santander fairly reflects this.
As Santander has already paid Mr C £40.00 it may deduct this from the £250 I feel it is fair to 
pay overall.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Cs complaint in part.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman