DRN-3321587
The complaint
Mr L complains about the information AXA Insurance UK Plc requested he provide to 
support his travel insurance medical claim. My references to AXA include its agents.
What happened
Mr L had a travel insurance policy insured by AXA. While on a trip abroad he had urology 
treatment costing US$2,000, shockwave therapy treatment on three occasions costing 
US$1,500 and gainswave treatment costing US$500. He claimed the costs on the policy.
AXA asked for further information so it could assess the claim. Mr L refused, he said hed 
already sent the information he was required to provide under the policy wording.
AXA wouldnt finalise the claim assessment without the further information. Its final response 
letter said:
The policy provided cover for emergency medical treatment which was unforeseen. 
From the limited information it had, and noting the treatment Mr L had, there was no 
evidence he had emergency treatment. 
It had asked Mr L for itemised invoices for his treatment so it could establish the 
condition he was treated for and whether the charges were covered under the policy.
The policy excluded cover for pre-existing conditions in certain circumstances. It had 
asked for a medical certificate from Mr Ls GP so it could check the treatment didnt 
relate to a pre-existing condition.
If Mr L had contacted its medical assistance team before treatment it would have 
contacted his GP at the time to establish if the condition was pre-existing. As Mr L 
hadnt done so it was asking for the information after hed claimed. 
The onus is on Mr L to evidence that his claim fell within the terms and conditions of 
his policy. The above information should establish whether hed made a valid claim. 
It had asked for Mr Ls relevant  bank statements due to the amount being claimed 
and contradictory information about payment. The invoices sent to AXA showed 
some of the treatment costs were paid for by card but Mr L told it hed paid all the 
costs in cash. 
It hadnt delayed settling the claim, it was waiting for the information it asked Mr L to 
provide. It was unable to finalise and settle a claim where it didnt have the 
information to substantiate a valid claim.
Mr L complained to us. He wants AXA to pay the claim, interest and £250 compensation for 
his distress and inconvenience in its delay in settling the claim and the time hed spent 
corresponding with AXA.
Our investigator said AXA fairly asked Mr L for the information as part of its claim 
assessment and there was no evidence AXA caused unreasonable delay.
Mr L disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. In summary he said:
The policy is a legally binding contract which he accepted and paid for.
It wasnt relevant whether or not it was reasonable for AXA to request the information 
it had asked him for. The issue was AXA couldnt require him to provide information 
which wasnt set out in the policy wording. 
Hed provided the claim evidence the policy wording asked for so AXA should pay 
the claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator requested AXA send its file to us, but it hasnt done so. Mr L sent us his 
policy document and AXAs final response letter. Using those documents I think I have 
enough information to understand AXAs position and the terms of the policy without  
anything further from AXA. Ive considered all the information Mr L had sent us about his 
position. Ive based my decision on the available evidence.
The relevant rules and industry guidance says that insurers should handle claims promptly 
and fairly, and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. AXA hasnt been able to make a 
decision about the claim yet so I have to decide whether AXA has handled the claim fairly 
and promptly, and on the evidence I have I think it did. Ill explain why.
The policy says under the emergency medical and other expenses section:
Claims evidence
We will require (at your own expense) the following evidence where relevant:
Receipts or bills for all in-patient/out-patient treatmentreceived
Receipts or bills for taxi fares to or from hospital claimed for, stating details of the 
date, name and location of the hospital concerned.
Receipts or bills or proof of purchase for any other transport, accommodation or other 
costs, charges or expenses claimed for, including calls to the Emergency Medical 
Assistance Service.
Details of any travel, private medical or other insurance under which you could also 
claim.
Mr L says AXA isnt able to require him to provide any further evidence than listed above to 
support his claim as thats outside the legally binding contract of insurance. But I dont think 
thats correct.
The policy sets out the terms and conditions of the contract under which AXA will provide 
cover for Mr L. The policy says under the emergency medical and other expenses section:
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the schedule of benefits for the following 
expenses which are necessarily incurred during a trip but not covered by any 
reciprocal health agreement, as a result of you suffering unforeseen bodily injury, 
illness, disease1. Emergency medical, surgical, hospital, ambulance and nursing fees and charges 
incurred outside of your home area
Special conditions relating to claims
1. To enable us to direct you to the most appropriate medical facility you must obtain 
the prior authorisation of the Emergency Medical Assistance Service or us before 
knowingly incurring any expenses (including any out-patient treatment) over £500. If 
this is not possible because the condition requires emergency treatment you or 
someone on your behalf must contact the Emergency Medical Assistance Service as 
soon as possible...
What is not covered
4. Any claims arising directly or indirectly for
c) Any form of treatment or surgery which in the opinion of the Emergency Medical 
Assistance Service or us (based on information provided by the medical practitioner 
in attendance), can be delayed reasonably until your return to your home area.

You should also refer to the Important conditions relating to health.
The Important conditions relating to health section says:
You must comply with the following conditions to have the full protection of your 
policy.
You must tell us of all your pre-existing medical conditions. If you fail to declare all 
pre-existing medical conditions we may refuse to deal with or reduce the amount of 
any relevant claims, even if a claim is not related to an undisclosed pre-existing 
medical condition.
The policy terms then detail numerous exclusions including around medical conditions and 
pre-existing conditions unless AXA has agreed in writing to cover the medical condition. Ive 
seen no evidence that AXA agreed to cover a medical condition for Mr L.
So the policy terms are clear that the starting point for a valid claim for medical costs under 
the contract of insurance is the claim must be for emergency, unforeseen treatment for a 
medical condition which isnt excluded by the policy terms. The policy terms also require that 
treatment couldnt wait until Mr L returned home. Its up to Mr L to provide the evidence that 
he has a valid claim. Under the claims evidence policy wording AXA has detailed the 
evidence it wants to assess a claim once hes established he has a claim thats covered by 
the policy terms.
Under the policy terms Mr L needed to establish he had a valid claim before he had 
treatment. The policy terms require Mr L to get authorisation from AXA or its emergency 
medical assistance service before incurring any treatment expenses over £500. Ive seen no 
evidence to suggest he got the prior authorisation and theres no evidence that he needed 
treatment so urgently that he didnt reasonably have time to contact AXA for its prior 
authority. So under the strict policy terms AXA would be able to reject the claim on that basis 
alone. AXAs not indicated it would decline the claim just because it didnt prior authorise the 
treatment. Its acted fairly and reasonably in giving Mr L the opportunity to show he had the 
basis for a valid claim, even though hed already had the treatment without its authority.As Mr L hasnt established he had a valid claim to be covered under the terms of his 
insurance contract theres no basis for me to say AXA must pay his claim as he requests.  
AXA is concerned it has contradictory evidence about Mr Ls payment for some of the 
treatment he claimed for. The policy sets out what steps AXA may take if it considers a 
policyholder has made a false statement in support of a claim. AXAs acted fairly in giving 
Mr L the opportunity to provide further evidence in relation to payment.
Mr L made his claim a few years ago but I dont think AXA has been responsible for the 
delay in assessing the claim. Its been waiting for Mr L to provide evidence that he has a 
valid claim that could be covered under his contract of insurance. Theres no basis for me to 
say AXA must pay any compensation to Mr L.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman