DRN-3987086
The complaint
Miss J complains that she didnt get an interest free offer from MBNA Limited (MBNA).
What happened
In December 2021, Miss J signed up for an interest free offer from MBNA  the offer was for 
22 months interest free borrowing on purchases made within the first 60 days. In August 
2022, she noticed she had been charged interest and complained.
Miss J said that shed signed up for 22 months interest free borrowing on all purchases 
made during that time - not for 22 months interest free borrowing on purchases made within 
the first 60 days. She said MBNA had hidden the terms of their offer in the small print, and 
that wasnt fair. She said she paid off the card anyway on 9 August 2022 to stop more 
interest being charged  but this meant she had to use her savings to do so.
MBNA said the terms of the offer were made clear and were set out in the terms and 
conditions of the offer. MBNA said Miss J had been charged interest as she had continued to 
use the card after the first 60 days. However they agreed to charge no further interest until 
the balance had been paid off.
Miss J brought her complaint to us and our investigator said MBNA acted reasonably. He 
said that MBNAs terms and conditions were clear enough - and set out that interest wouldnt 
be charged on purchases made in the first 60 days. And therefore any purchases made after 
the first 60 days would be charged interest.
Miss J didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed Miss Js complaint  the crux of which was how clearly MBNA communicated 
the terms of the offer. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) says that communications with 
customers should be clear and not misleading  and thats what I have checked here.
I looked at the text sent to Miss J  offering her the card. In the table shown it said, 
Introductory Interest RatesPurchases made in the first 60 days00.00%pa fixed for the 
first 22 months from your account opening date So  that was clear to me, as it said the 
interest free offer was on purchases made in the first 60 days.
I then looked at the credit agreement that was signed by Miss J  which MBNA showed to 
us. This said, Purchases in the first 60 days00.00% p.a. fixed interest for the first 22 
months from your account opening date. So  I think that was clear. I can also see that Miss 
J ticked that she had read the credit agreement when she signed the application. 
Miss J argues that the terms of MBNAs offer were hidden in the small print. Ive thought 
about what she has said here. But the terms of the offer were shown in a table in the text 
sent to Miss J; and it was also shown in a table on the first page of the credit agreement 
signed by Miss J.  So  I think its reasonable to say that the terms of the offer were clearly 
set out for Miss J to see, and not hidden.
As it was, MBNA did offer to give Miss J interest free borrowing on the balance. But Miss J 
couldnt take advantage of that as she paid off the borrowing. But that was a reasonable 
offer for MBNA to make.
Therefore, having reviewed Miss Js complaint, I wont be asking MBNA to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman