DRN-4183165
The complaint
Mr A has complained about the way Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) 
handled his claim under his pet insurance policy. He has also complained that LV did not 
update his email address. 
Mr A has brought the complaint jointly with his partner. But the policy is in Mr As name. So 
I am issuing this decision only to Mr A.
What happened
Mr As cat (B) became ill and had vet treatment. Mr As vet submitted a claim to LV for the 
cost of treating B. 
Mr A chased the claim with his vet and LV. LV said it had not received the claim form. The 
vet submitted it again. LV received the claim form on 4 October 2022 and logged it on 
6 October 2022. LV told Mr A that claims processing took around two weeks. 
On 18 October 2022 Mr A chased the claim again. LV told Mr A that claims took around six 
weeks to be processed. He complained about this and about the conflicting information he 
had been given. He also made LV aware of his disability (autism). 
LV asked Mr A to provide details of Bs vets for the previous three years. He explained B 
was a rescue cat so he did not have three years history. But Mr A had earlier taken B to a 
different vet. He promptly gave LV that vets details. He said LV should ask for information in 
one go. 
On 20 October 2022 LV asked for Bs vet history again, in error. Mr A said he had already 
provided it. On the same day LV paid Mr As claim less the £75 policy excess. 
LV initially offered Mr A £30 compensation. He said this was not enough. He wanted a 
refund of the £75 excess and compensation. 
On 25 October 2022 LV sent Mr A its final response to his complaint. LV accepted the 
shortcomings in its service and apologised. LV also paid Mr A £75 compensation.
Mr A was unhappy with LVs response. He did not think £75 compensation was enough. He 
asked LV to confirm if it had taken his autism into account when responding to his complaint. 
LV did not reply. 
Mr A also complained that LV had sent policy renewal information to his previous email 
address. He had told LV his new email address. LV said it had updated his email address in 
its records. But his new email address had not been passed to the policys new administrator 
before the policy documents were sent to Mr A. LV apologised to Mr A for this. It also gave 
the administrator his new email address. Mr A brought his complaint to us. 
Our Investigator thought LVs response to Mr As complaints had been reasonable and £75 
compensation was fair. Mr A did not agree with our Investigators conclusions. So the 
complaint has come to me for review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think LVs response to Mr As complaints was reasonable and the compensation it paid him 
was fair. I dont require LV to do anything more to resolve his complaint. 
I have taken Mr As autism into account in my review. I will explain my reasons for my 
decision, focusing on Mr As response to our Investigator.
1. I think LV should have responded to Mr As question about whether it had taken into 
account his autism. But I am satisfied that LV did take his disability into account. LVs 
records show it noted his autism on 18 October 2022. LV then prioritised his claim. 
LV responded to his complaint promptly and apologised for its poor service, which 
was fair. 
2. I can see it was frustrating for Mr A to have to chase his vet and LV. I can only 
consider his complaint about LV. I can see that LV did not receive the claim form until 
4 October 2022. LV spoke to Mr As vet about the possible reasons for the original 
claim submission failing. 
3. Mr A should not have to chase for progress of his claim or complaint to have his 
claim paid. LV gave him conflicting information about its claim processing times. This 
was frustrating for him and inconvenient. He complained and made LV aware of his 
autism. In response, LV prioritised his claim and paid it promptly. LV investigated his 
complaint quickly. It accepted its shortcomings and apologised. LV paid him 
compensation and I think £75 was fair.
4. On the claim form LV asked Mr A Has your pet been registered with any other vet? If 
yes, please provide contact details. The question was not answered. So I think LV 
was entitled to ask Mr A for Bs previous vet/s. Mr A said the imperative language 
used by LV resulted in undue anxiety and stress for him (and his partner). But I see 
that LV promptly accepted that Mr A could not provide any further vet history 
because B was a rescue cat.  
LV apologised for its error in repeating its request for the vet history on 20 October 
2022. It corrected its error the same day and paid Mr As claim. So the error did not 
delay the claims process. 
LV did update Mr As email address in its records. LV also explained why the policy 
information had been sent to his previous email address. It apologised and updated the new 
administrators. I think this was a reasonable response. Fortunately, Mr A did receive his 
documents at his previous email address. So he did not suffer any loss.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. I think Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Company Limited has already taken reasonable steps to resolve the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Amanda MaycockOmbudsman