DRN-3579502
The complaint
Mrs N complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC forced her to take out a pension level term 
assurance policy to secure a loan.
What happened
In 1994, Mrs N and her husband took out an interest-only loan secured on their property. 
Barclays, who was the provider of the loan made it a condition of the borrowing that Mrs N 
should have a suitable term cover policy for the amount and term of the mortgage. Its not 
disputed that Barclays recommended Mrs N take out a pension term assurance policy for the 
amount of the loan over 17 years and that the policy continued for the full term.
Mrs N complained to Barclays that it forced her to take out the policy to secure the loan. 
Barclays responded to say that it was a condition of the loan that Mrs N had a suitable level 
of life cover so that the loan would be repaid if she died during the term. Barclays said that 
the policy was suitable and, because of the tax-relief available on the premiums, that it was 
also cost-effective. Barclays didnt uphold the complaint, but it did offer to pay Mrs N £100 
for the difficulties she had experienced in making the complaint.
Mrs N was unhappy with the final response from Barclays and brought her complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our Investigators looked into things and thought that 
Barclays hadnt done anything wrong. Mrs N asked that an Ombudsman decides the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mrs N will be disappointed, but Im persuaded Barclays didnt mis-sell the 
pension term assurance policy and it was required as a condition of the borrowing. 
It isnt disputed that the policy was put in place at the time of the borrowing and that the loan 
was on an interest-only basis. Theres also no dispute that the policy was set-up for the 
amount of the loan and the term of the borrowing. The borrowing was in joint names and its 
reasonable for me to conclude that if either Mrs N or her husband died before the end of the 
term, the other would be have the liability to pay the debt. 
Mrs N says her husband paid an amount off the balance from a pension several years after 
the loan started. This may be the case, but I have to look at whether the policy was suitable 
when it was sold regardless of any repayments that may have been made along the way. In 
this case, as it seems theres no dispute the policy covered the amount and term of the loan 
when it was taken out, Im satisfied that the policy Barclays sold Mrs N was suitable. In her 
comments to the Investigator Mrs N has referred to a separate insurance policy with another 
provider referred to in correspondence from her solicitor after the loan was drawn down. I 
think its most unlikely this is linked to life cover as the fact-find completed at the time of the 
sale makes no mention of any existing cover and instead refers to the need for a mirror 
policy for Mrs Ns husband. Correspondence from Mrs Ns the solicitors at the time did refer 
to two life policies from the same provider being assigned to the loan at completion. I 
consider this is more likely than not a reference to the mirror policies with the same provider 
that Barclays made a condition of the loan.
Mrs N feels that a charge over the residential property should be enough for Barclays. 
Regardless of this Barclays required suitable policies to be assigned in this case and I cant 
tell Barclays it shouldnt have made the assignment a condition of its lending. This was for 
Barclay to decide and Mrs N would have had the choice to apply elsewhere if she was 
unhappy with this at the time. 
When it responded to the complaint Barclays offered to pay Mrs N £100 for the difficulty in 
finding the right business to complain to. As complaint handling is not a regulated activity, I 
cant consider this aspect of the complaint. Ive seen that Mrs N accepted this payment, but if 
it hasnt yet been paid Mrs N may want to contact Barclays direct.
My final decision
Ive decided that the pension term assurance policy Barclays Bank UK PLC sold to Mrs N 
wasnt mis-sold. It was suitable for her needs at the time and it was a requirement of the 
borrowing.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman