DRN-2352797
The complaint
Miss S says Stagemount Limited, (trading as Quid Market), irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about a short-term loan for £300 Quid Market provided to Miss S in April
2019. It was repayable in monthly instalments of just under £100 each, over six months.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 7 October 2020 in which I explained why 
I had provisionally decided to uphold Miss S complaint. Miss S accepted my provision 
decision. But Quid Market didnt respond. As neither party made any further comments or 
sent us any new information following receipt of it, I see no reason to vary my provisional 
decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Quid Market needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss S
could repay the loan without having a significant adverse impact. These checks could take
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment
amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages
of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Quid Market should fairly and reasonably have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. (But as Miss S only took one loan from
Quid Market, this does not apply in this complaint.)
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Quid Market was required to establish
whether Miss S could sustainably repay her loan  not just whether the loan payments were
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Miss Ss complaint.
Quid Market has told us that, in addition to getting financial information from Miss S herself,
it also obtained a credit reference agency report. Im satisfied that, in the circumstances of
this complaint these were a proportionate checks for the loan.
I have seen a copy of the report and note that Miss S monthly credit repayments were
higher than she had told Quid Market at the time of her application. (Quid Market has told us
that it used the higher figure when deciding whether to lend to Miss S. Which I think was fair
to her.) Quid Market estimated that Miss S was left with about £550 disposable income each
month.
Our adjudicator upheld Miss S complaint because Quid Market should have seen from the
information it had that she was having difficulty managing her existing finances and was
borrowing from several short-term lenders. I agree with our adjudicator that the credit report
Quid Market obtained did disclose several unsecured loans. Unfortunately, the report did not
give full details of the type of these various loans. From the information given in the report,
including the amount of the loans, the period for which they were lent, and their repayment
terms, I agree with Quid Market, that it is likely only one of them was, in fact, a short-term
loan. However, for the reasons set out below, I have still come to the same conclusion as
our adjudicator. That is to say that Quid Market should have seen from the information it had
that Miss S was having difficulty managing her existing commitments and it wasnt likely
shed be able to repay further credit without difficulty.
In addition to the other unsecured loans which Quid Market noted, Miss S had mail order
and telecommunication accounts and a hire-purchase agreement on which she was also
making monthly payments. The latter alone amounted to £405 a month. It seems from the
credit report that Miss S was in an arrangement to pay with this creditor and her most recent
payment was for more than her regular amount. Altogether, taking into account all the
existing debts that Quid Market knew about, it doesnt seem like Miss S had any disposable
income left. I also note that the outstanding credit on Miss S various credit cards was close
to the respective limits allowed on them.Overall, I find that it would have been reasonable for Quid Market to have concluded from
the information in the report that Miss S was having difficulty in managing her money. And
that she wasnt likely to be able to repay its loan without further difficulty And that it ought not
to have given her the loan. So, I think that Miss S has lost out because it did give her the
loan.
Putting Things Right  what Quid Market needs to do
Quid Market shouldnt have given Miss S the loan, so I require it to take the following steps:
Quid Market should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the loan 
and treat any payments made by Miss S as though they had been repayments of the 
principal;
If this results in Miss S having made overpayments, then Quid Market should refund 
those overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments from the 
date the overpayments would have arisen to the date the complaint is settled;
However, if there is still an outstanding balance on the loan then Quid Market should
try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss S; and in either case
Quid Market should remove any negative information about the loan from Miss S
credit file, once settled;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quid Market to take off tax from this interest. Quid
Market must give Miss S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my decision is to uphold this complaint. And I order Stagemount 
Limited to take the steps set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman