DRN-4322068
The complaint
Mr C complained about what happened when he applied for a Nationwide Building Society 
mortgage. He said his application took far too long, and caused him a great deal of stress. 
He was also unhappy about his customer journey, and what happened when he complained.
What happened
Mr C complained about how long it took Nationwide to provide him with a mortgage offer. He 
said things went wrong in mid-July, not long before he was due to complete his purchase, 
and it took Nationwide too long to sort things out. He said Nationwide just wasnt telling him 
what was happening, although he was talking to Nationwide almost every day.
Mr C said he also wanted to complain that his complaint had been mishandled, and no one
took responsibility for it. He said he was promised a call-back that didnt happen, and again,
no one at Nationwide would tell him what was happening.
When Nationwide wrote to Mr C about this complaint, it said it could understand why Mr C
was concerned about incorrect information on whether the money was ready to be released
for his mortgage application, and he didnt get a promised call back. But it said that Mr Cs
conveyancers had sent it a certificate of title before a response was sent to them. It said it
stayed within its timescales, and hadnt confirmed it would be in touch on a particular day
when Mr C said he was promised a call back.
Nationwide said then that it was sorry there were errors made on Mr Cs application, and
when his current account had been opened, some years ago, his middle name wasnt
included. Nationwide offered Mr C £150 to say sorry.
Nationwide also said it was sorry that it hadnt responded to Mr Cs complaint within the 56
days allowed for that.
When this case came to our service, Nationwide said it had now been able to give Mr C a
mortgage, and hed bought his new home. It said he had originally applied on 9 March 2022,
but the offer needed to be amended after the conveyancer confirmed Mr Cs middle name.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She didnt think Nationwide had
delayed Mr Cs first offer. She said there were delays between 23 July, when she had
understood Mr Cs conveyancer asked Nationwide to change the name on the offer, and 11
August, when she said the offer was reissued. But she didnt think these were delays
Nationwide could clearly have avoided. She said Mr C could have corrected his name
earlier. She acknowledged some service issues which delayed completion, but said these
hadnt materially impacted Mr C. And she said that Nationwide had made a fair and
reasonable offer of £150 to resolve this complaint.
Mr C strongly disagreed. He said Nationwide had verified his identity several years earlier,
when hed opened his current account with it. So he felt that Nationwide carried more
responsibility for this mistake over his name than our investigator suggested.
Our investigator didnt change her mind. Because no agreement was reached, this case
came to me for a final decision. I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Mr C has said that he thinks whats gone wrong here forms two separate complaints. 
But I think the problems hes told us about are linked, and are best resolved together. Ill 
set out here briefly what I understand to have happened.
Mr C made a mortgage application, in early March 2022. He received a decision in 
principle, and then an offer dated 6 June 2022. Mr Cs purchase was ongoing, and his 
conveyancer noticed in early July that Mr Cs name on the mortgage offer documents 
didnt include his middle name.
Mr C said he already had an account with Nationwide, so it should already have his full 
name. Nationwide said it must have got this wrong when it opened that account, years 
ago. 
The conveyancer working for Mr C wrote to Nationwide, asking it to change Mr Cs 
name to add in his middle name, in a letter dated 8 July 2022. Nationwides notes say it 
received this letter by fax, on 15 July 2022.
Nationwide changed Mr Cs name, but the offer wasnt reissued. Nationwide said it 
declined.
The criteria for the mortgage Mr C was applying for had changed, and Nationwide was 
concerned that Mr C may not be earning enough to qualify under the new criteria. But as 
Mr Cs application had previously been approved, Nationwide decided it would honour 
the previous offer, and it worked on reinstating Mr Cs mortgage offer for him.
However, whilst Nationwide was trying to reinstate the previous offer, something else 
went wrong. The broker working on this application (who seems to have been a 
Nationwide employee) provided information about the build year of the property which 
didnt fit with the information Nationwide had received from its valuer.
Then a third problem occurred. While Nationwide was waiting for a response from its 
valuers, it was trying to reinstate Mr Cs mortgage offer. But the mortgage offer couldnt 
be reinstated. So when Nationwide got a response from its valuers, resolving the issue 
of the build date, it then had to reissue the offer manually.
I think Nationwide is partly to blame for what has gone wrong here. It accepted it made a 
mistake on Mr Cs initial account application, several years ago. And it looks like this is 
why his middle name was then missed from his mortgage application. Its not 
Nationwides fault that this wasnt noticed by either Mr C or his conveyancer earlier, but 
it is Nationwides fault that this then took so long to resolve. And the additional problems 
which occurred during this time, which also seem to have delayed the reissue of Mr Cs 
mortgage offer, do also seem to be things Nationwide is responsible for.
It took some time to sort these problems out, and Mr C missed his intended completion 
date. At one point, he feared his sale would fall through before Nationwide reissued his 
offer.Mr C told Nationwide hed paid twice for a firm of movers, and for cleaners, but he hasnt 
been able to evidence these costs, so I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to ask
Nationwide to pay that now. 
But I do think Nationwide should pay a little more compensation. Missing a property
completion date can have serious financial consequences. Mr C was able to rearrange 
his completion date, but it did look at one point as if the purchase would fall through, 
leaving Mr C in a very difficult position indeed. I think this must have been extremely 
stressful.
I also have to bear in mind what Mr C has said about his communications with 
Nationwide. Mr C has also told us that he simply wasnt told what was going on. He said 
it didnt explain the delay or the problems with his application, which would also have 
increased his level of stress. And I can see that it took quite some time to respond to his 
complaint. 
For the reasons set out above, I think that Nationwide should pay a total of £400 in
compensation for this complaint. I think that would provide a fair and reasonable 
outcome.
It doesnt look as if Mr C has accepted Nationwides previous offer of £150, but Ill allow
Nationwide to count towards this award, any money it has already paid for this award, in
case Mr C accepted that payment more recently.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide replied to acknowledge my provisional decision, and say it had nothing further to 
add. Mr C said he intended to reply, then asked for more time. Our service has twice 
extended the deadline for Mr C to respond. The extended deadline has now passed, and 
unfortunately no reply from Mr C has been received. I think its in the interests of both sides 
to bring this matter to a close, so I do now think its appropriate to finalise my decision in this 
case.  
Neither side has offered any further evidence or argument, and I havent changed my mind. 
Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society must pay Mr C a total of £400 in 
compensation for this complaint. Nationwide Building Society can count towards that award 
any money it has already paid Mr C for this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman