DRN-3838104
The complaint
Mr D complained that Nationwide Building Society made a SWIFT payment in the wrong
currency and this resulted in an exchange rate loss.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 20 October 2022. This is what I said:
What happened
Mr D wished to transfer £20,000 from his Nationwide account to his GBP bank account in
Albania. As he has difficulty both reading and understanding English, he decided to
complete the transaction in a branch on 28 January 2022.
Mr D says that when making the transaction he informed the Nationwide cashier that he
required a GBP to GBP transfer, and he showed them a prepared Albanian bank document
dated 23 December 2021 which set out all of his GBP bank account details. He says the
cashier used this information to populate the SWIFT Transfer Request Form, which he was
then asked to check and sign. When checking the form, Mr D chose to tick each line and
when he came to the currency to be sent line, which said EUR, he says he queried this
and was told not to worry, hence he didnt tick that line or the next foreign exchange rate
line.
Mr D later discovered that the transfer was completed in Euros rather than GBP and, as his
Albanian account was in GBP, this meant a double exchange rate conversion and a loss of
£850. Mr D complained to Nationwide and requested a refund of the amount lost. Nationwide
recognised there had been a misunderstanding but said their cashier remembered having
had a discussion on what currency was to be sent to Albania and EUR was offered and
accepted. Nationwide were sorry for the misunderstanding however couldnt agree they had
made any errors.
Mr D didnt agree and subsequently complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our
investigator didnt agree that Nationwide were responsible for the incorrect information on
the form. 
As Mr D remains dissatisfied, this case has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to a different view to the investigator and I intend to uphold Mr 
Ds complaint.
In the absence of any CCTV footage, I reviewed the Nationwide SWIFT Transfer Request
Form together with their process document. This confirms that the cashier populated the
SWIFT Transfer Request Form with Euros and not GBP. Mr D then signed the form which
stated By signing this form, I confirm the payment details are correct, agree to the above
important information, authorise this transaction and accept the transaction fee.
The customer checking and signing the request form is the critical part of the process, as
any errors or misunderstandings would be picked up at this stage. This could be taken to
confirm Nationwides position that the EUR option was both offered and accepted. 
However, I need to consider all of the circumstances of this complaint. So, while this signed 
form is important evidence here, there is also other evidence that I need to consider. In 
particular Mr D has given his version of events and submitted evidence which runs counter 
to what Nationwide has said. So here, I need to reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the overall circumstances. 
Its not in dispute that Mr D has a low English language capability. From listening to call 
recordings and looking at correspondence, Im satisfied that English is not his first language 
and accept his claim that he has difficulty reading and understanding it. So, its entirely 
understandable that he wanted to go to a branch to get support in making such a large 
transaction.
Ive seen that Mr Ds Albanian account is in GBP and he says he showed the cashier
information confirming this to Nationwide too. He says the cashier used this to populate the
relevant fields in the SWIFT transfer form. I think its likely that he provided this information
to the cashier on the day too, as it would have meant that he needed to do less explaining
given the language barrier. Hes provided what he says was the relevant information to this 
service too. Its dated 23 December 2021 and has all the relevant information to help make 
an international payment and it shows that the account was in GBP.
So, I think Mr Ds intention was always to transfer GBP to a GBP account and I think he took
the information to the branch to help him achieve that. It would be unusual, if not illogical, for
him to request a transfer in Euros, as this would mean an unnecessary high cost due to
exchange rates being applied twice. Notably here, Mr D put a tick next to all transaction
detail lines on the SWIFT Transfer Request Form, except for Euro and the exchange rate.
That supports that Mr D didnt think those options needed ticking because the payment was 
in GBP and there would be no exchange rate.
The cashier says Albanian Lek wasnt listed on the payment screen but Euros was an
option, and this was offered so it appears that the cashier understood Mr Ds request to be
a transfer in local currency. It is likely that this is where the confusion started as it would
have been unusual for Mr D to want Euros where the receiving account was held in GBP.
The cashier thought that as he wanted Euros, she went on to populate the form on that
basis, but it is unclear what steps were taken to check the currency of the account being
credited.
I requested further information from Nationwide on their procedures, including cashier
training material. This was so I could see international payment cashier activities and 
understand how they should be carried out. Unfortunately, this could not be provided so I 
have had to rely on the information on file.
Whatever the procedure here though, I think the fair thing to have done here would have
been to try to understand the nature of the transfer and to have established how best that
could be made for the customer. Thats particularly where there is a language capability
issue, which is a characteristic of vulnerability according to the Financial Conduct Authoritys
guidance on this topic.Also, although I do not have Nationwides procedural information, I would have thought it
likely for the cashier to make efforts to establish the currency of the account being credited
and to be careful of making any assumptions. Thats especially true here where Mr D has
difficulties with English and where he provided a statement clearly showing that the intended
account was in GBP.
In addition, if a transaction involves an additional currency, I thought it likely that a check 
would take place to ensure it is in the customers best interests. Given the evidence here, I 
think its more likely than not that the currency to be transferred was probably not clarified 
and the EUR option was entered because it was either an assumption, or an error.
I then considered Mr Ds comments on why he ticked some information on the SWIFT
Transfer Request Form but not the Euro and exchange rate lines. As there is dispute with
the cashier saying, EUR was offered and accepted and Mr D saying he was assured it was
GBP and told not to worry, I can only conclude that they were talking at cross purposes.
However, the fact that Mr D did not tick the Euro and exchange rate lines gives further
weight to him making a GBP instruction at the start of the process.
So, taking all of the above into account, on balance of probabilities I think it likely that Mr D
did his best to confirm he was sending GBP and when completing the SWIFT Transfer
Request Form the cashier either made an assumption or error. Because of his difficulties in
understanding English, Mr D thought he had been given reassurance that his instructions
were followed  when in fact they hadnt, as he later found out. So overall here, I intend to
uphold Mr Ds complaint.
In line with the above, Im currently minded to tell Nationwide to cover Mr Ds exchange rate
losses  which I work out to be £847.15 based on the evidence Mr D has supplied. I also
think this will have been a frustrating and confusing time for Mr D and so I intend to tell
Nationwide to pay £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of this
matter.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above, its my provisional decision to uphold this complaint and
award £847.15 to Mr D to cover the exchange rate loss. I also award £100 for the
inconvenience and distress caused.
I invited both parties to let me have any further comments or evidence before the deadline. 
Mr D didnt respond, and Nationwide said:
When a member requests for a SWIFT payment in the branch, we will complete the form 
using the details the member has provided, and we then ask the member to sign the form to 
confirm the details are correct. As previously confirmed, when Mr D visited our branch to 
request a SWIFT payment to be sent, the Member Representative at the branch had a 
discussion with Mr D on what currency was to be sent to Albania. Albania Lek wasnt listed 
on the payment screen; however, Euros was an option, and this was offered. Mr D confirmed 
to send the payment in Euros and Mr D signed the SWIFT transfer request form to confirm 
the payment details are correct.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Thinking about everything again and in light of Nationwides comment I still think, on balance 
of probabilities, that its likely that Mr D did his best to confirm he was sending GBP and 
when completing the SWIFT Transfer Request Form the cashier either made an assumption 
or error. And. because of his difficulties in understanding English, Mr D thought he had been 
given reassurance that his instructions were followed  when in fact they hadnt, as he later 
found out. So, Im upholding Mr Ds complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is to uphold this complaint. I require Nationwide Building Society to pay Mr 
D £847.15 to cover the exchange rate loss. Also, to pay Mr D £100 for the inconvenience 
and distress caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman