DRN-3425185
The complaint
Mrs T has complained Insurance Factory Ltd didnt warn her effectively about how premiums 
for lifetime pet policies might increase over the life of the policy. She has complained that her 
latest renewal premium was far too high.
Insurance Factory is represented by an entity which I shall call M.
What happened
Mrs Ts initial complaint was set up against the underwriter of her policy, as they are the 
entity which set the premium amount. That complaint has been dealt with by me separately. 
In that complaint the underwriter explained it was only responsible for any information which 
would have been given to Mrs T at the renewal about how premiums might rise since 2017. 
M said it wasnt involved as an underwriter when Mrs T bought her policy in 2012 and it said 
at that it understood that Insurance Factory was responsible for the presentation of the 
relevant documentation to Mrs T when she was buying this policy.
Mrs T brought a lifetime pet policy for her dog through a broker in 2012 and the premium 
was £366.00 per year for vet fees cover of £3,500.00 per year. At the renewal on 20 
December 2021 she was asked to pay an annual premium of £2,036.16. Her previous years 
premium was £1,682.76. She considered this was significantly overpriced. The underwriter 
initially offered her a 10% reduction in her premium which it later withdrew but then it paid 
her £100 compensation.
Mrs T remained dissatisfied and so brought her complaint to us. As I have dealt with the 
complaint against the underwriter separately, this complaint merely concerns the actions 
Insurance Factory at the time Mrs T bought her policy. The investigator was of the view that 
Insurance Factory should pay Mrs T another £150 compensation. M said that Insurance 
Factory disagreed because it thought the information given to Mrs T by the underwriter was 
sufficient. So, Mrs Ts complaint has been passed to me decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. 
This is because it wasnt until 2017 when the underwriter began to explain in renewal notices 
that the cost of lifetime policies could increase as the pet got older. And of course once you 
have a lifetime policy, any conditions claimed for continued to be covered by that policy up to 
the benefit limit and any other limitations but not so when you change providers as virtually 
all pet insurers will have some sort of exclusion or limitation on pre-existing conditions. Mrs T 
has now changed insurers and has told us this new policy is subject to pre-existing 
exclusions too. So, insuring elsewhere as the underwriter initially said, doesnt provide the 
same coverage sadly.
Despite the fact that Insurance Factory are not involved in the setting of the premium, more 
clarity about how lifetime premiums might rise when someone is considering this type of 
cover is essential. And I can understand with Mrs Ts upset at being asked to pay £2,036.16 
for merely £3,500 cover. 
So as M said in the complaint set up against the underwriter that the underwriter clearly felt 
this was at Insurance Factorys door in their dealings with the other complaint (and M has 
not produced any other evidence that Insurance Factory wasnt), I do consider its 
reasonable for Insurance Factory to pay Mrs T further compensation for the upset of how 
high her premiums had risen to. I consider the £150 compensation to be fair and reasonable.
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Insurance Factory Ltd to pay Mrs T £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman