DRN-2201492
The complaint
Ms F complains she was mis-sold a mortgage by an appointed representative of Personal 
Touch Financial Services Ltd.
What happened
In 2008, Ms F had a mortgage. She met with Personal Touch to discuss a re-mortgage. 
Personal Touch arranged a new mortgage for her, on interest only terms, which also 
consolidated around £20,000 of unsecured debt.
Ms F now complains that the mortgage was unsuitable for her. She says she has no way of 
repaying the interest only mortgage at the end of the term. This was never discussed with 
her at the time. She says debt consolidation wasnt suitable as it made the debts much more 
expensive in terms of overall interest charged. And she said she felt pressured into taking 
out the mortgage and borrowing as much as possible  she suspects to boost the brokers 
commission. 
Personal Touch said it didnt recommend this mortgage. It said Ms F could afford a 
repayment mortgage and thats what it had recommended. It didnt think an interest only 
mortgage was suitable. But, it said, Ms F had disregarded that advice and had insisted on 
taking out an interest only mortgage. So Personal Touch arranged what she wanted for her.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint, so Ms F asked for an 
ombudsman to review it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres a dispute about what happened at the time of the sale. Ms F says Personal Touch 
recommended this mortgage  indeed, it pressured her into taking it. But Personal Touch 
says that, in fact, it recommended she take a repayment mortgage but she insisted on this 
interest only one.
Ive thought carefully about what both parties have said, and looked at all the evidence. Ms F 
is clear in her account of what happened. But her recollection is the only evidence 
supporting her version of events. I dont doubt Ms Fs strength of feeling or the honesty of 
her recollections. But I also bear in mind that these events were over ten years ago, and 
human memory can be fallible. Theres much scientific research which shows that memories 
change and adapt over time  and can be influenced by later beliefs. In other words, its 
possible that Ms Fs recollection that she was pushed into taking out a mortgage she didnt 
want has been shaped by her later belief that this was the wrong mortgage for her. 
On the other hand, I have the documents which were created at the time. 
In particular, Ive seen the letter Ms F was sent setting out what was discussed with the 
broker. And Ive seen what Personal Touch calls its insistent client form. 
The letter sets out that the broker recommended a repayment mortgage however you have 
insisted on an interest only mortgage because you are confident of paying off the mortgage 
with the proceeds of the sale of the property.
The broker went on to set out that Ms F was planning to consolidate her debts. It set out the 
risks of doing so  including that it would make the debts more expensive over the long term. 
But the broker didnt recommend consolidating the debts; rather, she made clear that was 
Ms Fs choice.
The insistent client form contains a declaration that I wish to purchase the product below. I 
understand and confirm that I am purchasing the product by going against my advisors 
recommendations as detailed below. Advised repayment but client wishes to pay interest 
only. Ms F has signed the form to confirm that she is acting against advice and may not be 
taking out the best mortgage for herself as a result. Although Im not a handwriting expert, 
the signature on this form appears to me to match Ms Fs signature on her complaint form.
That is the evidence I have available. Taking everything into consideration, I think its likely 
the documents are a more accurate record of what happened. Ive explained the problems 
with human memory. And I think its more likely than not that Ms F is honestly mistaken in 
her recollections. I think she did sign that form at the time in 2008, and she did so because, 
at the time, she had decided to take an interest only mortgage  despite advice not to.
Under the rules of mortgage regulation as they were at the time, a broker was allowed to 
give advice on a suitable mortgage  and if the customer rejected that advice and wanted a 
different mortgage, to go ahead and arrange the different mortgage.
I think thats what happened here. Personal Touch recommended a repayment mortgage to 
Ms F. But she didnt accept that advice. Instead, she insisted on an interest only mortgage  
and wanted to consolidate her debts despite being warned about the costs of doing so.
That was a decision Ms F was entitled to make. At the time, reliance on sale of the property 
was a common repayment strategy for an interest only mortgage. While it wasnt the best 
mortgage for her, or the one that was recommended, I dont think it was so unsuitable that 
Personal Touch should have refused to arrange it for her when Ms F insisted on it.
I do understand and sympathise with the position Ms F finds herself in now, ten years later. It 
seems her circumstances have changed in the years since and shes now finding managing 
the mortgage difficult. Id urge her to take some financial advice about that, and to speak to 
the lender. Lenders are required to help borrowers in difficulties, and the sooner she starts a 
dialogue with the lender about how it will be repaid, and explores her other options, the 
better.
As I say, I do have sympathy with the position Ms F is now in. But I dont think Personal 
Touch is responsible for that. It arranged the mortgage she wanted  even though it had 
advised her that there were better and more suitable options available to her. Ms F went 
ahead knowing that, and so I dont think I can fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman