DRN-3371951
The complaint
Mr M complains Close Brothers Limited (Close Brothers) failed to support him during his 
time of financial difficulty as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. 
What happened
In December 2018, Mr M entered into a 36 month conditional sale agreement for a used car. 
The cash price was £4,845 and he was required to pay £172 per month. 
In May 2020, Mr M told Close Brothers that he was experiencing financial difficulty as he had 
been furloughed due to the pandemic. Close Brothers agreed to 90 days breathing space. 
This meant they wouldnt collect payment and there would be no impact on his credit file. In 
September 2020, at Mr Ms request this was extended by a further 90 days, meaning he 
wasnt required to pay anything towards the agreement for six months between June and 
November 2020. 
In October 2020, Mr M asked for further breathing space but Close Brothers said this 
wouldnt be possible as they had already deferred payments for six months. They agreed to 
a three month arrangement in which Mr M was required to pay the contractual amount only. 
Mr M also told them that the missed payments during the breathing space period were 
reporting adversely on his credit file. He was told this would be removed but despite his 
repeated calls to Close Brothers to rectify it, the markers remained in January 2021.
In January 2021, Close Brothers contacted Mr M about setting up a payment plan. He was 
told that he was required to pay back the missed payments during the term of the agreement 
meaning the monthly instalments would increase to £258. However Mr M said during the call 
in May 2020 he was told the missed payments would be added to the end of the agreement. 
In February 2021, Close Brothers issued their final response, they accepted adverse 
information had incorrectly reported on Mr Ms credit file between June 2020 to January 
2021. They agreed to remove it and advised it could take up to 60 days to do so. However 
they disagreed incorrect information was given to him about the breathing space, they said 
he was told once it ended, a 3 to 12 month repayment plan would be set up. 
Unhappy with their response, Mr M referred the complaint to our service. While waiting for 
the complaint to be investigated, he said he stopped making payments towards the 
agreement. He explained the reasons for this were because Close Brothers had yet to rectify 
his credit file and he couldnt afford the increased instalments. 
In October 2021, Close Brothers identified adverse markers were reporting incorrectly on Mr 
Ms credit file between January and May 2021, they said this was due to the previous missed 
payments during the breathing space. They confirmed they would update it and they offered 
£50 compensation by way of an apology. 
Although the issue of Mr Ms ability to pay the increased instalments werent subject to the 
complaint when it was initially brought to our service, the investigator decided to consider all 
complaint points under this reference. 
They recommended the case was upheld as they didnt believe Close Brothers had acted 
fairly during Mr Ms period of financial difficulty. They said Close Brothers should:
-Remove any negative markers from Mr Ms credit file;
-Discuss Mr Ms financial situation and agree a suitable repayment plan;
-Pay Mr M an additional £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Broadly speaking, Close Brothers accepted the investigators opinion however they said he 
hadnt told them he couldnt afford the increased instalments. They also said when the 
breathing space ended they allowed him to continue to pay the normal contractual amount 
for three months in order to assist him (November to January). Thereafter, he was required 
to pay £258 per month which he agreed to.
Although Mr M agreed in principle to the above, he didnt feel £150 compensation was 
enough. He said Close Brothers should pay £1,000 compensation given the trouble and 
upset caused. 
In February 2022, I issued my provisional decision partially upholding the complaint. I said:
 
Financial difficulty 
Having reviewed the file, its clear Mr M suffered financial difficulty as a result of the 
pandemic. Im sorry to hear this, I can appreciate this wouldve been a difficult time for him.  
Overall, I agree with the findings of the investigator so I wont repeat them again in full here. I 
recognise Close Brothers efforts to support Mr M during his time of financial difficulty by 
deferring the payments for six months. Im satisfied they followed the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys guidance on Covid-19 for car finance firms as mentioned in the investigators 
opinion. Theyve already accepted during that time, the missed payments shouldnt have 
reported adversely on his credit file and theyve agreed to update this for June to January 
2021. I consider this a fair remedy given the circumstances and based on the evidence Ive 
seen, it looks like this was successfully updated. 
However by his own admission, Mr M said he stopped making payments out of frustration of 
Close Brothers failing to rectify his credit file despite him chasing them. I can understand his 
frustration with this because its clear there was a significant delay to when he first reported it 
in October 2020 to when it was eventually updated around February 2021. However, if a 
consumer is able to afford to pay the contractual instalments, it isnt advisable for them to 
stop making contractual payments in order to resolve a dispute as this is likely to make the 
situation worse. 
That said, Mr M has also told our service that the other reason why he stopped making the 
payments was because he couldnt afford the increased instalments. I note Close Brothers 
comments that they were unaware of this and based on their contact notes I can understand 
why. During a call in January 2021, they discussed a repayment plan and they said he would 
be required to pay £258 and based on the contact notes Ive seen, the advisor noted Mr M 
was happy with this plan. Had this amount not been affordable to Mr M, I believe it wouldve 
been reasonable for him to have said so but there is no evidence he did. However I 
appreciate he may not have realised other support may have been available or perhaps 
given the issues with his credit file and communication with Close Brothers, he lost 
confidence in them.
When a payment deferral (breathing space) comes to an end and the consumer is unable to 
resume payments, the FCAs guidance, published in July 2020, says:Firms should take reasonable steps to contact their customers in good time before the end 
of an initial payment deferral period about resuming payments and to engage with them 
about their options when it expires
It also says:
Where a customer can resume full repayments after the initial payment deferral, but is 
unable to pay the deferred amounts immediately and in full, the firm should allow them to 
repay the deferred amounts over the remaining term of the agreement or allow a longer 
period for repayment. The firm should consider what is most in the customers interests. 
For example, where appropriate, the firm could lengthen the time during which the customer 
is allowed to make repayments by: 
 the length of the initial payment deferral or 
 a period of time that enables the customer to keep the same contractual payments they 
had prior to the payment deferral.
There are other parts of the guidance which may be relevant but I specifically wanted to 
highlight the above. This is because I think its fair to say the FCAs intention was where a 
payment deferral had been granted and its due to come to an end, it was expected  
businesses like Close Brothers to work with consumers about how best to pay the missing 
sums. In this case, it appears theyve done so as they set up a repayment plan in January 
2021 based on what they believed Mr M could afford so I believe they acted fairly.
Mr M was of the impression the missed payments would be added to the end of the 
agreement. Close Brothers said he was told a repayment plan of 3 to 12 months would be 
set up. I can understand why they wouldnt automatically add deferred payments to the end 
of the agreement as this is likely to increase the total amount payable which wouldnt always 
be in the interest of their consumers. 
In this case, in order to pay back the missed payments, Close Brothers increased the 
monthly instalments during the term of the agreement. I dont have an issue with this as its a 
reasonable course of action which for many consumers may be agreeable as its the most 
cost effective option. However the problem arises where such an increase is unaffordable. 
Where this happens, I would expect alternative and sustainable support to be offered. 
However this can only happen if its made clear to them that the increased payment is 
unaffordable and as explained above, I dont believe Mr M told Close Brothers this wouldnt 
be affordable. 
In any event, he has made it clear to our service that he cant afford the increased 
instalments. Similar to the investigator, in order to move matters forward, I believe Close 
Brothers should talk to Mr M to discuss a suitable repayment plan based on what he can 
afford, he has told our service he can at least afford the original contractual amount. I believe 
this is a fair solution and Close Brothers have already agreed they will do so. This may mean 
there is still money owed when the agreement comes to an end and I encourage Close 
Brothers to work with Mr M if this is likely to impact his ownership of the car. Its likely Mr M 
wont be able to take ownership until the balance is paid in full and in the circumstances, I 
believe this is fair.  
Mr M has provided our service with a recent copy of his credit report which shows missed 
payment markers for February, March, October, November, December 2021 and January 
2022. I believe a fair remedy would be to remove all adverse information from his credit file 
from June 2020 up to the present day. I wish to remind Close Brothers, if Mr M is still experiencing financial difficulty, I expect them 
to treat him with forbearance and due consideration. I must also make it clear, when 
discussing the repayment plan if Mr M is unable to at least meet the contractual amount of 
£172 this is likely to impact his credit file moving forward as Close Brothers are obliged to 
correctly record the status of the agreement. Equally, they may decide to take other action 
such as recovery proceedings. 
Lastly, Ive carefully considered Mr Ms comments concerning the impact this situation has 
had on him. He said he intended to move house, buy another one and make use of the 
Governments temporary initiative regarding stamp duty on properties. Due to the issues with 
his credit file, he said he was unable to do so. He also said during that time his mortgage 
rate was due to expire and he wasnt able to get a favourable rate due to the adverse 
information on his credit file. 
In order to award financial losses, I must be satisfied that it was a direct result of the 
business failing. In this case, that would mean I would need to be satisfied had it not been 
for Close Brothers failing to remove the adverse information from the credit file, Mr M 
wouldnt have incurred the financial losses hes reported. Currently, there isnt enough 
evidence for me to reasonably say thats what happened. While I accept Mr Ms credit score 
is most likely to have been impacted, I cant say with any certainty this was the only reason 
for him not being able to move or get a favourable mortgage rate on his existing property.
The decision to lend is a commercial one made by a financial business and while an 
individuals credit score will undoubtedly be a consideration, there are many other factors 
that are taken into account. Its also worth noting that throughout the period of the Covid-19 
pandemic, especially at its peak, many financial businesses were being more cautious about 
lending due to the economic uncertainty so I must bear this in mind. Having done so, I dont 
believe I have sufficient evidence to safely conclude Mr Ms reported losses were a direct 
result of Close Brothers failing to remove the adverse information so I wont be asking them 
to compensate him for such losses. 
That said, I recognise the impact and the level of trouble and upset upon Mr M and this can 
be seen in his level of communication with Close Brothers. Adverse information was  
incorrectly recorded against him over an extended amount of time despite him being told it 
would be removed. This wouldve all taken place during what was already a stressful and 
uncertain time for Mr M and its clear this situation caused further worry and upset. Given 
these circumstances, I believe Close Brothers should pay an additional £150 compensation. 
Response to the provisional decision
Both parties were invited to respond to the provisional decision. Close Brothers accepted the 
findings and recommendations. Mr M didnt provide any further comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On the basis I havent been provided with any further information to change my decision I 
still consider my findings to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Therefore, my final 
decision is the same for the reasons as set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint.To put things right, Close Brothers Limited should:
-Set up a suitable arrangement to pay based on what Mr M can afford (providing this 
is a minimum of the original contractual payment of £172);
-Remove any adverse information about this agreement from Mr Ms credit file from 
June 2020 up to the time an arrangement to pay is agreed;
-Pay an additional £150 compensation to Mr M for the trouble and upset caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman