DRN-3712776
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund the money they lost when they 
fell victim to an authorised push payment (APP) scam involving the transfer of money to an 
account held at HSBC.
Whats happened?
In summary, Mr and Mrs B say they fell victim to an investment scam in early 2021, and they 
were tricked into sending money from their own bank account to a fraudsters account held 
with HSBC.
Both Mr and Mrs Bs bank and HSBC are signed up to the Lending Standards Boards 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code).
The CRM Code was implemented to reduce the occurrence of APP scams. It sets out what 
is expected of the Sending Firm when payments are made which includes a consideration 
of whether a customer met their requisite level of care when making the payment. It also 
sets out the obligations for the Receiving Firm to prevent, detect and respond to the receipt 
of funds from APP scams in order to prevent accounts from being opened, or used, to 
launder the proceeds of APP scams. Where there is a failing by either the Sending Firm or 
Receiving Firm, they may be required to reimburse the customer. The customer may be 
required to share some responsibility for the loss if it is determined that they also failed to 
meet their requisite level of care under the CRM Code.
Once notified of the fraud, HSBC restricted the recipient account. However, it said that no 
money remained in the account to recover.
I understand that Mr and Mrs Bs bank have refunded half of their loss, and they would like 
HSBC to refund the remainder. They raise questions about how the recipient account was 
opened and used, and they allege that HSBC knew the receiving account had been used 
fraudulently before. 
In its capacity as the Receiving Firm here, HSBC didnt think it was liable to reimburse the 
remaining losses Mr and Mrs B incurred. It said that: 
the receiving account was opened in accordance with account opening procedures.
it was unaware that its customer was involved in fraudulent activity when Mr and Mrs 
B paid them.
it took the appropriate actions upon being notified of the fraud.
Mr and Mrs B referred a complaint to this Service for an impartial review. One of our 
investigators looked into things and didnt recommend that HSBC needed to do anything 
further. 
Mr and Mrs B asked for an ombudsman to review their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, to clarify, this decision focuses solely on the actions of HSBC  as the Receiving Firm 
of the account Mr and Mrs B made payments to.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs B but Im not upholding their complaint about HSBC. I 
understand theyve been the victims of a cruel scam, but I dont believe HSBC has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably. Ill explain why.
Amongst other things, regulated firms receiving payments, like HSBC, are required to 
conduct their business with due skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) 
and to comply with their legal and regulatory anti-money laundering and countering the 
financing of terrorism requirements.
Those requirements include maintaining proportionate and risk-sensitive policies and 
procedures to identify, assess and manage money laundering risk  for example, through 
customer due diligence measures and the ongoing monitoring of the business relationship 
(including through the scrutiny of transactions undertaken throughout the course of the 
relationship).
And, more generally, given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, as 
a matter of good industry practice at the time, I think firms should reasonably have had 
measures in place to detect suspicious transactions or activities that might indicate fraud or 
financial abuse (something also recognised by the Banking Standards Institutes October 
2017 Protecting Customers from Financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  
Code of Practice).
Im satisfied that this good practice requirement meant not just looking out for situations 
where a customer might be the victim of fraud, but also situations where the customer might 
be the perpetrator of fraud or a money mule.
Also relevant in this case, as mentioned earlier, is the CRM Code that HSBC are a signatory 
of.
The relevant considerations for Receiving Firms under the CRM Code set out the following:
CRM Code: Payment Journey  Receiving Firm
SF2 Receiving Firms should take reasonable steps to prevent accounts from being 
used to launder the proceeds of APP scams. This should include procedures 
to prevent, detect and respond to the receipt of funds from APP scams. 
Where the receiving Firm identifies funds where there are concerns that they 
may be the proceeds of an APP scam, it should freeze the funds and respond 
in a timely manner.
Prevention
SF2(1) Firms must take reasonable steps to prevent accounts being opened for 
criminal purposes.
Detection
SF2(3) Firms must take reasonable steps to detect accounts which may be, or are 
being, used to receive APP scam funds.Response
SF2(4) Following notification of concerns about an account or funds at a receiving 
Firm, the receiving Firm should respond in accordance with the procedures 
set out in the Best Practice Standards.
In considering all of the above, and to determine whether HSBC met the standards required 
of it under the CRM Code, Ive thought about whether HSBC opened the receiving account 
correctly, whether there was anything in the way the account was being used that ought to 
have caused HSBC some concern and finally; whether HSBC acted appropriately and in a 
timely manner once notified of fraud.
Mr and Mrs B should be aware that, whilst HSBC has provided our Service with information 
about the receiving account, it has done so in confidence. This is to allow us to discharge 
our investigatory functions. HSBC has provided that which is necessary for the determination 
of this complaint. Due to data protection laws, our Service cant share information about the 
beneficiary, the receiving account, or any investigation and action HSBC subsequently 
undertook with them. However, I would like to assure Mr and Mrs B that I have thoroughly 
reviewed and considered all the information provided in reaching my decision.
Prevention  the account opening process
To help decide whether or not a bank failed to prevent the loss of an APP victim when 
opening the beneficiary account, we would generally ask to see evidence that; it correctly 
followed its account opening procedures; carried out checks to verify the identity of the 
named account holder; and did its due diligence when opening the account. 
However, our Service only has powers to consider complaints about Receiving Firms since 
31 January 2019  and we cant consider any acts or omissions carried out by a Receiving 
Firm that occurred before this date. That means if the account was opened before this date, I 
am unable to comment on or make a finding as to whether I consider a Firm may have failed 
in its obligations in any way.
In this case, the beneficiary account was opened prior to 2019, so I am unable to comment 
on or make a finding about the account opening process  as the act of HSBC opening the 
account happened prior to when our Service had the power to look into complaints about 
Receiving Firms. However, HSBC has still provided information about how the beneficiary 
account was opened and the supporting documentation it obtained at the time. Whilst I am 
unable to comment or make a finding here, for Mr and Mrs Bs benefit, HSBC has said the 
account was opened in accordance with its procedures.
Detection  account activity
The primary duty of a bank is to follow their customers instructions and make payments as 
directed in line with the mandate  which is usually set out in the terms and conditions of the 
account. The CRM Code sets out that Firms must take reasonable steps to detect accounts 
which may be, or are being, used to receive APP scam funds. This ties in with long-standing 
regulatory and legal obligations Banks and Building Societies have to monitor their business 
relationships and be alert to other risks  such as fraud, which would include giving 
consideration to unusual and out of character transactions.
Ive looked at the account history for the beneficiary account and I cant say there was any 
account activity that I think ought reasonably to have stood out to HSBC as suspicious or 
significantly outside of what might be expected for accounts of that type. I can see the 
account had been running for a considerable time, and that there was no notification of fraud on the account prior to the payments Mr and Mrs B made. Im satisfied there were no other 
red flags so that it could reasonably be argued that HSBC ought to have had sufficient 
grounds to suspect fraud.
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied that HSBC has demonstrated it has taken reasonable 
steps to detect accounts which may be, or are being, used to receive APP scam funds. I 
dont think HSBC ought reasonably to have had concerns where I would have expected it to 
intervene here, so I cant fairly say that it should have prevented Mr and Mrs Bs loss.
Response to notification of fraud
The Best Practice Standards set out that a Receiving Firm must take appropriate action, in a 
speedy manner, upon notification of APP fraud and notify the Sending Firm if any funds 
remain for recovery. Here, once notified of the scam, Im satisfied HSBC took the necessary 
actions required of it and did so in a timely manner. Unfortunately, none of Mr and Mrs Bs 
funds remained in the beneficiary account to recover.
Taking the above into consideration, Im satisfied that, following notification of APP fraud, 
HSBC responded in accordance with the procedures set out in the Best Practice Standards.
Overall, while Mr and Mrs B were the unfortunate victims of a scam, Im satisfied that HSBC 
met the standards required of it under the CRM Code. Im also satisfied that HSBC, as the 
Receiving Firm, couldnt have done more to prevent the loss of Mr and Mrs Bs money, and 
that it responded appropriately once notified of fraud. So, it follows that I dont think HSBC is 
liable to reimburse Mr and Mrs B for their remaining loss under the CRM Code or otherwise.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman