DRN-1661874
 
The complaint
Miss B complains about the advice she received from Nationwide Building Society.  
In short, she says she was incorrectly told that she could transfer funds from her child trust 
fund (CTF) to a Help to Buy ISA.
 
What happened
Nationwide upheld the complaint, and offered Miss B £125 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused. It accepts that she was incorrectly told by one of its branch phone operatives 
that she could transfer money from her CTF to the ISA. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
 
The offer made by Nationwide was overall fair and reasonable.
Miss B made the decision to pay £1,000 (from her savings) towards an intensive 
driving course, before she made the transfer. 
She had the opportunity to cancel the course within 14 days but chose not to, and 
therefore failed to mitigate her loss.
Because it wasnt possible to make the transfer in the first place Miss B wasnt 
entitled to the £250 government payment on the help to buy ISA and therefore isnt 
entitled to any more compensation.
 
Miss B disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, she said:
 
She didnt think the investigator had taken into account all of the points she made. 
Shes unhappy that she didnt pass her test and feels it was all for nothing.
 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review.  
 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons, Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face the evidence, and on balance, despite what Miss B says, Im satisfied that the 
£125 compensation offered by Nationwide is broadly fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
But before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise the 
strength of feeling Miss B has about this matter. Im sorry that she didnt pass her driving 
test. 
Miss B has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope she wont take the fact my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading  its not what Im required to do  in order to reach a decision in this case. I 
appreciate this can be frustrating, but it doesnt mean Im not considering the pertinent 
points. 
I appreciate Miss B feels her points havent been considered properly by the investigator, but 
I dont agree and Im sorry she feels that way. 
My role is to consider the evidence presented by her and Nationwide, and reach what I think 
is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case, rather than 
take any sides.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice but, perhaps unlike a court or tribunal, Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have 
happened.
Nationwide has upheld the complaint and therefore the key issue for me to consider is 
whether or not the compensation is fair and reasonable. The lack of the telephone call 
recording hasnt therefore prevented me from reaching a decision in this case.  
Its important to remember that the £125 is compensation for distress and inconvenience 
caused by Nationwides mistake only  in other words the impact the mistake has had on 
Miss B. This isnt compensation for her missing out on the £250 government payment.
Because it wasnt possible to transfer money from her CTF to the ISA, the £250 payment 
isnt something that she wouldve been entitled to in this case. Thats primarily the reason 
why I dont think shes entitled to any more compensation. 
I appreciate that Miss B  having spoken to Nationwide  spent £1000 (from her savings) to 
pay towards an intensive driving course, but I dont think I can reasonably hold Nationwide 
responsible for this.
Notwithstanding the incorrect information, I note that Nationwide was never told why she 
was asking the question in the first place (other than to put money into a help to buy ISA) or 
what shed planned to do, so it couldnt have foreseen that she was going to use £1,000 of 
her savings for the driving lessons and transfer the CTF into the ISA. Had Nationwide known, I think its more likely (than not) it wouldve told her to wait until the 
transfer had taken place, which is what I think she ought reasonably to have done in the 
circumstances in case there were any issues. Instead Miss B went ahead (almost 
immediately) and paid for the driving course, and then went into branch to transfer her funds 
from her CTF to the ISA.  
I understand that Miss B also had an opportunity to cancel the driving course within 14 days 
of booking, thereby mitigating most (if not all) of her losses, and would probably have been 
able to put the money into the ISA  even though she couldnt transfer the funds from her 
CTF. But she didnt cancel the course and, despite having an opportunity to put only a few 
pounds in to start the ISA, she hasnt done so.  
I appreciate Miss B will be disappointed Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isnt what she wants to hear. Whilst I 
appreciate her frustration, Im not persuaded to require Nationwide to do anything further. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
I think the offer made by Nationwide Building Society is fair and responsible in the 
circumstances.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Dara Islam
Ombudsman