DRN-2738577
The complaint
Mr As unhappy with the way hes been treated by Unum Limited and its decision to decline 
his claim.   
What happened
The background to this decision was set out as part of my provisional findings. I decided that 
Unum should have accepted Mr As claim from February 2020. I said that it was from this 
point, Mr A satisfied the policy criteria and was incapacitated. I said Unum should consider 
paying his claim, plus 8% simple interest and £500 compensation for the overall trouble and 
upset caused. 
Neither party accepted my provisional findings. 
Mr A, in summary, said the compensation should be increased to £10,000 to accurately 
reflect the level of damage caused by Unum by continuing to decline his claim and treating 
him poorly. He said Unums actions severely affected his mental health and its actions 
prolonged his recovery. He also asked that Unum effectively extend the period it pays 
incapacity benefit by an additional year by way of apology. Mr A was also concerned that Id 
overlooked part of his complaint and not considered the way Unum had treated him overall. 
Mr A said that his FIT notes referred to stress as being the initial cause of absence because 
he explicitly asked his GP not to record anything more than that. Mr A said he was afraid of 
the stigma attached to mental health problems, particularly what his employer might think. 
Unum highlighted part of my provisional findings where Id said that its initial decision to 
decline the claim was correct. It challenged my recommendation about beginning the 
deferred period from February 2020. Unum said this should be considered as a separate 
claim and that the policy holder, Mr As employer, would first need to give explicit consent for 
this to happen. Unum said it would not be fair to receive a change in outcome classification 
for this complaint, should my final decision be along these lines, because it ultimately did the 
right thing by declining Mr As claim. 
Its now for me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided that my provisional findings still stand and so Im upholding Mr 
As complaint for the same reasons explained as part of that decision. Both sides have 
submitted further arguments which Ive summarised above, but Im not persuaded to depart 
from my initial findings. Ill explain why.  
I dont dispute Unums actions have had a substantial impact on Mr A, and I understand that 
it may have impacted his recovery from his mental health problems. But Im not here to 
punish Unum for its mistakes. Ive carefully considered all of Mr As arguments and the 
medical evidence, and I still feel that £500 compensation for the overall trouble and upset 
caused to be fair. I should highlight this is in addition to awarding his claim, plus 8% simple 
interest. I thought Unums actions overall had a substantial impact on Mr A which is why Im 
awarding that amount of compensation. This falls within the scope of the ombudsmans 
substantial compensatory range. Therefore, I wont be awarding anything further here. 
I also think itd be unfair to suggest that Unum extend the period of cover in the way Mr A 
has suggested. Unums incapacity terms are clear in that it will cover the first two years of 
incapacity against his insured occupation, subject to the remaining terms, and then broaden 
its scope to assess his ability to work in any other occupation after this. Unum is also entitled 
to conduct regular reviews with Mr A to ensure he continues to meet its definition of 
incapacity. 
Mr A inferred the GPs FIT notes didnt fully capture the full extent of his illness in the initial 
stages of his absence from work. Mr A said he was suffering with a mental health condition 
for longer than the medical evidence suggested. Ive thought carefully about this and whilst 
Im sympathetic to his argument, Im not persuaded it means Unum should do anything 
more. Its the ombudsmans role to consider the evidence put to it and Im satisfied the 
medical evidence shows that Mr A was suffering with a medical condition from February 
2020 because this is the first mention of anxiety and depression. Thats not to say Mr A 
wasnt suffering with symptoms prior, its simply that the threshold of medical evidence was 
met from that point.
Unums reply to my provisional findings was that it could not, or should not, be expected to 
begin a separate claim for Mr A despite the new medical evidence that was put to it post-
declination. But Im not persuaded by its argument here, nor do I think its a fair position to 
take in the circumstances. I say that because although Unum initially declined Mr As claim 
fairly, it still had a responsibility to fairly assess any new medical evidence put to it. 
Unum highlighted that Mr As employer is its policy holder and suggested it would only 
consider evidence through that access channel. But Mr A is still a customer in his own right 
as he is also a beneficiary under the policy. And so, I dont think its fair for Unum to rely on 
that technicality the way it has here. In addition, Unum communicated directly with Mr A, as 
well as his employer, throughout the life of the claim which is also why I find its position 
unreasonable. 
Unum continued to engage with Mr A post-declination and by February 2020, there was new 
medical evidence like occupational health reports from November 2019 and January 2020 
and notes from the GP which said Mr A was very unwell. Unum further reviewed the claim 
and by May 2020 had declined it again. And so, I would not expect an insurer to register this 
as a new claim given its clearly linked to the original issue. I think Unum should have taken 
a more holistic view of the situation and changed its position sooner than it did as this would 
have been a fairer outcome for Mr A.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr As complaint. Unum Limited must now;
Pay the claim in full, beginning the deferred period from February 2020, and pay 8% 
simple interest on that amount until the date the settlement is paid and;
Pay £500 compensation for the overall trouble and upset caused. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman