DRN-4222779
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about Aviva Insurance Limiteds (Aviva) handling of their claim 
following damage caused by a storm under their home buildings insurance policy.  
Ill refer to Mr H in my decision for ease. 
What happened
In February 2022 a storm damaged the roof of Mr Hs home, as well as damaging his 
carport. He contacted Aviva and it sent an assessor to inspect the damage. Mr H says the 
assessor didnt inspect the roof but focused on the invoice hed received for the repairs hed 
arranged. He says the assessor offered him a fraction of the cost of the repairs hed paid for, 
in settlement of his claim. Mr H says the assessor was arrogant and rude and shouted at 
both him and his wife. 
Another inspection was arranged by Aviva. Mr H says this assessor told him the roof 
damage was the result of wear and tear, which wasnt covered by his policy. The assessor 
didnt think the carport was damaged as a result of the storm. Mr H says he has since 
received full payment for his claim in addition to £150 compensation. He says the time taken 
to reach this point has caused him great distress and impacted on his mental and physical 
health. 
In its complaint response Aviva says Mr Hs concern about its first assessor was dealt with 
under a separate reference. It apologised for the actions of its assessor. It says Mr H 
accepted this apology. Aviva also agreed to carry out a further inspection of the damage. It 
says its final response relating to this issue was provided over six months ago, which means 
it cant form part of our consideration here due to the time elapsed. 
Aviva says it then dealt with a further complaint from Mr H following its second inspection. It 
says this was about its assessor not accessing the roof and a lack of communication with Mr 
H. Aviva says Mr H was also unhappy with the interim payments it made with respect to his 
claim. It upheld this complaint because of delays in its claim handling and for the need to 
overturn its decline decision. 
Mr H wasnt satisfied with Avivas response and referred the matter to our service. Our 
investigator upheld his complaint. He says Aviva eventually accepted Mr Hs claim in full, but 
it shouldve reached this decision in early April 2022 after its first inspection. This meant 
delays in providing payments, which were made in several instalments up to January 2023. 
He says Aviva should pay 8% interest on the payments it provided after April 2022. 
Our investigator also thought Mr H had been caused a great deal of distress, which had 
impacted on his health. Because of this he says Aviva should pay him £300 compensation in 
addition to the £150 it had already paid.  
Aviva didnt agree. It says all costs under the claim have been met and Mr H had been fairly 
compensated. 
As an agreement wasnt reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Let me explain. 
When considering storm damage claims our long-standing approach requires me to consider 
three questions. These are: were storm conditions experienced at the time of the loss; was 
the damage reported typical of that caused by a storm; and were storm conditions the 
underlying reason for the loss. If the answer to any of these is no, then the insurer can, 
reasonably decline the claim. 
In this case Aviva has paid Mr Hs claim in full. This includes the cost of repairs to his 
damaged roof and his carport caused by the storm in February 2022. As Aviva isnt disputing 
the storm resulted in Mr Hs losses, I neednt consider these questions further. Rather, my 
focus here is on Avivas handling of the claim, whether the service it provided was to a 
reasonable standard, and if not, what impact this had on Mr and Mrs H. 
In these circumstances some level of inconvenience and distress is unavoidable. But we 
expect an insurer to treat its customer fairly and deal with claims effectively. I dont think 
Aviva did in this case and Ill explain why. 
Mr H registered his storm damage claim with Aviva in February 2022. I can see that it paid 
him £518.98 less his £100 policy excess, after its first assessors visit. In May Mr H received 
an apology for the behaviour of the assessor. Aviva then agreed to arrange another 
inspection. The second assessor supported the first assessors findings. 
However, after Mr H complained again, Avivas in-house technical manager reconsidered his 
claim. Mr H sent the manager a report from his contractor confirming the cause of the storm 
damage. 
Aviva responded to tell Mr H the payment it made for his roof repairs was fair. But it agreed 
the carport damage shouldve been included. In its letter dated 5 August 2022 it said it would 
refer this matter back to its claim handler to arrange settlement of this part of the claim. As 
discussed it then paid £150 compensation for the upset its delays had caused Mr and Mrs H. 
Aviva has since decided the full cost of repairs to Mr Hs roof should be covered. In its 
submissions to our service, it confirms the following payments were provided:
8 April 2022 £418.98 Roof repairs
5 September 2022 £2,800 Carport
22 December 2022 £863.99 Roof repairs
23 January 2023 £67.03 Roof repairs
I think its reasonable that Aviva reconsidered Mr Hs claim in light of the concerns he raised. 
But I agree with our investigator that this decision should reasonably have been made in 
April 2022, following its first inspection of the damage. I understand Aviva appointed an 
agent to carry out this role on its behalf. But Aviva is ultimately responsible for the actions 
and findings of its agent. It didnt think its agent had assessed Mr Hs claim fairly, which is 
why it agreed to pay it in full. 
It took until January 2023 for the full payment to be provided. I acknowledge partial payments were provided throughout 2022. But the claim shouldve been paid in full in April. 
Ive thought about the impact this had on Mr H and his wife. It took close to a year for Aviva 
to pay the claim in full. Because of this it should pay simple interest at 8% for the delay in 
providing these payments. This should be calculated from 8 April 2022. 
Mr H and his wife are elderly. He describes how he had difficulty sleeping as a result of 
feeling he was being scammed. This meant taking prescribed medication to help him sleep, 
which he says causes side effects. Mr H says he had to pursue Aviva to make sure he was 
paid what he was due. He says he no longer trusts Aviva and has sought insurance 
elsewhere. 
As discussed, we expect Aviva to handle all claims effectively to avoid causing unnecessary 
delays. In this case it took it around nine months longer than it shouldve to pay Mr Hs claim. 
Ive seen the emails exchanged throughout the claim period. Due to his health conditions Mr 
H explains it took him a long time to write these emails. This couldve been avoided had 
Aviva handled the claim fairly and paid it in full in April 2022. 
Having considered all of this I dont think the £150 compensation Aviva paid, adequately 
acknowledges the distress and inconvenience it caused. For the reasons discussed I think a 
further payment of £300 is fair and in line with our services approach.   
We contacted Mr H and Aviva to advise that I intended upholding this complaint as per our 
investigators findings. But as I intended for additional interest payments to be made, it was 
fair to inform both parties and ask for any comments they might want to make. 
Aviva responded commenting on an earlier claim it says Mr H had made in connection with 
his roof in 2021. It says the claim value was £35,000. I didnt think Avivas argument was 
clear. So, I asked it to clarify. I said if the business was implying roof repairs shouldve been 
carried out in relation to an earlier claim, it should provide a surveyors report. It should also 
provide confirmation of the repairs that were expected to be completed within this earlier 
claim. 
In its response Aviva sent a quote a building contractor produced for Mr H dated 27 
September 2021. This describes proposed works to the interior of Mr Hs house. Theres no 
reference to repairs relating to the roof. Aviva didnt send a report from a surveyor or other 
professional relating to the condition of the roof in 2021. 
Ive considered the information Aviva has sent. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my 
findings. Similarly, neither party sent information or evidence that requires me to amend my 
decision regarding the additional interest payments. So, my decision remains as described 
above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Aviva Insurance Limited should:
pay 8% simple interest on the unpaid part of Mr and Mrs Hs claim from 8 April 2022 
until payment was made. *If Aviva considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs H how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs H a certificate showing this if they 
ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate; 
and
pay Mr and Mrs H a further £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman