DRN-4422485
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt provide the service it should have when 
he withdrew money from his account
What happened
Mr S says he had wanted to withdraw money using his card but as the payment didnt go 
through, he visited a Barclays branch. He withdrew £700 and asked for an envelope to put 
the money in but was told that the branch couldnt give out envelopes because this attracted 
thieves. Mr S says that after leaving the branch his money was stolen. He thinks this 
wouldnt have happened if he had been given an envelope. Because of this he wants 
Barclays to pay him his money back.
Barclays said that there is no regulatory responsibility for it to provide envelopes and, once 
cash leaves its premises, it isnt responsible for what happens to it.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He acknowledged how upsetting this situation 
was for Mr S but said the bank wasnt responsible for the theft and he thought the issue was 
for the police to investigate.
Mr S didnt agree with our investigators view and provided a letter from his doctor to support 
his case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am very sorry to hear that Mr Ss money was stolen and I can understand how upsetting 
and stressful this experience must be especially as he has explained he needed the money 
in part to pay his rent. But for me to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that 
Barclays did something wrong or didnt treat Mr S fairly.
Mr S has provided a letter from his doctor which explains he is a vulnerable customer. I have 
taken this into account when considering the fair outcome to this complaint. 
Mr S has said that he withdrew the money in branch. He says he didnt tell the branch staff 
what the money was for, and the branch staff has said that Mr S used the self-service device 
and didnt come to the counter. As it was Mr Ss decision to withdraw the money and he did 
this without discussion with the branch staff, I cannot say that Barclays did anything wrong in 
regard to the cash withdrawal.
Mr S asked for an envelope. I can understand why he asked for this, but Barclays has 
provided reasonable reasons why it doesnt provide envelopes and as it isnt required to do 
this I cant say it was wrong or treated Mr S unfairly by not providing him with an envelope. 
Mr S believes that had he been able to put his money in an envelope then it wouldnt have 
been stolen. I cannot say whether that would have been the case and I cannot hold Barclays 
responsible for the events that happened after Mr S left the branch. I understand that Mr S 
reported the theft to the police, which is the right course of action. 
In conclusion, while I can appreciate the distress this issue has caused Mr S, I do not find 
that I can hold Barclays responsible for the loss of his money and as I cant say that Barclays 
did anything wrong or treated Mr S unfairly, I do not find I can uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman