DRN-3405414
The complaint
Mr N has complained to us that Studio Retail Limited trading as Ace (Studio Retail) 
irresponsibly gave him a running account credit facility that he couldnt afford.
What happened
In December 2016 Mr N opened a cash account with Studio Retail which didnt have a credit 
facility. In September 2017 this account was converted to a revolving credit account with an 
initial credit limit of £50. The credit limit was raised in March 2018 to £300. Studio Retail told 
us that in September 2018 Mr N started to be charged fees for non-payment and the debt 
was eventually sold in 2019 to a third party. 
In January 2020, Mr N complained to Studio Retail to say that he was in financial difficulty 
before the account was opened and that adequate affordability checks werent carried out 
when the credit limit was increased. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld in part. He didnt think Studio Retail 
had completed reasonable and proportionate affordability checks before approving the 
£300 limit. 
Studio Retail didnt agree. So, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 15 March 2022, a section of 
which is included below, and forms part of, this decision. In my provisional decision I set out 
the reasons why I didnt agree with the adjudicators view and that it was my intention not to 
uphold Mr Ns complaint. I set out an extract below:
Prior to providing credit and increased credit to Mr N, Studio Retail says it carried out a 
credit check using a credit agency to determine the amount of credit it was able to offer. 
Studio Retail told us that Mr Ns account was assessed on a monthly basis from the credit 
check information and the credit limit was set using that information and their observation 
of Mr Ns management of the account. 
Were Studio Retails credit checks sufficient? 
Its possible that Studio Retails checks were not sufficient. But even if the checks were 
not sufficient, I dont think better enquiries would have caused Studio Retail to think the 
initial credit limit or the subsequent credit increase were unaffordable.
I say this because Studio Retail issued Mr N a very modest initial credit limit of £50 which 
required only small monthly repayments. I have considered that a credit report that Mr N 
provided suggests he had a missed payment on a credit card a year before this initial 
credit limit was provided. But the same report suggests he had not had issues with that 
credit provider for a year. There appears to have been a missed payment for a utility bill in 
the month that the credit limit was set by Studio Retail. Its not clear if Studio Retail had 
sight of that at the time the account was set up. But its also possible that this was part of 
the reason Mr N was offered a lower than normal initial credit limit. But as I explained 
above I have considered the tiny initial credit limit and the low payments that would have 
been required to make a repayment in a reasonable time and so, I dont think that better 
checks would have led Studio Retail to decline credit. 
In March 2018 Studio Retail increased the credit limit to £300. Studio Retail told us that 
Mr N had made all his payments to the account on time and that the payments were often 
above the minimum payment they required; in short that this account was well managed 
by Mr N. I have seen no evidence that Mr N had any missed payments on his other 
accounts at that time further to the ones mentioned above. 
I note from Mr Ns bank statements that by March 2018 Mr N was borrowing amounts from 
other lenders, however, these dont appear to have been visible to Studio Retail in the 
credit checks they completed at the time so I dont think its fair to say Studio ought to 
have been aware of them. Even if they should have been aware, I dont consider that the 
amounts were so significant that they persuade me that Studio Retail would or should 
have seen that Mr Ns financial circumstances were in such a state as to make lending 
him a revolving credit facility of £300 unreasonable. I have considered the modest credit 
amount and the monthly payments would have been repayable in a reasonable timeframe. 
So, Ive seen insufficient reason to think that a more thorough affordability assessment at 
this time would have put Studio Retail off increasing the credit limit. 
Our adjudicator thought a more thorough assessment of Mr Ns financial situation should 
have caused Studio Retail not to act. And in doing so, our adjudicator placed particular 
weight on Mr Ns testimony about a change of income. Although I dont think Studio 
Retail were required to, nor would it have been proportionate to, review Mr Ns bank 
statements I think that even if it had, it would have led Studio Retail to note that Mr Ns 
bank account was not one that was straightforward to decipher as he had multiple 
transactions bringing money into the account, including significant payments in. So, had 
Studio Retail asked Mr N about his income, they would have seen an excess of income 
over expenditure in January and February 2018. I therefore think reasonable and 
proportionate checks would most likely have shown that Mr N could afford the credit.
And whilst the change in employment may have contributed to financial difficulties later in 
2018, I dont think those were obvious in March 2018 when the decision to increase Mr 
Ns credit limit was made. And so, I dont think better enquiries would have caused Studio 
Retail to think the credit increase was unaffordable. 
So, although I dont think Studio Retails affordability checks were necessarily appropriate, 
I dont make any award as I dont think Mr N was caused any loss or material distress or 
inconvenience as a result.
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 29 March 2022. Studio Retail have not acknowledged receiving 
the decision or made any further submission. Mr N has acknowledged receiving the 
provisional decision. He is disappointed with my provisional decision but at the time of 
writing, he has not made any further substantive argument. And I have received no request 
for a time extension. I think that both parties have had sufficient time to make substantive 
further submissions if they had wished to. So, I am proceeding to my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Studio Retail will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Given that theres no new information for me to consider following my provisional decision, I 
have no reason to depart from those findings. And as Ive already set out my full reasons for 
not upholding Mr Ns complaint, I have nothing further to add. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman