DRN-2765071
The complaint
Mr and Ms S complain that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) is responsible for water damage 
to their home following attempts to deal with a leak for which they should receive adequate 
compensation.
What happened
The background to this case is well known to both parties and has been summarised by our 
investigator in her view of the complaint, so I wont repeat it here in detail.
Briefly stated, Aviva has accepted that its responsible for Mr and Ms S suffering three leaks 
in their home after repairing a burst pipe in their garden. The second and third leaks, which 
both occurred on 29 June 2020, were particularly serious and caused significant damage to 
their downstairs WC and hallway. Aviva agreed to undertake responsibility for repairing the 
damage caused and also offered them £750 compensation. Mr and Ms S didnt consider that 
the compensation offered was sufficient and brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigators view was that Aviva should pay Mr and Ms S a further £250 
compensation. Aviva agreed to pay a total of £1,000, but Mr and Ms S considered that this 
amount still didnt adequately compensate them for the stress and inconvenience theyve 
suffered over many months. Theyve asked that their complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman, so it was referred to me to make a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision, increasing the total compensation to £1,250. In response to 
this, Aviva said it had no further comments to make, but Mr and Ms S made some further 
representations which Ive taken into consideration. Im now issuing my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr and Ms Ss complaint in line with my provisional decision. 
Aviva has accepted that its engineers were responsible for the damage caused to Mr and Ms 
Ss home. As liability is not being disputed by Aviva, what remains to be addressed is what 
redress is fair and reasonable for Mr and Ms S. 
Mr and Ms S didnt think that the £1,000 that Aviva agreed to pay was enough. Theyve said 
that the proactive way in which Mr S dealt with the initial major leak prevented the damage 
from getting even worse. Mr S went out into the road and managed to close off the water at 
the mains on two occasions. The say that an emergency plumber wouldve charged about 
£500 for this, and during the delay before he arrived the damage wouldve got worse. They 
say that they were therefore subsidising Aviva.
Im not persuaded that this is a sound ground for the award of additional compensation. The 
fact that they saved Aviva money by limiting the extent of the damage doesnt in my view 
justify them getting more. Awards of compensation are not assessed by reference to how 
much the business might have had to spend if the customer had not taken preventative 
action. Nor is compensation awarded in order to punish a business for anything it did or 
failed to do. Its worth bearing in mind that its a policyholders responsibility to minimize their 
losses or damage in a claim situation.
We can award fair compensation that's a proportionate reflection of the impact a business's 
actions (or inaction) has had on their particular customer. For this reason awards of 
compensation will vary, and there is no table by which they are arrived at.
For this service to award compensation, we need to decide that the impact of a business's 
actions has been greater than just a minor inconvenience or upset. In this case Im 
persuaded that the impact on Mr and Ms S was considerable, and on a number of grounds.
Firstly, being faced with a powerful mains pressure leak which soaked them would have 
been a great shock for anyone. Mr and Ms S are elderly and have said that they were 
particularly affected by this. Fortunately Mr S was able to take prompt action and turn off the 
water supply from the road to prevent what was likely to have been further damage. But to 
make matters worse, two hours after an Aviva engineer arrived to fix the leak, the pipe burst 
again, and once more Mr S had to take action to stem the water. They then had to use 
towels to soak up the water that they say was 15mm deep on their WC floor and had 
extended into the hallway which was carpeted. They also had to lift flooring to help the 
drying out process.
Mr and Ms S say that after this experience they were scared to leave the mains water on at 
night or when they went to bed, and that it was only in January 2021, some six months after 
the double burst pipe incident, when they started to leave it on again at night. They say that 
the realisation of how much worse it couldve been has had a permanent effect on their 
mental state.
I consider that Avivas initial offer of £750 compensation is reasonable to reflect the stress 
and upset caused by the leak itself, the need to stem the flow of water and clear up 
afterwards, the additional heating and electricity costs, and for the worry that something 
similar might happen again.
But I consider that Mr and Ms Ss stress and upset was prolonged by the manner in which 
Aviva dealt with matters after the incidents on 29 June 2020.
From the surveyors report which was provided on 27 July it appears that the scope of the 
damage was limited, no doubt helped by Mr Ss prompt action to turn off the mains supply. 
The damage was confined to the downstairs WC where the vinyl floor and the hardboard 
below needed to be replaced, and the skirting and walls needed to be decorated. In the 
hallway outside, the carpet needed to be replaced. The affected area first needed to be dried 
out. 
I consider that it would have been appropriate for Aviva to have acted promptly to address 
the damage by arranging for the affected area to be dried out, as recommended by its 
surveyor, rather than to expect Mr and Ms S to run their central heating during the summer 
to do this. Once the area had dried out, I would not have expected the fitting of new flooring 
and then decoration to the WC and new hall carpet to have taken more than a month. So I 
think it would be generous to say that all work should reasonably have been completed by 
September 2020.
But Mr and Ms Ss timeline shows significant delays in Avivas initial reaction to the incident 
and then further delays in the progress of the remedial work that Aviva agreed to undertake. 
Some examples are:Aviva didnt accept liability until 22 July. 
A damage surveyor visited on 24 July. His report, issued on 27 July, recommended 
drying of the affected area.
A flood prevention specialist didnt visit until 26 August
De-humidifiers werent installed until 29 September
Six weeks was wasted in arranging the new flooring selected by Mr and Ms S. They 
gave their specification to Aviva on 30 September but no action was taken on this 
until November, when they were told it wouldnt be available until December. 
There appears to have been no progress between 9 October, when the de-
humidifiers were removed, and at least 22 October when Ms S questioned the lack of 
progress only to be told that the project manager wasnt aware the de-humidifiers 
had been removed.
Decoration didnt start until February 2021
My conclusion is that poor handling of Mr and Ms Ss complaint and subsequent poor 
management of the project by their agents resulted in significant and unnecessary delays. 
Although the leaks occurred on 29 June 2020, it wasnt until February 2021 that the 
decorating was undertaken. So for seven months Mr and Mr S had to live with no flooring in 
their downstairs WC, rendering it unusable. This was particularly inconvenient for them given 
their needs. For the first three months of this period, they had to rely on their own central 
heating to dry out the affected area to prevent deterioration from damp and mould before de-
humidifiers were provided. Both Mr and Ms S had to spend considerable time chasing Aviva 
for work to be progressed, and to undertake work themselves, which added to their stress. 
They also had to bear the cost of additional heating and electricity to dry out the affected 
area. 
I consider that Avivas handing of the consequences of their fault has contributed to the 
stress, upset and mental strain suffered by Mr and Ms S, and that this was sustained for at 
least four months more than it shouldve been. I consider this justifies a separate award of 
compensation, and that further compensation of £500 would be reasonable to reflect this in 
the circumstances of this case.
Given what Mr and Ms S have said in response to my provisional decision, I should 
emphasise that I fully recognise the impact these events have had on them and the very 
considerable stress and upset that they suffered. The compensation Im awarding takes that 
into account, but it also takes into account how this service approaches awards of 
compensation, which Ive mentioned above.
The increased compensation Im awarding over and above that initially agreed by Aviva 
recognises and takes into account all that Mr and Ms S did to reduce the damage and to 
assist in the remedial work, and the additional electricity that wouldve been consumed. 
Mr and Ms S have asked me if they are entitled to a refund of their premium. I dont consider 
that this would be appropriate. A claim was made under the policy, and although the 
remedial work resulted in damage, Aviva has accepted responsibility for the repair of this. Mr 
and Ms S are also being compensated for the upset and inconvenience caused.
For the reasons Ive given above, Im maintaining my original decision.
 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Mr and Ms Ss complaint and I require Aviva 
Insurance Limited to pay them total compensation of £1,250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman