DRN-2919636
The complaint
Ms M complains she missed out on pension contributions between 2014-2017 as St. 
Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) failed to provide her with advice. She asks to 
be compensated for the lost opportunity.
What happened
Ms M is represented in her complaint by a third-party but for ease I will refer to Ms M 
throughout my decision.
A timeline of events has already been detailed in the investigators view but for clarity I repeat 
it here:
2013  Ms M met an SJP adviser, at her workplace. The adviser followed up
the meeting with an email on 5 March 2013 summarising how they should proceed.
I would suggest we take one step at a time starting with tax efficient saving and
mitigating inheritance tax.
16 December 2013  The adviser sent Ms M a summary following their most recent
meeting. He proposed the following changes.
Discuss gifting property
Complete a whole of life trust application
Document gift of £120,000
3 January 2014  It was agreed by the adviser and Ms M to complete a whole of life trust
application.
12 March 2014  an application was completed to transfer monies held in a cash ISA to an
SJP Investment ISA.
2014-2017  no meetings took place
10 September 2018  a review meeting took place over the phone. The adviser explained
the benefits of pension tax relief to her and Ms M was of the view she should have been
contributing years ago. The adviser recommended the following:
To contribute into a pension (depending on the situation with her defined benefit 
pension)
and consolidate her Standard Life (SL) Pension to SJP.
To review all her ISAs and consolidate them.
The adviser noted checks should be carried out to ascertain if a contribution was possible 
into Ms Ms defined benefit pension.
16 October 2018  a meeting took place at the SJP offices. The adviser recommended the
following:
Keep £15,000 as emergency funds
Invest £13,320 into her defined benefit pension/ pension contribution
Invest £60,000 to an SJP unit trust
Transfer her Cash ISA to SJP
Transfer her investment ISAs to SJP.
Transfer her personal pension to SJP
The adviser notes then confirm that any contribution towards the defined benefit Pension 
wasnt possible.
8 November 2018  recommendations were issued to Ms M. It is noted she wanted to focus
on Investment Planning. Her adviser recommended the following.
To transfer funds from her existing Cash ISA to an SJP Stocks and
Shares ISA
To transfer a lump sum into a unit trust
9 November 2018  a follow up meeting took place to discuss the recommendation. Further
advice was given. Ms M confirmed she wanted more information about her defined benefit 
pension before she made any decisions on how to invest her cash. It is noted that Ms M 
wanted to think about whether she wanted to invest. She agreed to speak with other people
before deciding.
4 March 2019  an email was sent from SJPs follow up to a recent call. It mentions the 
following:
Following your recent call ..., please see the following attached.
1. Illustration of £13,000 (net) lump sum into your Retirement Account.
2. Managed Funds portfolio factsheet for your pension
It then goes on to say
Please let me know if you would like to proceed with the pension top up and I will arrange
accordingly.
There then follows a number of email exchanges discussing charges and why the advice to 
contribute a pension hadnt been given previously.
19 February 2020  a meeting took place. Ms M had been making her own contributions
into a third-party provider Self Invested Pension Plan (SIPP). The adviser recommended she 
transfer her personal pension and SIPP to SJP. Ms M said she wanted to think about 
whether to invest.
17 March 2020  a contact summary confirms that several emails were exchanged, and that
Ms M had misunderstood the pension contribution rules and had exceeded her annual
allowance substantially by paying into a SIPP.
Ms M complained to SJP about the service she had received.
On 16 April 2020, SJP issued its final response. In it, it said It agreed that there had been a 
miscommunication when Ms Ms account had been transferred to another adviser in 2014, 
and as a result no reviews had taken place. It apologised and offered to refund the on-going 
advice charges that have been levied during the period. It said, this equates to a value of £1,032.16, which it rounded to £1,050 as a gesture of goodwill, and in recognition of the 
trouble and upset caused offered £250 by way of compensation.
Dissatisfied, Ms M brought her complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Ms M. He agreed that the ongoing reviews had not 
taken place as they should and found the compensation offered by SJP to be fair and 
reasonable. He didnt agree that Ms M had lost her opportunity to invest as when the adviser 
recommended an investment into an SJP pension, in 2018, Ms M didnt accept this advice 
but instead chose to invest in her third-party providers SIPP. As SJP, dont advise on 
external providers, he didnt agree it was fair and reasonable to hold them responsible for 
advice they hadnt given.
Ms M disagreed. Through her representatives, she stated she remained of the view that she 
had lost her opportunity to enhance her pension and pointed to an article which suggested 
previous complaints of a similar nature had been upheld. She asks for an ombudsman 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Ms M and SJP. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, I 
have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words, I have looked 
at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what I 
think is more likely to, or should, have happened. 
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
There is no dispute in this case that SJP failed to provide Ms M with the review service she 
was entitled to and indeed was paying for. SJP has acknowledged it provided a disservice to 
Ms M by not completing any review meetings for four years. She was paying 0.5% per 
annum for ongoing advice. SJP has offered to refund these ongoing fees back to her 
(rounded up to £1,050) and £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Ms M via her CMC has argued that there is a further loss of lost opportunity and that had 
these reviews taken place, Ms M would have been aware of the taxable benefits of investing 
in a pension. She says this failure has caused her a financial loss.Im not in agreement with this view. Its always difficult to quantify a lost opportunity when 
something hasnt occurred. 
Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the 
balance of probabilities. In other words, I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the 
surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have 
happened. In this case I have looked at what happened when the reviews did recommence 
in 2018.
Given that when reviews recommenced, SJP did discuss pension planning, and from what I 
have seen Ms M may well have seen the tax benefits of investing in a pension, its possible, 
even probable that Ms M would have taken some action. So, Ive then looked at what that 
action might have been based upon the decisions Ms M took when the advice was given. 
When SJP did make recommendations to her, Ms M didnt take the decision to follow those 
recommendations and instead spoke with other friends about her decision and ultimately 
invested with another provider. Ms M decided against the advice from SJP to invest in a 
personal pension and made an independent decision to invest in a Self-Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP). So, I cant say that even had the reviews taken place Ms M would have 
followed any recommendations it made. 
I agree that Ms M has been provided with a poor service, but I find the offer of compensation 
from SJP to be fair and reasonable and the £250 a fair reflection of the trouble and upset this 
matter has caused and it should honour that offer. But Im not persuaded its fair and 
reasonable to hold SJP responsible for any lost opportunity Ms M may or may not have 
taken, given that when advice was given, Ms M chose to make alternative investment 
decisions and so I dont uphold this complaint.
 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman