DRN-4310736
The complaint
Mr S complains Clydesdale Bank PLC trading as Virgin Money (Virgin) provided poor 
customer service when he tried to change his banking arrangements.
What happened
Mr S says from August 2022 with the help of his neighbour, he had been attempting to close 
his business account and open a new personal current account with Virgin. Mr S says he 
has hearing difficulties and prefers not to use online/telephony banking services. Mr S says 
he, with the help of his neighbour, attempted on several occasions to telephone Virgin only 
to experience long waiting times and was told the only option was to take a long trip to his 
nearest branch to sort matters. 
Mr S says despite the fact he and his neighbour making various branch visits, due to 
systems issues, Virgin werent able to deal with his request and even when the matter was 
finally resolved the branch visit took over three hours to complete. 
Mr S doesnt feel Virgin have taken his personal circumstances into account or offered 
alternative solutions in order to undertake the closure of his business account and open a 
new personal current account. Mr S wants Virgin to properly compensate him for the time, 
cost and upset this matter has caused him and doesnt feel its initial offer of £75 and an 
additional offer of £50 goes far enough and believes a payment of £306 is justified to cover 
the cost and time dealing with this. 
Virgin says it was sorry for the service levels Mr S experienced but says other options were 
available to him by way of letter or online services to deal with his new banking 
requirements. It did accept Mr S had experienced long wait times on the telephone and 
apologised for that, but it was Mr Ss preference to visit the branch to change his banking 
accounts. That said Virgin agreed to refund the banking charges Mr S had incurred on his 
business account since August 2022 and agreed to increase its overall compensation to 
£155. 
Mr S wasnt happy with Virgins response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt while Mr S had experienced issues when trying to change his banking 
accounts he didnt feel all of the branch visits were necessary and alternative options were 
available to him. The investigator felt the offer of £155 in compensation by Virgin was fair in 
the circumstances and this service wouldnt expect to recompense for time spent dealing 
with an issue. 
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been frustrating and upsetting for Mr S when he made 
several visits to his nearest branch of Virgin, but despite this it still wasnt able to deal with 
his new bank account requirements. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Virgin provided sufficient options for Mr S to 
change over his banking arrangements and if the level of compensation it has offered for the 
service levels it provided was sufficient here. 
Both Mr S and Virgin have provided this service with comprehensive details of the course of 
events here and while that has proved helpful, I wont be commenting on every point made 
as I dont feel its necessary in order to come to a full and impartial decision here. Thats not 
to say I havent considered  everything said  I have. But its just that I dont need to 
comment on each individual point here in order to reach a decision on whats fair and 
reasonable. 
Both parties are familiar with the background to this complaint, so I wont repeat everything 
thats already been said  but its fair to say Virgin have accepted that some of the service 
levels Mr S experienced didnt meet its own standards and have apologised for that. 
Mr S says with the help of his neighbour he attempted to deal with the matter online, over 
the phone and in branch on several occasions, but due to Virgins system errors he was only 
left with the option to make a long branch visit and when eventually the meeting was held, it 
took over three hours to complete. 
While I understand the points Mr S raises, its fair to say some of the difficulties encountered 
by him and his neighbour was due to busy telephone waiting times and while I can 
understand that would have been frustrating for him, its reasonable to say its also very 
difficult for Virgin to know in advance the levels of calls it may receive at any one time. 
Virgin here did offer online or telephony banking services, but I understand Mr S has some 
hearing issues and generally doesnt wish to utilise those types of services, which is perhaps 
understandable. That said, it does of course limit the number of options available to Mr S, 
but for example, Mr S could have written providing his full details of his business account to 
enable its closure. I understand an attempt was made to open the bank account online, but 
for some reason this wasnt successful, that said its not possible for me to say with any 
certainty this was due solely to Virgins systems fault or just an inputting error.
Here, Mr S and his neighbour decided to make a number of branch visits but due to both 
long queues and staff availability, these branch visits werent successful until the 12 
December 2022. 
Its also fair to say here that Virgin would only be able to take instructions directly from Mr S 
and not his neighbour, so any attempts by the neighbour to do this, even with best intentions 
in mind, might add to any delays here.
From the information I have seen Mr S and his neighbour arranged for the new account 
arrangements to be completed after what was described as a lengthy meeting on 12 
December 2022. From the customer notes I have seen, part of the delay was due to the 
member of staff having to discuss this issue with her head office team and organise an 
override to its standard procedures to ensure the account was opened that day  not due to any technical issues as Mr S may have believed. 
Without trying to minimise the frustration these series of events undoubtedly caused Mr S 
here, Virgin has refunded bank charges to his business account before its closure and 
offered a total compensation of £155. While Mr S feels this doesnt go far enough and is 
looking for almost double that amount, its worth pointing out its not my role to penalise 
businesses when service issues like this arise but to ensure it apologises, provides feedback 
to improve its service going forward and pays a proportionate level of redress  on balance I 
am satisfied Virgin have done that here.
I say this because aside from the compensation and refund of charges Virgin have also 
apologised to Mr S, provided feedback to the staff involved and although I understand Mr S 
doesnt classify himself as disabled, it has offered the opportunity for him to contact them to 
discuss his future banking needs going forward. 
While Mr S will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Virgin here 
and I will leave it with him to contact Virgin if he now wishes to take up its offer of redress. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman