DRN-1690393
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that Smarter Cover Ltd mis-sold him a level-term assurance policy 
with life cover only. Mr S says Smarter Cover led him to believe hed bought a policy 
that included critical illness cover, and should have sold him this.
What happened
In 2014, Smarter Cover sold Mr S a level-term assurance policy with life and terminal 
illness cover. It had a 22-year term and sum assumed of £100,000. The policy was 
provided by a third party insurer.
Sadly, Mr S was diagnosed with a serious illness in 2019. He made a claim to his 
policy provider, but was told he did not have critical illness cover. 
Mr S complained to Smarter Cover that it led him to believe he had critical illness 
cover in a phone call with one of its agents. Mr S said he discussed his need for 
critical illness cover with Smarter Covers agent and disclosed his pre-existing 
illnesses  and was told his policy provider was the best insurer for him given his 
existing illnesses. Mr S says he was told everything was covered by his policy in 
this call. He said the key features document he was given said he had critical illness 
cover. He also said Smarter Cover sent him an email on 18 September 2014 at 
11am, which said:
the policy we have set up for you is a single policy, for £100,000 level term 
life and terminal illness cover,Critical [sic] illness cover, over 22 years
Smarter Cover didnt think Mr S had asked for or been offered critical illness cover. It 
provided a screenshot of Mr Ss initial enquiry form, which said he wanted life 
insurance, not critical illness cover. It also provided a recording of its agents initial 
call with Mr S, which did not mention critical illness cover. Smarter Cover felt it made 
the limitations of the policy it sold to Mr S clear, with its agent explaining the policy 
only provided life and terminal illness cover. It then reviewed the documentation 
sent to Mr S, and couldnt find any reference to critical illness cover. 
Smarter Cover said it didnt have a record of sending the email Mr S received on 
18 September 2014 at 11am. Its copy of the email was sent at 10am and said:
the policy we have set up for you is a single policy, for £100,000 level term 
life and terminal illness cover, over 22 years
Smarter Cover said it believed Mr Ss version of the email is our original email that 
has been altered to include the mention of CIC [critical illness cover]. 
Unhappy with Smarter Covers response, Mr S referred his complaint to our service. 
He was unhappy Smarter Cover accused him of being untruthful. He complained the 
agent he dealt with was incompetent, and was unhappy Smarter Cover received 
commission from the policy provider for selling the policy. Mr S added he always 
took out critical illness cover, and Smarter Cover could have sold him a different 
policy with critical illness cover from another insurer. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ss complaint but didnt uphold it. Our 
investigator noted the enquiry form showed Mr S had asked about life cover only, 
and didnt think Smarter Covers agent told Mr S his policy would include critical 
illness cover over the phone. The investigator thought Smarter Covers agent was 
sufficiently clear the policy it sold Mr S only included cover if he died or was 
diagnosed with a terminal illness. 
The investigator noted the quote or policy summary Mr S was given didnt mention 
critical illness cover. Our investigator said the information Mr S provided about 
critical illness cover wasnt specific to his policy. On balance, the investigator thought 
the email Mr S provided from Smarter Cover which said he his policy included critical 
illness cover wasnt enough to cause her to say Smarter Cover should bear 
responsibility for Mr S not having critical illness cover in place. 
Mr S disagreed with our investigators view of his complaint. He said he told Smarter 
Cover about his existing illnesses, thinking this made it clear he wanted critical 
illness cover. He said he wasnt familiar with insurance jargon. Mr S said he doubted 
Smarter Covers version of its email of 18 September 2014 as the time it was sent 
was different to the time he received it. So this has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to say how sorry I am to hear of Mr Ss illness and I 
understand hes made this complaint in difficult personal circumstances. 
Mr S has made a lot of arguments about what he thinks Smarter Cover has done 
wrong. Ive commented only on the points of his complaint that I think are relevant to 
the outcome of his complaint. The question for me to consider is whether Smarter 
Cover led Mr S to believe the policy it sold him included critical illness cover. Having 
considered the evidence carefully, Ive not upheld Mr Ss complaint. I know this will 
disappoint him, but Ill explain my reasons.
Ive listened to Mr Ss calls with the agent who sold him the policy. I heard Mr S and 
the agent discuss life cover for Mr S  and the affordability of the policy. The agent 
explained the policy provided terminal illness cover, which would pay out whilst Mr S 
is still alive if hes diagnosed with an illness which means he has less than 12 
months to live. I didnt hear any mention of critical illness cover, or any assurance 
that Mr S would be covered if he suffered a serious illness that would not lead to his 
death within 12 months. The agent asked Mr S questions about his health and 
lifestyle  but I dont think the agent led Mr S to believe the policy provided cover for 
serious illnesses. Ive reviewed the quote provided by the policy provider, which says 
it provides life and terminal illness cover only. The application Smarter Cover sent to the policy provider  didnt include critical illness cover, which I think supports that 
there was no discussion of critical illness cover during the sales call. 
Ive been provided with two different versions of the email sent to Mr S on 
18 September 2014. Both parties to this complaint have questioned the accuracy of 
the emails provided by the other. Im not sure why Smarter Cover would send Mr S 
confirmation his policy had critical illness cover when I dont think it was discussed 
with him in the initial phone call and I dont think it was included in the policy it sold 
him. But I dont think I need to decide whose version of the email was actually sent. 
Ill explain why.
I dont think there was any mention of critical illness cover during the call in which 
Mr Ss policy was explained to him. And both versions of the emails Mr S and 
Smarter Cover provided say that the policy information will follow by post within a 
few days. 
Ive reviewed Mr Ss policy schedule, which I think is sufficiently clear the policy 
provides life cover only  there is no mention of critical illness cover on the policy 
schedule or in the policys terms and conditions. The only documentation (other than 
Mr Ss version of Smarter Covers email, which includes critical illness cover) that 
mentions critical illness cover is a leaflet Mr S has provided. This seems to be a 
booklet produced by the insurer that lists the various different types of policies the 
insurer offered, and listed the different benefits each policy provided. This seems to 
be generic  I dont think it says Mr S had critical illness cover. So, even if I were to 
accept Mr Ss version of the 18 September 2014 email, I think the other 
documentation he was sent should have made him aware his policy include life and 
terminal illness cover only.
Mr S says he always took out critical illness cover in the past, and couldnt have 
been expected to know insurance jargon. But I dont think this shows he was led to 
believe that Smarter Cover told him he would be covered if he developed a serious 
illness  I think it was clear his policy only provided cover if he died or developed a 
terminal illness within the policy term. 
I dont think the fact that Smarter Cover didnt arrange critical illness cover for Mr S 
means his policy was unsuitable either. Mr S approached Smarter Cover for life 
insurance, for which he had a genuine need. I think Smarter Cover arranged suitable 
life cover for him. Mr S disclosed health conditions that made his life assurance more 
expensive than he was originally quoted, so I think its likely critical illness cover 
would have made Mr Ss policy even more expensive. And it does appear that Mr S 
had a need for some form of cover  he had an outstanding mortgage and explained 
he wanted cover for his family if anything happened to him. I think the policy Smarter 
Cover sold him was suitable on this basis.
I note Mr S was unhappy to learn about the commission his policy provider paid 
Smarter Cover. I note the life insurance quote Smarter Cover prepared for Mr S 
says:
your premiums pay for the cost of life cover, commission, expenses, charges and 
other adjustments. and
Commission is payable
For arranging this contract for [Mr S] on the basis outlined in the 
accompanying Key Features document, [the policy provider] will pay 
commission to the individual or firm responsible for setting up your policy with 
us worth £921.63 immediately.
I think this made it sufficiently clear that Smarter Cover would receive commission for 
arranging the policy with the insurer. The fact that Smarter Cover received 
commission doesnt mean the policy it sold Mr S was unsuitable. For the reasons 
explained above, I dont think the life cover Smarter Cover arranged for Mr S was 
unsuitable for him.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2020.
 
Victoria Blackwood
Ombudsman