DRN-3132393
The complaint
Miss H has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) continued charging her excessive 
amounts for her overdraft when she was in financial difficulty.
What happened
Miss H complained to HSBC that it acted unfairly by continuing to apply charges to
her account when she was in financial difficulty. She said the fees made her overdraft more 
difficult to repay. HSBC didnt uphold the complaint. And as Miss H was dis-satisfied she 
referred the complaint to our service.
Miss Hs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that HSBC 
ought to have realised that Miss H was experiencing financial difficulty by December 2015 
and so shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. 
HSBC disagreed, it says all charges were applied in line with the terms and conditions of the 
account and that it had already waived interest and charges as well as sending Miss H 
letters asking her to get in touch. So the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that HSBC acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees on Miss Hs 
overdraft from December 2015. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Miss H was in 
no position to sustainably repay what she owed within a reasonable period of time. 
By this point, Miss H was hardcore borrowing. In other, words she hadnt seen or maintained 
a credit balance for an extended period of time and had a number of returned items. HSBCs 
own literature suggests that overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency borrowing not 
prolonged day-to-day expenditure. So I think that Miss Hs overdraft usage should have 
prompted HSBC to have realised that Miss H wasnt using her overdraft as intended and 
shouldnt have continued offering it on the same terms. 
Furthermore, Miss H had got in contact with HSBC early in 2015 to ask for help as she was 
having difficulty with her finances and that the charges being added were making this worse. 
In these circumstances, HSBC ought to have offered assistance and treated Miss H with 
forbearance rather than add even more interest, fees and charges to her overdraft. I accept 
at the time Miss H got in touch that HSBC waived fees and put Miss H on a repayment plan 
and the months following this Miss H moved country, but it started charging again without 
establishing that Miss Hs position had improved and that she was able to manage. 
So I dont think HSBC went far enough or that it acted fairly and reasonably.
Miss H ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft and this 
ended up exacerbating difficulties she already had in trying to clear it. So I think that HSBC 
didnt treat Miss H fairly and she lost out because of what HSBC did wrong. And this means 
that it should put things right.  
Putting things right
 Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Hs complaint for HSBC to put things right by:
Reworking Miss Hs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it from December 2015 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made HSBC should contact Miss H to arrange a suitable repayment plan 
for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Miss Hs 
credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the 
process of taking corrective action on the overdraft from December 2015.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss H along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then HSBC 
should remove any adverse information from Miss Hs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
Miss H a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Hs complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman