DRN-3584878
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society will not switch his mortgage from interest 
only onto a capital repayment basis without carrying out an affordability check. Mr S is also 
unhappy at the way he was treating during a call with a mortgage advisor. 
To settle the complaint Mr S would like Nationwide to put in place a proper re-mortgage 
arrangement and to close his credit card and current accounts.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators emails dated 17 June 2023 and 7 July 2023. All parties have a copy 
of those, so there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on 
giving the reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important 
I dont include any information that might lead to Mr S being identified. So for these reasons, 
I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Briefly, Mr S has an interest-only mortgage account with Nationwide, currently on an interest 
rate product which is due to expire on 31 January 2024. If the mortgage is redeemed during 
that period, an early repayment charge (ERC) will be applied.
In October 2021 Mr S spoke to Nationwide about changing the mortgage from interest-only 
onto a capital repayment basis. Mr S was told that this could be done without charge, but 
would be subject to an affordability check; if Mr S wanted to switch to a new product on a 
repayment basis, he could do so, subject to the ERC and a full assessment of affordability.
Unfortunately, the call didnt go well and Nationwides staff member terminated the call. Mr S 
complained. Nationwide acknowledged that the service it had provided wasnt acceptable in 
relation to how the call was handled, but was satisfied that Mr S had been given the correct 
information about changing the terms of his mortgage account. Nationwide offered 
compensation of £100 for customer service issues.
Nationwide also said that it hadnt previously received any requests to close the credit card 
or current accounts, but that it had now taken steps to do this.
Dissatisfied with Nationwides response, Mr S complained to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. An investigator looked at what had happened. 
After considering the customer service issues, the investigator was satisfied that the £100 
paid by Nationwide was fair and reasonable.
The investigator was also satisfied that Mr S had been given the correct information about 
the need for an affordability assessment if he wanted to change the terms of his mortgage. 
This is because switching from interest-only to capital repayment is a material change to the 
mortgage contract. As such, Nationwide is allowed, under the relevant regulations (including 
the transitional provisions) to assess whether the change is (a) affordable or (b) in the best 
interests of the customer. 
The investigator also clarified that the information contained on Mr Ss mortgage statements 
about switching his mortgage without any credit checks or affordability assessment related to 
switching to a new mortgage product. It didnt apply to an existing mortgage where the 
borrower wanted to make a change to the contract.
Therefore, if Mr S wanted to switch his mortgage from capital repayment to interest-only, 
hed need to make an application. As no application had been made, Nationwide hadnt 
been able to decide whether this would pass or fail its affordability checks, or whether the 
change should be allowed in Mr Ss best interests. 
Mr S disagreed with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
He said that being denied the opportunity to switch his mortgage for his own benefit is not 
reasonable behaviour and as such falls foul of all the guidance with regard to interest-only 
mortgages.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint is that Mr S believes he should be allowed to switch his mortgage 
from interest-only to capital repayment without the need for any checks. Mr S says 
Nationwides own literature says he can do this.
However, Im satisfied that when a request is made to switch the mortgage, Nationwide 
requires an application to be made. 
Nationwides lending policy is a matter for its own commercial judgement, and I dont have 
the power to substitute my own lending decision for that of the bank. However, Id expect the 
bank to consider requests and applications on their own individual merits and to take 
account of individual circumstances  and to consider making exceptions where appropriate, 
in line with the banks regulatory obligations.
There are regulations in place that have flowed from the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
Mortgage Market Review (MMR) which took place after the financial crash in 2008. This has 
led to a series of major changes, effective since 2014, in the way residential mortgages are 
regulated. MMR regulations have brought about requirements for stricter lending 
assessments, aimed to protect consumers and encourage mortgage lenders to act more 
responsibly. 
The FCA recognised though that existing borrowers who wanted to make changes to their 
mortgages might have difficulties with this if they passed tests under the old rules but not 
under the new ones. So, it introduced certain rules to address this. The rules are contained 
in the Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB).
MCOB says a lender doesnt have to carry out an affordability assessment if a borrower 
wants to vary or replace an existing mortgage and there is no additional borrowing (other 
than for product fees) and no change to the terms of the mortgage that is material to 
affordability
There are also transitional arrangements which say that a lender need not carry out an 
affordability assessment if: the borrower has an existing mortgage taken out before 26 April 2014, and is applying to 
vary that mortgage or replace it with a new one;  
the application wouldnt involve any additional borrowing except for essential repairs to 
the property, or to add product fees to the balance; 
theres been no further borrowing (with some exceptions) since 26 April 2014; and  
the proposed transaction is in the borrowers best interests. 
So, under this rule, even where a change material to the affordability of the mortgage takes 
place, the lender can, if it chooses, waive an affordability assessment. If the lender decides 
to carry out an affordability assessment, it shouldnt use that as a reason to decline an 
application if allowing the application would otherwise be in the customers best interests. 
But the lender can take the assessment into account as part of its consideration of best 
interests.
This means there are two routes that an application for an existing borrower can go down. If 
theres no change to the terms of the mortgage contract material to affordability, theres no 
obligation to carry out an affordability assessment at all. And if there is a change to the terms 
of the mortgage contract material to affordability, a lender could still decide to allow an 
application without an affordability assessment if doing so would otherwise be in the 
borrowers best interests.
Im satisfied that a switch from interest-only to capital repayment is a change that is material 
to affordability because it will result in an increase in the mortgage repayments. As a result, 
Nationwide is entitled to consider affordability when deciding whether to allow the change, or 
in deciding whether it is in the customers best interests to make the material change to the 
contract without an affordability assessment.
However, that stage has not been reached, because Mr S hasnt made an application. I 
know Mr S believes it is unnecessary, but Im satisfied that if he wants to switch his 
mortgage from interest-only to capital repayment, hell need to follow the process and make 
an application. I dont have any power to order Nationwide to make the changes he wants.
I agree with the investigator that the reference to changing the mortgage without any checks 
relates to borrowers wanting to switch to a new interest rate product without any other 
variation to the mortgage. Mr S is free to do this at any time, subject to paying the ERC on 
his current mortgage product if he wants to switch during the period when the ERC applies. 
But if he wants to switch to a new deal on a capital repayment basis, rather than his current 
interest-only basis, this will also need an application with an affordability assessment.
I dont underestimate how strongly Mr S feels about this. But overall, Im satisfied Nationwide 
hasnt done anything wrong in asking Mr S to follow its application process to switch his 
mortgage from interest-only to capital repayment. It is up to Mr S now to decide if he wants 
to follow this process.
As far as customer service issues are concerned, I can see the call in October 2021 didnt 
go well at all, and that this wasnt Mr Ss fault. I think the £100 compensation offered for this 
is fair in all the circumstances.
I also understand Nationwide has now closed Mr Ss credit card and current accounts, so I 
dont need to make any further comment on this.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint insofar as Im satisfied that the £100 
compensation offered by Nationwide Building Society is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. I simply leave it to Mr S to decide if he wants to accept it in full and final 
settlement of his complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman