DRN-3883051
The complaint
Mr W believes Conister Bank Limited acted irresponsibly by agreeing a hire purchase 
agreement hed applied for.
What happened
In April 2014, Mr W took out a hire purchase agreement with Conister Bank Limited to fund 
the purchase of a used car. He paid a deposit of £300 and the agreement was for £5,972.50 
over 60 months, with monthly repayments of £180.01. In November 2016, because he was 
struggling to maintain payments, Mr W voluntarily terminated the agreement and handed 
back the car.
Although the agreement was with Conister Bank Limited, who are based outside of the UK, 
the agreement was processed and dealt with by a company Ill call M. The evidence shows 
that M, who are UK based, carried out all of the affordability checks on behalf of Conister 
Bank Limited, as well as dealing with the complaint on Conister Bank Limiteds behalf. And 
neither M nor Conister Bank Limited have disputed this or provided anything to show that the 
affordability checks were actually carried out by Conister Bank Limited. 
As such, the Financial Ombudsman Service has the jurisdiction to consider this case 
because the events that are being complained about were regulated activities carried out 
within our territorial jurisdiction by a regulated company.
For ease of reference, Ill refer to both Conister Bank Limited and M as Conister throughout 
my decision.
Mr W has complained that, when Conister approved the agreement, they failed to carry out 
checks on his income and expenditure. And, had they done so, they wouldve discovered 
that he was in a Debt Management Plan (DMP) at the time of the application, and the 
agreement wasnt affordable for him.
Conister didnt agree, and they said theyd carried out checks which showed the finance was 
affordable. Mr W wasnt happy with this and brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator didnt think that Conister had carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks when they assessed Mr Ws application. And, if they had done these checks, she 
thought they wouldve found that the payments werent affordable or sustainable. Which 
meant that the agreement shouldnt have been approved. So, the investigator recommended 
that Conister refund Mr W the deposit and payments hed made, less £100 for every month 
he had use of the car, plus statutory interest.
Conister responded to the investigators view and challenged our jurisdiction to consider this 
complaint. They said that Mr W was provided with the finance in April 2014, so he only had 
six years in which to bring his complaint to us. And he waited more than seven years before 
doing so. They also said that the agreement ended in November 2016, and Mr W only had 
three years from this date in which to bring his complaint to us. Which he didnt do. Because 
of this, Conister thought we should dismiss Mr Ws complaint.
This challenge was considered by an ombudsman, who issued a decision on the jurisdiction 
aspect of the complaint only. The ombudsman explained why they thought Mr Ws was able 
to bring his complaint to us, as he only became aware that he had a right to complain about 
potential irresponsible lending in 2021. And his complaint was made within three years of his 
date of awareness.
After receiving this decision, Conister said that Mr W hadnt contacted them to say that he 
was struggling to maintain his payments, and he made 30 payments by direct debit. So, they 
believe this shows the agreement was affordable. And they asked for an ombudsman to 
make a final decision on the irresponsible lending complaint Mr W initially raised.
I issued a provisional decision on 1 December 2022, where I explained my intention not to 
uphold the complaint. In that decision I said:
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, there are two 
overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all 
of the circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did Conister complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr W 
would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did Conister make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr W 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Conister act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
And, if I determine that Conister didnt act fairly and reasonably when considering Mr Ws 
application, Ill also consider what I think is a fair way to put things right.
Did Conister complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr W would 
be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are, but Id expect lenders 
to consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the finance being applied 
for; as well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application. 
Conister Bank have confirmed that, when considering Mr Ws application, they determined 
his creditworthiness based on a full credit file review and assessment of pay slips. And they 
said that, based on this, they calculated Mr W could afford a payment of £248 a month. So, 
because Mr Ws payment was only £180.01, they considered the agreement was affordable.
However, the calculation Conister have provided shows that the £248 they calculated Mr W 
was able to pay was based on Mr Ws income without any consideration of what his actual 
outgoings were. As such, because Conister didnt consider how much disposable income Mr 
W actually had when considering if the agreement was affordable, I dont think they carried 
out reasonable and proportionate checks.
Because Conister didnt carry out reasonable and proportionate checks, Ive gone on to 
consider what these checks wouldve actually shown.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr W could sustainably repay 
the borrowing?Ive seen a copy of the credit check that Conister Bank did on Mr W. This is just a summary 
scorecard, without any details as to how much Mr W owed, or how much he paid, for his 
existing credit commitments. However, Mr W scored badly under both current and worst 
HP, and current and worst unsecured. This indicates to me that Mr W had existing payment 
issues, and I wouldve expected Conister to explore this further before agreeing the finance.
Conister also considered Mr Ws payslip for March 2014. This showed a net income of 
£1,076.14 for that month. And the tax summary information indicated that Mr W received a 
similar income each month for the previous year.
Mr W has provided copies of his bank statements for 6 December 2013 to 31 December 
2014. While I wouldnt have necessarily expected Conister to have asked Mr W for copies of 
his bank statements, Im satisfied that these statements give a good indication of what 
Conister would likely have taken into consideration had they done reasonable and 
proportionate checks on Mr Ws income and expenditure. Im also only considering the bank 
statements for January to March 2014  the period immediately before the finance was 
taken out.
The bank statements confirm the income showing on the payslip, as well as Mr Ws partner 
paying him an average of £800 a month towards their joint household bills etc. They also 
show the contribution from Mr Ws partner reduced to £600 a month once the finance was 
taken out. And this is the figure the investigator used in her calculations.
However, while I appreciate that this wouldve had an impact on Mr Ws affordability, Im only 
able to consider what Conister wouldve seen had they looked into Mr Ws affordability at the 
time the finance was being approved. And this wouldve shown a monthly 
income/contribution totalling £1,876.18. 
Mr W was regularly paying a mortgage, council tax and water rates, energy bills, insurances, 
TV and phone bills; as well as payments towards his credit commitments, which included 
unauthorised overdraft fees. These came to an average of £1,238.26 a month. Mr W has 
also provided copies of his DMP statements. The statement covering the period January to 
March 2014 shows that the £60 a month payments to the DMP were on the bank statements 
Ive considered and contained within the £1,238.26 outgoings.
Accounting for both Mr Ws income, the amount his partner gave him, and the £180.01 
payment to Conister; this wouldve left Mr W with £457.84 a month for essentials such as 
food, clothing, and transport costs. And, as Mr Ws partners income has been used to 
support their joint outgoings (even though these were paid through Mr Ws sole named bank 
account), I also need to take into consideration that Mr Ws partner would also have a 
disposable income that could be used towards these essential payments.
Whats more, I dont think that the presence of a DMP shouldve meant that Conister 
shouldve automatically declined the application. Instead, I would expect them to have 
considered this as part of their overall lending decision. And, had they done so, I dont think 
this wouldve changed the decision to lend.
Given all the above, Im satisfied that, at the time of the application, Mr W had sufficient 
affordability to be able to sustainably maintain payments to Conister. As such, even though 
Mr Ws financial situation mayve changed after the finance was taken out, Im satisfied that, 
had Conister carried out reasonable and proportionate checks, they would still have 
approved the lending. And I wont be asking them to do anything more.
Did Conister act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?I havent seen anything to make me think Conister acted unfairly or unreasonably in some 
other way.
Responses
Mr W said that the scorecard Conister relied upon was a huge red flag given what it 
contained. He also didnt consider it was reasonable to take his partners income into 
consideration as their finances were separate and she isnt named on the mortgage or any 
credit agreements and therefore doesnt have a legal responsibility towards these  we did 
not ask for her earnings to be taken into consideration  she could have stopped the bank 
transfers at anytime. And she didnt stand as a guarantor for the hire purchase agreement.
As such, because the outgoings from his bank account were more than the income he 
earned at the time, Mr W didnt think the payment to Conister was affordable, and that 
Conister hadnt acted reasonably by approving the finance.
Conister didnt respond to my provisional decision. As such, Im taking their silence to mean 
they didnt disagree with my findings, or that the Financial Ombudsman Service had the 
jurisdiction to consider Mr Ws complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted Mr Ws comments. In my provisional decision I explained why I wouldnt expect 
Conister to automatically decline an application because of the presence of adverse 
information, but to take this into consideration as part of they overall lending decision. As 
such, I dont think that Conister did anything wrong by not automatically declining Mr Ws 
application after reviewing the credit check summary scorecard.
Turning to the income, Mr W has said that he and his partners finances were separate. 
While it may be the case that the mortgage and other credit commitments were in Mr Ws 
sole name, including the agreement with Conister, this doesnt mean that Mr W and his 
partner had separate finances. I say this because his partner paid a regular monthly amount 
to Mr W as her contribution towards the bills, regardless of whose name they were in.
Whats more, I havent seen anything to show me that Mr W was solely responsible for all of 
the food, clothing, and transport costs he and his partner jointly incurred. Because of this, I 
think its reasonable to consider the actual financial position (as shown by Mr Ws bank 
statements), and not what couldve been had one party chosen to act differently.
In addition, Mr W has said that his partner couldve stopped making payments to him at any 
time, which wouldve meant that his income wouldnt have covered his outgoings. While I 
accept this couldve happened, it wasnt what had happened when Mr W applied for finance 
through Conister; and by Mr W being able to maintain payments for the next 30-months, Im 
satisfied that its reasonable for me to conclude that his partner didnt stop contributing to the 
household bills (in Mr Ws name and going through his bank account) for a least a 
substantial period after the finance was taken out.
So, for these reasons, Mr Ws comments dont change my opinion that the hire purchase 
agreement was affordable when Mr W applied for it, and that Conister acted reasonably by 
approving his application.My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint about Conister Bank 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman