DRN-4213643
The complaint
Mr Ks complaint is about a mortgage he has with Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax. 
Mr K says that Halifax should offer him a term extension on the mortgage.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr K being identified. So for these reasons, I will 
keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
This is one of a number of complaints Mr K has made about this mortgage account. The 
mortgage was originally taken out in 2001, with a further advance in 2008. It is on a part-
repayment basis (approximately £33,500) and part-interest-only basis (approximately 
£470,000), over four sub-accounts. Two of the sub-accounts (one repayment, one interest-
only) reach their end date in June 2026 and the other two reach the end of their terms in 
October 2027.
In April 2021 Mr K switched the mortgage to a new interest rate product. It is now on a fixed 
rate of interest at 1.32% until 31 July 2024. An early repayment charge (ERC) applies if the 
mortgage is repaid, in whole or in part, before that date.
In February 2022 Mr K spoke to Halifax about the mortgage. The banks notes recorded that 
at the time of the product switch in 2021 Mr K had wanted to extend the term to have more 
time to repay and possibly switch the whole mortgage to repayment, but would keep some 
on interest-only if necessary. Mr K didnt want to have to sell the property at the end of the 
current term. 
The bank said that it did not consider this would be affordable for Mr K. Halifax explained 
that rental income from lodgers wasnt an acceptable form of income. Halifax also wasnt 
able to take into consideration savings or pensions income which Mr K was not yet in receipt 
of. Mr K was on benefits, which the bank was able to treat as acceptable income, but there 
was no repayment vehicle for the interest-only part of the mortgage. A switch to capital 
repayment wasnt affordable, given Mr Ks limited income. As a result, Halifax wasnt able to 
make any changes to the mortgage term, or the repayment type. Halifax explained that 
overpayments were allowed, if Mr K was able to make these, although anything over 10% of 
the annual balance would incur an ERC until 31 July 2024.
Mr K complained that he wasnt able to extend the mortgage term. Halifax didnt uphold the 
complaint, so it was brought to our service. An investigator looked at what had happened but 
didnt think the bank had acted unfairly.
Mr K asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Although Mr K requested further 
time to prepare his arguments and was granted an extension of time, that deadline passed 
several weeks ago.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said at the outset, Ive kept my summary of what happened quite brief. I note that Mr K 
has complained about other matters during the course of this complaint. Some of these have 
already been investigated by our service, and some have not yet been raised with the bank. 
Therefore I am not looking at Mr Ks complaints about the arrangement of the further 
advance and switching part of the mortgage to interest-only carried out through his own 
independent financial adviser in 2008. Mr K previously raised a complaint with us against 
Halifax about those matters. We issued our findings on it in August 2021, following which Mr 
K agreed the case could be closed. 
Nor am I looking at Mr Ks complaints about legal fees attached to his account, which he has 
only recently raised in this current complaint. I am aware that Mr K had an ombudsmans 
final decision about legal fees on his account on 8 November 2022. If there are any new 
issues that have arisen since then in relation to legal fees, Mr K will need to raise them 
separately with Halifax, as its not possible to add new issues to an existing complaint.
I am also not considering Mr Ks complaint that, when he and his sister applied to Halifax for 
a new mortgage, the bank would only agree to lend about £160,000  this would need to be 
a new complaint brought by Mr K and his sister.
In relation to the issue I am looking at in this complaint  which is that Mr K says Halifax 
should have offered him a term extension when he took out the product switch in 2021  I 
dont think the bank has treated him unfairly, for the reasons given below.
There are regulations in place that have flowed from the FCAs Mortgage Market Review 
(MMR) which took place after the financial crash in 2008. This has led to a series of major 
changes, effective since 2014, in the way residential mortgages are regulated. MMR 
regulations have brought about requirements for stricter lending assessments, aimed at 
protecting consumers and encouraging mortgage lenders to act more responsibly. 
The FCA recognised though that existing borrowers who wanted to make changes to their 
mortgages might have difficulties with this if they had passed tests under the old rules but 
wouldnt under the new ones. So, it introduced certain rules to address this. The rules are 
contained in the Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB).
MCOB says a lender doesnt have to carry out an affordability assessment if a borrower 
wants to vary or replace an existing mortgage and there is no additional borrowing (other 
than for product fees) and no change to the terms of the mortgage that is material to 
affordability.
There are also transitional arrangements which say that a lender need not carry out an 
affordability assessment if: 
the borrower has an existing mortgage taken out before 26 April 2014, and is applying to 
vary that mortgage or replace it with a new one;  
the application wouldnt involve any additional borrowing except for essential repairs to 
the property, or to add product fees to the balance; 
theres been no further borrowing (with some exceptions) since 26 April 2014; and  the proposed transaction is in the borrowers best interests. 
So, under this rule, even where a change material to the affordability of the mortgage takes 
place, the lender can, if it chooses, waive an affordability assessment. If the lender decides 
to carry out an affordability assessment, it shouldnt use that as a reason to decline an 
application if allowing the application would otherwise be in the customers best interests. 
But the lender can take the assessment into account as part of its consideration of best 
interests.
This means there are two routes that an application for an existing borrower can go down. If 
theres no change to the terms of the mortgage contract material to affordability, theres no 
obligation to carry out an affordability assessment at all. And if there is a change to the terms 
of the mortgage contract material to affordability, a lender could still decide to allow an 
application without an affordability assessment if doing so would otherwise be in the 
borrowers best interests.
A mortgage term extension is a change to the mortgage that is material to affordability. At 
the time of the product switch in 2021 Mr K was 53 years of age. I am sorry to note that Mr K 
has been in ill health for some time, and unable to work. In addition, I understand he took 
care of his late mother during her final years. Mr K has been on benefits for some time, and 
although hes said he hopes to return to work, he hasnt done so yet. I have no doubt that 
the past few years have been very stressful for Mr K.
However, given Mr Ks financial position, Im satisfied that switching the mortgage (or any 
part of it that isnt already capital repayment) onto a capital repayment basis wouldnt be 
affordable. Although Mr K has income from lodgers, this isnt an acceptable form of income 
to meet Halifaxs criteria. 
Mr K wants the mortgage term extended for another five years from the current end date of 
2027, so until 2033. Mr K isnt due to receive his State Pension until the following year.
Whilst a term extension would result in the monthly repayments reducing for the capital 
repayment part of the mortgage (as they would be spread over a longer period), there would 
be additional interest payable both on the capital repayment element and on the interest-only 
sub-accounts over a longer term. 
With no repayment vehicle for the interest-only part of the mortgage, and with no clear 
indication of how Mr K would be able to fund the mortgage repayments beyond 2027 if the 
term was extended, Im not persuaded that it was unreasonable for Halifax to decline to 
extend the term in 2021, as this would not have been in Mr Ks best interests. Im satisfied 
Halifax was entitled to take affordability into consideration, given that the only income Mr K 
was receiving that Halifax could take into account was state benefits.
Its Halifaxs policy to review its interest-only mortgages with borrowers two years before the 
end of the term  so in this case, in 2025. Mr K will also have the opportunity to review his 
mortgage when his current product expires in July 2024. It may well be that Mr Ks 
circumstances might have changed by then, which could influence Halifaxs decision on 
whether or not to extend the term. There is nothing to prevent Mr K from applying for a term 
extension at a later date, and Halifax will be required to consider any request in accordance 
with its regulatory obligations and lending criteria.
However, in relation to the decision to decline a term extension in 2021, after considering 
everything Mr K and Halifax have said, Im unable to find Halifax did anything wrong. I know this isnt the outcome Mr K was hoping for. I can tell from what hes told us how 
important this complaint is to him. As I said above, Halifax has not shut the door on a term 
extension  and in 2025 Mr K can apply for one if by then he thinks its unlikely hell be able 
to pay off the mortgage in 2027, although there is no guarantee that any future term 
extension would be granted. It would depend on the banks lending criteria and Halifaxs 
regulatory obligations at the time of the application, which might be different from those in 
place in 2021.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman