DRN-4271729
The complaint
This complaint is about advice Mr H received from Mortgage Required Ltd (MRL) about 
moving house and porting his interest rate product to a new mortgage on the new property. 
He was turned down by the lender (a business Ill call N) which meant the early repayment 
charge (ERC) of over £15,000 hed incurred on selling the old house and repaying the 
existing mortgage wouldnt be refunded. 
Mr H says this was the result of mistaken advice from MRL about Ns porting criteria, and he 
is seeking reimbursement of the ERC he paid to N. MRL accepts it gave him wrong 
information and has offered Mr H £500 compensation. But it has declined his claim for 
reimbursement of the ERC, on the basis that this would have happened anyway, regardless 
of its mistake.
What Ive decided  and why
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr H and MRL. Im also aware that 
the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, a copy of which has been sent 
to all parties, and so I dont need to repeat the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mr H being identified. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us. Its for me to decide what the material issues are 
that will affect the eventual outcome. Its also my judgement on what evidence I need to see 
and consider, in order to reach a fair decision.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This isnt a complaint where I have to decide fault; MRL admits it made mistakes and has 
apologised and offered compensation. All that leaves for me to decide is whether MRLs 
response provides a fair settlement or not. 
MRLs mistake was not to tell Mr H that one of Hs porting criteria was that the application 
had to have been received by N before the existing property had been sold and the existing 
mortgage redeemed. Thats not disputed by MRL but it says that even if its had been 
submitted before the sale, the porting application would have been rejected by N in any 
event. MRL also rejects Mr Hs assertion that if hed been correctly advised, hed wouldnt 
have gone ahead with the sale. 
As he is the party bringing the complaint, Mr Hs version of events has to be more likely than 
the alternative, not just simply as likely if I am to uphold the complaint. Having taken 
everything into account, Im not persuaded that, but for MRLs error, Mr H would be in a 
materially different position from the one he is on now. Ill explain why.
First of all, Im persuaded that Mr Hs application for a new mortgage with N, whether that 
involved porting his existing rate product or taking out a new one, was always destined to be 
declined. Ive reached that conclusion on the basis of information weve received from N. 
The information was submitted in confidence, which our rules allow. 
The information in question is sensitive, and so its appropriate that it remain confidential. By 
the same token, it is also material to the outcome of the case, so its fair and reasonable that 
I exercise the discretion our rules give me to rely on it when reaching my determination.
What that means is that the only way Mr H could only have avoided incurring the ERC was 
by not selling his existing home and repaying his existing mortgage. Hes argued a strong 
case for why someone of his business acumen wouldnt knowingly incur such a cost, but Ive 
also seen his early exchanges with MRL, in May 2022, some three months before he sold 
and redeemed.
From those exchanges, it seems clear that Mr H was already looking to sever his connection 
with N by taking a mortgage with a different lender  which would have meant paying the 
ERC  and that it was MRL who suggested he explore the porting option first. Mr H has 
explained the reasons for wishing to end his association with N. I wont disclose them here, 
in order to preserve his privacy, but his strength of feeling does come across quite 
emphatically. Hed already ended other financial arrangements with N; the mortgage was the 
last remaining connection.
Ultimately, MRL wrongly raised Mr Hs expectations by having him think he might be able to 
port his interest product to a new mortgage with N. Had it not done that, I think it more likely 
than not that Mr H would have proceeded with his original plan of selling his home, repaying 
the mortgage with N (ERC included) thus completing his severance from N, and taking a 
mortgage with a different lender to fund his new home. 
For having mistakenly raised Mr Hs expectations, its fair that MRL should compensation 
Mr H for his time, trouble and upset. Its existing offer of £500 is higher than I would have 
awarded if no offer had been made. Ive explained above why I dont find MRL is liable for 
the ERC Mr N paid when redeeming his mortgage with N. Put all of this together, and I dont 
find that MRL needs to do more to settle this complaint than it has already offered to do.
Mr H doesnt have to accept my final decision, and if he doesnt then neither he nor MRL will 
be bound by it. If that happens, then subject to any time limits or other restrictions a court 
might impose, Mr Hs recourse to a legal remedy of his own against MRL over the subject 
matter of this complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of it. But of course 
he will need to weigh up the likelihood of a successful outcome and the potential costs hell 
face if not successful.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be fairly and reasonably determined by 
Mortgage Required Ltd paying Mr H the £500 compensation it has offered him. I make no 
other order or award. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman