DRN-2005570
The complaint
Mr V complains that technical issues with TSB Banking Plcs systems in March 2018 
prevented him from seeing debits to his account relating to the renewal of an existing 
membership. He said he wouldve disputed this renewal if he had seen the debits, or 
requested a chargeback. He says that by the time he saw these debits, when he contacted 
the merchant, he was told it was too late to receive a full refund. 
What happened
In March 2018 a firm Ill call Company A debited Mr Vs account for a renewal of an annual 
membership which he didnt request. He was debited £78.83 and £87.60. Mr V says that he 
didnt see these transactions at the time, and this was because of the widespread technical 
issues which TSB was experiencing at the time. 
In September 2018 Mr V telephoned TSB to raise his complaint. He said he was unhappy 
that Company A had been able to auto renew his membership using the expired debit card 
details he had on file with it. He also explained that he had attempted to raise the issue as a 
debit card chargeback, but as it had been more than 120 days since the debit a chargeback 
couldnt be pursued. 
Mr V raised this issue with Company A, but he was told he wouldnt receive a full refund as 
too much time had elapsed  it did however issue him with partial refunds.
TSB looked into Mr Vs concerns, but sent him a letter explaining that it didnt think it had 
done anything wrong. It said that it found no errors or issues in relation to the debits Mr V 
was disputing, and confirmed that expired card details wouldnt mean that an automatic 
renewal such as this couldnt take place. It concluded that this was something he needed to 
take up with Company A. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Vs complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
short, she said there was insufficient evidence to demonstrate that the two debits were 
missing from his account statement in March 2018. And she didnt think TSB had done 
anything wrong in allowing an automatic renewal to go through, even if the card details Mr V 
had with Company A were expired  this was something that was common place. 
Mr V didnt agree. He said:
He spoke to someone at his local branch who told him he would have the debits 
reimbursed. This branch manager told him they had left notes and messages for the 
case handler telling them that his complaint ought to be upheld.
TSB still hadnt properly responded to his complaint despite him raising it many 
months before. 
He had provided evidence that showed clear gaps in his February 2019 online 
statement which supported his case. 
He said this showed that despite TSB saying everything was working fine, it wasnt. 
He said he couldnt provide contemporaneous evidence because it was only after the 
paper evidence was posted to him that he saw the debits. But he said the fact that 
there were gaps in his statements in February 2019 showed that this is what most 
likely happened in March 2018.
He had been robbed and it wasnt fair. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the matter was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
It seems that Mr V has essentially raised two concerns about the debits taken by Company 
A. The first is in relation to his view that those debits shouldnt have been authorised by TSB 
because his card details with Company A had expired. I think TSB has explained this 
persuasively to this service. 
It has said that the recurring payment system allows Visa to process payments using 
replacement debit card details. And this was to ensure that customers didnt miss out when 
their card has been replaced. It said that there was therefore no error in TSB allowing 
Company A to take the payments using the debit card it had on file  particularly as Mr V 
must have authorised Company A to take these payments in future. 
There isnt much for me to add to this explanation. In addition, Id imagine that Company A 
wouldve emailed Mr V well in advance of taking the payments in order to notify him of the 
upcoming renewal. If Mr V assumed that this wouldnt go through because the card details 
had expired, rather than telling Company A he didnt want the renewal to go ahead, thats 
not something I can hold TSB responsible for. 
I understand Mr Vs second complaint is that in March 2018, these two debits didnt appear 
on his account  so he didnt know they had been authorised. Ive seen insufficient evidence 
that this is the case  although I do understand Mr Vs submission that as he didnt know 
these debits had taken place, he couldnt have queried them at the time. 
However, in deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, I need to take into 
the evidence available. This evidence includes:
A statement from March 2018 clearly showing the two debits in question. 
The evidence from TSB that its IT migration issues didnt start until April 2018, when 
it changed its systems over. 
TSB has also confirmed that as far as it is aware, there were no issues with customers being 
able to access and view transactions on their accounts in March 2018. And I would add that, 
in my experience, when a renewal of a service has taken place, it would be usual practice for 
an email confirming said renewal to be sent to a customer by the company providing the 
service  in this case Company A.
I understand Mr V has submitted evidence from February 2019 which he says shows some 
transactions missing  in particular between 11 February 2019 and 25 February 2019. I dont 
find this evidence particularly persuasive. 
I say this firstly because Mr V hasnt in fact explained what transactions he expected to be 
listed between 11 February and 25 February 2019 which are not. But even if he were able to 
evidence these transactions, I dont agree that evidence from February 2019 is sufficient for me to conclude, on balance, that Mr V is right about the transactions he says were absent in 
March 2018  given the evidence Ive highlighted above. 
Mr V has also made reference to the branch manager in his local branch telling him hed be 
entitled to compensation. TSB has been unable to provide any notes reflecting this 
conversation. Thats not to say it didnt happen. But even if I thought thats what Mr V was 
told, the fact remains that since that conversation, TSB has looked into his concerns and 
concluded it did nothing wrong. This is its final position. 
Having looked at all the evidence available, Im sorry to disappoint Mr V, but Im not 
persuaded TSB has done anything wrong. As a result, I dont direct it to take any further 
action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman