DRN-3262990
The complaint
Mr Hs complaint is about AXA Insurance UK Plcs decision to turn down a claim for storm 
damage under his home insurance policy.
All references to AXA include its appointed agents.
What happened
In June 2021, Mr H noticed a leak in his property following a storm. He notified AXA, who 
appointed a loss adjuster to inspect the damage.
The loss adjuster concluded that there wasnt evidence of storm damage to the roof of       
Mr Hs property. They also concluded that the damage was caused by water ingress over 
time, and a breakdown in some of the roofing material.
Mr H disagreed and complained. He didnt agree with the scope of the loss adjusters 
inspection and conclusions. And he didnt think AXA had correctly located the source of the 
leak either. So, he felt the damage should be covered. And he wanted a second surveyor to 
attend the property to determine the cause and scope of damage.
AXA provided two final responses to Mr H. It referred the matter to a second in-house 
surveyor and maintained its position to turn down the claim. AXA offered Mr H a total of £75 
compensation for some poor service and communication. Mr H then referred the matter to 
our service.
Our investigator looked at everything and recommended the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
They concluded that there were likely storm conditions around the time Mr H claimed, but 
they werent persuaded that the storm was the main cause of the damage being claimed for. 
They accepted there was some minor external damage to the roof which could be 
considered, but the likely costs of this would be within the policy excess. And they concluded 
that AXAs offer of compensation was fair.  
Mr H disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He felt that based on the evidence 
provided, the conditions for the claim had been satisfied, and as such it was most probable 
that the storm had caused the damage and subsequent leak.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered whether AXA has assessed Mr Hs claim fairly under the terms and 
conditions of his policy. When a policyholder makes a claim, its accepted that it is for them 
to show that an insured event has happened. And I would expect the insurer to show it has 
assisted the policyholder by carrying out proportionate investigations to reach a fair outcome 
on the claim.
In order for me to determine if AXAs position is fair and reasonable, there are three 
questions I need to consider:
1. Was there evidence of a storm around the time of the claim?
2. Is the damage typical of the damage that would be caused by a storm?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
And in order for the claim to succeed, the answer to all three questions must be yes.
In this case, neither party is disputing the answers to questions 1. and 2. It is accepted that 
there were storm conditions around the time Mr H claimed. And the damage he is claiming 
for is typical of the damage that would be caused by a storm. So, Ill focus my findings on the 
final question below.
Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
AXA has relied on the loss adjusters report to turn down the claim. And following Mr Hs 
challenge it referred the report to an in-house surveyor for a second opinion. AXAs report 
says that the main cause of damage is due to a hole in the felt in the loft and states, There 
is a TV Ariel poked through a hole in the felt. Each time it rains heavy water has been 
coming through the hole. And it says that when the main roof was inspected the damage 
was caused by Natural breakdown of materials.
Mr H provided photos and videos of the damage. He says that this shows the water is 
flowing from a gap in the chimney and down the roofing felt to where it is currently being 
collected. He added that the photos show the felt hasnt broken down and the location of the 
leak shows that the surveyor didnt fully consider the damage to his property.
Having carefully considered everything by both parties, I am more persuaded that AXA has 
acted fairly in turning down the claim. I say this because Ive not seen any evidence to 
confirm that the gap in the roof which is allowing the ingress was a result of a single storm 
event. Instead, the photos and videos Ive seen suggest it is more likely the storm 
highlighted an existing problem as opposed to being the main cause of the damage.
I understand Mr H may provide AXA with further evidence from a builder to show that the 
damage to the roof has been caused by an insured event, and AXA has agreed it would 
consider this if provided. I think this is reasonable in the circumstances.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr H, but based on everything Ive seen, I am not persuaded there is 
enough evidence to show that AXAs decision to turn down the claim was unreasonable. And 
I find that the evidence presented is on the balance of probabilities sufficient to show the 
damage cannot be reasonably attributed to a single one-off storm event. So, Im not going to 
require AXA to do anything further.
I can see that Mr H is aware that he may have cause for a minor claim to the external roof 
but that any repair costs will most likely fall within his policy excess, so Im not going to 
consider this point further.Ive considered AXAs offer of £75 compensation for some poor service and communication 
during the claim, and Im satisfied that it is reasonable in the circumstances. So, I wont be 
making an additional compensation award here.
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about AXA Insurance UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman