DRN-4391281
The complaint
Miss B has complained that Revolut Ltd blocked her account when she reported her card 
and phone as being stolen.
What happened
Miss Bs card and phone were stolen, and two payments were made on her Revolut 
account, totalling about £13.
Miss B reported this to Revolut, who blocked her account to prevent any further fraudulent 
payments from being made. They asked Miss B to go through the normal security process to 
re-verify herself and unblock her account. Miss B refused to do so. She feels it was illegal for 
Revolut to block the account, and feels she was being treated like a fraudster.
Revolut raised disputes for the fraudulent payments, doing the forms for Miss B as she said 
she couldnt do them herself. They refunded the payments and also paid another £13.78 to 
Miss B as a goodwill gesture.
Our investigator looked into things independently and found that Revolut had acted fairly. 
Miss B didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It was both appropriate and perfectly normal for Revolut to block Miss Bs account in this 
situation. Her card and phone had been stolen  and those could both potentially be used to 
steal Miss Bs money. Indeed, the thief had already made unauthorised payments by that 
point. So Revolut blocked the account in order to prevent further fraudulent payments and to 
keep Miss Bs money safe.
This was not illegal, it was something Revolut were very much allowed and even expected to 
do as part of keeping Miss Bs money safe. Indeed, their ability to block the account is set 
out clearly in the terms and conditions  the terms which Miss B agreed to in opening this 
account. I find that Revolut followed good industry practice by securing Miss Bs account.
The block was not put in place because Revolut thought Miss B was a fraudster, or anything 
like that. It was put in place to stop the actual fraudster who had stolen Miss Bs phone and 
card and was making payments without her permission. Revolut made it clear that they were 
blocking the account to keep it safe for Miss B. They did not say or reasonably imply that 
Miss B was a fraudster. I can reassure her that she was not being treated as one.
As part of keeping Miss Bs money safe, it was appropriate for Revolut to keep the account 
blocked until she went through the proper security process. Her account was compromised 
by a thief, so it was sensible for Revolut to make sure that Miss B was the one accessing it 
going forward. Again, their actions here were reasonable and normal. As Miss B refused to 
go through the security process, her account remains blocked, which is also reasonable. If 
Miss B would like her account to be unblocked, even if she just closes it after, she will need 
to go through the security process first.
Turning to the disputed payments themselves, I can see that Revolut submitted the relevant 
form for Miss B so that she didnt have to. Then they refunded the disputed payments in full 
in good time. That seems more than fair. Ive gone through Miss Bs chat with Revolut, and 
find that Revolut handled things reasonably overall. From what I can see, the main issue 
was caused by Miss B refusing to go through the proper process.
I understand that Miss B felt it was difficult to complain. Our service is only allowed to 
consider cases about regulated activities  things like processing payments. But handling 
complaints is not a regulated activity in and of itself. So her points there are not really in our 
jurisdiction. I will note that Miss Bs complaint came through OK and Revolut addressed it 
well within the 8 weeks they had to do so. They also paid her £13.78 as a goodwill gesture, 
which I think is enough to address the customer service issues which Miss B set out.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint.
This final decision marks the end of our services consideration of the case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman