DRN-3977543
The complaint
Mrs W complains about Computershare Investor Services Plc, referred to as 
Computershare or the business. 
In short, shes unhappy about the exchange rate used to change her money from Euros 
(EUR) to Canadian Dollars (CAD). As a consequence, she says she lost around CAD 5,000 
and would like that money back.   
What happened
Mrs W held Shell Plc Ordinary Shares (AMS), as part of her employee sharesave scheme. 
Her Share Plan Account is and was managed by Computershare.
On 28 October 2022, she instructed Computershare to sell her shares which were held in 
EUR. Her instructions were executed on 31 October 2022 and settle on 2 November 2022. 
Computershare converted the sale proceeds into CAD the same day and paid out the 
proceeds to Mrs Ws Canadian bank account. 
Mrs W is unhappy that Computershare used an FX rate that was different to the one that 
shed seen when she placed the sale instruction.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:  
Section 16.3 of the terms and conditions  which Mrs W wouldve agreed to at the 
outset  makes clear that in the event of an investor asking to be paid out in a 
currency thats different to the Share Plan currency, it would instruct one of its 
chosen banks to deal with the matter:
oon your behalf, to convert your money into your chosen currency and pay 
the converted funds to you. The bank will be instructed to pay the funds to the 
bank account details which we have for you on our records.
Section 16.7 further explains thats its not liable for any exchange rates: 
oThe bank will apply its Currency Exchange Rate for the conversion of your 
money. You may not specify the currency exchange rate or the minimum 
exchange rate that will be applied to your currency conversion. Foreign 
currency exchange rates may change after you send your instruction to us 
and your converted funds may be less than you expected due to exchange 
rate fluctuations. We are not liable to you for any changes in exchange rates 
where we have carried out your instructions with reasonable care and skill.
Computershare also made clear that this information was made available online  
evidenced by screenshots. The warning made clear the following:
oExchange rates and share prices rise and fall and may be different at the 
point your trade is executed.
Although Mrs W saw an FX rate of 1.351817 on the screen when she placed her 
instructions  and felt thats what shed get  theres no evidence that she was 
guaranteed to get this amount. Therefore, it cant be said that the business misled 
her. The terms and conditions already made clear that Computershare had no control 
over the price shed receive. 
If Mrs W was unhappy with this, she had the option to transfer her shares to another 
broker, or alternatively she had the option to add a different bank account to pay the 
funds into. 
Mrs W wasnt forced to accept the terms if she was unhappy with them. 
She placed her instructions at 4:14pm (GMT) on a Friday which was late in the day 
nearing the closing time for the AMS, so she can see why the order was placed the 
next day  this isnt an unusual practice. 
Computershare explained that the shares had a settlement period of T+2 days, so 
the trade wouldve settled on 2 November which is when the funds were converted to 
CAD by the bank. As the funds were converted the same day, there was no delay. 
From the graph provided, its clear average rate on the day was 1.34608, and it used 
a wholesale rate of 1.34769, to calculate the amount Mrs W would receive  which 
was higher than the average amount, as well as higher than the mid-market rate 
which  from her own research  was 1.34537. So, the rate used was a fair reflection 
of the kind of rates used. 
An amount of 250bps was deducted. However, this deduction  which in effect 
represented a fee for using the service  wasnt unfair because it was explained in 
the terms and conditions. 
The terms and conditions made clear the following:
o(a) Subject to clauses 6(b) and 6(c) below, for each Currency conversion 
executed as a result of your instruction you will be charged: 
 fixed fee as specified on the Website prior to submission of your Online 
Instruction (the Fixed Fee); AND 
 a Spread calculated based on the average value of the Residual Monies as 
follows: 
(i) where the aggregate value of the Residual Monies is between £0 and 
£99,999.99 the Wholesale Rate will be reduced by a Spread of 250 basis 
points
Mrs W didnt agree with the investigators view. In short, she made the following 
observations:
If Computershare wasnt licensed to trade FX, then the service agreement with her is 
invalid. 
The investigator assumed that the contract was legal, and in the same way also 
assumed that Computershare was right. 
The order was placed on 28 October and Computershare executed it on 30 October, 
and the investigator doesnt seem to think there was a delay. One day delay is 
unusual. 
The information on screen regarding rates, versus what happened, doesnt seem to 
have been considered. In general terms, given the difference in rates, she shouldve 
been called again to confirm whether or not she wished to go ahead.  
If FX wasnt related to Computershares actions  and it was the bank that carried out 
the transaction  then there should be no deduction such as the 250bps. In other 
words, no service, no deduction. 
She wants to know if the fixed fee is 0.975. Shes not satisfied by the investigators 
comments regarding this point and has proposed her own analysis and calculations. 
She was reluctant to exchange details. The investigator might be Computershares 
inside man. 
If her complaint isnt resolved properly, she reserves the right to pursue a lawsuit. The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind. In summary, she said:
The industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), would ensure that 
Computershare had the relevant permissions to facilitate this transaction. 
Computershare used a third-party provider  the bank  to carry out the currency 
exchange. Computershare didnt convert the fund themselves. It didnt do anything 
that it wasnt allowed to do  theres nothing illegal about the process. 
The 250bps is for facilitating the currency exchange. 
Prompted by the investigator, the business provided the following information regarding the 
calculations:
As per the terms and conditions for this participant, the bank applies a 250bps (i.e. 2.50%) 
spread to the FX rate. 
 In order to reduce X by 2.50%, you are essentially saying that you want 97.50% (100% 
minus 2.50%) of X. 
 In order to get 97.50% of X, you multiply X by 97.50% 
 In numerical terms, this means multiplying X by 0.975.
I trust this clarifies the information that you are requesting.
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mrs W says, Im not persuaded 
that the business behaved unreasonably. 
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise the strength 
of feeling Mrs W has about this matter. She has provided submissions to support the 
complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope she wont take the 
fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much 
detail, as a discourtesy.
  
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, or undertake a forensic analysis of the evidence, its not what Im required 
to do in order to reach a decision in this case. I appreciate this can be frustrating, but it 
doesnt mean Im not considering the pertinent points in this case.
 
My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mrs W and Computershare, and reach 
what I think is an independent, fair, and reasonable decision based on the facts of the 
case  Im not here to take sides.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and 
best industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to 
have happened. 
I reject this complaint, in brief, for the following reasons:
The relevant terms and conditions made clear what would happen if Mrs W 
requested to be paid a different currency to the one used by the Share Plan, and why 
Computershare wasnt responsible for the exchange rates. 
Mrs W is likely to have agreed to these terms and conditions before going ahead with 
the business and therefore is bound by them. If she didnt read through the key terms 
and conditions or had concerns but didnt pursue these with the business, its not 
something I can blame the business for.
Computershare made clear that it would instruct one of its banks to make the 
payment in the different currency. So, if the bank did something wrong  Im not 
suggesting that it has  I cant blame Computershare for this, as it isnt responsible 
for the actions of a third-party banking service. Besides, the business made clear the 
risk that the exchange rates and share prices rise and fall might be different at the 
point her trade is executed. Despite the rate seen by Mrs W, Computershare gave no 
guarantee as to what rate shed get. 
Given the timing of the instructions, and when the order was placed, I cant say that 
the business has caused any delays. I note the business also made clear when the 
trade was likely to settle. 
Whilst I appreciate Mrs W thinks its unfair that she wasnt told a specific rate that 
would be used, I dont think it was within Computershares power to provide this 
therefore it hasnt done anything wrong by not doing so. In other words, the business 
has no control over the rate. 
I understand she wanted the business to contact her before converting the currency 
and paying into her Canadian bank account, but in the circumstances, I dont think 
the business was obliged to. Therefore, it hasnt done anything wrong by not doing 
so.   
A business is, in the reasonable exercise of its legitimate commercial judgement, 
entitled to decide how it runs its affairs. Its not something that our service would get 
involved in. In other words, its not for us to tell a business how to run its affairs. 
Therefore, I cant say that the business has done anything wrong by not contacting 
Mrs W before converting EUR into CAD, because it wasnt obliged to.  
Despite what Mrs W says, I cant see that Computershare did anything wrong with 
regards to FX  Ive seen no evidence that it was trading, therefore I cant say that it 
needed a license or did anything wrong by not doing so. 
Despite what Mrs W says, I cant say that the 250bps deduction was unfair. The 
business has provided a calculation  I cant say that theres anything wrong with 
that. 
I appreciate Mrs W says that if the complaint wasnt resolved satisfactorily, she 
reserved the right to pursue legal action. That is a matter for her, but she may wish to 
obtain legal advice before pursuing any particular course of action. 
I note Mrs Ws comments about our investigator being Computershares inside man 
but Ive seen no evidence that shes exhibited any kind of bias towards the business.  
I appreciate Mrs W will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what she wants to hear. 
I note she believes shes due at least CAD 5,000, but I dont agree. Whilst I appreciate her 
deep frustration and anguish, Im not going to ask the business to do anything. On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, despite what Mrs W says, Im unable 
to give her what she wants.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman