DRN-3723725
The complaint
Mr T complains that Revolut Ltd closed his account without any notice or reason. Mr T wants 
compensation and his account reinstated.
What happened
Mr T had an account with Revolut.
Mr T contacted Revolut when he realised his account had been blocked. Mr T complained to 
Revolut. It didnt uphold his complaint. It said it was entitled to review his account. 
Following a review of his account Revolut wrote to Mr T telling him his account had been 
closed on 18 November 2020.
Mr T complained to our service. He thought it unfair that Revolut used an automated 
algorithm to suspend and close his account. He was unhappy that he couldnt communicate 
with Revolut through its app after his account was blocked. He thought Revolut was wrong to 
close his account without notice. He also thought Revolut hadnt treated him fairly as its 
required to do under Principle 2 of the FCA rules
Revolut offered £20 to settle the complaint. But Mr T rejected the offer.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. He said Revolut hadnt done anything 
wrong when it reviewed Mr Ts account and they were entitled to close Mr Ts account 
according to the terms and conditions.
As Mr T disagreed with the view the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Review and closure 
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mr Ts account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. These legal and regulatory requirements mean 
Revolut have to monitor their customers accounts and may need to review an account at 
any time. While that is happening, they may need to block or restrict any payments.
This is reflected in Revoluts terms and conditions. These say Revolut can block an account 
or card to meet its legal obligations and delay payments if needed to carry out further 
checks. The terms and conditions of the account also allow Revolut to close and suspend 
accounts immediately in some circumstances. I am satisfied Revolut were complying with 
these obligations when they reviewed Mr Ts account. 
I can see that in blocking the account Revolut were following an internal process which they 
carried out in order to comply with their legal and regulatory obligations. This was a 
legitimate exercise so I cant say Revolut was unfair. 
Mr T has said because Revolut uses an automated system it results in accounts being 
blocked unfairly. He has said that Revolut must comply with principle 2 of the FCA rules. I 
appreciate Mr T is unhappy about this, but I can only look at the actions Revolut took against 
him, not Revoluts wider processes as this is something for the regulator to look into. In this 
case I have looked at the evidence before me and Im satisfied that Revolut acted fairly and 
in line with the terms and conditions of the account when it reviewed and blocked Mr Ts 
account. It follows I dont think that it has breached Principle 2 of the FCA rules when it 
reviewed and blocked Mr Ts account.
Following the review, Revolut informed Mr T that they would no longer be providing him with 
banking services. 
As the investigator explained its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to 
provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless 
theres a good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a 
customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
A bank is entitled to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close an 
account with a bank. But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which 
complies with the terms and conditions of the account.
So, Ive next considered whether Revolut acted reasonably in closing Mr Ts account. 
The terms and conditions of the account said Revolut could close and suspend accounts 
immediately in some circumstances, including where someone hadnt given it information it 
needed or where it was otherwise required to do so by law. For Revolut to act fairly here 
they needed to meet the criteria to apply their terms for immediate closure  and having 
looked at these terms and all the evidence Im satisfied that it has applied the terms fairly. 
And it was entitled to close the accounts as its already done. It follows I wont be asking 
Revolut to reinstate the account.
Reasons
I know Mr T wanted to know the reason for the closure. Whilst Mr T may have expected to 
be given the reasons for the closure, Revolut isnt required to give him a specific reason for 
closing the account. So, I cant say Revolut has done anything wrong by not giving Mr T this 
information  as much as hed like to know.
Customer service failings
I appreciate that Mr T had difficulty contacting Revolut through the app. As a service we 
arent able to require a business to use a particular method to contact its customers. This is 
an internal matter for the business to decide how it wants to keep in touch with its 
customers. Nevertheless, I appreciate that Mr T found it difficult to contact Revolut through 
the app. 
Revolut have offered £20 compensation and I think this is fair. Revolut didnt act unfairly 
when it blocked and closed Mr Ts account, so I wont be asking them to pay anything more.Putting things right
Revolut have offered Mr T £20 compensation. The investigator thought that the offer of £20 
was fair in the circumstances. I share that assessment, and whilst I appreciate Mr T wont 
agree, I dont think it necessary for me to award any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I dont think Revolut need to do anything more to resolve this 
complaint.
I require Revolut to pay Mr T £20 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman