DRN-3841905
The complaint
Miss F and Mr K complain about QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) about its decision to partially 
decline their claim, and for the level of settlement it offered. They want QIC to carry out the 
required repairs or increase the settlement to allow them to engage contractors. 
What happened
Miss F and Mr K insured their home with QIC. Their policy included accidental damage to 
glass or sanitaryware as standard. 
In December 2021, Miss F and Mr K accidentally damaged their Belfast sink. An item was 
dropped onto it and it cracked throughout. The sink was fitted underneath a composite 
granite style work top. 
They lodged a claim with QIC. 
QIC sent an assessor to inspect the damage. They accepted that the damage was covered. 
The surveyor considered that the sink could be removed and replaced without moving the 
worktop, by dropping down the unit underneath and installing a replacement from 
underneath. 
QIC did not have any available contractor so offered a cash settlement instead. It offered 
£672.85 minus their excess. 
Miss F and Mr K tried to engage contractors privately, but none were willing to do the work in 
the way recommended by QICs surveyor or for a similar price to the settlement. The 
contractors Miss F and Mr K saw considered it would be necessary to remove the worktop 
and splashback and reinstall them after fitting a replacement sink and this would be at a 
much higher cost. 
Miss F and Mr K contacted QIC and advised them of this. They asked if QIC could provide a 
contractor. 
QIC declined and repeated its offer of cash settlement. 
Miss F and Mr K explained the difficulty and asked that the settlement be increased to reflect 
the approach to repairs that contractors had been willing to take on. At the same time, Miss 
F and Mr K reported that the worktop had sustained damage from hot items being put on it 
while they were unable to use their cracked sink. They explained that the delay was causing 
them difficulties and inconvenience, and damage was occurring to the unit underneath the 
sink. 
QIC declined to increase its offer and sent a further surveyor out. They considered that the 
damage to the worktop was due to a latent defect or had been present since the worktop 
was installed. The surveyor remained of the view that the approach suggested by the 
original surveyor was workable, and that the settlement offer was reasonable. 
Miss F and Mr K complained to us.
Our investigator looked into this matter and considered that the complaint should be partially 
upheld. He did not criticise the early actions of QIC but felt that once Miss F and Mr K alerted 
them to the fact that they could not get contractors to do the work, QIC ought to have 
assisted, or amended its settlement offer to allow the policy holders to have the work done. 
He did not consider that the additional damage was covered as there was no insured peril. 
He thought that QIC ought to carry out the repairs, or increase its settlement offer to match 
quotes Miss F and Mr K could get from contractors. He also thought that QIC should pay to 
Miss F and Mr K £250 compensation for their distress and inconvenience. 
QIC did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
QIC has argued that its terms allow it to choose whether to carry out repairs or to cash 
settle, and that if it chooses to cash settle then it may do so at the sum it would have cost 
QIC to carry out the repair. 
I understand this, but the long-standing approach of this service is that if the business 
chooses to cash settle, then it must do so at a sum which allows consumers to access a 
repair at market rates. 
I agree with my colleague that the initial approach from QIC was reasonable, but this matter 
has remained unresolved for too long. Miss F and Mr K acted reasonably in trying to engage 
contractors to do the work in the way outlined by QICs surveyor, but contractors were 
unwilling to do this. The consumers were therefore unable to get a repair in the marketplace 
using the constraints set by QIC (being the settlement sum and the methodology defined by 
the surveyor). 
When QIC was alerted to the fact that the settlement did not indemnify the consumers, it 
ought to have reconsidered and either sent its own contractors to do the repair as described, 
or considered the settlement to match quotes which Miss F and Mr K were able to obtain  
using whatever methodology the contractor was willing to do. 
QICs approach to Miss F and Mr Ks contact was not helpful and left them unable to replace 
their sink, which has now been broken for a year. This has caused them daily inconvenience 
as they cannot allow water into the sink in their kitchen. 
I have considered the additional damage which Mr K and Miss F have reported and cannot 
see that this is clearly consequential to the cracked sink. I also appreciate the view of the 
surveyor that in his view this separation of join is due to the material or the way it was 
installed. I therefore do not think this was covered or that QIC ought to carry out specific 
repairs for this.
I agree with the investigator that QIC must now put matters right. This may be by carrying 
out the repair itself, or by allowing Miss F and Mr K to submit quotes to ascertain the actual 
market rate available to them of the repair.
If the contractors who ultimately carry out the repair remove and reinstall the worktop, and 
this resolves the separation, I do not consider that to be betterment. If the professionals 
carrying out the repairs determine that removing and reinstating the worktop is the best way 
to replace the sink then the idea that this may also remedy the worktop damage should not 
be a barrier to completing the sink replacement.As a result, I agree with the investigators view and partially uphold the complaint.  
Putting things right
QIC considers that the sum it set out and the approach it advocates are reasonable, and I 
think QIC should have one final opportunity to demonstrate this and mitigate its costs. QIC 
should therefore engage its own contractors to carry out the repairs at Miss F and Mr Ks 
home within 28 days of this decision becoming binding. 
If QIC fails to, or is unable to, do this, then Miss F and Mr K should seek 3 quotes for the 
repair to be carried out. These should be on letterheaded paper, or similar electronic 
document, and they should make clear the work that would be required. 
Miss F and Mr K should submit these to QIC, and QIC should then (within 14 days) increase 
its cash settlement offer to match the lowest of these quotes (minus the policy excess). 
I agree that Miss F and Mr K have been caused substantial distress and inconvenience by 
this delay and I agree that QIC ought to pay to them £250 compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Miss F and Mr Ks complaint and direct QIC Europe 
Limited to:
Settle the claim for repair of the sink in line with approach set out above; and
Pay to Miss F and Mr K £250.00 compensation for their distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman