DRN-4292380
The complaint
Miss P complains that U K Insurance Limited trading as Privilege (Privilege) cancelled her 
car insurance policy and failed to notify her. 
Miss Ps representative has complained on her behalf but to avoid any confusion Ill refer to 
Miss P throughout this decision. 
What happened
Miss P took out a DriveXpert car insurance policy with Privilege in October 2022. The policy 
requires customers to register and record their journeys using a specialist App. 
Miss P believed she would need to fit a black box to her car under the terms of the policy. 
While waiting for the black box she realised she had received a refund of her premium from 
Privilege. When she called to find out what the credit was for she was told the policy had 
been cancelled. 
Miss P says she received no notice that her policy would be cancelled. She says the letter 
was sent during a well-publicised period of mail disruption so Privilege should have been 
aware the letter might not be delivered correctly. 
Miss P realised her policy had been cancelled when she noticed Privilege had credited her 
account. So, she called Privilege who explained the credit was a cancellation refund. Miss P 
registered the App and asked if Privilege would reinstate her policy but it refused. Miss P 
says she then received two emails as though she had continued to be insured with Privilege.
 
Miss P says Privilege is an online only company and all other communication had been by 
email but this important communication telling her the policy was cancelled was only sent by 
letter. Given the gravity of cancelling the policy Miss P thinks Privilege should have made 
sure she was aware of what was happening. 
As a result Miss P says she now has to declare that shes had an insurance policy cancelled 
which has resulted in additional insurance costs and will continue to do so. 
Miss P feels Privilege have been obstructive and unhelpful. She says the website was 
unclear and confusing; and the lack of clarity has caused this issue. So she complained. 
Privilege said it cancelled the policy because Miss P failed to download and register the 
driving App within the required timescales, and this is a breach of the terms and conditions. 
It said it provided Miss P with instructions on how to download and register the App and 
when she didnt, it sent her an email to remind her to do so. Privilege said because it didnt 
hear from Miss P it sent her a letter to advise the policy would be cancelled unless the App 
was activated. Since no contact was received and the App hadnt been downloaded and 
registered Privilege cancelled the policy. Privilege accepted it did continue to send letters to 
Miss P after the cancellation and apologised for this error. 
Miss P remained unhappy and so she referred her complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into things for her. He said he didnt think Privilege made an error in 
cancelling the policy, and he said he thought it had clearly communicated what actions were 
required to avoid cancellation.  
Miss P didnt agree so the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Miss P will be disappointed with my decision but having done so Im not upholding 
the complaint. Ill explain why. 
Cancellation
Ive considered the policy documents, emails, and letters sent by Privilege about Miss Ps 
insurance policy and the App. Ive also considered Miss Ps testimony and the information 
she provided. 
I can see from Miss Ps policy documents, in the section titled What happens next it says; 
Well send your DriveXpert instructions and terms and conditions in the next few days. 
Youll need to follow the instructions, download our App from your App store and start using 
the App to track your journeys. It goes on to say, If you dont use it we reserve the right to 
cancel your policy. This may affect your ability to purchase insurance in the future. 
I can see the welcome email was sent to Miss P on 8 October 2022, I think it was clear that 
she was required to download and register the App as a condition of her policy. And failure 
to do so could result in her policy being cancelled. Privilege has also shown that Miss P was 
sent a reminder email about this on 13 October 2022.
I can understand Miss P initially thinking the policy required the use of a black box but the 
welcome email and information makes it clear an App needs to be downloaded. The 
welcome letter also says, please let us know straight away if anything isnt right or youre 
not sure about any details. So Miss P could have contacted Privilege if she was confused or 
unclear about any aspect of her policy. And I cant see that she did.
Miss Ps policy, like most other motor insurance policies, allows Privilege to cancel the policy 
by giving notice. It says, We can cancel the policy at any time if we have a valid reason. If 
we have to do this, well give you 7 days notice. Well send our cancellation notice to the 
latest address we have for you. 
And the policy goes on to give examples of a valid reason: 
Well only cancel the policy if we have valid reasons for doing so. For example, if youve 
failed to co-operate with us, or send us information or documentation as described in your 
policy, and that has affected our ability to process your claim or deal with your policy. 
As Miss P hadnt downloaded or registered the App Privilege sent her a reminder email on 
13 October 2022. 
Since Miss P hadnt downloaded or registered the App, a cancellation notice dated 15 
October 2022 was sent in the post. The notification said that Miss Ps policy would be 
cancelled if she hadnt downloaded the App or made contact by 29 October 2022. I think Privilege acted reasonably as it made it clear what steps Miss P needed to take. And acted 
in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
I can understand Miss Ps frustration as she says she didnt receive the letter because of the 
postal strikes. But the policy made it clear, as did the follow up emails.  And she did receive 
those. Privilege has shown it sent the letters to Miss Ps correct address. And the emails 
were sent to the same email address Miss P has given to us. So I cant hold Privilege 
responsible for any issues with the postal system. And Miss Ps policy documents also made 
clear the need for her to download the App, and that Privilege reserved the right to cancel 
the policy if she didnt. 
I think Privilege has been clear as to the need for the App to be downloaded and registered 
as a requirement of Miss Ps insurance policy. And the time Miss P had to download and 
register the App was clear. Even if Miss P didnt receive the notification letter it was made 
clear what would happen if the App wasnt downloaded. 
This service believes that insurers should take reasonable steps to ensure that policyholders 
are told that their policy has been cancelled as this will have serious consequences for them. 
One way of doing this is to provide notification by two different means of communication; 
such as email or SMS. Privilege has told us it doesnt currently use SMS for its telematics 
policies so it used email and letter. And I think that is reasonable in these circumstances. 
I have considered whether Miss P was given reasonable opportunity to download and 
register the App and I think she was. Privilege sent Miss P the information on three 
occasions; each of them providing instructions and timescales by which to download and 
register the App. Miss P received the emails but not the letters, but I dont think this accounts 
for her not responding to any of the correspondence she was sent by Privilege. 
Privilege sent three letters, by email and post, telling Miss P there was an issue and that she 
needed to take action. The last letter set out the consequences of doing nothing. I think Miss 
P was given opportunity to download the App or get in contact with the insurer if she was 
unsure about anything. But she didnt do this and Im not persuaded that sending the 
cancellation by email would have made any difference here.
So I think Privilege has acted fairly and reasonably and Miss Ps policy was cancelled within 
its terms and conditions. I can see Privilege gave the amount of notice wed expect it to. As I 
think Miss Ps policy was cancelled fairly, and this is what has been recorded, Im unable to 
say Privilege should amend this record. 
Receiving emails after cancellation 
Miss P says she received emails regarding her insurance after the policy was cancelled 
which caused some confusion. And I can understand why it would have been confusing to 
be told the policy is cancelled and then receive emails about that policy. 
Privilege has said that since the App was downloaded and registered after the date of 
cancellation the portal was reactivated which meant the emails were sent automatically. 
Privilege has manually deactivated the online portal which will stop any future emails being 
sent. I think this is reasonable in the circumstances. Privilege were made aware of the issue 
and resolved it promptly. And this is what I would have expected. 
Complaint handling Miss P has expressed her dissatisfaction with the way her original complaint was handled by 
Privilege. Complaint handling is not a regulated activity in itself and as such I am not able to 
consider this aspect of Miss Ps complaint. 
I know Miss P will be disappointed with my decision. And that is understandable since her 
policy was cancelled which caused her further issues and I do empathise with the position 
she finds herself in. However this doesnt mean Privilege has done anything wrong. 
For the reasons I have outlined I think Privilege have acted fairly and in line with its policy in 
how its handled Miss Ps policy. Therefore I wont be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons explained I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman