DRN-2189003
The complaint
Mr E says Gain Credit LLC, trading as Lending Stream (Lending Stream), irresponsibly lent 
to him.
What happened
This complaint is about two short-term loans Lending Stream provided to Mr E between 
November 2018 and June 2019. Mr Es borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Highest 
Monthly 
Repayment
1 04/11/2018 Outstanding 12 £1030.00 £169.76
2 03/06/2019 Outstanding 6   £400.00 £299.06
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Es complaint and thought that taking into account 
Mr Es known circumstances at the times the loans were given, there wasnt anything to 
suggest that he wasnt able to sustainably make the loan repayments. They thought it 
wouldnt have been proportionate for Lending Stream to have obtained the amount of 
information to show the lending was unsustainable. 
Mr E disagreed with the adjudicator. Mr E explained he was struggling financially and was 
under a lot of pressure to clear his debts and the high interest rates for this type of borrowing 
didnt help his situation. 
Mr E asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has been passed to me 
for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure     
Mr E could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Mr E could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Es complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint and Ill explain why. 
Lending Stream has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving any of 
the borrowing. It asked Mr E about his employment status and he confirmed he was 
employed and had a monthly income of £1,713 (for loan one) and £2,150 (for loan two). 
Lending Stream also asked about his monthly living costs and Mr E declared these as 
£1,042 (for loan one) and £1,200 (for loan two) per month. So, this left Mr E with a 
disposable income of £671 and £950 respectively. This would suggest that the monthly 
repayments were affordable on a pounds and pence basis, even when loan two was running 
at the same time as loan one and the repayments were at their highest.
As Ive explained above, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate. So, I think it was reasonable for Lending 
Stream to have relied upon this information bearing in mind these were the first loans that  
Mr E had taken from Lending Stream. So, in these circumstances, I dont agree it was 
irresponsible to lend to Mr E.
I accept its possible that Mr Es financial circumstances werent correctly reflected in either 
the information he provided, or the other information Lending Stream obtained, such as the 
results of its credit checks. And Mr Es actual financial position  if this was the case  may 
well have been apparent if further information  such as bank statements or more in-depth 
credit checks  had been obtained. But this isnt evident from the information that Lending 
Stream obtained from its own resources and what it was told by Mr E at such an early stage 
in the borrowing relationship. Lending Stream could only make a decision based on the information it had available at the 
time. And as it was in the early stages of a lending relationship with Mr E, I dont think it had 
reached the stage where there was a greater risk of the loans being unsustainable for 
Mr E. In these circumstances, I dont think Lending Stream needed to take further steps to 
verify the information provided  such as asking Mr E for evidence of his income and 
outgoings which Lending Stream could have gathered from his bank statements or copies of 
any bills, as examples. 
Im only able to uphold a complaint where I can safely say a lender has done something 
wrong. And in this case, I think Lending Stream carried out reasonable checks when it lent to 
him. 
Also, given the loan amounts, what was apparent about Mr Es circumstances at the time 
and his history with Lending Stream, I dont think it would have been proportionate for 
Lending Stream to have asked him for the amount of information that may have been 
needed to show the lending was unsustainable. There wasnt anything in the information that 
Mr E provided, or the information Lending Stream should have been aware of, which meant 
it would have been proportionate to start verifying what Mr E was saying.
So, I cant say Lending Stream was wrong to have approved loans one and two for Mr E. I 
know Mr E will be disappointed with my decision and I am sorry to hear he is struggling 
financially. But I hope what I have said has explained to him how and why I reached that 
decision. 
I note that both the loans are outstanding, and I would remind Lending Stream of its 
obligation to treat Mr E fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Es complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman