DRN-4035109
The complaint
Company R (R) complains National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) cancelled its 
business debit card without explanation and refuse to provide it with a new one.
R says this has caused it substantive distress and inconvenience. 
What happened
In August 2022, whilst abroad, Rs director says the debit card for its account stopped 
working. Rs director says this caused him significant distress and inconvenience as they 
couldnt make payments. When they returned to the UK, the director says he was told there 
were no markers on his account and he should apply for another card, but this was declined. 
Unhappy R complained. NatWest didnt uphold Rs complaint and said it wouldnt issue a 
new card as the decision was made in line with the terms and conditions of the account. R 
was able to access its banking facilities in branch and use online banking. R says it needed 
the card to make payments to its clients.   
Around November 2022, NatWest corresponded with R and asked it to provide information 
relating to its business activities. One of our Investigators then looked into Rs complaint. In 
summary they found: 
- NatWest hasnt provided enough information to show it limited the use of Rs account 
fairly when it cancelled the debit card  
- Given the impact this has had on R, NatWest should pay it £50 for the inconvenience 
caused 
R then complained about NatWests decision to close its account after serving 60 days 
notice. Our Investigator explained that this is a new complaint, and NatWest will need to look 
into first. 
R did not agree that £50 was fair compensation as its director was left abroad without the 
use of the card, and the matter wasnt resolved for some time. 
As R didnt agree, its complaint has now been passed to me to decide. To be clear, I am 
only considering NatWests actions of stopping the use of the debit card in my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Banks in the UK, like NatWest are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to 
meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing 
monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to 
restrict its customers accounts. 
NatWest decided to stop R using its debit card facility, but it is under no obligation that Im 
aware of to explain this to R. But it should explain and provide information to this service to 
show why it too such an action so we can determine it has acted in line with its obligations 
and has done so fairly and reasonably. 
In its submissions NatWest points to section 5.3 of the account terms headed Limiting the 
use of your account or our services. The section then lists several reasons when NatWest 
may restrict Rs account services. However NatWest hasnt given me enough information to 
show why exactly it had taken the decision to block the use of the card. For me to find that it 
applied its terms fairly, I would need to see why it took this action, and that it was fair and 
reasonable.  Unfortunately, despite attempts by our Investigator, NatWest hasnt done so. 
So because that I find that NatWest didnt apply its terms fairly, and so shouldnt have 
blocked Rs use of its card. 
R is a limited company, so given its a separate legal entity to that of its director, I can only 
consider the inconvenience it suffered. After all, a company can does not suffer emotion  in 
this case distress or anxiety. 
Rs director says he couldnt make payments when abroad for the business as its clients 
required a card payment. But I note R did have access to online banking and, when back in 
the UK, NatWests branches. So I think this mitigates strongly against the inconvenience R 
suffered. I also note that R was able to make its regular payments such as standing orders 
and direct debits. 
R says it had to move money to the accounts of friends and family to facilitate payments. But 
I think this also, and probably significantly, had to do with issues the director was having with 
his personal accounts. So I cant put too much weight on this either. 
So because of this Im satisfied £50 is fair compensation for the inconvenience R suffered. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. National Westminster Bank Plc must now 
pay R £50 compensation for the inconvenience it caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman