DRN-4218833
The complaint
Miss B has complained Creation Consumer Finance Limited (Creation) is holding her liable 
for a credit agreement she doesnt recognise. 
What happened
Miss B is unhappy Creation is holding her liable for a credit agreement. Miss B 
acknowledges she had a credit agreement she took out with Creation to pay for goods from 
a supplier Ill call C in 2016/2017. This agreement was settled in 2021. Ill call this 
agreement 1. The agreement Miss B says she doesnt recognise was taken out in April 
2017 and it was also used to buy goods from C. Ill call this agreement 2. Both agreements 
were regulated running account credit agreements. Creation says Miss B used agreement 2 
to buy a laptop for around £800. And the total amount payable was around £1,000. 
Miss B says she was contacted in 2021 about agreement 2 by a third-party debt recovery 
company. Miss B queried the debt and said if the product was something she recognised 
she be happy to pay for it but not the interest for all the years Creation hadnt contacted her 
about it. Creation says letters would have been sent to Miss B about the debt. It also 
supplied the credit agreements for agreements 1 and 2 which both have Miss Bs name and 
address recorded, and it said theres no reason they wouldnt have been delivered to her. 
Creation explains a £100 repayment was made towards agreement 2 not long after it was 
opened, indicating Miss B was aware of the debt. It says she would have had two direct 
debits set up for agreement 1 and 2. Creation says it spoke to Miss B about non-payment of 
the debt and a payment arrangement was put in place for £10 monthly, but this wasnt kept 
to. Creation says the debt was passed to a third-party collection company, but it was 
returned to Creation after it received letters about a medical issue. Creation says it 
requested a financial statement from Miss B, but nothing was received. 
Creation says Miss B spoke to it in November 2021 to say she thought shed paid her 
account off in full. She complained to Creation, but it didnt uphold her complaint. It also 
looks like Miss B was unhappy she wasnt passed through to a manager when querying the 
debt. Creation said it thought Miss B ought to have been aware of the debt and that it was 
valid. 
Miss B brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman to consider. When sending its file 
to our service Creation said it noticed an insolvency hold was placed on the account in 
November 2021 and taken off in October 2022. It said it did this in error and that the hold 
would have stopped correspondence being sent. It offered £200 compensation for this. Due 
to the time thats passed, Creation wasnt able to supply copies of all the documentation it 
referred to. 
One of our investigators looked into things and noted Creation had explained most of the 
details supplied for agreement 2 were the same for agreement 1. This included Miss Bs 
name, address, date of birth, telephone number and direct debit details. The only information 
that was different was an email address, but Miss B confirmed both emails were hers  
although she says one was an old email address she thought might have been 
compromised. Creation also said its records indicate a driving licence was supplied during 
the application for agreement 2  although it wasnt able to supply a copy of it. 
Our investigator said she hadnt seen enough to say Creation was wrong to open the 
account or that it was opened fraudulently. She noted Miss B said she had fraudulent activity 
on another account, but no further evidence was presented. Our investigator thought the 
£200 compensation for incorrectly putting on a hold on the account was fair. She made no 
further recommendations. 
Miss B didnt agree with the assessment. She says she referred the matter to trading 
standards, the police, and Action Fraud. Miss B gave the details of this to Creation. And she 
asked if the Financial Ombudsman could wait on the outcome of that. 
As things couldnt be resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is seeking money under a regulated credit agreement and our service is able to 
consider complaints relating to these sorts of agreements. Miss B has focussed on whether 
the debt is valid, so Ive concentrated on this primarily when deciding the complaint. 
I appreciate Miss B would like us to wait for the outcome of her referral to Action Fraud, but 
Im required to resolve complaints quickly and with minimum formality. I have no idea how 
long that investigation will take to conclude. So Im going to issue a decision based on the 
evidence we have available and which Creation has had the chance to respond to in its final 
response. If Miss B is unhappy about something new Creation does in the future, it may be a 
complaint we can consider for her. But Ill go on to consider what has already happened.  
Due to the time thats passed Creation hasnt been able to supply everything weve asked 
for. So Ive based my decision on what we have. 
Miss B says she doesnt recognise the agreement, and that she doesnt have the laptop 
purchased with agreement 2. So there are a few possibilities for what mightve happened 
that Ive considered. 
1. Someone else took out agreement 2 without Miss Bs authority. 
2. Miss B gave someone some sort of authority to take out agreement 2 on her behalf. 
3. Miss B bought the goods using agreement 2. 
Ive first thought about point 1 above. Its of course possible that Creation or indeed C set up 
the agreement for the laptop without Miss Bs permission. After all, most of the application 
details were exactly the same. So they could have simply been transferred over. But Im 
mindful a different email address was used in the application. Miss B has confirmed this is 
her email address. I find it unlikely Creation or C would have known this different email 
address. Moreover, if a fraud or error had taken place, I dont think any payments would 
have been made towards the agreement by Creation or C. So, on balance, I find dont find it 
likely Creation or C opened the agreement without Miss Bs knowledge or authority.  
Miss B has mentioned it mightve been an ex-partner that took out the agreement without her 
knowledge or permission. Im conscious that payments were made towards the agreement, 
albeit not everything required. Its unlikely a fraudster would have paid anything towards the 
agreement, but I accept, in theory, her ex-partner may have made payment to conceal the fraud from Miss B. But I simply dont have enough supporting evidence of this, so its difficult 
for me to conclude thats the most likely thing to have happened. 
Moreover, while I dont have evidence of the letters that were sent to Miss B shortly after 
agreement 2 was opened, on balance, I think Creation did send correspondence to her. So 
its not clear why she didnt notice agreement 2 had been set up and contact Creation to say 
she didnt recognise it. Creations notes indicate she spoke to it about the debt and so was 
aware of it. 
On balance, I dont think the evidence, from what Ive been supplied, points to the 
agreement being taken out by Miss Bs ex-partner without her permission. However, I do 
note Miss B has said shes taken the complaint to the police and Action Fraud. So if this 
develops and more evidence comes to light, or her ex-partner is charged, for example, Id 
expect Creation to take this evidence on board when deciding if something needs to be done 
to put things right. 
Ive thought about point 2 above. Neither party has suggested Miss B gave someone 
authority to open the account on her behalf, so I accept this is unlikely to be what happened. 
Turning to point 3, Miss B has said she doesnt recognise the debt and doesnt have the 
laptop. But I note shes been clear she would pay for the debt if it could be shown she took 
out agreement 2. So perhaps she did take it out, but simply doesnt recall doing so. It was 
from quite a long time ago after all. Based on all the application details being hers; payments 
being made towards the debt; along with the conversations Creation say take place, on 
balance, I think Creation isnt acting unfairly by deciding that the most likely thing to have 
happened is that Miss B took out the agreement. Therefore, I dont find I have the grounds to 
direct Creation to stop pursuing Miss B for the debt. 
Finally, Ive also thought about Creations response to incorrectly putting the agreement on 
hold. Technically, a lot of this event happened after the final response letter. But I think it 
makes sense to deal with it under this complaint. I dont think the hold caused Miss B 
significant detriment because she wasnt being contacted about the debt, and no interest 
was applied during that period. I think Creations offer of £200 compensation for the mistake 
seems broadly fair in all the circumstances. Im not going to direct it to do more.
 
My final decision
Creation Consumer Finance Limited has already made an offer to pay £200 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that, to the extent its not already done so, Creation Consumer Finance 
Limited should pay Miss B £200. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman