DRN-4284770
The complaint
Ms G and Ms A complain esure Insurance Limited cancelled Ms Gs motor insurance policy 
and declined to deal with the claim. 
The policy was in Ms Gs name and Ms A was a named driver on the policy.
What happened
Ms G took out a motor insurance policy in November 2022 with esure. She later made a 
claim as the car was stolen in January 2023. 
In February 2023, esure rejected the claim and cancelled the policy from the beginning. It 
said no further policy premiums would be taken and the amount paid would be returned. 
esure said this is because Ms G didnt have a full UK driving licence, instead, she has a full 
EU driving licence. As this was different to what Ms G told it when taking out the policy, it 
said shed made a misrepresentation. esure explained if it knew the correct position, it 
wouldnt have given Ms G a quotation nor issued a policy to her. 
Ms G complained to esure, but it said the decision it had made was fair.
Ms G and Ms A brought their complaint to this service. They said when taking out the policy, 
it was for esure to make the question clear. However, when asked about a full UK drivers 
license, they understood this to mean the right to fully drive in the UK, which Ms G has 
through her EU licence. They also feel esure shouldve checked the information provided by 
them at the time the policy was taken out rather than when they made a claim - it now feels 
to them like its an excuse to avoid paying their claim. 
The Investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. They thought esure
hadnt shown that it received inaccurate answers to clear questions, nor it wouldnt have 
offered Ms G a policy even if it had been given the correct information about her licence. 
They recommended esure take steps to put things right. 
Ms G and Ms A accepted the Investigators view. esure responded to ask for more time to 
respond. It didnt reply by the agreed date. The Investigator chased it explaining the impact 
of it failing to respond and provided it a final deadline to respond. Again, esure didnt reply by 
the agreed date and, at the time of writing this decision, still hasnt responded. 
The matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
If the consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is  what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation, the insurer must show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
When considering whether a consumer has taken reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation, we look to see the insurer  here esure - asked a clear question when the 
policy was taken out. If it was, we also check if the correct information would have affected 
whether a policy was offered or the terms of the policy which wouldve been offered. This is 
usually done by checking the underwriting criteria of the insurer.
esure hasnt sent this service evidence of the questions asked when Ms G took out the 
policy with it, guidance provided to a consumer when answering these questions nor Ms Gs 
answers. So, its not possible for me to say clear questions about the type of drivers licence 
held by Ms G were asked when the policy started or that she failed to answer the question 
with reasonable care. Further, I have no evidence to suggest what Ms G has said is wrong, 
therefore, I accept she has the right to drive in the UK and understood this to be what the 
question was asking her when she took out the motor insurance policy with esure.
Even if I thought the question asked was sufficiently clear and Ms G failed to answer it with 
reasonable care, Id also need to consider what esure wouldve done differently had the 
correct information been provided. It said in its avoidance letter of February 2023 it wouldnt 
have offered a quotation or issued a policy to Ms G if it was aware she had a full EU licence. 
However, esure also hasnt sent its underwriting criteria to this service. Without evidence to 
confirm this, I cant say esure wouldve done anything differently even if there was a 
misrepresentation by Ms G. 
Taking the above into account, I cant say esure has shown Ms G and Ms A made a 
qualifying misrepresentation. Therefore, it doesnt have a remedy under CIDRA. It follows its 
unfair for esure to avoid the policy and reject the claim for this reason. It therefore needs to 
put things right by following the below steps.
Ms G and Ms A have been undoubtedly distressed and inconvenienced by esures decision. 
I think esure should compensate Ms G and Ms A for the impact caused by the unfair 
avoidance of Ms Gs motor insurance policy. The Investigator recommended £400, and I 
consider this to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Putting things right
I require esure Insurance Limited to do the following to put things right:
1. Reinstate Ms Gs policy.
2. Provide Ms G and Ms A with a letter to say the avoidance was its mistake so they 
may pass it to their subsequent motor insurer(s) so they can recalculate any 
premium(s) affected by the avoidance.
3. Remove any record of the policy avoidance on all internal and external databases 
and provide Ms A and Ms G with a letter confirming this has been done. This can be 
incorporated with the letter above.4. Consider Ms Gs claim in line with the terms and conditions of the motor insurance 
policy.
5. Pay Ms G and Ms A £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience they 
have been caused by the unfair cancellation of their policy. esure should pay this 
compensation within 28 days of us telling it the consumer has accepted my final 
decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple*.
*If esure Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms G and Ms A (as appropriate) how 
much its taken off. It should also give Ms G and Ms A a tax deduction certificate if they ask 
for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint. I require esure Insurance Limited to put things 
right by taking the steps outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A and Ms G to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman