DRN-2284429
The complaint
Miss C complains that Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) refused to cover a claim she made on 
her pet insurance policy. She also complains about the customer service she received when 
she tried to reinstate the policy. 
What happened
In May 2018, Miss C took out a pet insurance policy with Allianz; which provides lifelong 
cover for her dog. In December 2019, Miss C made a claim with Allianz for intestinal 
problems the dog was experiencing. 
In mid-March 2020, Allianz wrote to Miss C and said that they were sorry but that any illness 
or injury first occurring, or showing clinical signs, before the pet insurance policy started is 
not covered. Allianz has told our service that the onset of the dogs condition was in 
December 2017, and that they received confirmation from the vet that this condition was an 
ongoing issue since then. So, the claim to cover the issues with the gastro-
intestinal/digestive system was declined because the policy does not cover pre-existing 
conditions. 
Miss C was not happy with this, because she says that at that time she took out the policy 
the dog did not actually have a full diagnosis regarding his intestinal problems. Also, Miss C 
says she is unhappy with the customer service she received from Allianz, because at first, 
she was told that the claim was declined due to a late payment, and when she tried to make 
the payment, she was told she no longer could. So, she feels she was treated unfairly when 
her policy was cancelled, and she feels that Allianz are just using different excuses to 
decline the claim.  
In March 2020, Allianz wrote to Miss C and said that they are upholding her complaint 
regarding the issue with the reinstatement of the policy. They say that Miss C was incorrectly 
told that she could make payment up to 29 January 2020, as the policy lapses within 30 
days of the first missed payment. They say, payments on the policy were due on the 29 day 
of each month and by 29 January 2020 two months premium would have been outstanding. 
However, due to the incorrect information she was given, they said they would allow her to 
reinstate her policy; provided she pays the outstanding payments. Also, for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to her, Allianz said they will arrange for one months payment of 
£72.67 to be deducted from this total. Alternatively, they say, if Miss C doesnt want to 
reinstate the policy, they agreed to pay her £75 compensation by BACS or cheque. 
Miss C was unhappy with this, so she brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator thought Allianz had acted reasonably considering the circumstances. 
Miss C disagreed with the investigator. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances. 
Miss Cs insurance policy did not cover pre-existing conditions which is very common in pet 
insurance policies, as generally insurers will not cover something that is already present 
when the policy is sold. So, the issue for me to decide is whether Miss Cs dog had a pre-
existing intestinal problem at the time when she took out the pet insurance policy. 
I understand that Miss C says that at that time she took out the policy the dog did not 
actually have a full diagnosis regarding his intestinal problems, and that in December 2017 
he had a bit of diarrhoea which she though was just due to him being a puppy. But it is 
important to note, that under Miss C policy, there does not have to be a diagnosis for 
something to be considered a pre-existing condition. It is enough for the pet to be showing 
signs of illness or injury.
The claim form completed by the vet shows that the dog had intestinal problems starting in 
December 2017. Vets notes show that it was then that Miss C brought the dog to see the 
vet due to on/off diarrhoea. Then on April 2018 Miss C again brought the dog to see the vet, 
as he was still having intestinal problems. The next month after this is when Miss C took out 
the policy with Allianz. So, at this point the dog had already been to the vet twice with 
intestinal problems in question. Taking all of the above into consideration, I do not think 
Allianz acted unreasonably on this occasion when they declined this claim, because, on 
balance, I think Miss Cs dogs condition was something he had been suffering from before 
the policy was taken out.  
So, while Miss C has my sympathy, and I appreciate this must be very difficult for her, I 
cannot say Allianz acted unreasonably considering the circumstances.  
Miss C has raised a question whether Allianz would, or not, cover the cost of the treatment 
on the dogs paw. But as part of this decision I can only consider the crux of this complaint 
and cannot comment on a claim that has yet to be raised with Allianz.  
Also, I know that Miss C was unhappy with the customer service she received from Allianz, 
when she was told that the claim was declined due to a late payment, and when she tried to 
reinstate the policy. But Allianz has acknowledged that she was given incorrect information,
and has offered to reinstate her policy, provided she pays the outstanding payments. In 
addition, for the distress and inconvenience caused to her, Allianz said they will arrange for 
one months payment of £72.67 to be deducted from this total. Alternatively, they say, if Miss 
C doesnt want to reinstate the policy, they will pay her £75 compensation by BACS or 
cheque. I think this is a fair and reasonable offer considering the circumstances, and if she 
accepts this decision, then she should let Allianz know how she wants to proceed. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that Allianz Insurance Plc should pay 
Miss C £75 compensation already offered, or if she chooses to reinstate the policy, and pays 
the outstanding payments, they should arrange for one months payment of £72.67 to be 
deducted from this total.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman