DRN-3549599
Complaint
Mr and Mrs H (represented by their solicitor) complain that Excel Currencies Limited (Excel) 
allowed a fraudster to transfer funds from the sale of property they owned to a bank account 
in Hong Kong.
For ease of reading, I will treat all submissions from Mr H, Mrs H and their representative as 
having come from Mr H himself. I will also refer to both Mr H and Excels communication with 
the fraudster as just that; to be clear, I am not concluding that either party knew they were 
communicating with a fraudster.
Background
What Mr H says
In early 2018, Mr H decided to sell his holiday home in Cape Verde in order to fund a 
property purchase for his daughter. The holiday home was sold in May 2018 for €285,000 
(€300,000 less a reservation fee of €15,000).
The agents used by Mr H in Cape Verde recommended he use a currency exchange service 
to receive the money in the UK in order to get the most favourable rate of exchange. They 
suggested that Mr H use Excel and that he contact a specific member of staff. For the 
purposes of this decision, Ill call that member of staff Mr B.
In April 2018, Mr H sent an email from his personal email address intended for Mr B (using 
Mr Bs Excel email address) in order to discuss instructing Excels currency exchange 
services. However, a third party appears to have fraudulently intercepted this and other 
email communications from Mr H to Mr B from this first email all the way through until the 
fraud had been executed.
This enabled the fraudster to create an email address similar to Mr Hs actual email address 
and to open an account with Excel in Mr Hs name using this fake email address as well as a 
fake telephone number. The fraudster did this in such a way that at no point was Mr H aware 
that the fraudster had hijacked his communications and was standing between him and Mr 
B. So, at all material times Mr H and Mr B appear to have thought they were communicating 
with one another when in fact they were communicating through the fraudster, who was thus 
able to use information from the emails they attempted to send to one another to give 
directions/instructions relating to the funds Excel held which originated from the sale of Mr 
Hs property.
Prior to receiving the funds from the property sale, it was necessary for Mr H to pay a notary 
fee in Cape Verde. Mr H believed he was instructing Excel to do this, though in fact the 
fraudster intercepted the emails where he sought to do so, and so as a matter of fact it was 
the fraudster who gave Excel the instructions to make this payment. Mr H made the payment 
to Excel in two instalments (totalling €3,756), with Excel then paying this to the notary in 
Cape Verde on the fraudsters instructions. The property sale funds were then received to 
Excels currency cloud account at the end of May 2018 where they were held in a payment 
wallet within the account.
On 24 April 2018, the fraudster - posing as Mr H - explained to Mr B that he and Mrs H were 
looking at buying a sailing boat as they were giving themselves an adventure for their 
retirement. They asked if it was possible to change the money to USD and transfer this to 
the seller in China when the time comes. Mr B said this shouldnt be a problem. The 
fraudster contacted Mr B multiple times to chase the funds from the proceeds of the sale. 
On 25 May 2018 Excel confirmed to the fraudster that the proceeds from the property sale 
had been received. Following this confirmation, the fraudster asked Excel how much it would 
be if the funds were exchanged into USD. The fraudster then explained the money would be 
going to his brother-in-law in Hong Kong who is an agent of Princess Yacht. He provided 
the bank details for the payment, but the beneficiary was listed as New Ganhon Trade 
Limited not Princess Yacht.
Excels compliance team carried out a spot check on the payment. They said they thought 
the account would be used for a property sale and asked for further detail around why the 
reference indicated the purchase of a boat. They also requested an invoice and explained 
that it was a routine check given the size and destination of the transaction. Excel asked the 
fraudster for an invoice for the yacht, which the fraudster duly provided and it was sent to the 
compliance team, along with the fraudsters explanation of the payment instruction. The 
compliance team then arranged the transfer in accordance with the fraudsters instructions. 
On 29 June 2018, Mr H emailed Mr B to ask for the funds to be transferred to his account. 
Excel states that it was only at this point that it received Mr Hs genuine emails from his 
actual email address. On Mr Hs own account it appears that the fraudster had now moved 
on and stopped intercepting Mr Hs emails. On 2 July 2018, Mr B replied to Mr H and asked 
if further funds had been received, as the initial funds had been sent to Hong Kong. At this 
point Excel and Mr H realised that a fraud had taken place.
Mr H complained to Excel and stated it acted in breach of trust by transferring the funds to 
Hong Kong, and that the result was that Mr H lost his life savings.
What Excel says
Excel explained it had a relationship with the agents in Cape Verde for over 10 years and the 
agents had advised that Mr H would be in touch to discuss exchanging funds from the sale 
of their property in Cape Verde. Excel says that it didnt receive any emails from Mr Hs 
genuine email account until 29 June 2018 and that all prior emails were with the fraudster.
The fraudster submitted an account sign up form using Excels website. That appears to be 
Excels preferred method of opening accounts as per the Becoming a client section of its 
terms and conditions from January 2019 (which I understand are likely to be substantially the 
same as those in operation at the point Mr H attempted to open his account). Solicitors 
acting for Excel have previously indicated that the terms and conditions available on Excel 
Currencies' website make clear that the sign up form must either be returned in hard copy or 
completed online and that Mr H failed to do this. They argue that  had he done so  Excel 
would have had his correct details. However, because Mr H had attempted to send scanned 
copies of the hard copy documents by email the fraudster had been able to do so, 
accompanied by copies of Mr and Mrs Hs address and identification documents.
The fraudster intercepted Mr Hs email and submitted the relevant information using one of 
the approved methods. This included a phone number, purporting to be that of Mr H, but 
which was in fact a different number. Excel conducted a Smartsearch check using Mr and 
Mrs Hs personal details to verify their identity. When both checks passed, Excel activated 
the account in their name.
Excel stated that when the fraudster requested that the funds were sent to Hong Kong, it 
followed its correct processes, including obtaining an invoice for the purchase of the yacht. 
On 2 July 2018, Excel began investigating this matter. The investigation included whether there was an irregularity on Mr Bs part. It concluded that there was no evidence that Mr B 
was involved.
Excel also worked with Microsoft to conduct an email message trace, recover deleted data, 
analyse IP addresses and investigate logon activity for Mr B. The Microsoft team did not 
recover any emails sent from Mr Hs genuine email address, nor did it send emails to Mr Hs 
genuine email address. Excel says that it noted that the IP addresses associated with the 
fraudulent emails were sent from IP addresses in Poland and Nigeria and it concluded that 
the third party appears to have intercepted emails sent by Mr H and responded to him 
purporting to act of Excel.
Excel reported the matter to Action Fraud.
On 14 January 2022, I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint. For 
completeness, I repeat my provisional findings (which form part of this final decision) below:
I have considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive first considered whether the Ombudsman Service has jurisdiction to consider the 
complaint.
When the Hong Kong payment took place, Excel was a registered small payment institution. 
Under DISP 2.3.2A the Ombudsman Service can therefore consider a complaint under the 
compulsory jurisdiction, provided that (i) Excel was carrying out a relevant activity (or 
ancillary activities in connection with them), (ii) H is an eligible complainant, (iii) the 
complaint is within time, and (iv) there are no territorial issues taking it outside of jurisdiction. 
Im satisfied that Excel was carrying out a relevant activity. The complaint relates to Excels 
acts/omissions in carrying on a payment service - in this case that was the execution of 
payment transactions. It also relates to ancillary activities carried on in connection with that 
service  in this case, that was creating a customer account and receiving and holding funds 
in that account to be used in those payment transactions.
Ive then considered whether Mr H is an eligible complainant. Hes a consumer, because he 
is a natural person acting for purposes outside a trade or profession. He therefore comes 
within DISP 2.7.3R(1).
Ive gone on to decide if Mr H falls under any of the eligible complainant relationships in 
DISP 2.7.6R. I dont think Mr H was a customer or payment service user of Excel, so he isnt 
eligible under 2.7.6R(1). Thats because, although Excel opened and held an account in Mr 
Hs name, it never dealt directly with Mr H - the fraudster sent all of the paperwork to open 
the account, operated the account and issued the order for the Hong Kong payment.
Therefore there wasnt a valid contract between them, because the fraudster didnt have any 
legal authority to act on Mr Hs behalf. Where a person opens an account in the name of 
another person without any authority so to do, there is no customer relationship. And Mr H 
cant now ratify or validate the fraudsters actions in opening the account in his name.
However, I think that Mr H was a potential customer/payment service user of Excel. Hes 
therefore an eligible complainant under 2.7.6R(2). Ive decided this because both Mr H and 
Excel both intended for Mr H to be a customer, and both actively took steps towards making 
this happen. Excel attempted to send its account opening documentation to Mr H and  
although it was intercepted - Mr H completed and tried to send that documentation back to 
Excel. Both believed that Mr H had properly opened an account, even though the fraudsters 
actions meant that there wasnt a legal relationship between them. They both took steps in 
relation to two smaller transactions prior to the Hong Kong payment, and both of those 
transactions went through successfully. It was only the fraudsters actions that prevented a formal legal relationship between Mr H and Excel, and both of them acted in a way 
consistent with Mr H being treated as Excels customer. I think thats sufficient for Mr H to be 
a potential customer or payment service user for the purposes of DISP 2.7.6(2).
Although Im already satisfied that Mr H is an eligible complainant for the reasons Ive given 
above, Ive also considered whether Mr H had a relationship with Excel where he was 
beneficiary under a trust where Excel was trustee (DISP 2.7.6R(13)). This is because, in his 
complaint to Excel, Mr H also suggested that Excel had acted in breach of trust. Excels 
Terms & Conditions show that Excel intended - and thought it had agreed with Mr H - to hold 
money in a separate client account for him as the ostensible account-party. I think that would 
be sufficient for there to be an express trust between them if there was a valid contract 
between them, which would mean Mr H was eligible to complain to us in his capacity as a 
beneficiary under a trust. However, because of the fraudsters actions in intercepting the 
communications between Mr H and Excel, there was no contract between them. I think that 
in this case a contract was necessary for there to be a trust, and that DISP 2.7.6R(13) only 
applies to such express trusts. The fraudster had no authority to act on Mr Hs behalf, to 
make a contract, or to deal with Mr Hs property. There was therefore no contract between 
them, and no trust.
The complaint was raised with Excel and referred to us within the necessary time limits, so 
we are able to consider it.
Because Excel made the Hong Kong payment from an establishment in the UK, Mr Hs 
complaint comes within our territorial jurisdiction.
Having decided that the complaint is within the Ombudsman Services jurisdiction, Ive now 
gone on to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the case. In particular, 
Ive considered (i) issues relating to the account opening, and (ii) issues relating to the 
transfer of funds.
Account opening
I reviewed email correspondence between Mr Hs agent in Cape Verde and Mr B. In an 
email from the agent to Mr B dated 19 April 2018, the agent states:
Im trying to get (Mr H) to use you. I gave your details. We just sold their villa in Sal for
€300kHopefully he will contact you. Will be transferring about €285k back to sterling when 
it happens hopefully.
This email was sent prior to Mr H contacting Mr B. I therefore think it was the understanding 
of all parties involved (from the outset), that Mr H intended to use Excel as a currency 
exchange service to receive and exchange proceeds from his house sale, with Mr H 
ultimately receiving the money.
We requested Microsofts findings (which Excel relied upon to conclude Mr Hs email 
account was the likely cause of the hack). Excel could not provide this information as it 
stated it did not receive a report at the time of Microsofts investigation. When it requested a 
report following our involvement, Microsoft advised that no internal notes were recorded, no 
logs could be pulled and the person that worked on the case no longer worked for Microsoft. 
I do find it peculiar that Excel did not insist upon a report from Microsoft at the time it 
investigated this matter given the scale of the loss and the allegations made against it by Mr 
H. If no report was created and it kept no record of Microsofts findings, Im unclear as to 
how it was able to recall Microsofts findings in a letter to our service almost a year after 
instructing Microsoft and keeping no record of its findings.Mr H on the other hand has produced evidence that he emailed Mr B from two separate 
email accounts (his personal and his business email addresses) and provided evidence that 
both accounts were held on separate servers. I asked Excel if it had received emails from 
either account and it advised it had not. Ive noted:
1. Mr B was advised to expect Mr Hs contact (by email), from a long-standing 
relationship Excel held with his agents in Cape Verde and this email explained what 
the nature of the contact would be.
2. The email from the Cape Verde agents to Mr B outlined the details of the buyers of 
Mr Hs property. Ive noted the fraudster shared this information with Mr H in later 
correspondence and this is not something Mr H shared directly with Mr B for the 
fraudster to have known.
3. Mr H never had prior dealings with Excel and was given specific contact details of Mr 
B by the Cape Verde agents.
4. The fraudster created a new email address for Mr H (very similar to his actual email 
address), which it always communicated with Mr B on. If the fraudster had control of 
all Mr Hs email accounts, its unlikely the fraudster would have needed to take steps 
to create a new email address to communicate with Mr B as Mr H.
5. Mr H appeared to receive emails from Mr Bs genuine email address to his genuine 
email account.
6. Mr H emailed Excel from two separate email accounts, held on different servers, and 
neither email was received by Excel.
7. Excel stated that Microsoft provided no report when it investigated this matter and 
kept no record of the contact that was made which allegedly pointed to Mr H being 
the victim of an email intercept scam.
The common thread in Excels introduction to Mr H by the agents in Cape Verde and Mr Hs 
introduction to Excel by the same agents is Mr Bs email account. I dont find it plausible that 
an unknown fraudster had access to two of Mr Hs separate email accounts (held on 
separate servers) sufficient to have known when he would email Mr B so that those emails 
could be intercepted. Ive also drawn inferences from Excels failure to produce material 
evidence regarding Microsofts findings.
I find it more likely than not that Excels email systems were hacked by a fraudster. Another 
option is that Excel were complicit in the fraud. However, on the basis of the evidence 
available and likely to become available this is no more than speculation, so I cannot be 
satisfied on the balance of probabilities that Excel was complicit in the fraud.
Ive also taken into account the submission put forward on Excels behalf that Mr H tried to 
open his account by emailing the forms to Excel, and that this was not one of the approved 
ways of opening an Excel account. And I note that, having intercepted the email and 
attachments (namely the account opening paperwork and identity documents) the fraudster 
did not send that paperwork on by email, but rather opened the account in Mr Hs name 
using Excels online portal.
Notwithstanding what Excel has said, I note that the January 2019 terms and conditions I 
referred to above say that, in addition to sending in hard copies or using the online form An 
alternative to signing our trading agreement, is to send in the electronic documents required 
to activate your account. This appears to me to be what Mr H attempted to do, but the 
fraudster intercepted that email. So Im not persuaded that Mr H necessarily used an 
unapproved process when he tried to open the account.The FCA defines Firms responsibilities in the Principles for Businesses. Principle 2 requires 
that a firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence and Principle 3 that 
a firm must take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and 
effectively, with adequate risk management systems. The FCAs Financial Crime Guide 
(FCG) underlines firms responsibilities in respect of preventing financial crime, which 
includes a section on data security. In addition, regulation 98 of the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs) requires that payment service providers such as Excel establish a 
framework with appropriate mitigation measures and control mechanisms to manage the 
operational and security risks, relating to the payment services it provides.
In light of the above, I think its clear that the integrity of Excels email systems were of 
fundamental importance in how it runs its business. As I said above, Im satisfied that its 
more likely than not that the reason the fraudster was able to hijack Mr Hs correspondence 
is because the fraudster hacked Excels systems. I think that is sufficient to support the 
conclusion that Excel did not have adequate security in place. And I note that Excel havent 
provided any reliable evidence that would rebut this. So I think its fair to say that Excels 
systems werent adequately secure, and that this enabled the fraudster to hijack Mr Hs 
correspondence, open the account in his name, and carry out the fraud.
Even if I am wrong that Mr H tried to open his account in a way provided for by Excels terms 
and conditions, I am satisfied that email security was of such fundamental importance that 
the failures Ive identified are sufficient to uphold the complaint. First, I am not aware of 
anything in the terms and conditions or elsewhere that warns customers against 
corresponding with Excel by email, or that indicates that email represents a significant risk 
over and above other forms of correspondence/account opening. Second, Excel was 
obviously content to correspond with clients and potential clients, including in respect of 
account opening and prior to the account being opened. Excel routinely corresponded with 
the fraudster (posing as Mr H) by email for around two months, illustrating the extent to 
which email is an important part of its everyday business. Finally, I think it is reasonable to 
conclude that if another customer had sent scanned copies of their paperwork as Mr H did, 
Excel would have opened an account for them as though they had sent hard copy 
documents. Ive considered whether the way in which Mr H tried to open the account might 
suggest that any award should be reduced on the basis of whats known as contributory 
negligence. However, for the reasons set out above, I dont think it should. Im satisfied that 
it was not essential for him either to use the online submission or send hard copies to open 
his account with Excel, and I consider the fact that the fraudster was able to hijack all of his 
correspondence with Excel (which includes emails he sent prior to sending the account 
opening paperwork) was the root cause of the fraud taking place.
So on that basis, I uphold the complaint. But because of the arguments raised on Mr Hs 
behalf, I have gone on to consider whether Excel should have done something to try to 
prevent the eventual transfer of funds.
The transfer of funds
I think it is helpful to set out both Mr H and Excels intentions in regards to Mr Hs property 
sale proceeds:
On 23 April 2018, after a conversation with Mr Hs solicitors in Cape Verde, Mr B wrote to 
the fraudster and recommended the following steps to facilitate the transfer of funds:
1. The buyers of Mr Hs property in Cape Verde would send the Euros to Mr Hs lawyer
2. The lawyer would send the Euros to Excels Euro account in London
3. Excel would exchange the Euros into sterling and send it to Mr Hs sterling accountSteps one and two were followed. But step three was not. This is because the fraudster 
wrote to Mr B and  a change from what Excel understood to be the original plan - advised 
that Mr H wanted to purchase a sailing boat from Hong Kong for he and Mrs H to take an 
adventure for their retirement.
Ive reviewed the accounts terms and conditions to see how it was agreed for the payments 
to be made. These say to make a trade, Excel may accept written or verbal instructions and 
these written instructions can include an email. The terms also say that each trade request 
would form a separate contract for services between Excel and its customer. Excel says it 
will make trades in good faith and is under no duty to challenge or make enquiries 
concerning written instructions it genuinely believes to originate from its customers wishes. 
And finally, it may at its discretion refuse any trade without giving reasons.
I accept that Excels processes allow it to accept payment instructions by email. But in doing 
so, it must accept that fraudsters can infiltrate such systems. It didnt have any additional 
security or payment authentication processes at the time. So Ive considered whether I think 
it ought to have done more.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a payment service provider such as Excel 
is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make.
That was the case in May/June 2018, and remains so now, and I have taken this into 
account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case. Although I accept that Mr H 
was not its customer as a matter of law, given that (i) both Excel and Mr H intended for him 
to be a customer, and (ii) Excel believed that he was a customer, I consider that it is fair and 
reasonable to look at the complaint based on how Excel was required to treat customers.
Taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider Excel should fairly 
and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accountsand any payments made or receivedto counter 
various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
I am satisfied there were enough triggers in this case to have alerted a responsible 
regulated firm such as Excel that Mr Hs account was being subjected to unusual and 
uncharacteristic activity. This is because:
Its unlikely that a couple based in the UK would seek Excel for a better exchange 
rate to facilitate the exchange of funds in Euros to £sterling, only to then convert 
those funds to a less favourable rate in USD to purchase a yacht from China.
The funds for the yacht werent to the selling company.
The fraudster initially suggested that the seller was based in China, the invoice also 
confirmed this, but the payment details were made to a company based in Hong 
Kong.This was a significant sum of money to receive a change of instructions for.
It is unlikely Mr H would have chased for updates around when the purchase monies 
would be received when he knew what the completion date was.
The fraudster also failed to provide documents when requested.
In my view, there were reasonable grounds to suspect a fraud or scam, and therefore justify 
an intervention (such as phoning Mr H in order to ask discreet questions about the nature 
and purpose of the payments, and to request a receipt).
Excel understood that it was being used to obtain a favourable exchange rate to transfer 
funds to a UK based account following the proceeds of a property sale. I think the email 
request to convert the property sale funds to USD and subsequently send those funds to 
China to purchase a yacht was sufficiently unusual to warrant further checks by Excel. Its 
clear there were fraud triggers based on the nature of the transaction, however the triggers 
came from the compliance team acting on behalf of the currency cloud to facilitate the 
payment transfer and the compliance team relied on Excels responses to its queries  which 
it obtained via emails with the fraudster. I do think it would have been reasonable for Excel to 
have paused the payment instruction and properly question Mr H before processing the 
payment in order to satisfy itself that all was well. This is particularly so given the risk of 
email interception fraud and the fact that Mr H had only communicated with Excel via email. 
There is no evidence that Excel provided Mr H with any meaningful warnings or gave him 
other reasons to doubt the legitimacy of the payment he was making.
Even so, I have to consider what the impact of this was. If Excel had called Mr H and asked 
for more details around the payment instruction, what the payments were for and the basic 
surrounding context, it is likely it would have made no difference to the payment instruction. 
This is because it was the fraudster that opened the account, not Mr H. And upon opening 
the account, the fraudster provided a telephone number that did not belong to Mr H. So its 
likely that Excel would have spoken to the fraudster to ask further questions. The fraudster 
already had Mr Hs personal sensitive data, so it would have been able to sufficiently answer 
questions put to them by Excel.
Ive noted that Excel did have conversations with the fraudster and it didnt suspect anything 
untoward. Whilst I appreciate the magnitude of the loss to Mr H and there are points where I 
accept Excel ought to have done things differently, I dont think an intervention by Excel on 
the basis of the transaction being unusual would have made a difference to Mr Hs loss.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr H responded to my provisional decision and queried the following:
The sum on which Excel should pay interest. 
The exact date Excel should pay interest from. 
Whether his legal costs can be recovered or not. Mr H believes that Excel should pay 
his legal costs as this was a very complex matter that has required the involvement 
of professional advisers as he and Mrs H are elderly individuals who have found this 
whole experience incredibly stressful which has resulted in financial hardship for 
them. Theyve been forced to use this service to gain the compensation they deserve 
through initially obstructing their requests for basic information. At the time of Mr Hs 
response, his legal costs are £9,606 plus VAT. 
Excel provided a response to my provisional decision which Ive read in its entirety. Ive 
grouped together and summarised its key points below:Account opening
Mr H acted recklessly by failing to call the telephone number on Excels website 
during the three months of his communication with the scammer, including when the 
scammer posing as Mr B promised huge speculative returns on his money.
Terms of business 
I have cherry picked from its terms of business. 
Its terms of business requiring hard copies of a paper form in the post are clear; Mr H 
clearly read its terms of business and is therefore complicit in what led to this 
happening.
The alternative option to signing a trading agreement is available for online traders. 
They send via email their required ID only. Signing the trading agreement is clear, 
you send the hard copy in the post if you plan to sign it via this method. Once that 
person is then online and at the time of their first trade this is when they must accept 
the terms and conditions. This is explained in its terms and conditions.
Mr Hs conduct
Ive not discussed negligence on the part of Mr H.
The funds were received from a 3rd party in Germany not from an account held in Mr 
Hs name or his solicitor. This was negligence on Mr Hs part that contributed to him 
being defrauded.
There must have been a reason that Mr H chose to avoid having funds routed 
through the solicitor or his own account. It may have been to avoid paying the 
property taxes due had the funds been sent from Cape Verde. It expected the 
payment from a lawyer.
Point of compromise
Excel assisted Mr H by getting him to check his email addresses on a website which 
showed they were compromised. Excel asked Mr H if he ever changes his 
passwords and he confirmed he had not. It would be easy for a fraudster to connect 
the use of Mr Hs two email accounts  both of which had been compromised  that 
had the same level of security.
The Cape Verde agent and Mr H were in constant dialogue regarding the sale of the 
property and also the prospective buyer. With Mr Hs emails being compromised it 
would be clear to the fraudster who the buyers were. Excel appear to suggest that 
this gave the fraudster another opportunity to target Mr H and feeds into a 
plausible/more likely explanation for how Mr Hs emails were intercepted than that 
Excels systems were hacked.
It was easier for the fraudster to maneuver by setting up a separate email account for 
Mr H because if it operated solely out of Mr Hs email account, it would have taken 
too much attention. Its more plausible that Mr Hs email account was the source of 
the hack and it seems we are only making plausible cases for one side and ignoring 
the clear possibilities on the opposite side.
The emails from Excel were not genuine and were spoofed as they include UK 
phone numbers that do not belong to Excel. 
I have given no consideration as to why this appears to have been an isolated 
incident affecting only one of Excels clients. If Excels email systems were 
compromised in the way that I have suggested then this would have happened with 
multiple clients leading to multiple complaints. There is no evidence that shows Excels email accounts were compromised  the 
Microsoft report would have made this abundantly clear.
Microsoft report
It requested a report from Microsoft and explained why this report couldnt be 
provided. The Microsoft investigator used an email analysis that could determine the 
IP address of the emails that were being sent by Mr H. Microsoft has since deleted 
the report. Excel cannot be blamed for the fact that the Microsoft report is no longer 
available.
The findings and steps Microsoft took were documented by Excels lawyers in 
correspondence I have seen. The statement of what took place was documented 
multiple times over the year. Excel had constant meetings to discuss steps taken. 
Had it have known what Microsofts policies were on deleting records, it would have 
asked for a detailed report. Essentially, Excels recollection of Microsofts conclusions 
are reliable. 
Microsoft concluded there were no trace of any emails which was its expert opinion. 
Payment instruction
The fraudster said the yacht payment was going to an agent of Princess Yacht, 
rather than Princess Yacht itself, suggesting that there was nothing inherently 
suspicious in the invoice not being in Princess Yachts name. And the payment 
passed compliance checks by its banking provider.
The fraudster posing as Mr H changed the instructions to send the funds to China 
less than 24hrs after registration, and a month before it made the payment. The 
instructions did not change during that period.
Its payments systems and security checking on payments are robust and it nor its 
payment systems providers failed to class the payment as suspicious. Excel believes 
that I am saying that it ought to have held the payment on 25 May 2018 and refused 
to action it until such time that the real Mr H uncovered the scam five weeks later. 
That cannot be right.
It has clients who sell properties in various countries and use funds for other reasons 
than moving them back to their home country. The USD exchange rate has no 
relevance. The funds were sent to a broker handling the sale, and Hong Kong is part 
of China such that there was no reason for Excel to distinguish between the two in 
terms of the invoice address. 
In fact, the payment was paused and remained unsent for several days while Excel 
made appropriate enquiries.
Although it accepts email requests, it has a security process which includes speaking 
to the client to confirm the legitimacy of their email. It does not matter what a referring 
partner tells Excel a client will do with their money. Excel followed this process. 
Additional points
The email from the Cape Verde agent outlining what Mr H wanted to do with the 
proceeds of sale has been taken out of context. Excel receives emails like this all the 
time from agents it partners with. Some clients contact Excel with completely different 
plans for what they intend to do with funds. Excel says It is not a certainty that can 
be attained that the funds would only be going to Mr Hs account. By this I 
understand it to mean that there was nothing inherently suspicious about the change 
in instructions whereby the fraudster told Excel that the money was to be used to buy 
a yacht. Either Mr H or Mr Hs lawyers in Cape Verde told the German buyer of their property 
to not send the funds to Cape Verde. This means that the German Buyer has never 
paid for the property as the funds never reached Mr H as they should have, in Mr Hs 
Cape Verde bank account or with the solicitors acting upon the sale. 
Excel expects that I take a fair approach to what has happened and weigh up all of 
the events that took place. 
I queried Mr Hs email being compromised with him along with the conversation he had with 
Excel about this. I also queried the payment journey of the funds with Mr H and why they did 
not come from his lawyers in Cape Verde.
Mr H said in summary:
He nor Mrs H recall being advised by anyone at Excel to check their email accounts 
to ascertain whether they had been compromised. Mr H confirmed he spoke to Excel 
and was advised to change the passwords to his email accounts. However, Mr H 
denies that he ever said to Excel that he never changed his passwords to his email 
accounts. In fact, Mr H can confirm that he did change the passwords to his email 
accounts. 
If Excel are seeking to rely on a particular website to track email accounts being 
compromised, Mr H carried out checks on this website. He noted if you type an email 
address in the search function, it tells you whether that email address has been 
subject to a data breach or a paste. It gives no further information as to the nature 
of what has happened. It noted that Mr Hs email accounts was subject to two data 
breaches and his work email address was subject to one. However, he noted that Mr 
Bs email address was subject to three breaches and Excels general email address 
was involved in five breaches using the same website check.
During a meeting in Cape Verde in February/March 2018, it was recommended to Mr 
and Mrs H by their lawyer that the sale funds should be paid directly to Excel from 
the Purchasers as it would be quicker and would avoid charges. And so, Mr H 
followed his lawyers recommendation. 
An email from Mr Hs lawyers was provided explaining that when payment of the purchase 
price is sent to its client account, by the clients own choice, the same is transferred to the 
counter party on/after the completion date. The lawyer believes that some of the clients who 
opt to pay/receive the funds directly from the counter party, do so to avoid delays, bank 
charges and international transfer commission and fees from the respective banks, not an 
avoidance of tax.
 
I provided Mr Hs commentary on the use of the specific website used to check his email 
account to Excel. It replied with recalling the call it had with Mr H:
..In this call I asked about their email accounts:
What type of password do you have? 
Is it a word or phrase? 
Mr H confirmed the password used on his emails was family related. 
I said that I checked on I have been pwned and could see that there was breaches, 
what type of data was compromised and that they should change it immediately. 
I suggested to change them to a random mix of characters. 
I gave them the website so that they could check themselves.
Mr H confirmed to me that he had the same password on all his email accounts and 
had never changed it before. Excel recalled emailing Mr H on 5 July 2018 to suggest that he changes his router/WIFI 
password regularly too. It further noted that its team have notifications set up to alert it if its 
email addresses and passwords are found online.
Its general email address is an email address only  not an active email account user and it 
had password policies in place then and do now. Excel further noted that Mr H never 
changed his password, the password was related to family and was not a random mix of 
characters and Mr H never even considered the risks. Excel stated that Mr Hs data was 
hacked in 2016 and 2017 and then sold on the dark web in batches. It explained many 
fraudsters buy the data with the sole aim of accessing email accounts to look for 
opportunities to obtain credit card information, intercept bank transfers, send emails to this 
persons contacts requesting money to be sent to a bank account. 
It provided evidence that the detail of the data breaches included a breach in October 2016 
and August 2017 where personal sensitive data of Mr H was obtained. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that I should uphold this complaint and Ill explain why. 
Firstly, I dont think that Mr H acted negligently in failing to recognise that he was the victim 
of a scam. His agents recommended Excel (Mr B at Excel specifically), and he attempted to 
correspond with Mr Bs genuine email address. He also received emails from what appeared 
to be the genuine email address of Mr B. I therefore dont think that Mr H acting on the 
instructions of who he reasonably believed to be Mr B, representing Excel, to be 
unreasonable. I have taken Excels point that Mr H was offered speculative returns on his 
money - by the fraudster posing as Mr B after the account had been opened around the time 
the payment was being processed by Excel to the fraudster - but Ive also noted that Mr H 
declined this offer and I dont think he could have reasonably suspected this wasnt a 
genuine offer, or was sufficiently suspicious that it should have alerted him to the fact that he 
was being defrauded.
Im further persuaded that Mr H acted on the instruction of his lawyer to receive the funds 
from the Purchaser directly. Having reviewed his lawyers email, I think Mr H was given 
options on receiving payment and chose the one that incurred fewer charges. I do not think 
this was unreasonable, nor do I think that this was a material factor that caused the loss as 
Im still satisfied the loss was caused as a result of Excels systems likely being hacked.  
Where the sale proceeds were sent to Excel from does not appear material to how the 
fraudster was able to carry out the fraud, and I do not agree with Excels suggestion  
unsupported by any further explanation  that this negligence also contributed to what 
happened. 
Ive noted Excels argument that its lawyers documented the events with it over the course of 
a year and it was not relying on its recollection in relation to the Microsoft investigation. But I 
find it unusual that neither Excel nor its lawyers would keep a record of contact notes or a 
report from Microsoft during the course of that year. Excel is seeking to rely on Microsofts 
findings absolving it from any hacking and can provide no evidence to corroborate 
Microsofts findings, so I dont find what it recollects Microsoft told it to be persuasive as it is 
not substantiated in any way. I have to decide the case based on the available evidence and 
to decide what I think is most likely. Without such a report, or other compelling evidence to 
the contrary, I am satisfied that it is more likely than not, on the balance of probabilities, that Excels systems were hacked, rather than the fraud taking place for the reasons Excel has 
suggested.
I further accept that Excel works with many agents and would receive emails offering it 
business. But the email Mr B received from Mr Hs agent was specific. And therefore when 
Mr H did get in touch with Mr B within days of this email, it wasnt a surprise to him as he 
was expecting to hear from him. I made no conclusion that Mr H would use Excel as a 
matter of certainty, rather that it was all parties (Mr B, Mr H and the agents) understanding 
that this was the intention. 
Excel has not persuaded me that Mr Hs email accounts were the likely source of the hack 
and Ive thought about this very carefully. By Excels explanation, a fraudster obtained Mr 
Hs personal details in 2016 and 2017 from separate servers, was able to link the two, and 
waited until he decided to sell a property in 2018 to use a currency exchange service via 
email (so that it could be intercepted) before creating a fake email account to carry out the 
fraud, whilst monitoring both of Mr Hs genuine email accounts. Ive also noted that Mr Bs 
email account was involved in one of the same data breaches in 2017 highlighted by Excel 
about Mr Hs email account, so Im not persuaded that this information is conclusive as to 
the outcome. 
In all the circumstances I think the evidence points to Mr Bs email account being 
compromised rather than both of Mr Hs email accounts being hacked from data breaches 
that occurred more than a year prior to the fraud. And I am satisfied that Excels account of 
how the hacking took place is somewhat speculative.
I find Mr Hs testimony to be persuasive that he did have a discussion with Excel about his 
passwords and was advised to change them. I also find his explanation plausible that he had 
changed his passwords sometime prior to the fraud taking place. 
Ive also noted Excels suggestion that it couldnt have been the cause of the hack as this 
would have happened to multiple customers and resulted in complaints. I havent concluded 
that Excels entire systems were compromised but I do think (on balance) that Mr Bs email 
account was compromised, however that may have happened. Excel has provided no 
evidence to demonstrate whether similar issues have been reported to it at the period of time 
Mr H fell victim to this scam. 
Although there are reasons why it might be thought that any hack might potentially have had 
more widespread consequences, I am not satisfied that this possibility outweighs my main 
conclusion that the evidence points away from Mr Hs separate and distinct email addresses 
being hacked in the way Excel appears to suggest. And I am satisfied that  regardless of 
why the fraudster chose to hack Excels systems, whether it only hacked Mr Bs accounts 
rather than Excels systems more widely, and whether anyone else was involved  the key 
feature that led to Mr H losing his money was the fact that the fraudster was able to hack 
Excels systems.
In relation to Excels terms and conditions, Ive not cherry-picked sections as it has 
suggested. Ive referred to the opening section of being a client and quoted sections that 
are relevant to opening an account with Excel. Ive included the full section referenced by 
Excel in its response here for transparency:
An alternative to signing our trading agreement, is to send in the electronic 
documents required to activate your account. You will then be given access to your 
online account and at the point of trading you will be given the option to agree to our 
terms of business, at this point and going forwards, whether you trade online or 
offline you will be bound by our terms of business. The terms do not reference account opening for online traders only as Excel suggests, and 
specifically references trading online or offline with either account opening option. The 
fundamental point here is customers are not required to provide hard copies of paperwork as 
the only way of opening an account; electronic documents can be sent as an alternative  
which Ive noted Mr H attempted to do. Whilst Excel pointed out the forms sent to Mr H by 
the fraudster had been doctored, Excels approved questions for account opening were still 
included on the doctored forms, the difference is Mr H returned the form to the fraudster 
electronically and the fraudster used this information to open the account on Excels website. 
So, I make the same point that Mr H wasnt using an unapproved way of attempting to open 
an account with Excel. 
I remain satisfied that the request to send the funds to China to purchase a yacht was 
unusual for the reasons Ive already explained in my provisional decision. Excel has 
highlighted further concerns it had in its response to my provisional decision as it stated it 
hadnt received the funds in the way it expected yet didnt find this concerning at the point it 
received the funds. I explained in my provisional decision that if Excel had carried out further 
checks (as I believe it should have) it would have made no difference to the payment 
instruction. Thats because it had the contact details of the fraudster and the fraudster would 
have likely satisfied any questions or concerns raised by Excel. So I agree with Excel that it 
wouldnt have been able to stop the payment if it had appropriately intervened at the time of 
it. But as Ive explained, that is not the basis on which I have upheld the complaint. 
The reason I uphold this complaint is Im satisfied, based on all the evidence Ive seen and 
the balance of probabilities that Excels systems, specifically Mr Bs email account, was the 
likely cause of the hack. And this was central to Mr Hs losses. Because of this, I am 
satisfied that Excel should return Mr Hs losses up to our award limit. 
In relation to Mr Hs legal costs, I have taken on board the complexities of the case and the 
matters involved. I also appreciate why Mr H would have appointed a solicitor given the loss 
at stake. However, we offer a free service and Mr H was not required to appoint a solicitor to 
represent him in using this service. My decision is not based on the strength of Mr H or 
Excels legal representations, its based on what I think was most likely to have happened in 
the circumstances of this complaint. And whilst I appreciate its come at an expense to Mr H, 
I am satisfied that it wouldnt be appropriate to direct that Excel pay his solicitors costs. He 
must therefore bear his own solicitors fees in relation to bringing his complaint to this 
service. 
Redress
Where I intend to uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs/ interest on costs that I think are 
appropriate. If I think fair compensation is more than £150,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and award: For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. Excel 
Currencies Limited should refund to Mr and Mrs H all of their stolen payment, up to our 
maximum award limit of £150,000.
Excel should add interest to the sum of £150,000 (less any tax properly deductible) at 8% 
simple per year, from the date of the loss (25 May 2018) to the date of refund. For the 
avoidance of doubt (in case it becomes relevant), our statutory cap of £150,000 does not include interest or costs, which can be awarded over and above that sum (see DISP 3.7 of 
the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook for more information about our awards).
Recommendation: As the total amount of Mr and Mrs Hs loss is more than our limit of 
£150,000, I recommend that Excel Currencies Limited pays Mr and Mrs H the remaining 
balance of their loss of €285,000  also with interest at the same rate and for the same 
period. As proceeds of the property sale were received in Euros to be converted into £ 
sterling, for the avoidance of doubt, Excel Currencies Limited should apply the conversion 
rate Mr and Mrs H would have obtained at the time they instructed its services.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman