DRN-3985973
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) has refused to pay VAT, upfront, as part of the 
cash settlement for a claim he made on his specialist motor insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again in 
detail here. But to briefly summarise, QIC has calculated a cash settlement for Mr Gs claim 
based on a repair estimate provided by Mr G. However, QIC says it will not pay the VAT 
amount until Mr G can produce an invoice to show that he actually paid that amount of VAT. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and thought QICs decision was unfair. He said 
QIC should pay the VAT up front rather than expecting Mr G to pay out of his own pocket 
and claim it back.
QIC didnt accept our investigators opinion. So, as no agreement could be reached the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
I was minded to reach a different outcome to our investigator. So, I issued a provisional 
decision to give the parties the opportunity to respond, before I reached a final decision. 
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware there was previously a dispute over the amount to be paid in 
settlement of the claim. But as I understand it, that is no longer in dispute. So, this 
provisional decision focuses only on whether or not its fair for QIC to exclude VAT 
from its cash settlement until its provided with a paid invoice. 
Mr G has produced a repair estimate, from a VAT registered repairer, which includes 
an amount for VAT. Because of this, he feels QIC should include that amount, 
upfront, in its cash in lieu settlement. But while I understand Mr Gs position, Im not 
persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable to direct QIC to pay the VAT upfront in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
I know that Mr G has highlighted a final decision issued by our service where my 
ombudsman colleague directed an insurer to pay the VAT part of a cash settlement 
upfront. But we look at each case on its own individual facts  which is what Ive 
done here. And in these circumstances, I think its fair for QIC to withhold the VAT 
until Mr G can evidence the amount he paid.
I say this because VAT is not part of the cost to repair Mr Gs vehicle. Rather, it is a 
tax which a VAT registered repairer is required to collect (as a middleman) and pass 
on to HMRC. But in this case, if QIC were to pay the cash in lieu payment inclusive of 
VAT, Mr G would still have full discretion as to what do with that money. There is no 
guarantee that Mr G would have the repairs carried out by the VAT registered 
repairer who provided the estimate. If he decided to, Mr G could potentially have 
repairs carried out cheaper elsewhere, or by a firm which isnt VAT registered, or 
even decide not to have the vehicle repaired at all. Any of those scenarios would 
impact the amount of VAT Mr G would be expected to pay and would leave QIC 
having overpaid on the claim, if it were to have paid the VAT amount upfront on the 
estimate Mr G has provided. 
QIC has confirmed it will fully reimburse the VAT on receipt of a paid VAT invoice 
from the repairer. And it has said the VAT can be reimbursed on the same day, 
providing it is given enough notice.
 
Im not aware of anything which would prevent Mr G from being able to pay the VAT 
himself, initially, or that requiring him to do so would result in any financial difficulties 
 particularly as QIC says it can quickly reimburse the amount. And equally, Mr G 
has already been given confirmation from QIC this will be paid subject to evidence 
from the repairer  therefore Mr G could potentially explore whether the repairer 
would be prepared to commence repairs and provide the invoice knowing that QIC 
has committed to quickly reimbursing the VAT element. Either way, based on the 
available information, I think QICs position is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
It therefore follows that Im not intending to direct QIC to pay the VAT part of Mr Gs 
estimate upfront. But it must reimburse that amount promptly, following receipt of a 
paid invoice from Mr G.
Mr G responded to explain he disagreed with my provisional decision. To summarise, he 
said:
As part of his complaint, he highlighted another decision from our service where we 
decided the insurer needed to pay the VAT upfront. He says my provisional decision 
is unreasonable as it disregards established precedent.
 
He is an individual not a business and so is required to pay VAT on the repairs. 
He has provided clear evidence of the repair costs and says he is legally entitled to 
reimbursement of those costs, including VAT.
QIC didnt provide a response to my provisional decision, and the deadline to do so has now 
passed, so Im issuing my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also carefully considered Mr Gs response to my provisional decision. But having done 
so, my conclusions remain unchanged. I say this because the points Mr G made in response to my provisional decision arent new. 
He had already made those arguments prior to my review of his complaint, and I addressed 
them specifically in my provisional decision. So, in the absence of new evidence or 
arguments, Ive not been persuaded to reach a different conclusion.
To be clear, our service does not work strictly on the basis of precedent. Rather we consider 
each case on its own individual merits, which is what I have done with Mr Gs complaint. I 
fully accept that Mr G is entitled to be covered for the repair costs to his vehicle, and for the 
VAT element to be covered too  that isnt disputed. But I have explained why, in the 
particular circumstances of this complaint, I think it is reasonable for QIC to withhold VAT 
until Mr G provides a paid VAT invoice.
But, as explained in my provisional decision, QIC must reimburse the VAT paid by Mr G 
promptly on receipt of the paid VAT invoice.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Gs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman