DRN-1650202
 
The complaint
Mrs T complains that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy when 
she opened a Littlewoods credit card account. 
Barclays Bank Plc is now responsible for these types of sale, so Ill refer to Barclays 
throughout the remainder of this decision for consistency. 
What happened
Mrs T was sold her credit card and PPI policy during a telephone call in 2004. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI policy had been mis-sold. Mrs T disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding Mrs Ts case. Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill explain.
Barclays no longer has a copy of a recording or transcript from the call. This isnt that 
surprising considering how long ago it took place. But Ive seen a copy of the sales script the 
advisor would have used at the time of the sale. The script instructs the advisor to make it 
clear the PPI policy is optional and to obtain the consumers explicit consent before adding it 
to her account. 
Mrs T signed a credit agreement which was sent to her after the call. I can see that PPI is 
shown as having been selected on this pre-printed form. And I think its most likely that the 
form reflected a discussion that took place over the phone about PPI, where Mrs T agreed to 
take it. If Mrs T hadnt wanted to buy PPI, and hadnt agreed to do so on the call, I think she 
would have been likely to have raised this with Barclays before signing the form.
Mrs T says she was pressured into taking the PPI and told she needed to agree to it to get 
her card. But this sale was over fifteen years ago and memories of what is said in such calls 
do tend to fade with time. And I dont think it would be fair for me to conclude that the phone 
agent deliberately misled Mrs T in this way - based only on what she thinks she recalls about 
it now. 
So, on balance - taking all the available information into account - I think its most likely that 
Mrs T actively decided to take the PPI knowing she had a choice. But I can understand why 
she might not remember this now.Both Mrs T and Barclays say this was an advised sale, so Ive taken this to be the case. This 
means that Barclays needed to ensure that the PPI policy was suitable for Mrs T given her 
circumstances at the time.
Mrs T says that the PPI policy wasnt suitable because she didnt need the cover that it gave 
her.  She says that she was entitled to sick pay at the time of the sale and could have 
paid her credit card repayments without PPI. But Mrs T hasnt been that consistent in what 
shes said about the amount of sick pay she was entitled to receive from her employer.
On our consumer questionnaire she said she would receive over six months pay but less 
than twelve months pay in the section about her other means. But elsewhere on the form 
she has said she would have received at least twelve months pay. And at another time, 
when asked about her sick pay, Mrs T has replied directly in writing to Barclays saying: my 
sick pay was half pay including statutory sick pay. She now says that she thinks she was 
entitled to full pay for six months and half pay for a further six months. But it doesnt look like 
Mrs T has a clear memory of what her sick pay entitlement was at that time. This is 
understandable given how long ago this all was. 
However, Mrs T has now been able to provide copies of three weekly payslips - around the 
time of the PPI sale  where she only received sick pay from her employer. And these seem 
to indicate that she was receiving considerably less sick pay then than her stated full-time 
salary. Ive also thought about whether it would be likely that Mrs T would have been eligible 
for as generous sick pay as she now thinks she was, given the type of employment she was 
in at the time. And whilst I acknowledge that this could have been the case, without any 
strong evidence supporting this, I think that this is probably not that likely. Mrs T has also 
said that she would have been eligible for a redundancy payment from her employers, but 
hasnt been able to say how much this would have been.
So, on balance, I dont think its been shown that it is more likely than not that Mrs Ts other 
means at the time of this PPI sale would have meant the policy was unsuitable for her, 
because she didnt need any additional cover to help make her credit card repayments if she 
couldnt work. For a cost of £1.22 per £100 of her outstanding balance, Mrs T would have 
received up to twelve months of cover if she was unable to work because of an accident, 
sickness or unemployment. And, additionally, the policy would have given her life and critical 
illness cover. The policy also provided twelve months merchandise cover for the goods she 
bought on her card. And Mrs T chose to take out the policy, so it looks like she valued the 
extra security which it gave her. So I still think Mrs T would have thought the policy was 
useful to her and worth paying for.
It seems as if Mrs T was eligible for the PPI policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.  Ive also no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mrs T. 
And as its premiums were paid monthly, she could have cancelled it if it no longer met her 
needs.
So, whilst I cant now know what steps Barclays took to ensure that the PPI policy was 
suitable for Mrs T, I havent found any strong reasons for thinking this wouldnt have been 
the case because of her circumstances at the time.
Barclays also needed to ensure that Mrs T received enough information about the PPI policy 
for her to decide if it met her needs. From what Ive seen, I think the information it gave her 
could have been better than it was. But for much the same reasons that I dont think the 
policy was unsuitable for her, I dont think better information would have changed her mind 
about taking it.So I dont think Mrs T has lost out by anything Barclays may have done wrong when it sold 
her this PPI policy.
Ive thought carefully about what Mrs Ts representative has said in response to our 
adjudicators view, but this hasnt changed my mind about not upholding this complaint.
This means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs T.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs T because:
 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mrs T about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mrs 
T, that was unfair.
 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
 My final decision
 I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs T.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mrs T any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman