DRN-3762151
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited handled his claim under 
his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in detail. 
In summary, Mr M was involved in a car accident on 17 February 2022. He contacted 
Admiral the next day to report the incident and make a claim. Admiral accepted the claim 
and agreed to collect his vehicle to take to its authorised repairer (AR), but the AR refused to 
take delivery of the vehicle. 
Over the next few weeks further attempts were made to deliver the vehicle to the AR but for 
various reasons this wasnt possible. Mr M continued to chase for updates. The vehicle was 
eventually fully inspected and considered a total loss, Mr M was informed of this on 25 
March 2022.   
Mr M complained about the delays in the process and that he hadnt been provided a 
courtesy car, so he had to hire one at significant cost to himself. 
Admiral considered Mr Ms complaint about the delays and decided to uphold it. Admiral 
offered him £150 compensation but said it wouldnt pay for the hire costs, as it would only 
have provided a courtesy car if his vehicle was being repaired. But because his vehicle was 
a total loss the policy terms meant he wasnt entitled to one. Mr M didnt agree, so the 
complaint was escalated with Admiral and following a review it agreed the delays meant hed 
been without a vehicle for 30 days so offered him a further £300 compensation for the loss of 
use of his vehicle. 
Mr M remained unhappy so referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into the complaint. She felt it should be upheld because she didnt think it was reasonable for 
Mr M to be without a vehicle for the period of the delay. She felt it was reasonable for Mr M 
to hire a vehicle as he needed it for work. She recommended Admiral should pay his hire 
charges between 23 February 2022 and 25 March 2022. She also said the £150 offered for 
the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr M was fair. 
Admiral didnt agree, it says it made the offer of £300 compensation in line with this services 
approach and didnt feel it needed to do anything further for the inconvenience caused. 
Because Admiral didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not disputed things didnt happened as they should, and Admiral have acknowledged it 
needed to do something to put things right. So what is left for me to decide is what a fair way 
to resolve this complaint should be. 
Ive considered the terms of the policy and under Damage Repair Process, it states:
Our approved repairers, or other company instructed by Admiral will:
arrange collection and re-delivery of your vehicle
give you a courtesy car while your vehicle is being repaired.
Admiral accepted the claim on 18 February 2022 and agreed an AR with him so recovery 
could take place. Mr Ms vehicle was due to be delivered to the AR on 23 February 2022 and 
the notes indicate that a courtesy car would have been provided to his work address. But 
this wasnt done due to the AR refusing to accept delivery of Mr Ms vehicle. 
The vehicle was taken to the AR again on 4 March 2022, but the AR wasnt able to get the 
vehicle off the recovery truck, so rejected delivery of the vehicle again. The AR indicated in 
the notes that they would take some pictures to provide an estimate of the repairs. Admiral 
updated Mr M on the situation with the repairs and while he understood the situation, he 
advised them hed been paying for a hire car. Admiral asked him to keep the receipts and 
they would look into it later, but no mention was made to him at this time that his hire costs 
may not be covered. 
The notes show that following the initial estimate the repair was authorised on 15 March 
2022. So Im satisfied that up to this point its likely the AR still felt the vehicle could be 
repaired, so as per the terms Mr M should have been entitled to a courtesy car. However, 
the AR wanted to do a further check on the vehicle to make sure all the charges would be 
covered under the estimate as it was close to the total loss limit. The AR wasnt able to do 
this immediately because it still didnt have Mr Ms vehicle on site. The vehicle was finally 
delivered to the AR on 22 March 2022. Admiral advised Mr M on 25 March 2022 that the 
vehicle would now be considered a total loss after a further estimate on the repair, which 
increased the repair costs. 
Admiral says as Mr Ms vehicle was a total loss, the terms say in these circumstances it 
wasnt required to provide a courtesy car. But I dont agree, it was only following a later 
inspection that it was decided to deem the vehicle a total loss and no payment of the claim 
had been made or offered by this date. And having looked into the claim notes this wasnt a 
certain decision until the vehicle was further inspected by the AR, which should have 
happened sooner than it did. So overall, I think its most likely up to this point the AR thought 
the vehicle could be repaired.  
The delays werent caused by Mr M, and it is clear the delays resulted from the AR refusing 
delivery of the vehicle on multiple occasions. Mr M has told us he needed a car for work 
purposes, so I dont find it unreasonable he decided to hire one. Admiral has acknowledged 
the delay but says its offer on loss of use is fair. But Im not persuaded it was.
When a business has done something wrong and needs to pay compensation for loss of 
use, like Admiral has here. I still need to take into account if the consumer has hired a 
vehicle while without use of their own. As Ive mentioned above, I dont consider it 
unreasonable that Mr M hired a vehicle through no fault of his own so in the circumstances I 
think its fair that Admiral should refund him the reasonable hire charges plus interest, rather 
than just limiting the compensation to loss of use. I would expect Mr M to hire a car similar to 
one Admiral should have provided and at normal commercial rates. From the invoices 
provided by Mr M I can see he has done this, so Im satisfied this was reasonable in the 
circumstances here.So it follows that a fair way to resolve is complaint is for Admiral to reimburse Mr M for the 
reasonable hire costs he incurred and the distress and inconvenience caused to him as a 
result of the delay. The delay was from 23 February 2022 through to 25 March 2022. Mr M 
has provided us with the hire charges for this period which amount to:
23 February  19 March 2022 (24 days) at £51.78 per day plus Vat
20 March  25 March 2022 at £38.19 (6 days) per day plus Vat
Admiral should also pay Mr M 8% simple interest from when Mr M paid the hire car charges 
until settlement is made. And Im satisfied that the £150 already offered by Admiral for the 
distress and inconvenience caused is fair in the circumstances.
Putting things right
I require Admiral to pay Mr M:
£1,766.24 for the hire car charges, less any payment already made for this complaint 
for loss of use, plus interest at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date Mr M paid 
the hire costs to the date of settlement*. 
£150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused, if it has not already 
paid this to Mr M.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to take off tax from this interest. If 
asked, it must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
I understand Mr M is subject to an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA). And his 
Insolvency Practitioner (IP) may have an interest in any redress he might receive. Mr M 
should bear in mind his obligations to his IP in respect of any redress he receives. A copy of 
this decision will be sent to his IP.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, Im upholding this complaint and instruct Admiral 
Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to settle this complaint in line with what Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman