DRN-3494320
The complaint
Mrs G has complained about esure Insurance Limiteds decision not to repair damage she 
says was caused from a claim she made in January 2020 under her home insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2020 Mrs G made a claim for an escape of water to her insurer, esure. Asbestos 
was discovered in the kitchen and esure instructed a contractor to carry out removal works. 
Part of the works involved moving an island in Mrs Gs kitchen and putting it back. 
In March 2021 Mrs G contacted the claims assessors who acted on behalf of esure for the 
claim. She reported water damage to kitchen cupboards. Mrs G said she stopped using her 
dishwasher and tightened a pipe and there was no further leak. Mrs G subsequently had to 
replace the dishwasher. She said an engineer told her the dishwasher had been forced in to 
the space. Mrs G believes this action by the asbestos contractors led to the damage.
Mrs G believed it must have been a slow leak since 2020. But esure said it would treat is as 
a new claim. It asked Mrs G to instruct a plumber at her own expense to fix the leak and 
provide a report of the cause and to say how long it had been leaking for. 
Mrs G said she couldnt afford to do this and was unhappy at having to pay a second excess 
for a second claim. 
esure instructed a surveyor under Trace and Access to source the leak. The surveyor told 
esure the floor was soaked and in their opinion the leak was still there. 
esure instructed a leak detection company to attend. They could not find an ongoing leak but 
noted high moisture readings in the affected area. 
esure concluded that there wasnt evidence to show the leak was related to works carried 
out in 2020. 
Mrs G asked us to look at her complaint. Our Investigator thought on the balance of 
probabilities that the damage was related to the original works in 2020 and recommended 
esure deal with the damage repairs as part of the original claim. He didnt think esure had 
shown its decision to treat the claim as separate was fair. 
Mrs G didnt reply to the Investigators view. esure didnt agree. In summary it says there 
isnt any evidence to show Mrs G tightened a pipe to prevent a small leak. It doesnt think it 
was onerous to ask Mrs G to provide a plumbers report to identify the cause of the leak. And 
it said the engineer could have provided a report to confirm his findings that the dishwasher 
hadnt been put back properly, but Mrs G said he was unwilling to do so. 
So as esure doesnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In April 2021 the claims assessor on behalf of esure asked Mrs G to provide photos. On 
review they wrote that there were clear signs of water ingress that has caused damage.
The surveyor who attended Mrs Gs home in May 2021 told esure that he couldnt find a 
cause of damage from a failed repair. But he found that the floor was soaked. Cupboards 
were water damaged. It was his opinion that the leak was still there. 
A leak detection company was instructed, but they were unable to find any ongoing leak 
after carrying out tests in the affected areas. They did find high moisture readings in the 
affected area. 
In line with the Investigators view, I think on the balance of probabilities the reason why the 
leak was no longer ongoing was due to the actions by Mrs G. But its clear that there was 
water damage in the area where works had been carried out under the claim in 2020 by 
esures approved contractors. I think its plausible that since the dishwasher was pushed 
back into place, the leak has been slow and the kitchen cupboards and flooring had been 
absorbing the water for some time. I havent seen persuasive evidence from esure to show 
the damage could not have been related to the original claim. 
So I think esure should deal with Mrs Gs claim for damage for an escape of water under the 
original claim. I dont think it should charge Mrs G a second excess. This means Im 
upholding Mrs Gs complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
esure Insurance Limited to deal with the damage to Mrs Gs kitchen under the original claim 
from January 2020. esure should not charge Mrs G a second excess or record a second 
claim for this damage. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman