DRN-3612270
The complaint
Mr C is a sole trader. He complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly declined his 
application for a Bounce Back Loan.
What happened
Mr C runs three businesses, all as a sole trader. He wanted a Bounce Back Loan to support 
each of these businesses. Under the rules of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme, a business 
was only entitled to one loan.
Having obtained a loan for two of his businesses with other providers, Mr C approached 
Barclays for a third  but was declined. Although the application was initially approved, 
Barclays reversed its decision. It explained that this was because it couldnt see a sufficiently 
distinct third business that was eligible for a Bounce Back Loan.  
When Mr C complained, Barclays maintained its decision but invited Mr C to provide further 
information if he wanted the bank to review the matter further. It accepted, though, that there 
had been delays in its assessment of the application and paid Mr C £125 compensation for 
the inconvenience this had caused.
Mr C provided Barclays with some further information, but the banks position remained 
unchanged. Still believing that his third business was also eligible for a Bounce Back Loan, 
Mr C asked us to look into things.
My provisional decision
As my initial conclusions differed slightly from those of our investigator, I wrote to both 
parties with a provisional decision to let them know what I thought and give them the 
opportunity to submit anything else they wanted me to consider before I finalised my 
decision. I said:
A business was only entitled to one loan under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme. That 
didnt necessarily mean one loan per person. It was acknowledged that an individual 
could own or operate two (or more) distinct businesses. A loan could be obtained for 
each of those businesses even where they operated in the same industry. So the fact 
that Mr C already had two Bounce Back Loans didnt automatically mean he was 
ineligible for another. 
Lenders were expected to lend only to eligible businesses and were therefore 
required to satisfy themselves that the businesses were sufficiently distinct. Barclays 
ultimately declined Mr Cs application not simply because he already had two loans, 
but because it couldnt see evidence of a third business that was distinct from his 
other two. I think that decision was reasonable, based on the information that the 
bank was provided with.
Much of the dispute has, understandably, focused on this point. But even if I were to 
accept that there was a sufficiently distinct third business, I think the application 
wouldve been declined for other reasons anyway. Mr C has explained that the 
business hadnt actually started trading. So it wouldnt have been eligible for a 
Bounce Back Loan, as one of the core requirements was that the business had been 
trading prior to 1 March 2020 and it doesnt seem that this could be said for his third 
business.
I understand from what Mr C says that he was in the process of setting up the 
business  hed signed a lease but then couldnt open the premises due to the 
coronavirus pandemic and subsequent lockdown restrictions. I dont think this activity 
amounted to trading as defined by the Scheme rules. But even if it did, the rules 
also stipulated that an applicant could borrow a maximum of 25% of its turnover. Mr 
Cs third business didnt have any turnover. So I dont think it wouldve been eligible 
for a loan  and certainly not the £50,000 loan that Mr C was looking for, given that 
there was very little evidence on which to reasonably conclude that the business 
would be turning over the £200,000 required to qualify for this amount. While 
estimates could be used for new businesses, lenders werent obliged to accept any 
amount declared by the applicant and so with no trading history, I dont think 
Barclays would (or should) have approved this request.
In short, then, I dont think that Mr C was eligible for the loan that he sought from 
Barclays. I think it was reasonable for the bank to decline the application for the 
reason it did, but there were other reasons why the application wouldve failed in any 
event.
While I think Barclays was trying to help Mr C by giving his application thorough 
consideration, I think it caused some unreasonable delays along the way and  given 
what Ive said above  ought reasonably to have realised much sooner that the 
application wasnt going to succeed. The application took around ten months in all. 
The bank also wrongly approved the application at one point, before later reversing 
its decision. Barclays has already apologised to Mr C and paid him £125, but I dont 
think this goes far enough to compensate him for the avoidable stress and 
inconvenience caused by shortcomings in the banks service. I think it would be fair 
for Barclays to pay Mr C a further £200.
Barclays accepted my provisional decision, but Mr C didnt. He responded to say that the 
main reason for Barclays decision was its view that his third business was part of the same 
group. He maintained that this was incorrect and that hed provided sufficient evidence to 
Barclays to demonstrate this. He also said he was disappointed with the level of 
investigation that the bank had undertaken in this respect, given his longstanding 
relationship with it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In particular, Ive taken on board Mr Cs further comments in light of my provisional decision. 
While I appreciate what hes told us, he hasnt raised any new issues that Id not already 
considered when reaching my initial view. And so while Im sorry to disappoint him as I know 
he feels very strongly about this matter, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion to 
that of my provisional decision. 
Mr C continues to stress that his third business was sufficiently distinct from his other two to 
qualify in its own right for a Bounce Back Loan given the different fields in which they 
operated. That may well have been the case. But the banks consideration didnt end there. It had to see that there was a separate business actually operating. And it couldnt. And from 
the evidence that Mr C provided the bank, I think that decision was reasonable.
In any case, even if Id thought Barclays had erred in that conclusion, for the reasons Ive 
explained in my provisional decision I dont think it prejudiced Mr Cs position as I dont think 
his third business wouldve met the other eligibility requirements to obtain the loan he was 
seeking. Mr C didnt provide me with anything by way of reply to my provisional decision that 
would lead me to think any differently about this. 
I note Mr Cs unhappiness at the level of investigation carried out by the bank, but I think its 
enquiries were reasonable in light of its obligations under the Scheme and the difficulties in 
verifying information about the third business. Barclays did, though, take longer than it 
shouldve done to reach its decision and caused some avoidable upset when initially 
approving the loan before later reversing this. Its right that Mr C is compensated for this and 
I still think that a further £200 represents a fair amount in this regard. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr C compensation of 
£200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman