DRN-2867482
The complaint
Mr P complains about the way a request to transfer money between accounts was handled 
by Lloyds Bank PLC.
What happened
Mr P holds a current account and a savings account with Lloyds Bank. He contacted Lloyds 
Bank by telephone to transfer funds from the savings account to the current account.
During the call, Mr P said he wanted to make a transfer, and was told this would be done. Mr 
P then advised that he hadnt been asked how much he wanted to transfer, and when asked 
said he wanted to transfer £1.50. This amount was transferred to the current account.
Mr P wasnt happy with the way this was handled and complained to Lloyds Bank. It 
apologised for the way the transfer had been dealt with, but didnt award any compensation 
to Mr P. 
Mr P referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt think Lloyds Bank should 
do any more than it already had done. He considered that the error which had been made by 
Lloyds Banks staff member when they spoke to Mr P hadnt resulted in any financial 
detriment to him and had been quickly resolved.
Mr P didnt accept this and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What happened here isnt in dispute. Lloyds Banks staff member didnt ask how much Mr P 
wanted to transfer initially, and only asked this when prompted by Mr P. Lloyds Bank has 
acknowledged that it should have asked Mr P how much he wanted to transfer without being 
prompted.
No money was transferred in error, and Mr P hasnt suffered any financial detriment because 
of the error made by the staff member. The only amount transferred was the £1.50 that he 
requested. He hasnt lost out on any interest, or incurred any fees or charges because of 
what happened.
I understand that Mr P has been upset by what happened, but the error was, Im satisfied, 
very minor and it wouldnt be reasonable to expect Lloyds Bank to pay compensation to Mr P 
because of this.  
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman