DRN-2962000
The complaint
Miss J complains about One Insurance Limited (OIL) and their decision to cancel her 
insurance policy.
What happened
Miss J was involved in a multi-car road traffic accident on 15 February 2019. So, she called 
her insurance company, OIL, to report this. But as Miss J declared the accident non-fault, 
Miss J spoke to an agent of OILs, who Ill refer to as OCC. OCC were instructed by OIL to 
progress non-fault claims on their behalf, and to recover costs from the third-party insurer 
(TPI).
On 27 February, Miss Js policy with OIL renewed for a further 12 months. As part of this 
renewal, OIL calculated the risk to insure based on Miss Js claim being classified as non-
fault.
However, after Miss Js car was examined, damage was identified on the front of her car that 
didnt align with the circumstances of the accident. So Miss Js claim was re-opened as a 
fault claim in March. And because of this Miss Js broker, who Ill refer to as C, wrote to Miss 
J explaining her that OIL intended to cancel her insurance policy. Miss J says C said this 
was because OIL felt she failed to notify them of the accident at all. But they have since said 
this cancellation was because the claim had been deemed a fault accident, and this changed 
the level of risk on OIL who decided they wouldnt have offered insurance if they were aware 
of this at the time of renewal.
Miss J was worried about this impact this would have on her obtaining future insurance, so 
she cancelled the policy herself. But because of this, Miss Js hire car that she was given by 
OCC initially was taken from her. And she had no access to another hire car as she no 
longer had a policy in place. Miss J was unhappy about this, so she raised a complaint.
Miss J was unhappy that she was without a car until she sold her damaged car in July 2019. 
She explained shed needed to borrow cars, as well as rent one, between 29 June and 20 
July in order to work and this had caused her stress and inconvenience. Miss J felt this was 
due to OILs decision to cancel her insurance, which she felt was unfair. She explained the 
front of her car had been damaged while it was in storage, and this is why a fault claim was 
opened in order to have this repaired. And it never was. And she felt OIL were to blame for 
not investigating this thoroughly. So, she wanted to be compensated for the upset shed 
been caused. And she wanted the excess premiums shed paid returned, as her claims 
hadnt been progressed.
OIL didnt respond to Miss Js complaint. C responded to part of Miss Js complaint and 
explained OIL had decided to cancel the insurance as a fault claim had been opened due to 
the liability dispute that arose from the damage found on her car. Miss J was unhappy with 
this response, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. Our investigator issued three 
separate views, due to the lack of information provided by OIL. But the final view our 
investigator provided explained that she thought OIL had acted unfairly by deciding to cancel 
Miss Js insurance. She thought Miss J had made OIL aware of the claim. And she thought 
OIL had failed to progress Miss Js claim and dispute about the damage to the front of her 
car. So, she thought Miss J had been left without a car due to OILs actions and thought they 
should pay Miss J £10 per day for each day she was without a car. And she thought they 
should refund the amount Miss J paid for a rental car, plus statutory interest from the day 
this amount was paid.
She also thought OIL should refund Miss J the excess premiums shed paid for both claims, 
as the excess for her non fault claim hadnt been claimed back from the third party. And Miss 
Js fault claim hadnt been pursued and the damage to her car hadnt been repaired. And 
finally, she thought OIL should pay Miss J £150 to recognise the distress and inconvenience 
shed been caused as well as change the claims categorisation. She thought the non-fault 
claim should be classified as non-fault again. And the fault claim should be categorised as 
Notification Only Claims Added, as the liability hadnt been investigated or confirmed.
OIL didnt respond to this view or provide any comments. And Miss J wanted both claims to 
be listed as non-fault but our investigator explained we were unable to do this. As neither 
party agreed with our investigator, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Before I set out why Ive reached my decision, I want to explain how Ive come to this 
conclusion. I think its clear there has been some confusion for Miss J surrounding who shed 
been speaking to. I can see she raised a complaint with OIL directly, but has only received 
responses from C. And weve requested information from OIL directly, and again only 
received contact from C. But Im satisfied both we and Miss J have tried to speak to OIL 
using the contact e-mail theyve provided to the regulator. And this is the same e-mail 
address C use. So, I think OIL have had ample opportunity to provide the information weve 
asked for. And where this hasnt been received, Ive then thought about what is most likely to 
have happened, based on the testimony provided by Miss J.
Ive first thought about OILs decision to cancel Miss Js insurance, and whether I think this 
was fair. Miss J has said when she spoke to C, her broker, OIL had told them the insurance 
would be cancelled as Miss J hadnt notified them about the claim. Ive been unable to listen 
to these call recordings. But Ive seen the letter C sent to Miss J on OILs behalf, and I dont 
think this makes it clear to Miss J the reason for the potential cancellation. So, I dont think 
Miss J wouldve been able to manufacture this reason, unless she was told it by C. So, I 
think she was.
And I dont think this was a fair reason to cancel her insurance. Miss J called who she 
believed to be OIL when the accident happened. And OCC handled the claim on OILs 
behalf, as Miss J had been hit in the rear so the claim was progressed on a non-fault basis. 
Ive seen the claim notes provided by C, and it states on 15 February 2019, the day of 
accident that Claim copied from CL to OIL before providing a claim reference. From what 
Ive read, I think CL depicts the word claim. So, Im satisfied Miss J did all she could to 
notify OIL about the claim and if OIL didnt have a record of this claim when the policy automatically renewed, I think this was their error, not Miss Js.
But Im aware C have since said, on OILs behalf, that the policy was due to be cancelled as 
Miss Js claim had been changed from non-fault to fault. And Ive seen evidence to show 
liability was disputed after Miss Js car was examined, and damage to the front of her car 
seemed to be inconsistent to the circumstances of the accident. But I dont think it was fair 
for OIL to proceed to cancel the claim at this point.
Miss J had disputed the damage to the front of the car and said this was caused after the 
accident while it was in storage. Ive seen photos of Miss Js car after the accident, and I 
dont think they represent the damage later found on the car when it was examined. And this 
damage wasnt present at the garage that had seen Miss Js car straight after the accident 
had occurred. So, on the balance of probability, I think its likely the damage found to Miss 
Js car was caused after the accident. 
Had OIL looked into Miss Js concerns and dispute about the damage and liability, like Id 
have expected, instead of deciding to declare their intention to cancel the policy, I think its 
reasonable for me to assume they wouldve come to this conclusion themselves. And 
because of this, I dont think they wouldve recorded the claim as fault, and so wouldnt have 
needed to cancel the policy as the risk to them as an insurer wouldnt have changed. 
So, even though OIL havent confirmed themselves for certain what their reason was for 
declaring their intention to cancel the policy, I think either reason mentioned was unfair. And 
I think their decision to declare this intention led to Miss J feeling the need to the cancel her 
insurance policy, which has then impacted her both emotionally and financially. 
Putting things right
As I think OIL acted unfairly, Ive then thought about what OIL should do to put things right. 
Any award or direction I make is intended to place Miss J back in the position she wouldve 
been, had OIL acted fairly in the first place.
As OIL declared their intention to cancel the policy unfairly, this led Miss J to cancel her 
insurance policy. I dont think Miss J wouldve done this otherwise. And by cancelling her 
insurance policy, this meant Miss J needed to give back the hire car she was provided as 
part of the non-fault claim she made with OCC.
Miss J has explained she was a cleaner at the time and needed her car for work. So, when 
her hire car was taken back, she needed to borrow other peoples cars to attend jobs 
between 29 June  20 July 2019. Had OIL acted fairly, I think Miss Js insurance wouldve 
remained in place and her access to a hire car wouldve remained. As Miss Js car was 
undriveable, OILs actions meant she had no access to a car at all and I think this was 
unreasonable. So, I think OIL should pay Miss J £10 a day for her loss of a driveable car, for 
the 20 days she was without one, which totals £200. And I think they should refund Miss J 
the £78.49 she paid for a rental car for one day, as she had no other means of transport due 
to their actions. They also pay Miss J 8% statutory interest from the day she paid this. 
As Miss J cancelled her insurance, OIL and OCC took no further action on her claims. But 
Miss J has said she paid her excess for both the fault and non-fault claims they were 
progressing. As neither claim was settled, I dont think its fair for Miss J to have paid these 
excesses as OIL didnt provide a full service. So, I think OIL should refund any excesses 
Miss J paid, plus 8% statutory interest from the date these excess payments were made.
And as OIL didnt pursue these claims, I dont think they investigated and challenged Miss 
Js disputes about liability. And as Ive explained, I think if they had its likely they wouldve found in Miss Js favour based on the limited evidence Ive seen. So, I think they should 
record Miss Js initial claim as non-fault, and the second claim surround the damage to the 
front of her car as Notification Only as OIL didnt incur any costs for this claim as the car was 
never repaired.
And finally, I think the complaint wouldve impacted Miss J. Ive no doubt it wouldve been 
stressful and worrying being without a driveable car for an extended period of time. And 
needing to borrow other peoples cars wouldve been inconvenient. And Miss J has said her 
insurance premiums since the claims have increased. While I cant say this is definitely down 
to the actions of OIL, or the way they reported the claims, Miss J wouldve needed to declare 
the way the claims were handled and the fact they were deemed fault claims. And I think it 
wouldve been upsetting for Miss J to declare this when she disagreed with the liability and it 
wasnt challenged as Id expect. So, considering all this, I think OIL should pay Miss J £150 
to recognise the upset and inconvenience shes been caused by their actions.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Miss Js complaint about One Insurance Limited 
and direct them to take the following action:
Pay Miss J £200 for the days she was left without a driveable vehicle
Refund Miss J the rental cost she incurred, plus 8% statutory interest from the date of 
payment to the date of refund;
Refund Miss J any excess premiums she paid, plus 8% statutory interest from the 
date of payment to date of refund;
Alter the recording of Miss Js claims to show the first claim as non-fault and the 
second as notification only; and
Pay Miss J £150 to recognise the upset and inconvenience shes been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman