DRN-3950953
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) didnt credit her account with the 
correct amount following a cash deposit she made.
What happened
Mrs D told us that In August 2022 she went into branch to deposit £19,950 cash. 
She says she was assisted in branch by a staff member to deposit the cash into her account 
using the self-service machine. She said she handed £19,950 to the staff member who 
deposited the cash into the machine for her.
All of the cash was deposited, over a number of transactions and the total cash deposited 
into the self-service point came to £19,000. As Mrs D was certain she had £19,950, she 
believed there must have been an error with the self-service machine.
She complained to Barclays, who investigated but did not uphold her complaint. It said that a 
full audit of the funds entered into the self-service machine had been done which confirmed 
only £19,000 was entered and subsequently credited to Mrs Ds account.
Mrs D was still unhappy so brought the complaint to us. One of our investigators reviewed 
the complaint but didnt think that Barclays had done anything wrong. Mrs D replied to the 
investigators view, saying that she is certain the full amount was taken into branch. She said 
if there was no machine error then it may be the member of staff took the missing £950. As 
Mrs D remains unhappy, the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand how strongly Mrs D feels about this complaint. She has raised a number of 
points and although I may not mention every point raised, Ive considered everything she 
has said but limited my findings to the areas which impact on the outcome of the case. No 
discourtesy is intended by this, it just reflects the informal nature of our service.
When evidence is incomplete or contradictory, I base my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, what I consider most likely to have happened, given the 
available evidence and wider circumstances.
My review of the evidence and circumstances has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator, for broadly the same reasons. 
Im required to take into account the relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance 
and standards; and codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
From what Ive seen, I think its reasonable for Barclays to come to the conclusions it has. I 
say this because:
Mrs D was assisted throughout by a staff member and the self-service machine 
remained in service the whole time. Mrs D was also supplied with the receipts for the 
separate transactions during the process.
Two members of staff jointly checked the self-service device to check for any 
anomalies. No issues were found, the cash balanced and there was nothing to 
suggest there had been an accounting error. If there had been a machine error, I 
would expect the machine to have an excess of £950.
Barclays have provided the transaction records from the self-service machine which 
show that £19,000 was deposited over multiple transactions with no errors detected.
Mrs D believes that the staff member may have stolen the excess £950. I consider 
this to be unlikely as Mrs D was in close proximity to the staff member while the 
transactions occurred. The branch was apparently busy at the time and is under 
constant camera surveillance. I believe this removes any obvious opportunity for the 
cash to have been stolen by the staff member. I also dont think it is likely that a staff 
member would risk their career for £950 in old £50 notes.
As the cash was in £50 note denominations, 19 notes would be required to make up 
the total. I believe it is more than likely that if the staff member tried to conceal and 
steal the cash, they would have been seen by Mrs D or another customer.
Mrs D has very strong views about what happened and there is a considerable amount at 
stake for her. And so, I know Im going to disappoint her when I say, I dont consider the 
most likely explanation here is that Barclays has made a mistake or stolen from her. 
The self-service machine recorded the transactions without any errors, and in the 
circumstances, I think its unlikely the staff member stole the cash from Mrs D when assisting 
her. So, the only conclusion I can make on a fair and reasonable basis  which is what our 
rules ask us to do  is that Mrs D may have miscounted the cash before she took it into 
branch.  
If she doesnt accept my decision, she is free to pursue this further in court or with the 
relevant authorities, subject to any time limits.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D and Mrs D 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Sarah Green
Ombudsman