DRN-3999677
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with a car supplied under a conditional sale agreement provided by Tesla 
Financial Services Limited.
What happened
In December 2021 Mr B acquired a new car funded with a conditional sale agreement 
provided by Tesla. The cash price of the car was £52,990. Mr B paid a total deposit of 
£1,840.84 and was due to make repayments of £800 a month over 72 months.
In March 2021 unfortunately the car broke down when in Europe. Mr B has provided photos 
showing the car displaying various error messages stating various functions and safety 
features were unavailable.
Mr B took the car to a local manufacturers service centre, which couldnt find the cause of 
the fault. The mileage of the car at this point was recorded as 10,404 kilometres. Mr B 
complained to Tesla and asked to reject the car. Tesla said he should take the car to a 
service centre back in the UK, which Mr B did in May 2022. Mr B was given a courtesy car, 
but says it was several years old and had less range than his car.
Tesla issued its final response in June 2022. It said, in summary, that it had the right to 
repair the issues. And it said it had to be proven that the faults were present when the car 
was delivered to Mr B.
Mr B remained unhappy and referred the complaint to our service. He said he didnt want the 
car anymore as he believed it was dangerous. He said the UK service centre explained the 
issue had been caused by water ingress getting into the electrics of the car, but the parts to 
repair were on back order.
While we were looking into things Mr B said in September 2022 that hed heard the car was 
repaired. He said hed been told he would be charged for the courtesy car if he didnt pick his 
car up in a short period.
Shortly after this our investigator issued a view. In summary, she said she didnt think the car 
was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. She said as Tesla had taken around four 
months to repair the car, she thought Mr B did have the right to reject it and Tesla shouldve 
allowed this.
Our investigator said Tesla should allow Mr B to reject the car, it should reimburse him 5% of 
the repayments made for the time he had the courtesy car, and it should pay him £150 to 
reflect the distress and inconvenience caused.
Tesla accepted the investigators view.
Mr B then got in touch and explained the car had broken down again, in a different country in 
Europe on 1 October 2022. He explained hed been stranded on the roadside and had to 
wait for three different transports before one could move the car. Mr B explained hed had an 
important business meeting in the UK, and said after having to spend two nights abroad in 
accommodation he had to rush back using public transport which was very stressful. The car 
was left with a local service centre abroad.
Mr B again provided photos of the car showing various error messages and one of the dash 
saying the car was shutting down. He also showed a screenshot of an alert from an app 
saying the car will no longer drive. Mr B said the breakdown was due to rear drive unit 
failure.
Mr B said because of what happened, hed incurred various travel and accommodation 
costs. And he said hed lost various items hed had to leave in the car. Our investigator 
explained this to Tesla and asked if it would agree to further costs.
Tesla responded and said in addition to what the investigator previously recommended it 
would reimburse Mr B £668.57 for his costs and would offer a further £100 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused.
Mr B initially accepted this offer. But he later said he believed he should get a refund based 
on the value of the car. He said hed have been better off if he repaired the car and then sold 
it. Mr B also explained he had some medical issues which was why he used the car to travel 
to Europe, rather than using public transport. He explained because of these issues, the car 
breaking down had a very big impact on him.
Our investigator explained that under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) Tesla was 
entitled to charge Mr B for usage of the car. So she said she thought the outcome reached 
was fair. As Mr B disagreed, the case was passed to me to decide.
Mr B had made some references to using the car for business trips. So I asked him to clarify 
his use of the car. He explained while he did use the car for his business, the majority of the 
miles he completed were for personal use.
I sent Mr B and Tesla a provisional decision on 19 January 2023. My findings from this 
decision were as follows:
Mr B complains about a car supplied under a conditional sale agreement. Hes explained the 
agreement was entered into mostly for personal use. So, Im satisfied the agreement was 
regulated. Entering into regulated consumer credit contracts such as this as a lender is a 
regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider Mr Bs complaint against Tesla.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The CRA is relevant to this complaint. The CRA explains under a contract to 
supply goods, the supplier  Tesla here  has a responsibility to make sure goods are of 
satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would expect  taking 
into account any relevant factors.
I would consider relevant factors here, amongst others, to include the cars age, price, 
mileage and description.
It doesnt seem in dispute here that the car was of unsatisfactory quality when it was 
supplied. I say this as Mr B has set out this was the case and Tesla have accepted the 
investigators view on this. So, I dont think I need to spend too long on this point. That being 
said, I do think its worth commenting briefly on this.
I think its clear the car developed faults, on both occasions when Mr B says it broke down. I 
say this as hes provided photos from the time to show this, and Ive seen evidence of the repairs from the first breakdown. I dont think a reasonable person wouldve expected a 
brand new car to breakdown and require repairs after a relatively short time since Mr B 
acquired it. So, Im satisfied this was either due to faults developing or present when the car 
was supplied, or the car wasnt reasonably durable. It follows that either way, Im satisfied 
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.
So, what I need to consider in this case is what would be fair and reasonable to put things 
right.
In its final response, Tesla said it had a right to repair the car when Mr B asked to reject it. 
But I dont think this was reasonable.
I agree with what our investigator said about this issue. The CRA explains, in relation to a 
repair, that:
If the consumer requires the trader to repair or replace the goods, the trader must
(a)do so within a reasonable time and without significant inconvenience to the consumer
Mr B said when he initially took his car to the service centre, he was told there was a backlog 
for the repair. So, on balance, I think it was likely clear there was going to be a delay in 
getting his car back. And thinking about what happened here, I think the roughly four months 
it took for the repair is clearly not a reasonable time. So, I think Mr B did have a right to 
reject the car and Tesla shouldve allowed this.
Its worth explaining here that even if Mr Bs car couldve been repaired sooner, I would still 
say he had a right to reject it. Thats because Ive seen job sheets for previous repairs to the 
car to a speaker and a USB hub from before the first breakdown. Given Mr Bs car was 
brand new, and cost over £50,000, Im satisfied a reasonable person would also consider 
that these issues meant the car was of unsatisfactory quality when supplied. It follows Tesla 
had already had an opportunity to repair the car and so Mr B also had a final right to reject 
when he asked to do so for this reason.
So, it follows all of this that I think Mr B should be allowed to reject the car. I then need to 
think about what else would be fair to put things right.
When Mr Bs car was being repaired, he was given a courtesy car from the same 
manufacturer. The model Mr B says he was given was significantly more expensive than his 
car when new. But, Mr B said it was several years old and had a lower range than the one 
he was paying for. I can see Mr B specifically ordered a version of his car with a longer 
range than standard. While its good to see that Mr B was kept mobile, I do think, somewhat, 
that he wasnt getting what he was paying for here. So, I think Tesla should reimburse some 
of his payments from this period.
Our investigator recommended 5% should be reimbursed. But, thinking about whats fair and 
reasonable, I think this should be raised to 10%.
I know Mr B feels he should be due a full refund of the repayments he made. But, I need to 
consider that, for the most part, it appears the car performed as it should while he had it. And 
he covered a reasonable mileage in it. The CRA explains:
If the consumer exercises the final right to reject, any refund to the consumer may be 
reduced by a deduction for use, to take account of the use the consumer has had of the 
goods in the period since they were deliveredThinking about this, under the CRA Mr B doesnt have the right to a full refund. Nor do I think 
it would be fair for him to have had free use of the car. I think its fair and reasonable for 
Tesla to retain the repayments made under the agreement for the period Mr B had the car in 
working order.
Mr B has provided evidence of various expenses he incurred when the car broke down for 
the second time in Europe, including accommodation and accommodation he missed by not 
being able to continue his journey and travel back to the UK. Im satisfied Mr B wouldnt have 
incurred these costs if the car supplied was of satisfactory quality. So, it follows in this 
particular case that I think its fair Tesla should reimburse him here.
Mr B also says various items were left in the car when he had to return to the UK. But, I 
havent seen evidence of these items nor their costs. Nor have I seen that these cant be 
returned to Mr B. So, I dont think Tesla needs to take action on this point.
Im also in agreement with our investigator that Mr B suffered distress and inconvenience 
because of what happened. She recommended Tesla pay £150, and Tesla later agreed to 
pay a further £100. But, I dont think this is enough to put things right. Ill explain why.
I need to consider here that Mr Bs car broke down abroad, twice. This in itself would be very 
stressful. Mr B has explained the second time this happened, he had to wait for three 
separate attempts to collect the car and stay overnight. And he then had to rush back to the 
UK and was at risk of missing an important meeting. Mr B has also explained he used the 
car to travel due to his medical conditions. And Im satisfied these medical conditions likely 
meant this situation wouldve had more of an impact on Mr B than on another consumer. I 
also need to consider that Mr B was left without his own car for a period. He had to take it for 
repair. And hes had to spend time and effort resolving the situation. 
Taking all of this into account, I think Tesla should pay him £500 to reflect what happened.
I gave both parties four weeks to come back with any further comments or evidence for me 
to consider.
Tesla didnt send anything further. Mr B responded and made various points for me to 
consider.
In summary, Mr B said the redress paid to him should be based on the condition of the car 
with some usage taken off. He said Tesla should refund him the full cash price of the car, 
minus £2,525.50 for usage. He said this would mean it should pay him £7,315.34 once the 
finance had been repaid. He asked me to explain the law which said he shouldnt get a full 
refund for the car. And he provided some links to websites which he said explained his 
rights.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr B said in response to my provisional decision. It may 
help to explain here that Mr Bs request for a refund, and the sites he linked to, seem to 
apply to a situation when a consumer has bought a car  i.e. where the consumer owns it. 
Mr B said that he got a loan to purchase the car. But this isnt correct. Mr B acquired the car 
using a conditional sale agreement, which is quite different to a personal loan. In basic 
terms, this meant the manufacturer sold the car to Tesla Financial Services  not to Mr B. So, it was also Tesla Financial Services who paid the manufacturer the funds for the car  
not Mr B. 
This meant Tesla Financial Services was the owner of the car. Ownership of the car would 
only be passed to Mr B if and when all of the repayments were made.
In terms of legislation, the CRA sets out under section 20 Right to reject:
If the contract is a hire-purchase agreement or a conditional sales contract and the contract 
is treated as at an end before the whole of the price has been paid, the entitlement to a 
refund extends only to the part of the price paid.
So, this means here, Mr B is only entitled to a refund of what hes paid under the agreement 
 i.e. the deposit and monthly repayments made. And, as I explained in my provisional 
decision, the CRA states that Tesla are entitled to reduce this amount by a deduction for 
use.
To put it as simply as I can, considering what the CRA says and whats fair and reasonable, I 
dont think Mr B is due to be given a full refund for something he didnt own nor fully pay for.
Ive carefully considered all of the information and evidence on this case again. Having done 
so, I still think it should be upheld for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision and 
set out above. And Im still satisfied the redress I proposed is fair and reasonable under the 
circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Tesla Financial Services limited to 
put things right by doing the following:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Collect the car at no cost to Mr B *
Reimburse Mr Bs initial payment of £1,840.84 from 24 December 2021 **
Reimburse any amount paid towards the agreement from 1 October 2022 **
Reimburse 10% of repayments to the agreement between 24 May 2022 and 13 
September 2022 **
Reimburse Mr B £69.90 for the missed accommodation from the invoice dated 29 
September 2022 ** ***
Reimburse Mr B £68.26 for accommodation from 1 October 2022 ** ***
Reimburse Mr B £66 for accommodation from 2 October 2022 ** ***
Reimburse Mr B a total of £355.84 for travel expenses from 2 October 2022 ** ***
Reimburse Mr B a total of £110.57 for travel expenses from 3 October 2022 ** ***
Pay Mr B £500 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused ****
Remove any adverse information from Mr Bs credit file in relation to this agreement*To be clear, this includes the cost of collecting the car and transporting it back to the UK. Mr 
B shouldnt be responsible for any costs here
** These amounts should have 8% simple yearly interest added from the time of payment to 
the time of reimbursement. If Tesla considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to withhold income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr B a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate
*** It appears Tesla may have already paid some or all of this to Mr B. If so, it doesnt need 
to pay this twice
**** If Tesla has already paid any amount to Mr B for distress and inconvenience, it can 
subtract this and pay the remainder to make a total of £500
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman