DRN-3313713
The complaint
Mrs M complains that a car acquired with finance from Moneybarn No 1 Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
In September 2021 Mrs M was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale 
agreement with Moneybarn.
Mrs M experienced issued with the car, which she reported to Moneybarn in October 2021. 
The issues included:
Battery required replacement
Car sluggish and extreme force had to be applied to the accelerator which created excessive 
noise
Car had to stop/start frequently
Engine management light illuminated
Mrs M told Moneybarn that she didnt feel safe driving the car and that she wanted to reject 
it.
The car was returned to the dealership, who carried out repairs and told Moneybarn that the 
car was driveable. Mrs M told Moneybarn that she hadnt wanted the car to be repaired as 
she had already requested to reject it.
Moneybarn arranged an independent inspection of the car. The inspector was unable to find 
any faults. Based on the findings of the inspection, Moneybarn said it wasnt upholding Mrs 
Ms complaint. It offered her £50 for its delayed response to her complaint.
Mrs M remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said she was satisfied that there was a fault with 
the car and that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied. The investigator said 
that Mrs M had asserted her short term right to reject the car within the first 30 days and that 
it was fair to allow Mrs M to reject the car.
Moneybarn didnt response to the investigators view so Ive been asked to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. The legislation says that the quality of the 
goods includes their general condition, and other things including fitness for purpose, 
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
At the point of supply, the car was around 6 years old and had covered around 78,000 miles. 
Id expect a second hand car to have a degree of wear and tear and to require repairs and 
maintenance more often than a  brand new car.
Based on what Ive seen, I think its likely that there is a fault with the car. One of the faults 
related to the battery, which has been replaced. Mrs M has described other faults including 
the car being sluggish and the engine management light illuminating.
The essence of Mrs Ms complaint is that, having reported the faults to Moneybarn and 
requested to exercise her short term right to reject within 30 days, the rejection didnt 
happen. Mrs M has said that Moneybarn confirmed rejection of the car. I can see from the 
information provided by Moneybarn that it sent an email to the broker requesting an update 
because it wanted to confirm to Mrs M that the rejection had been agreed. I cant see that 
the broker replied to Moneybarn. But based on what I have seen, Im satisfied that 
Moneybarn was looking to accept rejection of the car. It looks as if the dealer accepted 
rejection but then changed its mind and carried out repairs instead. I cant be certain of why 
the dealer did this, but theres some information to suggest that the dealer had spent money 
repairing the car that Mrs M had part exchanged and that the relationship between the 
dealer and Mrs M broke down as a result of this.
Based on the information Ive seen, I dont think the car was of satisfactory quality when it 
was supplied. Theres strong evidence to suggest that Mrs M exercised her short term right 
to reject the car and that Moneybarn accepted this. So even though repairs were carried out 
later on, and even though the independent inspection found no faults, I dont think the car 
was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied and I think Mrs M should be allowed to 
exercise her short term right to reject.
Putting things right
To put things right, Moneybarn should allow Mrs M to reject the car.
Mrs M hasnt used the car since 28 October 2021. Shes explained that because of the 
issues with the car, she doesnt feel safe driving it. I dont think it was unreasonable for Mrs 
M to stop driving the car, and I dont think its fair that she should be expected to make 
payments for a car she isnt using.
Mrs M has told this service that she voluntary surrendered the car and that it will be sold at 
auction.
Ive considered the impact that all of this has had on Mrs M. Shes explained that she 
experienced anxiety whilst driving the car and was upset by how the dealer behaved. The 
key point here is that Mrs M should have been allowed to reject the car when she requested 
to do so within the first 30 days. As a result, Mrs M had experienced a longer period of 
distress and inconvenience than she should have done. Moneybarn offered £50 
compensation for any anxiety caused but I dont think this adequately reflects the distress 
and inconvenience caused to Mrs M. The compensation should be increased to £150 
(including the £50 already paid).My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Moneybarn No 1 Limited must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange to collect the car at no cost to Mrs M
Refund all payments made since 28 October 2021 plus 8% simple interest per annum from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement
Pay £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience
Remove any adverse information from Mrs Ms credit file in relation to the agreement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman