DRN-1635299
 
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on her behalf by her husband. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy. The policy was taken out in December 
2003 when Mrs M phoned the bank to activate her card. The policy covered her for accident, 
sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mrs M didn't agree. 
Her representative replied, in some detail, to say, in summary, that:
There's no evidence to show the member of staff followed procedures. There's 
nothing to show no advice or recommendation was given. And nothing to show Mrs 
M consented to take the policy.
Mrs M didn't agree to the policy; she didn't know she had it. 
The adjudicator has based their conclusion on a call script. There's no evidence to 
show that the script provided by the bank was the one that was used 15 years ago; 
or that the member of staff followed it on this occasion.
The product wasn't fit for purpose.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ms complaint.
Mrs M's representative says complaints should be assessed based on evidence and facts. 
And I agree. But where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, as some 
of it is here, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I 
consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint because:
Mrs M told us she didn't recall agreeing to the PPI. And I'm not surprised she doesn't 
remember this as the phone call took place more than 15 years ago. And Capital One no 
longer has a recording of the call, which also isn't surprising. So, as noted above, I need to 
think about what is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the 
wider circumstances. Capital One has provided a copy of the call script which it says would 
have been used. I've no reason to believe this script wasn't in use at the time of Mrs M's call. 
I accept it's a possibility that the member of staff may not have followed the script or agreed 
procedure for Mrs M's call. But - aside from Mrs M saying she doesn't remember agreeing to the PPI - I've not seen other evidence or testimony which would persuade me that the script 
wasn't followed. So, after careful consideration, I think it most likely that the script was 
followed, meaning that Capital One made it clear the PPI was optional and that Mrs M chose 
to take it.
Mrs M's representative feels strongly that there's no evidence to show that no advice was 
given. But, as noted above, I think it most likely that the call script was followed. So I find that 
Capital One didn't recommended the PPI to Mrs M so it didn't have to make sure it was 
suitable for her. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Mrs M chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted 
this type of cover. She wasn't affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the policy 
was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mrs M would have 
made a different decision if better information had been provided. On balance, despite what 
she says now, I think she would still have taken out the policy.
Ive taken into consideration that Mrs M's representative says the policy wasn't needed. He 
says because the credit limit was low so repayments would not have been a problem if Mrs 
M couldn't work. She can't recall exactly what sick pay she would have received from her 
employer but thinks it may have been three months full pay followed by three months half 
pay. And she thinks she had some savings. But the PPI would have covered her monthly 
store card payments meaning her sick pay and savings could have been used to meet other 
priority bills and household expenses. Whilst the card balance may not have been 
particularly large, it would likey still have been a worry if Mrs M wasn't working. The PPI 
would have given her peace of mind that her payments would have been covered for up to 
12 months if she couldn't work due to sickness or an accident and covered her if she'd 
become unemployed. So this doesn't change my conclusion.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs M about that. Because Capital One didnt 
tell Mrs M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc, does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Mrs M any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman