DRN-2119101
The complaint
Mrs D complains that she was mis-sold a Privilege Account (PA) and a Privilege Premier 
Account (PPA) by The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op Bank). 
What happened
Mrs D took out a fee free bank account with Co-op Bank in September 1989.
Mrs D took out a PA in June 2003 for a monthly fee of £6; and she took out a PPA in 
January 2007 for a monthly fee of £12.
Mrs D says Co-op Bank recommended she take out the PA and the PPA, but they werent 
right for her, and she was ineligible for them.
Our adjudicator investigated Mrs Ds complaint and decided that Co-op Bank didnt do 
anything wrong in selling the PA or the PPA. Mrs D disagrees so the complaint has come to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs Ds complaint.
In looking at Mrs Ds complaint about the PA and PPA sales I need firstly to consider two 
things; whether she knew she had a choice between taking out a fee free account or the 
accounts she bought; and whether Co-op Bank advised her to buy the accounts or not. 
In the course of her correspondence with our adjudicator Mrs D has made it clear that she 
did know she was taking out the accounts and that she had the choice of a fee free account 
as an alternative if she wanted one, so I dont need to consider that any further. 
Mrs D has clarified that her complaint is that Co-op Bank recommended the accounts to her 
and she says they were of no interest or use to her as she was not eligible for the main 
benefits of worldwide travel insurance, car breakdown service and mobile phone insurance. 
She has explained that she had alternative company employee cover for the car breakdown 
service and mobile phone insurance; and her husband was ineligible for the medical 
insurance as he had a pre-existing medical condition.
Mrs D says she talked to Co-op Bank and it recommended that she open the PA in 2003 and 
the PPA in 2007. Co-op Bank says that these were non-advised sales, by which it means 
that it didnt recommend them to Mrs D personally or advise her to take them out. 
I dont know what was said during the sales, but Ive not seen anything such as records of 
discussions about Mrs Ds needs and circumstances on each occasion or suitability checks 
to show me clearly that it did make personal recommendations to her. I accept its possible 
that in providing information to Mrs D and explaining the benefits of the PA and the PPA, the 
Co-op Bank may have said or implied that it was a good idea to take them out. But this isnt 
the same as making personal recommendations. And based on this services knowledge of 
Co-op Banks sales practices at the time of each sale, I think its more likely than not that Co-
op Bank sold the PA and PPA to Mrs D on an information only basis on both occasions. 
This means Co-op Bank did not have to ensure that either the PA or the PPA was suitable for 
Mrs D, but it did have to provide Mrs D with good enough information about both so she could 
make an informed decision about whether to have them or not.
I dont know what information Co-op Bank gave to Mrs D. But Co-op Bank was trying to sell 
her the PA and PPA, so I think its more likely than not that it gave a substantial verbal 
explanation of the products and then followed this up with detailed documentation. And Mrs D 
has said that she was aware of the benefits.
Mrs D says that the PA and PPA were of no interest or use to her when she took them out for 
the reasons I gave above. However, while I dont doubt her honest recollections, I think her 
memory may be mistaken on this, and Ill explain why.
The PA benefits in 2003 included worldwide travel insurance, a £100 interest and charge free 
overdraft; commission free travel money; 56% off BBC world titles; 10% off travel breaks; 10% 
off electrical goods; 15% off joining a leisure club; 25% off branded sports equipment; 50% off 
flowers; half price hotel breaks; 10% off theatre tickets; up to 35% off magazine subscriptions; 
and 10% off wine purchases. 
The PA was also cheaper than a fee free account if the account holder wanted to use an 
overdraft regularly. At this time, the PA did not offer car breakdown assistance or mobile 
phone insurance. And the worldwide family insurance wouldve covered Mrs D even if Mr D 
was ineligible. 
Taking all this into account, in my view, I dont think I can say that the PA would not have been 
of any interest or use to Mrs D at the time of sale.
The PPA in January 2007 contained the PA benefits and a £260 fee free and interest free 
overdraft plus car breakdown assistance. The travel insurance cover by this time required 
notification of pre-existing medical conditions but didnt necessarily exclude them. The account 
fee would not necessarily have been cheaper than having a fee free account if the overdraft 
was used, but the benefit of the free overdraft if used wouldve still been significant. The PPA 
did not provide mobile phone insurance at this time.
So again, taking all this into account in my view, I dont think I can say that the PPA would not 
have been of any interest or use to Mrs D at the time of sale.
So overall, I think its more likely than not that Co-op Bank provided Mrs D with enough 
information to make an informed choice about whether to take out the PA and the PPA, and 
Mrs D chose to take them out.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2020.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman