DRN-3239330
The complaint
Mr R complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct transferred his funds by 
cheque rather than electronically causing a delay which he says resulted in a loss of over 
£700.
What happened
Mr R had an Individual Savings Account (ISA) with First Direct. He completed a funds 
transfer form which First Direct received and the funds were transferred. However, this took 
place by cheque rather than electronically which Mr R says caused a delay which cost him 
around £771. He contacted First Direct about the issue and was initially told that the details 
for a bank transfer hadnt been provided. However, Mr R then realised this wasnt true and 
he was paid £25 as a gesture of goodwill for this misinformation.
Mr R spoke to First Direct and says it was agreed that it would cover his losses due to a 
cheque being issued rather than an electronic transfer taking place. First Direct wanted the 
broker to calculate the losses but Mr R said First Direct should do this and provided a list of 
regular investments that werent bought in March. Mr R said that First Direct then refused to 
reimburse him for his losses and didnt reverse the £25 credit paid to settle the claim.
First Direct issued a final response letter dated 29 July 2020. It said it received an ISA 
transfer request on 24 March from Mr Rs broker. It said the form stated the funds should be 
transferred electronically and the details were provided. However, a cheque was issued on 
26 March and Mr R contacted it on 30 March to ask why there had been a delay. First Direct 
said that Mr R was then incorrectly told that the transfer details werent provided for which it 
apologised and said feedback would be provided. It said a cheque was issued because it 
was unable to send funds electronically at the time. It acknowledged that the delay may have 
caused Mr R a loss but said it hadnt had confirmation of the amount. It said it then received 
a transfer request on 3 June and a further request on 4 June as the broker hadnt heard from 
it and the funds were transferred electronically on 5 June. It said that both transfers were 
carried out within 48 hours of the requests being received. In acknowledgement of the 
misinformation given in March 2020 it paid Mr R £25.
In October 2020, First Direct wrote to Mr R to acknowledge that he had explained the broker 
would not provide a calculation of loss and to say it wouldnt calculate this or accept Mr Rs 
calculation. It said it was unable to increase the compensation without evidence of the 
financial loss.
Mr R didnt think First Direct had done enough to resolve his complaint. He said it failed to 
explain properly why the transfer took place by cheque rather than electronically. He didnt 
accept that a payment of £25 was a reasonable settlement and asked for this to be taken 
back. Mr R believes his loss to be around £771 because of this issue.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said that First Direct had issued the 
cheque within 48 hours and that it had explained why it did this rather than an electronic 
transfer. She noted Mr Rs calculation of his losses but said documentary evidence would be 
needed in order to ask First Direct to reimburse this. She noted the misinformation in March 
about the broker not providing details for a transfer and that First Direct had paid Mr R £25 
because of this.
Mr R didnt accept our investigators view. He said the issue wasnt about the time taken to 
process the cheque but instead that a cheque was used rather than an electronic transfer. 
He said he wasnt after additional compensation but just to be made good for the financial 
loss this caused him.
Following Mr Rs response, we asked for further clarification from First Direct why it couldnt 
transfer the funds electronically in March. It provided evidence showing that its procedure 
was to issue a cheque and it clarified that had electronic funds been the only option then it 
would have needed to contact another department.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
First Direct received Mr Rs transfer form on 24 March and actioned the transfer and 
issued a cheque on 26 March. I thought this was a reasonable response time.
First Direct confirmed that its usual procedure at the time was for a cheque to be 
issued and that another department would have needed to be involved if an 
electronic transfer was required. Given this I couldnt say that First Direct did 
anything wrong by following its usual procedure. Even if there were other options 
available the transfer form said please send electronic payment to.. and then 
Alternatively, please make cheques payable to  and provided the details. So, I 
found it provided the option of having the payment by cheque and so couldnt say 
that issuing a cheque was incorrect. 
As the cheque was issued in a timely way I didnt find that First Direct was required to 
cover any losses Mr R had said were incurred by the payment being made by 
cheque.
Although Mr R had been told when he contacted First Direct that it wasnt able to 
issue funds electronically at the time of his request, I thought it could have been 
clearer about its procedure being to issue a cheque. Mr R was also incorrectly told by 
First Direct that it hadnt been provided with the bank details for an electronic 
transfer. This caused Mr R inconvenience as he needed to check the form for the 
information and follow up on this. 
The lack of clarity meant that Mr R continued to spend time on establishing why a 
cheque was issued and continued to work to evidence his losses.  
Overall, while I didnt find that First Direct did anything wrong by issuing the cheque 
and that it did this in a timely way, I thought it could have provided clearer information 
about its process to Mr R when he asked. Had this happened, I thought it likely this 
issue would have been resolved sooner. I noted it paid Mr R £25 because it said the 
electronic transfer details werent included, but I thought a further £75 should be paid.
Mr R responded to my provisional decision. He said he hadnt been made aware it was the 
banks process to transfer by cheque. He said the information he was given kept changing 
and that he had been asked for calculations of his losses and that the call recordings should 
contain this. He asked the bank to consider giving a donation of £200 to a charity he requested rather than paying him £100. He also asked for a full copy of the transfer details 
for future reference.
First Direct responded saying that it wouldnt depart from the award in the provisional 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I set out in my provisional decision, I do not find that First Direct did anything wrong by 
issuing the cheque and I think this was issued in a timely way. Therefore, while I do not 
dispute Mr Rs calculations, I do not find that First Direct is responsible for the losses he 
says were due to the cheque being issued rather than an electronic transfer.
I dont think that First Direct provided the service it should have and note Mr Rs comment 
about the changing information he received. I think that had he been provided with a clear 
explanation at the outset about the process this would have saved him time and 
inconvenience. Therefore I find it fair that Mr R be paid a total of £100 compensation 
because of this. 
I note Mr Rs request to First Direct that instead of the money being paid to him a donation 
was made to a charity. First Direct hasnt agreed to this suggestion. 
Overall, while I note the comments made in response to my provisional decision my 
conclusion hasnt changed, and I think the fair resolution is for Mr R to be paid a total of 
£100 compensation.
Putting things right
HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct should pay Mr R £75 compensation (additional to 
the £25 paid) for the unclear information it provided in response to his concerns about a 
cheque being issued.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct 
should take the action set out above in resolution of this complaint..
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman