DRN-3402392
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund money he lost as a result of a scam. 
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our investigator when he wrote to the 
bank upholding Mr Ms complaint. As such, the facts are well-known to both parties, so I 
dont need to repeat them at length here. In summary:
- Mr M decided to purchase a new van using a popular online auction site
- The seller claimed to be working abroad, but said delivery would be arranged using 
the services of a well-known payment service provider
- Mr M received emails that appeared to come from the payment service provider 
setting out the terms of the agreement  including his apparent ability to return the 
vehicle and receive a refund if he wasnt satisfied with it
- He also received various identification documents from the seller  including a 
passport, driving license and official letter
- On 23 February 2021, he made a payment of £5,720 to a bank account based in 
another country. He was also charged £4 for making this payment
- Despite contacting the receiving bank soon afterwards, Mr Ms funds have not been 
returned to him. Hes felt frustrated with HSBCs efforts to recover his money
- HSBC said that the receiving bank refused to return his money and it was not 
responsible for his loss
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. They were of the view that HSBC should 
refund Mr M in full because:
- The transaction stood out as being suspicious and unusual against his normal 
spending; and 
- An intervention by the bank would have prevented the loss; and
- Mr M acted reasonably in the circumstances
They also recommended HSBC pay £200 in compensation for its failure to safeguard his 
funds and the service he received after reporting the scam. 
The investigator issued their findings on this matter on 2 March 2022 and asked HSBC to 
respond by 16 March 2022, but it asked for a further week extension until 23 March 2022.
That deadline has passed and, over a month later, the bank has still failed to respond. As 
such, the case has been escalated to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our statutory rules provide  at DISP 3.5.8 to 3.5.15 of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook  that we may give case-management directions and fix or extend deadlines; and 
that we may:
reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and take account of the 
failure by a party to provide information requested; 
Ive therefore concluded that, in the absence of a response from HSBC to the investigators 
findings on 2 March 2022, it is fair and reasonable to proceed on the basis of the evidence 
we already have.
I think that, taking into account its obligations to protect customers from financial harm from 
fraud as well as whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint, HSBC 
ought to have intervened before allowing the disputed payment to proceed. Although Mr M 
had a significant balance on his account, he hadnt made any payments (international or 
otherwise) of a greater value in the previous year and the only payments of a similar value 
were much lower risk direct debit payments, possibly to a card in his own name. Given this 
payment was an international payment and significantly larger than any others made in the 
last year, I think HSBC ought to have had concerns about it. 
Im satisfied that had HSBC intervened it would have been able to identify that Mr M was at 
risk of financial harm from fraud  as the circumstances had several hallmarks of this type of 
scam  including the fact Mr M was unable to see the car in person and the supposed use of 
an escrow service provided by a popular payment processor. So, the loss would have been 
prevented.
I dont think there should be any deduction from the award either  Mr M does seem to have 
taken steps to verify the identity of the seller and I can see why, as a layperson, he would 
have been convinced by the email correspondence he received from the fraudsters.
Finally, while the receiving bank ultimately wouldnt agree to return Mr Ms money, I think 
that HSBC should pay additional compensation to reflect its failure to keep Mr M updated 
with its attempts to try and recover his money, which caused distress and inconvenience to 
him. I think £200 is a fair sum to reflect that.
My final decision
For the reasons set out by the investigator and above, Ive decided that Mr M ought 
reasonably to be refunded, I therefore direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mr M:
the amount lost - £5,720, less any amount already recovered or refunded 
the payment charge of £4
interest at the simple rate of 8% per year on those amounts (less any tax properly 
deductible) from the date of the transaction to the date of settlement
£200 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 Rich Drury
Ombudsman