DRN-3349069
The complaint
Mr D complains about the extended rental and aborted collection fees Lex Autolease Ltd
(Lex) have charged him.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in March 2022. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Lex, but I dont agree with everything the investigator has suggested
here. I think the extended rental charges from 3 September 2020 should be waived along
with any aborted collection fees from 18 August 2020.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr D acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
I can see that there have been two previous complaints relating to issues with the collection
of the car at the end of its lease. For clarity I would explain that Im only concerned here with
the extended rental and aborted collection charges. Ill also consider any credit markers that 
may have been placed on Mr Ds credit file as a consequence of these charges and whether
it would be reasonable to refund any insurance payments Mr D has made.
Lex have confirmed that they have waived charges for extended rentals between 4 April and
3 October 2020, so Ill not review those charges any further. But I will review extended rental
charges after this and also the aborted collection fees.
Aborted collection fees
I can see that Lex charged Mr D for an aborted collection that was due on 19 August 2020.
Mr D emailed Lex on 17 August 2020 to cancel the collection. Lexs terms said that a charge
may be made if the collection was cancelled after 12 noon the day before collection and as
Mr D cancelled the collection earlier than that the charge has been levied unreasonably and
Lex should remove it.
I can see a further collection was arranged for 10 September 2020. On 25 August 2020 Mr D
emailed Lex to explain that a collection wouldnt be possible on that day. He said the storage
facility wasnt manned. So, I think he also cancelled that collection within time and the
collection charge should be waived.
Extended rental charges
Lex emailed Mr D on 21 July 2020. In that email they explained that there may be delays
collecting the car because of the pandemic. They went on to tell Mr D that he must stop
using the car from the contract end date of 1 April 2020 and that he could cancel his
insurance. They said he may still receive invoices for rentals during this time, but the
invoices would not be charged, and they asked him to keep the car in a safe place,
preferably off the road whilst collection was arranged.
Mr D moved the car to a secure location at that point and wanted Lex to pay him storage
costs. I can see Lex disputed those storage costs and until late August 2020 Mr D was
insisting the storage charges were paid before he would release the car.
I think Mr D could have mitigated those costs as the letter Lex sent to him in July 2020 didnt
insist he kept the car in safe storage, they only asked he keep it safe.
But on 25 August 2020 Mr D sent an email to Lex in which he explained that, as Lex were
threatening legal action if the car wasnt returned, he would leave it on the street outside,
return the keys to them and address storage costs separately. There was no contractual
obligation for Mr D to be present when the car was collected and as the keys were being
returned Lex would have been able to gain access and remove the vehicle to auction.
At that point Im therefore satisfied that Mr D had made the car available to Lex without any
unreasonable demands for storage fees.
Whilst I understand that Lex were unable to confirm an exact time of collection for the car I
also understand that Mr D couldnt confirm anyone would be available to release the car
from storage. Lex hadnt asked him to return the keys and they didnt confirm an address to
return the keys to. But Mr D returned them to an address he knew to be theirs and to a
contact hed been dealing with. So, I think it was likely the keys would be received and
although they would then need to be forwarded to the collection agent I see no reason why a
collection couldnt be arranged in a reasonable timeframe. Indeed, as Mr D returned the
keys by registered mail on 3 September 2020 it seems feasible that the initial collection date
of 10 September 2020 could still have been achieved. 
So, I dont think it was reasonable for Lex to charge extended rental charges after the key for
the car had been returned to them on 3 September 2020. By that time, they had told Mr D to
stop driving the car and hed left it in an accessible area and returned the keys so they could
gain access without further delay.
Insurance costs
In their email of 21 July 2020 Lex explained that Mr D could now cancel his insurance and
must now stop using the car.
Mr D has explained that he didnt cancel his insurance until 24 August 2020 but its clear
from Lexs letter that he could have cancelled earlier. So, Im not asking Lex to refund any
insurance costs Mr D incurred whilst there was a delay collecting the car after the end of the
contract.Reports to the credit reference agencies
Lex have an obligation to report missed payments accurately to the credit reference
agencies. Im not considering the missed final payment on the account as that has been
considered in a previous complaint. But if Lex have made any adverse reports to Mr Ds
credit file in relation to the issues reported above they will need to remove them.
Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence Mr D has suffered financially as a result of any
reporting Lex have made to his credit file, but I do think hes experienced distress and
inconvenience as a result of their actions. Mr D will have been distressed to receive bills for
aborted collections when hed clearly cancelled them and there were occasions when Lex
didnt respond to his emails e.g. when discussing the return of the keys. I think, in the
circumstances, Lex should pay Mr D £250 to compensate him for the distress and
inconvenience caused.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and tell Lex
Autolease Ltd to:
Waive any aborted collection charges made after 18 August 2020.
Waive any excess rental charges made from 3 September 2020.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to the credit reference agencies in
respect of these issues.
Pay Mr D £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lex didnt agree with my provisional decision. They said it wasnt for us to query their 
collection process and they reiterated that Mr D had obstructed their collection process by 
insisting on storage costs and refusing to appoint someone to be present on collection.
They said theyd asked Mr D not to return the keys to them, but he had anyway, and theyd 
been lost.
They also drew my attention to a previous decision made by this service on a related matter 
and in which the ombudsman had decided the car had been effectively abandoned. They 
suggested this set a precedent that I should follow.
Mr D accepted my decision but explained that hed spent about 30 hours trying to resolve it. 
He therefore didnt think the £250 compensation was sufficient for the distress he and his 
wife had experienced.
Ive not suggested Lex should be waiving collection charges before 18 August 2020 and Ive 
not suggested they should waive excess rentals before 3 September 2020 when Mr D was 
asking for storage costs and the car hadnt been made available. I also explained in my 
provisional decision that I understood Lex hadnt asked for the keys to be returned. But Mr D 
had returned them, had been told not to drive the car, or insure it, and could not be 
considered to be obstructing collection anymore. 
Im asked to make a decision on the facts available to me and whilst I have considered the 
ombudsmans decision in the related matter Lex have mentioned, I dont have to agree with everything that was said. 
Whilst I accept Lexs collection process is for them to decide there was no contractual 
requirement for Mr D to be present and he had returned the keys to Lex and told them where 
the car was. 
So, Ive not therefore found any reason to change my provisional decision after considering 
Lexs additional comments.
Im also not persuaded to increase the level of compensation I suggested. I think its in line 
with what we would usually order in such circumstances.
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive given above Ive not been persuaded to change my provisional decision 
on this complaint and that now becomes my final decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Lex Autolease Ltd to:
Waive any aborted collection charges made after 18 August 2020.
Waive any excess rental charges made from 3 September 2020.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to the credit reference agencies in
respect of these issues.
Pay Mr D £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman