The complaint
Mr C says Elevate Credit International Limited  trading as Sunny  irresponsibly lent to 
him.    
What happened
This complaint is about nine instalment loans Sunny provided to Mr C between May and 
September 2018. Mr Cs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments AmountMax 
Repayment
1 02/05/2018 13/08/2018 6 £300.00 £81.85
2 04/05/2018 07/06/2018 6 £100.00 £108.86
3 26/05/2018 14/09/2019 6 £400.00 £221.59
4 03/07/2018 13/08/2018 6 £200.00 £258.90
5 28/07/2018 23/08/2018 6 £150.00 £308.90
6 17/08/2018 27/09/2018 6 £350.00 £264.96
7 25/08/2018 Outstanding 6 £300.00 £314.96
8 27/09/2018 Outstanding 6 £250.00 £183.24
9 27/09/2018 14/09/2019 6 £100.00 £216.53
At the time of writing this decision, loans 7 and 8 were outstanding. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Cs complaint and thought the loans from loan 4 onwards 
shouldnt have been given because he had a few loans with Sunny and seemed to be 
dependent on this type of loan. Sunny disagreed but offered to uphold Mr Cs complaint from 
loan 4 onwards but the offer wasnt in line with our approach. Nevertheless, the offer was put 
to Mr C, but he declined it. 
DRN-1594036As the matter couldnt be resolved informally, the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint. Having done so, Im partially upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Sunny needed to do more when it approved loans 1 to 3. Mr C 
didnt respond to the view. As there is no dispute about these loans, I wont be making any 
findings on them.
Sunny says it carried out checks before it lent loan 4 to Mr C and the results of these checks 
didnt raise any concerns. But as this was Mr Cs fourth loan in two months, I think Sunny should have been looking to build a clearer picture about Mr Cs finances before lending him 
this loan. 
Had Sunny carried out proportionate checks before lending loan 4, its likely to have found 
that as well as having two loans still outstanding with itself, Mr C was borrowing from other 
short-term lenders and the repayments for these loans were increasing his monthly 
outgoings. And this was most likely an indication that he was in a cycle of debt and was 
further borrowing to cover the hole that repaying his previous loans was leaving in his 
finances. 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr C, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the circumstances of Mr Cs case, I think that this point was reached by loan 7. I say 
this because: 
at this point Sunny ought to have realised Mr C was not managing to repay his loans 
sustainably. Mr C had taken out seven loans in three months. So Sunny ought to 
have realised it was more likely that Mr Cs indebtedness was increasing 
unsustainably. 
Mr Cs first loan was for £300 and loan 7 was for the same amount. By now, Sunny 
ought to have know that it was unlikely that Mr C was borrowing to meet a temporary 
shortfall in his income but more to meet an ongoing need. 
From loan 7 onwards Mr C was provided with a new loan within weeks  sometimes 
days - of taking out a previous one. 
He also wasnt really making any inroads to the amount he owed Sunny. Loan 9 was 
taken out just under five months after his first. Mr C had paid large amounts of 
interest to, in effect, service a debt to Sunny over an extended period.
 
I think that Mr C lost out because Sunny provided borrowing for loan 7 onwards because:
These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Cs indebtedness by allowing 
him to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period.
The number of loans and the length of time over which Mr C borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Mr Cs ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
 
So Im upholding Mr Cs complaint about loans 4 to 9 and Sunny should put things right. 
Putting things right  what Sunny needs to do
If Sunny has sold the outstanding debts Sunny should buy these back if Sunny is able to do 
so and then take the following steps. If Sunny cant buy the debts back, then Sunny should 
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Sunny should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr C towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything 
Sunny has already refunded.B) Sunny should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr C
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr C originally made the
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Sunny should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr C as though they had been
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr C having made
overpayments then Sunny should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest*
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the
date the complaint is settled. Sunny should then refund the amounts calculated in A and
B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus,
then the surplus should be paid to Mr C. However, if there is still an outstanding balance
then Sunny should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr C. Sunny shouldnt
pursue outstanding balances made up of principal Sunny has already written-off.
E) Sunny should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file in relation to
loans 4 to 6. The overall pattern of Mr Cs borrowing for loans 7 to 9 means any information
recorded about them is adverse, so Sunny should remove these loans entirely from Mr Cs
credit file. Sunny does not have to remove any outstanding loans from Mr Cs credit file until
these have been repaid, but Sunny should still remove any adverse information recorded
about these loans.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Cs complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman