DRN-3953073
The complaint
Mr C says Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva Life), trading as Colonial Mutual, gave 
him unsuitable advice in 1992 to take out a Free Standing Additional Voluntary Contributions 
(FSAVC) plan instead of informing him about the option to buy added years from his 
occupational pension scheme (OPS).
Mr C is represented by Greg Vaughan Financial Services Ltd (GVFS).
Mrs C received similar advice from Aviva Life at the same time as Mr C. She was also in the 
same profession. A separate complaint has been set-up to consider the specific merits of her 
case. Inevitably there is some read-across between the two.
What happened
In December 1992 Mr C met Aviva Life to discuss his pension provision. At the time he was 
a member of a public sector OPS. A fact find was completed with information about his 
circumstances, requirements and risk profile. It assessed his needs and made a 
recommendation based on suitable Aviva products.
Aviva Life recommended Mr C took out an FSAVC policy. He agreed and the plan began in 
January 1993, with non-indexed contributions of £35.00 per month. The last contribution he 
made was in May 2002 and the policy was made paid up.
In January 2021 GVFS raised a number of concerns about what had happened to Mr C in 
1992. At the heart of that complaint was that he hadnt be properly informed about the 
options open to him through his employer for making additional contributions to his pension 
provision.
Aviva Life noted that as company representatives, its advisers were only authorised to 
discuss and recommend its own products. But it acknowledged they were expected to check 
customers knew about the alternative options offered by any in-house scheme. It wasnt able 
to confirm this had happened and it upheld Mr Cs mis-selling complaint.
Aviva Life went on to calculate the financial loss to Mr C. It said had it informed him about his 
options he wouldve most likely opted for the in-house added voluntary contributions (AVC) 
plan, which wouldve been cheaper than its FSAVC product.
GVFS disagreed with the proposed method for calculating redress. It considered that given 
Mr Cs circumstances at the time, hed have chosen to buy added years from his scheme. 
Aviva Life thought its offer was correct. And so Mr Cs case was brought to this Service.
The last Investigator to review Mr Cs complaint initially upheld it. Aviva Life disagreed. It 
noted that at the time of the sale money purchase plans were considered to be a more 
affordable way of maximising retirement income. It noted Mr C had chosen not to index his 
FSAVC contributions and that the alternative of buying added years wouldve been more 
expensive. Based on the evidence it provided, the investigator changed his mind and 
concluded Mr Cs case shouldnt be upheld.
GVFS disagreed with the new outcome and restated its arguments. As both parties couldnt 
agree with the Investigators findings and conclusions, Mr Cs complaint has been passed to 
me to review afresh. I issued my provisional decision in January and as I havent received 
any new evidence or arguments I see no reason to depart from my initial findings and 
conclusions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Aviva Life has already accepted based on the available evidence Mr C was mis-sold his 
FSAVC in 1992. What I need to consider is whether its more likely than not if it had done 
what it shouldve he wouldve opted to buy added years from his OPS rather than contribute 
to an AVC. I must do so recognising over 30 years have passed since the events in question 
and the information available is limited. And I must also guard against hindsight.
In considering Mr Cs options there are a range of factors that I think are relevant. I need to 
think about the relative cost of the alternatives and the features provided; his age and family 
status; his job prospects and likely earnings; flexibility and affordability; and his attitude to 
risk.
At the time of the advice in 1992, Aviva Life recorded that Mr Cs priority was retirement 
income. He was 30 years old and earning around £18,000 a year. He already had six years 
public service. The Normal Retirement Age (NRA) of his OPS was 60, which provided for a 
maximum of 40 qualifying years. So, he had a potential shortfall of three years in terms of 
being able to achieve a maximum pension, assuming he remained in the profession. Mr C 
was recorded as having a cautious attitude to risk.
I note Mr C actually left his profession in 2004 after 20 years qualifying OPS service. I also 
understand he began drawing pension benefits from his OPS in 2017, when he reached 55. 
Along with the fact that he stopped making contributions to his FSAVC in 2002, I consider 
these are largely matters of fact about what happened much later and dont weigh 
significantly on my findings and conclusions about what happened in 1992. Although clearly 
they are considerations in relation to the approach to redress.
Aviva Lifes arguments arent without merit. For example, its true to say that in the 1990s 
investment returns were better than they have been in recent years. Money purchase 
arrangements for pensions were considered as offering a good way of maximising income in 
retirement. I also accept the cost of buying added years wouldve been linked to Mr Cs 
salary and so wouldve cost more over time. It was also less flexible than the alternatives in 
some respects, for example in terms of stopping payments.However, on balance, I think had Mr C been in possession of the information Aviva Life was 
obliged to provide, hed have investigated buying added years from his employer and 
ultimately wouldve done so. I say this because:
- While Aviva Life has shown it wouldve been more expensive from the outset for him 
to have bought added years (about £41 per month) compared to the plan it 
recommended (£35 per month), I dont find this difference material to his 
circumstances. And while the cost of added years wouldve continued to increase, 
given his profession and reasonable expectation of income growth, it seems more 
likely than not in terms of his disposable income the relative cost wouldve been 
falling, and certainly if affordable in the beginning wouldve been more so over time.
- Theres nothing to indicate Mr C was interested in anything other than providing for 
his income in retirement. And the limited information we have suggests he had a 
cautious risk appetite. Buying added years presented no risk to him, whereas a 
money purchase arrangement required the exposure of his funds to some risk. So, I 
think the former was more compatible with his outlook.
- At the time of the advice, Mr C was already established in a profession with six years 
of service, a good career structure and a reasonable prospect of progression. This is 
suggestive of someone less likely to be an early leaver or someone who changes 
jobs regularly, where a money purchase arrangement might provide useful flexibility.
In addition, I think Mr Cs defined benefit scheme provided a broader range of benefits than 
either the AVC and FSAVC proposed, and these wouldve applied to any added years he 
bought. For example, the pension entitlement accrued was uprated each year prior to 
retirement whether he was an active member or not. And it also enjoyed uprating after 
retirement. His OPS provided benefits for his family, as well as tax-free lump sum provision 
and ill-health enhancements.
And my overall conclusion here is further strengthened when I consider the position of Mr 
and Mrs Cs household in the round. For example, it makes arguments around affordability 
even more persuasive.
Given the, albeit limited, information we have about Mr Cs circumstances, objective and risk 
attitude, Ive concluded he was a credible candidate for buying added years from his OPS. I 
say this because I think its more likely than not this option, which provided for a risk free, 
affordable approach to topping up his guaranteed benefits, wouldve been a more attractive 
option than an AVC or FSAVC policy.
Putting things right
Mr C needs to be put back into the position he wouldve been in now, or as close as 
reasonably possible, had it not been for the failings of Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited. I 
consider he wouldve bought additional years from his DB scheme.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf.
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress.A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance-https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr C whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance /rules to come into effect. He would like 
his complaint to be settled in line with new guidance /rules. I consider its fair that Aviva Life 
& Pensions UK Limited calculates Mr Cs redress in line with new guidance and rules when 
they come into effect.
So, Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should undertake a redress calculation in line with the 
regulators FSAVC review methodology on an added years basis. This involves using, in 
part, the Pension Review methodology as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its 
Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB 
pension transfers. It must undertake the calculation in line with the updated methodology as 
soon as any new rules and/or guidance come into effect (rather than to calculate and pay 
any due compensation now in line with FG17/9).
In accordance with the regulators expectations, Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited will need 
to ensure the calculation is undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
once any new guidance/rules come into effect.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Cs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr C as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% 
would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to 
be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects 
this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr C within 90 days of the date 
any changes to DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect and Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited has received notification of his acceptance of my decision. Further 
interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from 
the date any changes to DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect to the 
date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Aviva Life to pay Mr C.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited 
deducts income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr C how much has been taken off. Aviva 
Life should give Mr C a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if he asks for one, so 
he can reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Cs complaint. I require Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited to carry out a loss assessment and to put things right in the way Ive directed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman