DRN-2945652
The complaint
Mr G says Zurich Assurance Ltd didnt make clear to him what the risks were of using his 
pension plans as a vehicle to cover his mortgage and loan arrangements. He says he wasnt 
made aware of other options, such as a repayment loan.
Mr G is represented by Life Policy Reclaim Ltd (LPR).
What happened
Zurich says between 1979 and 1986 Mr G took out 31 plans and policies with it (when 
trading as Hambro and Allied Dunbar). It says seven were pension plans and the remainder 
were life cover policies associated with loans. This decision is about his pension plans.
A pension linked mortgage (or loan) is usually an interest only facility with an investment 
plan in the form of a personal pension. Contributions benefit from tax-relief, which is more 
valuable to higher rate taxpayers, and tax-free growth. These are invested according to the 
individuals attitude to risk. The pension pays a tax free lump sum and a monthly taxed 
income on retirement. The lump sum is normally used to pay off the mortgage or loan.
Mr G decided to switch his pensions away from Zurich to Scottish Equitable in 2000. They 
had a transfer value of around £603,000.
LPR complained to Zurich on Mr Gs behalf in July 2020. It had various concerns about what 
had happened. It expressed these to this Service in the following terms:
Mr G has explained to us that numerous pension mortgages were recommended to him at 
various times. Having reviewed the position it is not clear to us that the risks relating to such 
an arrangement were made clear to Mr G and whether he was made aware of the option of 
a repayment mortgage.
The problem with the advice is compounded by the fact that for each borrowing that Mr G 
took out a pension mortgage was recommended every time, which only served to make 
matters worse.
Zurich appear to be inferring that Mr G was a financial expert and understood exactly the 
nature of the risk that existed with pension mortgages. They have forgotten that these 
products were recommended mainly due to the tax concessions that were offered whilst the 
risks were very rarely explained. There is also the question of Mr G coming to a financial 
adviser each time for guidance and instead of receiving balanced advice being advised to 
invest each time in the same product.
Zurich sent Mr G its final response rejecting his complaint on 17 September 2020. It 
concluded by saying:
It is clear that Mr G had a very dear understanding of the financial commitments he had 
entered into and the dynamic of those arrangements. It would be fair to say that the 
evidence available overwhelmingly shows that Mr G was well aware of the action he was 
taking and that he understood the risks involved with the investments he had made, this 
being supported not only by his actions but also by contemporaneous comments he made.
The Investigator didnt uphold Mr Gs case. She noted the lack of evidence one way or 
another concerning matters such as the suitability of the products he decided to take out. 
She noted the information she had been provided painted a picture of Mr Gs ongoing and 
active involvement with the policies and the various counter-parties over time. She also 
thought hed been sent sufficient information over the period to have been aware of the risks 
and benefits associated with the pension plans.
LRP disagreed. In its last submission it said:
"Mr G is not a financial expert and the pension mortgages were recommended to him on the 
basis that they were tax efficient, the risks were not even explained. We note your reference 
to the fund switches but this does not make someone a risk taker. If you have not been 
provided information about what was discussed in the various meetings then we are unsure 
how you have been able to conclude that the pension mortgages that were recommended to 
the client were suitable for Mr G
If Mr G was not made aware of the option of a repayment mortgage then again we are 
unsure how you have been able to conclude the advice he received was suitable. There is 
no evidence that Mr G was provided with enough information to make a balanced and 
informed decision before proceeding on each occasion.
As both parties couldnt agree, Mr Gs complaint has been passed to me to review afresh 
and provide a decision. This is the final stage of this Services involvement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The events complained about happened four decades ago. Its perhaps inevitable given the 
passage of time that the information I have about what happened is far from perfect. For 
example, neither party has been able to provide details of what advice Mr G received at 
each point of sale, nor the substance of any discussions or copies of key documentation he 
shouldve been provided with.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
Im mindful of the evolution of the regulatory position since the 1970s and 1980s. The way 
things must be done today isnt necessarily the way things could be done 40 years ago.
Mr Gs pension plans were arranged before the Financial Services Act 1986 came into force 
(on 29 April 1988). In effect, there werent specific regulations that firms were required to 
follow at the time. The introduction of the legislation in 1986 brought about significant 
changes in the requirements placed on firms which arguably speaks to weaknesses of the 
former regime.That said, businesses like Zurich had to adhere to a framework of common law, and some 
guidelines from industry bodies. Prior to April 1988, there was no regulatory requirement for 
the business to give advice, or to ensure that the policy was suitable. But if a firm did give 
advice it had a legal duty to act with reasonable care and skill. And if it provided information, 
it had a duty not to misrepresent matters.
The fact that there is no detailed evidence for the explanations the adviser gave Mr G with 
regards to the risks of a pension-linked mortgage or what alternatives were potentially 
considered, doesnt necessarily mean this didnt happen. I think given the different record 
requirements at the time and how long ago this happened, it would be unfair to assume the 
adviser didnt fulfil their duties based on the lack of sale documentation.
The adviser had to know their customer, make sure they understood the risks they were 
taking and give suitable advice. Based on the information I have of Mr Gs circumstances at 
the time I considered whether a pension-linked mortgage and/or loan facility was suitable for 
him.
Pension linked mortgages (and loans) benefit from tax-relief and tax-free growth. And any 
pension product is an important means of making provision for an income in retirement. But 
they also carry certain risks. For example, the potential for a shortfall when the capital 
repayment becomes due if investments havent performed as expected. This can be 
exacerbated when a policy holder stops making contributions. And theres a risk of possible 
future legislation changes impacting on the tax position.
These arent insignificant risks and its possible not all of this was explained to Mr G. I simply 
dont know. I dont have much evidence from the date of sale and I have to consider that the 
events complained about happened 35-40 years ago. So, Mr G not recalling something 
being discussed, doesnt mean it wasnt. I wouldnt expect him to remember everything from 
a conversation that was such a long time ago. But in any event, I dont think knowing about 
the risks would have changed Mr Gs mind. I say this for the following reasons.
Mr G was a solicitor, having started in this profession in 1966, later becoming a partner in a 
large legal aid firm. So, although he wasnt a pensions or investment professional, I think he 
was equipped to ensure there was rigour during the sales processes and that its more likely 
than not he gained a reasonable understanding of what was happening in the transactions.
Mr G was in his 40s and 50s when he took out his pension plans. While it seems he was 
initially targeting retirement at 60, most of his policies were planned to mature when he was 
65. So he had a reasonable period to build up funds. And theres no evidence to show that 
he had other substantial means to support an income in retirement.
Mr G built a portfolio of investments as well as investing in his legal practice. He had a 
financial interest in several properties and a stake in his firm. His finances and commitments 
appear to have been fluid with various pension plans being utilised against different loans 
and mortgages at different times, with several different banks and credit providers.
Mr G wanted to access funding, perhaps for his investments and for his then growing firm. It 
seems he also wanted to provide for an income in retirement. I cant say that the pension 
plans he took out were inherently unsuitable. They provided potential tax advantages. And 
apparently flexibility in how the proceeds could be utilised.
I think Mr G was likely to use an interest-only facility for his borrowing to maximise his 
headroom. I dont know whether other types of mortgages were discussed with him. But 
given his background and the property investments hed been making, its more likely than not hed have understood the difference between an interest-only loan and a repayment 
mortgage. So I think he wouldve understood the risks of an interest-only facility.
I think its more likely than not Mr G wouldve been provided with illustrations for his pension 
plans which showed the prospect of healthy investment returns. At the time such projections 
seemed generally achievable. 
I note Mr G was active in moving his pension provision between different funds. I dont know 
whether or not he received advice from a financial adviser, but theres no suggestion Zurich 
was involved in providing such. From the notes on file it seems more likely than not Mr G 
understood that different funds held the prospects of different returns at different times and 
came with different risk levels. He gave instructions and these were acted on.
For all the reasons mentioned above, given Mr Gs particular circumstances at the time, I 
dont think pension linked mortgages and/or loans were inherently unsuitable in this case.
By the late 1980s and with the downturn in the financial markets Mr G found himself in 
financial difficulties, at which point he entered into an Individual Voluntary Agreement (IVA) 
to manage his debt. The administrator of his IVA referred to his arrangements as unusually 
complicated as a result of the nature of his business affairs. 
And at the time, Mr G noted that he had found himself in financial difficulties due to heavy 
gearing, high interest rates and the fall in the value of his securities.
I note these later events didnt lead Mr G to complain about the pension plans he taken out. 
They proved to be a useful asset to help him meet some of his debts. And in 2000 he 
decided to transfer his pensions away from Zurich to Scottish Equitable for around £603,000. 
Again during the intervening period he hasnt raised a complaint. 
Zurich didnt raise a time bar argument with this Service, consenting for us to consider his 
case. 
Zurich also didnt raise a challenge as to whether Mr G was an eligible complainant. The 
main loan to him was made in 1982. Zurichs observations about this are on file (bolding is 
my emphasis):
We do have some information, for instance we know he was borrowing £220,000 from 
Barclays, partly for his own use and the majority for investment into his business, but in 
reality we dont have a complete picture of exactly what role which of his plans were 
supporting which mortgage, or indeed which element of an individual mortgage
There may be an argument Mr G didnt meet the criteria of being an eligible complainant, at 
least as a consumer. Thats because he needs to have been an individual acting for 
purposes which were wholly or mainly outside his trade, business, craft or profession.
However, Zurich has already confirmed its unable to unpick how Mr Gs pension plans 
related to the various loans and interests he had. It has made no challenge on this matter. 
And given my conclusions of the merits of his case, I see no benefit to either party in adding 
further time and cost to this case with deliberations about the jurisdiction of his complaint on 
this occasion.
On balance, having reviewed all the information available to me, LRP hasnt done enough to 
satisfy me the pension policies Mr G took out between 1979 and 1986 shouldve been 
considered inappropriate at the time given the relevant law and industry best practice. Theres insufficient evidence from the time of the events complained about for me to 
reasonably uphold Mr Gs complaint against Zurich.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman