DRN-3514311
The complaint
Mr W says Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as Everyday Loans, irresponsibly lent to
him.
What happened
This complaint is about a 24-month instalment loan for £1,500 that ELL provided to
Mr W on 5 July 2021. The monthly repayments were £156.01 and the total repayable
was £3,744.24.
Mr W says he had other overdue unpaid debts at the time and ELL was wrong to lend to
him.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint saying ELLs checks were proportionate and
didnt show anything which meant it shouldnt have given the loan. Mr W disagreed and 
asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint was passed to me.
I reached a different conclusion, so I issued a provisional decision. An extract follows and 
forms part of this final decision. I asked both parties to send any comments or new evidence 
by 2 June 2022.
Extract from my provisional decision
ELL has provided evidence to show that before lending it asked for some information
from Mr W. It asked for his monthly income and checked this against a recent payslip. It
estimated his living costs using national averages and added a buffer. It carried out a credit
check to understand his credit history and his existing credit commitments. It reviewed a
recent bank statement to check other credit commitments. It asked about the purpose of the
loan which was for a wedding/birthdays. Based on these checks ELL thought it was fair to
lend.
I think these checks were proportionate, but I dont think ELL made a fair lending
decision based on the information it gathered. Ill explain why.
ELL could see from its checks that Mr W had a significant amount of adverse data on his
credit file. He had defaulted on ten accounts. I accept that a number of these were historic
but four were from 2020, and three of these hadnt been settled. Three of the older defaults
were still being repaid too. He was also in arrears on one of his active accounts  and had
been for most of the previous 12 months. So I dont think it was fair to conclude Mr Ws
financial position was wholly stable at the time.
Mr W had told ELL that he had defaulted on so many accounts previously due to gambling
problems. It could see from his bank statements that there were still some gambling
transactions. To be clear, given the low frequency and value, I am not saying this activity in
itself was a reason to decline the application. But ELL needed to give this information due
regard given what Mr W had told it about the cause of his previous financial problems.
In addition, approving this loan meant Mr W would then need to spend an increased and
significant proportion of his income on servicing his debt.
So, in the round, I dont find ELLs decision was borrower-focused. Given the circumstances
set out above, I think ELL ought to have realised there was a risk Mr W would be unable to
repay this loan sustainably over the two-year term of the loan  he was already failing to
meet one of his current commitments. And ELL needed to consider the likely impact on
Mr W over the loan term to meet its regulatory obligations, not just the pounds and pence
affordability.
It follows I think ELL was wrong to give this loan to Mr W.
Ive also thought about whether ELL acted unfairly in some other way and I havent
seen any evidence that it did.
I then set out what ELL would need to do to put things right if I went on to uphold Mr Ws 
complaint.
Neither party responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
As neither party sent in any comments or new evidence for me to consider I have no reason 
to change the findings or outcome I set out in my provisional decision.
For the reasons set out above I find ELL was wrong to lend to Mr W.
Putting things right  what ELL needs to do
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr W to repay the capital amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid extra for lending that should
not have been provided to him so ELL needs to put that right.
It should:
refund all interest and charges Mr W paid on the loan;
if reworking Mr Ls loan account results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then ELL should refund these overpayments with
8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments
would have arisen, to the date of settlement*;
if reworking Mr Ls account results in there still be a capital balance outstanding ELL
should work with Mr L to agree an affordable repayment plan; and
remove any negative information about the loan from Mr Ws credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to take off tax from this interest. ELL must give Mr W a
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ws complaint. Everyday Lending Limited, trading as Everyday Loans, 
must put things right as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman