DRN-3839157
The Complaint
Mrs and Mr M are unhappy with the sale of a holiday product they purchased on 
27 September 2001 (the Time of Sale). They also say that the credit agreement they 
entered into with GE Money Consumer Lending Limited (GE Money) wasnt subject to the 
right checks and was unenforceable because the business that arranged the credit 
agreement wasnt authorised to broker credit.
Background to the Complaint
Mrs and Mr M say that they purchased a holiday product from a third party (the Supplier) at 
the Time of Sale (the Purchase). And they say that they used a loan from GE Money to help 
finance that purchase.
In February 2021, Mrs and Mr M wrote to GE Money to raise their concerns about the 
lawfulness of the loan in question on the basis that they couldnt be sure that the credit 
broker that arranged the loan was authorised to do so (the Letter of Concern). It doesnt 
look like they got a substantive response to that Letter. So, they referred a complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service using a professional representative (PR). But when PR did 
that, in addition to complaining about how the loan was arranged, it expanded the scope of 
the complaint to include claims for misrepresentation and an unfair relationship under 
Sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) as well as complaints 
about various breaches of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (the Letter of Complaint).
The complaint was then looked at by an investigator who concluded:
1. That there wasnt any evidence that a loan from GE Money in Mrs and/or Mr Ms name 
was used to finance the purchase in question.
2. Even if there was such evidence, the claims for misrepresentation and an unfair 
relationship were out of time under the Limitation Act 1980 (the LA).
PR  on behalf of Mrs and Mr M disagreed  because it argued, in summary, that the time 
limits to make their CCA claims could be extended under Sections 8 and 32 of the LA. PR 
also argued that the investigator should have considered whether Mrs and Mr M had been 
entered into a collective investment scheme. And PR also provided two letters from 
GE Money dated 9 October 2008 and 11 December that year that it says prove that they 
were making payments to GE Money in relation to the relevant holiday product purchase.
However, as an informal resolution couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me for 
a decision. I issued a Provisional Decision (my First PD) in August 2022 that dealt with 
Mrs and Mr Ms complaint about the enforceability of the credit agreement that they 
appeared to have entered into with GE Money (the Credit Agreement). And, at that stage, 
I thought that the Financial Ombudsman Service didnt have the jurisdiction to consider a 
complaint about that allegation because there wasnt any evidence linking GE Money to the 
Purchase despite the letters PR had provided in response to the investigators assessment.
GE Money didnt provide a substantive response. But PR  on behalf of Mrs and Mr M  
disagreed and, in summary, it gave the following reasons for doing so:
Case law should weigh me away from adopting an overly technical assessment that 
offers up lines of defence that arent relied on by GE Money.
I failed to consider the impact created by Section 14A of the LA  which concerns a claim 
in negligence. Mrs and Mr M rely on Section 32(1)(b) of the LA.
The only finance Mrs and Mr M have ever taken from GE Money was to pay for the 
Purchase.
GE Moneys failure to disclose anything in response to Mrs and Mr Ms Subject Access 
Request amounts to an exceptional circumstance that explains why their CCA claims 
were only made when they were.
The complaint was then passed back to me to consider it further. And having done that, I 
added to what I said in my First PD (my Second PD). 
I recognised, as I did in my First PD, that Mrs and Mr M had borrowed money from 
GE Money under a regulated credit agreement (the Credit Agreement). The settlement 
figure given to them on 9 October 2008 demonstrates as much. I still hadnt seen anything 
linking the Credit Agreement to the Purchase as neither that Agreement nor the purchase 
agreement had been provided by Mrs and Mr M. But PR said that the only money they had 
ever borrowed from GE Money was used to finance the Purchase. So, with that being the 
case, and in the absence of evidence to the contrary, I accepted that they are eligible to 
complain about matters related to the Credit Agreement insofar as they concern the 
Purchase.
As I also said in my First PD, the only complaint Mrs and Mr M made to GE Money before 
referring an expanded complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service was about the Credit 
Agreement being unenforceable due to the status of the credit broker. So, I made the point 
that the Service couldnt usually consider a complaint that addresses the merits of claims for 
misrepresentation and an unfair relationship if such a complaint hadnt been made to 
GE Money first.But I noted that, shortly after this complaint was first set up by this Service, the Letter of 
Complaint was shared with GE Money. In an email on 17 August 2021, GE Money said that 
it would look at Mrs and Mr Ms concerns if they could provide certain information. And as 
GE Money hadnt objected to the Financial Ombudsman Service considering this complaint 
as a whole, thats what I did on this occasion in the interests of pragmatism given its age.
On my reading of what Mrs and Mr M and PR had said so far, their concerns fell into four 
broad categories:
A. The Credit Agreement had been arranged by DRI because it was listed on the 
contract. And in the absence of evidence to suggest otherwise, DRI wasnt authorised 
to make such an arrangement in breach of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 
(the FSMA)  specifically the General Prohibition in Section 19, which states that no 
person may carry on a regulated activity in the United Kingdom, or purport to do so, 
unless he is an authorised or exempt person.
B. Various acts and/or omissions by GE Money at the Time of Sale in breach of the FCAs 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC)  which includes failing to undertake a 
reasonable assessment of Mrs and Mr Ms creditworthiness.
C. Misrepresentations by the Supplier under Section 75 of the CCA.
D. A claim under Section 140A of the CCA because the relationship between Mrs and Mr M 
and GE Money was unfair.
But as I had said in my First PD, the Financial Ombudsman Service isnt free to deal with 
every complaint it receives. And as things stood, I thought:
1. There was a limit to what the Service could consider when dealing with the merits of a 
complaint about category A above. But for reasons I got on to, I wasnt persuaded that 
the allegation had the merit to succeed anyway.
2. The Services jurisdiction doesnt permit it to consider the merits of complaints about 
categories B and C; and
3. The Service could consider the merits of a complaint about category D. But as the claim 
is likely to be out of time under the LA, GE Money had and has a defence to it anyway.
GE Money didnt respond substantively to my Second PD. PR made the following 
acknowledgement before explaining why it disagreed with what I had to say about 
Mrs and Mr Ms Section 140A claim:
The matter has now distilled down to one of limitation and the application of the
Limitation Act 1980. You have found, that despite what GEM say, that the section 140A
complaint raised by our clients does fall within the ambit of your jurisdiction, albeit you
are not minded to find in our clients favour in that regard.
In summary, PR says that:
Mrs and Mr M were/are asking me to declare the arrangements complained of unlawful 
 such that their Section 140A claim engages Section 8 of the LA. 
Mrs and Mr M have provided first-hand confirmation that they werent aware of the 
complaints now being made as part of this complaint  having not been informed of the 
disadvantageous parts of their membership. So, the negative parts of membership were 
concealed by the Supplier.
Each and every annual management charge creates a fresh right of action by 
Mrs and Mr M in relation to their claim for an unfair relationship between them and 
GE Money.The test for diligence under the LA is that of a reasonable person. Mrs and Mr M are 
laypeople who cant be expected to be on notice about issues that they werent told 
about.
Mrs and Mr M rely on Section 32(1)(b) of the LA in relation to the deliberate concealment 
of the Supplier.
Mrs and Mr M rely on the exceptional circumstances doctrine.
As the deadline for responses to my Second PD has now been and gone, the complaint was 
passed back to me. As Ive already dealt with the Financial Ombudsman Services 
jurisdiction in a separate Decision, this Final Decision focuses on the relevant merits of 
Mrs and Mr Ms complaint.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done that, I still dont think this complaint should be upheld insofar as it relates to 
the relevant merits.
Was the Credit Agreement enforceable?
As Ive said before, even if it could be shown that the Credit Agreement was unenforceable, 
there is a limit to what I can consider here. But, for the reasons I set out below, Im still not
persuaded it was unenforceable anyway.
When Mrs and Mr M sent GE Money the Letter of Concern, they said that they had looked at
their original documentation and couldnt see which entity had brokered the Credit 
Agreement they entered into. Yet, in the Letter of Complaint, PR said that the Agreement 
had been arranged by DRI because it was listed on the contract.
But in light of everything thats been said and/or provided, Im still not persuaded that this 
allegation has enough merit to succeed when:
1. Mrs and Mr M and PR still havent provided a copy of the relevant purchase agreement 
or the Credit Agreement to demonstrate that it was DRI that arranged the latter and clear 
up the inconsistencies between the Letter of Concern and Letter of Complaint that 
undermine the allegation.
2. Even if it was DRI that arranged the Credit Agreement, PR still hasnt provided any
evidence to support the assertion that it wasnt entitled to do so.
3. Section 19 of the FSMA didnt come into force until 1 December 2001, which postdates
the Time of Sale. And as PR still hasnt explained why, with that being the case, the
arrangement of the Credit Agreement had to be carried out by an authorised person in
keeping with that provision, I cant see how it applies to this complaint.
Section 140A: Unfair Relationship
Only a court has the power to decide whether the relationship between Mrs and Mr M and
GE Money was unfair for the purpose of Section 140A. But, as its relevant law, I do have to
consider it if it applies to the Credit Agreement  which it does.But as its clear from a letter from Mr M to GE Money on 19 October 2008 that he and Mrs M 
had settled the Credit Agreement that month, it ended more than six years before this claim 
could be said to have been made. And as the provisions under the LA also apply to claims 
under Section 140A, Ive considered whether such a claim under that provision was likely to 
have been out of time.
It was held in Patel v Patel [2009] that the time for limitation purposes ran from the date the
credit agreement ended if it wasnt in place at the time the claim was made. And as the
limitation period is six years, I still think GE Money was and is entitled to rely on the LA as a
defence to the claim under Section 140A given its timing. 
Grounds to Extend Time
On my reading of the LA, it provides for time to be extended in certain circumstances. But 
given the facts of this complaint, it doesnt do that simply because Mrs and Mr M didnt know 
that they could make their Section 140A claim against GE Money. 
I know PR says that Section 14A of the LA gives Mrs and Mr M more time. But in the
absence of any persuasive evidence that there existed a duty of care or that advice was
provided at the Time of Sale that could give rise to a claim under that provision, Im still not
persuaded it applies here.
As for the suggestion by PR that theres an exceptional circumstances doctrine that can be 
applied to Mrs and Mr Ms Section 140A claim, the finding that their claim is likely to be out 
of time under the LA is not to be confused with the FCAs six and three-year rule  which is 
one of the rules that determines the Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction and permits 
the Service to consider exceptional circumstances when deciding whether or not it can 
consider a complaint.
PR suggests that every time the Supplier invoiced Mrs and Mr M for their annual 
management charge, they were given a fresh right of action. However, as explained above, 
its the fairness of the relationship between Mrs and Mr M and GE Money that is in issue. So, 
the limitation period runs from the end of that relationship. And I dont think the fact that 
annual management charges may have been charged after the relevant relationship ended 
means the limitation period could/can be postponed or extended. 
PR repeats the point that Section 32 of the LA applies here  referring, specifically, to 
Section 32(1)(b) in response to my Second PD. But its still the case that neither it nor 
Mrs and Mr M have provided any persuasive evidence of any fraud, concealment or mistake. 
So, based on what Ive seen, Im still not persuaded that they can rely on Section 32 to 
extend the time limit under the LA given the facts and circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my Second PD, PR also repeats the point that Section 8 of the LA applies. 
But as Ive said before, its clear in this case that the relief sought by Mrs and Mr M was a 
refund. After all, the Letter of Complaint said the following:
Relief Sought
Our clients ask that this complaint be investigated on the basis that GEM should be 
providing restitution of any sums paid to them by our clients given the circumstances 
described above and given that our clients discharged the loan in full in 2008.
I acknowledge that the Letter of Complaint also said: In addition, our clients seek a finding 
that the monies paid by them to GEM were paid pursuant to an unlawful arrangement and/or 
GEM were in breach of their regulatory obligations as regards the provision of the loan.But this is what Section 8 of the LA says:
(1) An action upon a specialty shall not be brought after the expiration of twelve years 
from the date on which the cause of action accrued.
(2)Subsection (1) above shall not affect any action for which a shorter period of 
limitation is prescribed by any other provision of this Act.
[my emphasis added]
And even if PR is right about Section 8 of the LA (and I dont think it is), Mrs and Mr Ms 
Section 140A claim wasnt made until 2021  which was more than 12 years after the Credit 
Agreement ended anyway.
So, having considered the reasons why a claim under Section 140A was made and why PR 
thinks the time limit to make such a claim should be extended, Im still not persuaded that 
theres a reason why it should be, in keeping with the provisions of the LA. And with that 
being the case, I see no reason to ask GE Money to do anything further in relation to this 
claim.
Conclusion
Ultimately, its for the courts to decide whether or not the relevant claim against the Supplier
or GE Money has expired under the LA. But, as far as I can see from the information 
available, a claim for an unfair relationship that might exist against GE Money is likely
to have been made outside the time limit set out in the LA. And given what Ive said about 
the enforceability of the Credit Agreement, Im still not persuaded that GE Money needs to 
do anything to put things right in this complaint.
My Final Decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint as far as the relevant merits of it 
are concerned.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Morgan Rees
Ombudsman