The complaint
This complaints about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mr and Mrs O say National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold them the PPI.
What happened
Mr and Mrs O arranged a mortgage through NatWest. At the same time, NatWest sold them 
a PPI policy designed to protect their monthly repayments if Mr O was unable to work due to 
disability. The PPI also included accidental death cover.
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. Mr and Mrs O disagreed, so the case 
was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Os case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr and Mrs O allege they were pressured into taking the PPI. From what Ive seen,
the evidence doesnt show they were put under undue pressure.
NatWest should have made it clear to Mr and Mrs O that the PPI was separate to the
mortgage and was optional. It should also have got their agreement for it be added.
Looking at their signed mortgage application form and the separate PPI direct debit
form they signed, I believe it did those things. Its not surprising, given how long ago
the sale took place, if Mr and Mrs O dont remember that now.
I dont think NatWest recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs O, so it didnt have to
check if it was right for them. But it did have to make sure Mr and Mrs O got the
information they needed to decide if it was right for them.
Its possible the information NatWest gave Mr and Mrs O about the PPI wasnt as
clear as it should have been. But they chose to take out the PPI  so it looks like they
wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time
it doesnt look like they were affected by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI
cover. So, it would have been useful for them. It also looks like the PPI was
affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put them off
taking out the cover.
DRN-1622587Ive thought about the other provisions Mr and Mrs O say they had in place that they could 
have relied on instead of the PPI if Mr O was off work. But the PPI would have paid out 
despite those other means and would have allowed them to put them towards covering their 
other living costs. 
Given that Mr and Mrs O were entering into significant and long-term borrowing that was 
secured against their home, I think theyd have valued the additional security the PPI 
provided.  
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs O paid on their PPI  and whether 
NatWest treated them unfairly. 
NatWests told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Os PPI was less than half of what 
they paid for each premium. Weve looked at how NatWests been working this out and, 
based on what weve seen, it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Os commission was less than 
half the cost of the PPI. 
As thats the case, I dont think NatWest needed to tell Mr and Mrs O about the commission 
 so I dont think it treated them unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay Mr and Mrs O
back any of the commission they paid for the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 April 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman