DRN-3015388
The complaint
Mr H complains about the exit fees charged by Redmayne-Bentley LLP (RB) and the way 
its handled matters related to the termination of an agreement with one of its advisers.
What happened
RB had a franchise agreement with an adviser (the adviser). Mr H, under an execution only 
contract, had been its client since 1997. On 14 April 2020 RB terminated the advisers 
agreement and notified clients of this on the same day. RB told relevant clients which 
included Mr H, that if they wanted to move to the advisers new firm, if they held stock in its 
nominee account and/or an ISA, its standard transfer out charges (exit fees) would apply. 
These fees were £15 per line of stock with a maximum of £195 per account. ISAs had an 
additional transfer out charge of £60 plus VAT.
Mr H decided to transfer his account to the adviser and complained about the exit fees. He 
was also unhappy about the way RB handled the departure of the adviser. 
RB rejected the complaint. In its final response letter to Mr H and its submissions to this 
service, it said that because of the circumstances of the advisers departure, it didnt have 
time to notify clients any earlier. And it was satisfied the way this was communicated to 
Mr H, was appropriate. In terms of the exit fees, RB said it wasnt able to provide the original 
agreement but noted its process wouldve been to provide new clients with a copy of its 
terms and conditions (now terms of business) including a Schedule of Charges. It noted 
any significant changes since that time (1997) wouldve been communicated by letter 
originally but as electronic and digital communication developed, it increasingly used email.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. In brief, she thought RB had 
acted in line with its terms of business. And she was satisfied itd notified Mr H about the 
advisers departure as soon as it was practical to do so. 
Mr H disagreed. He said the lack of original documents was evidence that the fees now 
being charged, werent part of the agreement. And the adviser has told him, that he (the 
adviser) didnt recall these fees being part of the original agreement.
Following further correspondence with RB the investigator updated Mr H. Our investigator 
forwarded to Mr H various communications from RB, which it said would have been sent to 
its clients over the years. This included a 2013 newsletter which referred to changes made to 
its exit fees. Mr H said the documents made several references to needing to write to RB for 
its terms, or to research its website for these, he didnt think this was reasonable. He said his 
clear preference was to have communications sent to him by post. And he considered the 
2013 newsletter indicated the exit fees were introduced later than his agreement with RB. As 
no agreement could be reached, the matter has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. Before I explain my reasoning, I 
understand that Mr H has raised a number of points during his contact with this service. 
Although I may not mention every point he's raised, Ive considered everything Mr H has 
said but limited my findings to the areas which impact on the outcome of the case. 
As neither RB nor Mr H can provide a copy of the original agreement, I cant say for certain 
that he was shown the details of the exit fees. I should note at this point that Mr H would 
have only started the ISA in 1999 because this is when this product was introduced. 
Nonetheless, Ive nothing from this time to show if Mr H was told about the relevant fees. 
I know Mr H says he doesnt recall being told about the exit fees but Im mindful that he is 
recalling facts that happened more than 20 years ago. So, I need to decide, on balance, 
what was more likely than not to have happened based on the evidence I do have.
The RB Quarterly Newsletter from 2013 says under Changes to our Terms and Conditions 
that the change made for the withdrawal of assets from our nominee service will increase 
from £10.00 to £15.00 per line of stock, up to a maximum of £200.00. As this newsletter 
wasnt addressed specifically to Mr H, I cant be sure that he did receive it. But this does 
show that the exit fee was part of the RB agreement prior to 2013. Further, I can see that 
from at least 2011, Mr H was sent letters where RB makes reference to its charges and 
points to where more information about these could be found. For example, statements in 
each new tax year from 2011 to 2017 also contained an ISA application form. This form 
contained the following declaration: 
This is our standard agreement for the Redmayne-Bentley ISA, upon which we intend to 
rely. For your own benefit and protection you should read the ISA Supplementary Terms and 
Conditions detailed in our ISA Brochure carefully together with Redmayne-Bentley's Terms 
and Conditions and Guide to Services and Charges before signing this form.
I also see in its Terms of Business RB say: 9.1 We will charge fees and commissions in 
accordance with our published rates detailed in the appropriate Schedule of Charges and 
Ancillary Charges, available at www.redmayne.co.uk/terms or in hard copy on request. And 
that: 24.2 Should you choose to close your ISA, we will return your monies after deduction 
of fees and expenses.
The Ancillary Charges document which can be found on RBs website and which can be 
sent to clients upon request, sets out the level of fees that are currently applicable.
I think the information about the charges that apply to Mr H if he decides to transfer out his 
investments, are clear, fair and not misleading. And I think he has been notified on several 
occasions during his time with RB about where he can find the full list of charges and fees. 
All in all, I dont think theres sufficient evidence to show that RB are behaving unreasonably 
or unfairly towards Mr H by charging him the exit fees.
Mr H says that he shouldve been sent information about the fees by post. I can see that the 
letters referred to above were sent to him this way. But I note he did register an email 
address with RB. So, even if RB did send some information by email, I dont think this was 
unreasonable. I think Mr H was encouraged in the communications sent to him by RB  
whether by post or by email  to check the fees that applied to his investments. He was told 
that these formed part of his agreement with the business. I also think if Mr H didnt want to 
check RBs website, he did have the option to ask RB for hard copies of the information if 
this was his preference.Mr H has said the adviser who left RB, has confirmed the exit fees didnt apply from the 
outset of the agreement. But Im mindful the adviser hasnt provided any direct evidence to 
our service and he is clearly in some sort of dispute with RB. From what I can see the fees 
that applied to Mr Hs account were highlighted to him. These may have changed over the 
years, but I think he, along with other clients, are likely to have been told about these 
changes by post or by email such as in the newsletters and updates sent to him over the 
years.
I note that RB says its fees are lower than many of its competitors and are designed to cover 
its costs when making a transfer out of investments. I also note what Mr H says about the 
enormity of the fees that RB are charging. But that is a commercial decision and not 
something on which I would seek to interfere. I appreciate Mr H has decided to transfer his 
investments to the adviser who has moved to a different business. So I cant fairly say RB 
has done anything wrong when it says its transfer out fees will apply.
I think RB has provided reasonable explanations as to why the adviser no longer works for 
its business and the reasons for the short notice to its clients. I cant say RB have acted 
unreasonably here as they did let Mr H know along with all other clients of the advisers 
departure as soon as it was reasonably practicable to do so. I appreciate Mr H doesnt think 
RB has acted appropriately regarding the termination of the advisers contract but this is a 
matter for RB and the adviser. I dont think this caused Mr H any detriment as RB did say it 
would continue to provide services to him if this was something he still wanted.
Mr H considers RB is in breach of several of the regulators principles such as its duty to treat 
customers fairly. But from the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that RB have acted 
reasonably and fairly in Mr Hs case.
For all these reasons, Im not upholding the complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman