DRN-4003334
The complaint
Mr H complains about the advice given by Co-operative Insurance Society Limited (CIS). This 
advice was to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension 
scheme to a Section 32 buy out plan (S32 plan). He says the advice was unsuitable for him 
and believes this has caused a financial loss.
The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (Royal London) is now responsible for 
the policy and the advice given.  
What happened
Mr H met with an adviser from CIS in 1992 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. 
CIS did gather some information about Mr Hs circumstances and objectives, although I cant 
see that it completed a full fact find, or similar information gathering exercise. But I do know 
that at the time of sale Mr H was employed and earning between £10,000 and £15,000 a 
year, he had one dependent child and I understand he was married. He and his partner had 
a mortgage against the house they lived in. As far as I can see CIS didnt assess Mr Hs 
attitude to risk. 
In December 1992, CIS advised Mr H to transfer his DB pension benefits into the S32 plan 
and invest the proceeds in its with profits fund. Mr H transferred £10,437.71 from his DB 
scheme in December 1992 to a CIS personal pension.
Mr H complained in 2021 to Royal London about the suitability of the transfer advice. His 
representative said that: 
Any fact finding that was done was poor, or didnt happen at all. Therefore, CIS did 
not have full knowledge of Mr Hs circumstances.
CIS did not properly establish his attitude to risk or any reasons for the transfer. 
CIS did not discuss the risks of the DB transfer, or the investment risks of the S32 
plan. 
It also didnt explain the fees and charges Mr H would pay in the personal pension. 
Royal London didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. It said that it had contacted him about the 
personal pension review in 1999. But he hadnt responded to this and so the sale was not 
reviewed. It said the time to perform a personal pension review had now passed. And so 
Royal London didnt think it should look at the transfer of Mr Hs pension.  
Mr H referred his complaint to our service. Royal London said that the Financial 
Ombudsman shouldnt consider this complaint as Mr H had brought it too late. An 
ombudsman has considered the jurisdiction of this complaint and decided that it wasnt 
brought outside of the time limits the Financial Ombudsman must work under. And it is a 
complaint that the Financial Ombudsman can consider. I wont revisit this Ombudsmans 
decision about our jurisdiction. I agree this complaint is within the Financial Ombudsman 
Services jurisdiction for the reasons already given. 
An Investigator went on to consider the merits of the complaint and upheld it. She 
recommended that Royal London pay compensation. She said that, in respect of the 
personal pension review, Royal London had said that if it had reviewed the sale it would 
have conceded liability. And it would have assessed if he had suffered a loss. So, it should 
do this now. 
Royal London has only been able to provide very limited information about the DB transfer 
sale. And this information doesnt demonstrate that the sale was suitable for Mr H. So, it 
shouldnt have advised him to transfer. 
Royal London disagreed, saying that it was likely that Mr H would have received the review 
letters and so it was right that it hadnt conduced a review. It didnt think the transfer was 
unsuitable for Mr H at the time. 
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The advice was provided by CIS in 1992. At this time it was a member of the Life Assurance 
and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation (LAUTRO). 
The LAUTRO rules included a Code of Conduct at Schedule 2 to the rules. This required 
advisers to exercise due skill, care and diligence and deal fairly with investors. Paragraph 
6 of the Code of Conduct required advisers to give best advice, which included that they 
should not:
Make inaccurate or unfair criticisms of other investments, or of any occupational or 
state pension; or
Advise the investor to convert, cancel or allow to lapse any investment contract, 
occupational or state pension, unless they genuinely believed it to be in the 
consumers best interest and clearly disclosed all relevant consequences and 
disadvantages.
Paragraph 8 required an adviser to consider the investors financial position generally and to 
all other relevant circumstances - which included their rights under occupational and state 
pensions. It required them to recommend the contract from within the provider or marketing 
groups range which was most suited to the investor.
Ive considered the advice given to Mr H with this in mind.
Personal pension review and jurisdictionI can see that Royal London did write to Mr H in respect of the personal pension review. An 
ombudsman has issued a decision about the jurisdiction of this complaint which found that it 
was more likely than not that Mr H didnt receive these communications. But the ombudsman 
said that if Mr H had received the communications, its likely he would have asked for his 
pension to be reviewed. As he had done for the other pensions that he had. Royal London 
has also said that if Mr Hs pension had been reviewed it would have conceded liability and 
assessed if he had suffered a loss. 
As I said above, I wont revisit the findings in the decision the ombudsman previously 
reached. But it is reasonable to say that its likely that Royal London should have already 
reviewed this complaint under the personal pension review and assessed if Mr H has 
suffered a loss. But as it hasnt done this Ive looked to see if it can be shown that the sale 
was in Mr Hs best interests. 
Financial viability 
The information from the time of sale shows that Mr H was provided with illustrations that 
demonstrate that if his S32 plan grew at 8.5% each year it would provide an annual pension 
of £10,200. If it grew at 13% a year it would provide a pension of £47,100 each year. 
This information also shows that Mr H was giving up a pension of £3,582.90 per year (and a 
spouses pension of half this). This seems to be at the time of transfer, rather than a 
projection of the benefits he would receive at his retirement date. I dont have the projected 
amounts he would have received at his retirement date. 
The advice was given during the period of the industry-wide pensions review, so the rates 
the regulator published for Financial Viability Tests are directly relevant here. But I cant see 
that CIS calculated the investment return (critical yield) required to match the occupational 
pension. 
But the upper limit the regulator gave for a Financial Viability Test of comparable growth is 
11.5% each year for 33 years to retirement in this case. And for further comparison, the 
regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 13%, the middle projection rate 10.75%, 
and the lower projection rate 8.5%.
I dont have full information about the required return to match the benefits Mr H was giving 
up, or indeed the benefits he did give up. But it is clear is thar Mr H was taking a significant 
risk here. This was his only pension outside of the state provision and it was guaranteed and 
would increase in payment. It would also provide valuable death and spouses benefits. It 
was assumed that the S32 plan would need to provide a relatively high growth rate to match 
the benefits he was giving up. Ive thought about whether it was clear he wanted to take this 
risk. 
CIS doesnt seem to have assessed Mr Hs attitude to risk at all. It recommended that he 
invest in a with profits fund which is usually regarded as having a lower risk. But the 
illustrated returns were reasonably high. So, there was a material risk that the S32 plan may 
not perform as expected, whereas the DB scheme benefits were guaranteed. 
I cant say for certain whether Mr H was likely, or unlikely, to receive benefits of a materially 
lower overall value than the occupational scheme at retirement, due to the advice. But there 
isnt enough information to say that Mr H wanted to take the risk associated with the transfer 
and so Im not persuaded that it was in his best interests that CIS advise him to do this. 
For this reason alone, a transfer out of the DB scheme probably wasnt in Mr Hs best 
interests. Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing 
overall lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
I dont think Mr H required flexibility in retirement. This is because, based on the evidence 
Ive seen, I dont think he had a genuine need to access his tax free cash earlier than the 
normal scheme retirement age and leave his funds invested until a later date. I say this 
because there isnt any evidence that this was discussed. I also cant see evidence that Mr H 
had a strong need for variable income throughout his retirement. This also doesnt seem to 
have been discussed.  
Mr H has said that the reason the transfer was recommended to him was so he could 
improve on his pension benefits. Other than that, Ive not seen any kind of rationale, or 
reasoning, behind the advice. 
I think its reasonable to say that its likely Mr H could have better met his income needs in 
retirement through the DB scheme at 65. Whilst the DB scheme benefits may not have 
entirely meet his requirements they were guaranteed, and Ive seen no persuasive reasons 
as why he needed to change this to meet any income or flexibility needs he may have had. 
Furthermore, Mr H was only 32 at the time of the advice, and based on what Ive seen he 
didnt have concrete retirement plans. As Mr H had another 32 years before he would think 
about accessing his pension, I think it was too soon to make any kind of decision about 
transferring out of the DB scheme. So, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for 
Mr H to give up his guaranteed benefits now when he didnt know what his needs in 
retirement would be. If Mr H later had reason to transfer out of his DB scheme he could have 
done so closer to retirement.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
It could have seemed attractive to Mr H to control his pension benefits. But Mr H was not an 
experienced investor, and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able 
to manage his pension funds on his own. So, I dont think that this was a genuine objective 
for Mr H  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
Ive not been made aware that the funding of his employers DB scheme was in a position 
such that Mr H should have genuinely been concerned about the security of his pension
Suitability of investments
CIS recommended that Mr H invest in a with profits fund. As Im upholding the complaint on 
the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr H, it follows that I 
dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is because Mr 
H should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the investments wouldnt 
have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the potential for a higher income through a personal pension would have 
sounded attractive to Mr H. But CIS wasnt there to just transact what Mr H might have 
thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr H needed and 
recommend what was in his best interests.Ultimately, Im not persuaded that advice given to Mr H was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr H could possibly obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this
So, I think CIS shouldve advised Mr H to remain in his DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr H would've gone ahead anyway, if CIS had 
advised him not to. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr H wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against CIS advice. I say this because Mr H was an 
inexperienced investor who probably had a lower tolerance for risk. And this pension 
accounted for the majority of Mr Hs retirement provision. So, if CIS had provided him with 
clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best 
interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that any concerns or needs Mr H may have had were so great that he 
wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he 
had sought out, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. If CIS had 
explained that Mr H could probably meet his objectives without risking his guaranteed 
pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr H would have 
insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think Royal London should compensate Mr H for the unsuitable 
advice, using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr H, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr H would have 
most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been given. 
Royal London must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement 
PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, Mr H has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried using the most recent financial assumptions in line with 
PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be 
undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification 
of Mr Hs acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Royal London should:
always calculate and offer Mr H redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr H before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr H receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr H accepts Royal Londons offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr H for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Hs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr H as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Royal London may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would 
have been taxed according to Mr Hs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 
20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require The Royal London
Mutual Insurance Society Limited to pay Mr H the compensation amount as set out in the 
steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited pays Mr H the balance.
If Mr H accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on The Royal London
Mutual Insurance Society Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr H can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr H may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman