DRN-1709462
The complaint
Ms L has complained about the way Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) has dealt with 
her during a period of financial difficulties. In particular, Ms L says that Halifax failed to 
respond to her letters, and that its treatment of her has ignored her vulnerabilities and health 
issues.
What happened
I will keep my description of the events leading up to the complaint very brief. There are 
several reasons for this. First, whats happened is set out in detail in correspondence 
between Ms L, Halifax and our investigator, and is not in dispute. Secondly, our decisions 
are published, and so I must take care not to include in this decision any information which 
might lead to Ms L being identified. Finally, after our investigator looked at what had 
happened and issued his findings, both parties accepted his conclusions on what had gone 
wrong. He made a recommendation about the steps Halifax should take to put things right  
including an offer of compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Both Halifax and Ms L agreed with what the investigator said, but Ms L thinks the 
compensation which Halifax has agreed to pay is too low. So this is really the only issue I 
need to decide, which means that I dont need to go into detail about what went wrong or 
why.
Briefly, the events giving rise to the complaint started in 2018. Ms L has a mortgage with 
Halifax and regrettably the account fell into arrears due to Ms L suffering from ill health. In 
December 2018 and January 2019 Ms L wrote to Halifax with her proposals to clear the 
arrears, but Halifax failed to respond. Halifax acknowledges that it should have considered 
Ms Ls proposals and replied to her. Halifax paid compensation of £100 for this.
Halifax also wrote to Ms L about capitalisation of arrears, and instructed a field agent to 
discuss Ms Ls circumstances with her at her home. Halifax accepts that it received 
information about Ms Ls vulnerability and health, as well as Ms Ls preference that she 
receive only written (letter or email) contact from Halifax. But Halifax nevertheless repeatedly 
told Ms L she would need to call to discuss her arrears and payment proposals.
Halifax acknowledges that it shouldnt have done this and that its actions caused trouble and 
upset to Ms L. Halifax agreed with our investigator that it would do the following:
confirm the field agent had been cancelled;
engage with Ms L in writing;
request consent from Ms L in writing to document her health condition;
remove arrears fees and charges from 7 December 2018 to date;
pay £400 in compensation (in addition to the £100 already paid).
Ms L was happy with all of the above recommendations, except the level of compensation. 
Ms L believes she should receive a substantial award of compensation. The investigator 
considered whether or not Halifax should pay anything more, but he didnt think a further 
award was warranted.
Ms L disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Shes explained that 
the current situation with Government rules regarding COVID-19 has meant that she has 
had to cease trading as a self-employed person. Ms L says that she is therefore not in a 
financial position to lightly forego the possibility of what she considers would be a more 
appropriate sum of compensation from Halifax.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said above, the only issue I need to determine is the appropriate level of compensation. 
But for the sake of completeness, I confirm that Ive reviewed everything both parties have 
said about this complaint. 
Having done so, I agree with the investigator that Halifax could, and should, have done 
better in relation to the customer service it provided to Ms L, specifically in relation to her 
vulnerability and health. I think Halifax stuck rigidly to its policy of speaking to customers to 
discuss their financial situation  when it was (or should have been) clear to Halifax that this 
wasnt appropriate in Ms Ls circumstances.
Im glad to note that Halifax has acknowledged its shortcomings and that it has put in place 
measures to ensure that future engagement with Ms L will be more appropriate to her 
circumstances.
Putting things right
Halifax has agreed to cancel the field agent, remove fees and charges from 7 December 
2018 from Ms Ls mortgage account (which will also involve removal of any interest on those 
charges) and to engage with Ms L in writing (email or letter).
Ms L is happy with this, but feels that a payment of compensation of at least £2,500 is more 
appropriate for her. Shes quoted a case study from an issue of Ombudsman News where a 
consumer was awarded £2,500. But I have to look at each case individually and decide what 
is fair and reasonable in each case  there is no scale for our compensation awards.
So on the face of it, I think the total compensation of £500 (of which £100 has already been 
paid) is fair and reasonable, and proportionate to the errors made by Halifax and the 
consequences of those mistakes. But Ive also looked at what Ms L has said about her 
current circumstances, and particularly the points Ms L made when she asked for an 
ombudsman to review her complaint. 
I do have considerable sympathy for Ms Ls position now that shes unable to carry out her 
business due to COVID-19 restrictions imposed by the Government. These are changes in 
Ms Ls circumstances that are outside the control of Ms L  or indeed of Halifax. Although I 
appreciate these restrictions have had an impact on Ms Ls finances, it wouldnt be fair for 
me to order Halifax to pay any additional compensation to Ms L over and above the amount 
the bank has already agreed to pay.
Finally, I would remind Halifax that it has a continuing obligation to Ms L to treat her 
positively and sympathetically in relation to her financial difficulties, and to engage with her in 
the way it has agreed, taking note of her vulnerabilities.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement Bank of Scotland plc 
(trading as Halifax) is required to take the following action (if it has not already done so):
disinstruct the field agent;
engage with Ms L only in writing, by letter or email;
agree to obtain Ms Ls consent to note her medical conditions on her account notes;
remove arrears fees and charges (and any interest applied) from 7 December 2018 to 
date;
in addition to the £100 compensation already paid, pay an additional £400 for trouble 
and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman