DRN-3899936
The complaint
Mr H complains that when he asked National Westminster Bank Plc if he could have 
additional lending on his mortgage, it indicated he could. Mr H said he relied on this in a 
court hearing, but then NatWest turned him down.
What happened
Mr H told us he was going through a divorce, and as part of this, he had hoped to buy his 
former partner out of the property in which he was living. Mr H spoke to NatWest about the 
additional borrowing he would need to do that, and he said it indicated this would be 
possible. Although there were issues on his credit record, Mr H had understood NatWest 
was going to make an exception for him.
Mr H told us he relied on this reassurance in court, and said he could buy his former partner
out of the property. But then NatWest said it wouldnt lend to him after all. So he then had to
go back to court to correct this, and set up a different arrangement.
Mr H also said because NatWest wouldnt make an exception, he and his family faced losing
their home. Mr H has told us he has a mental health illness, and all of this made things much
worse for him.
Mr H wanted NatWest to put in place the exceptions it had told him he could have, and allow
him to have the extra borrowing he wanted, so he could keep the house.
NatWest said it didnt have a recording of the call its representative had with Mr H, where the
mortgage was discussed. It upheld his complaint, on the basis that it was not clearly
explained to him that even if an exemption was done with the underwriters, there was no
guarantee that the additional borrowing request would be accepted. NatWest paid Mr H £75
in compensation because of this.
Our investigator thought NatWest should pay Mr H some more compensation, because he
felt NatWest had accepted the situation with further borrowing wasnt correctly explained to
Mr H. But our investigator said that a mortgage company is only bound to actually lend 
money once its made an offer. And Mr H was at a stage before this. So our investigator
didnt think NatWest had to lend to Mr H. He did think it should pay £150 to make up for the
wrong advice it had given, and for not managing Mr Hs expectations appropriately.
NatWest agreed with this, but Mr H didnt. He said £150 compensation was an insult after
everything he had been through. He said he now faced losing his home because NatWest
wouldnt lend to him.
Our investigator said that if Mr H didnt meet NatWests lending criteria, then he didnt think
we should make NatWest lend him the extra money he wanted. But we could take into
account the impact of the wrong information Mr H had been given, indicating that his
application was likely to be successful.
Mr H sent us the banks complaint response letter, and pointed to where he said NatWest
told him if there were any problems, it would sort those out. Mr H said he knew there was no
formal offer, but he said he did ask if the lending would go through and if he could rely on
that in the negotiations with his ex-partner. He said hed relied on what NatWest said, which
meant that hed unintentionally lied in court, and this caused severe mental health issues.
Mr H wanted his case to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final
decision. I then reached my first provisional decision on this case.
My first provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I only proposed to
uphold it in part. This is what I said then:
Mr H has stressed just how important it was to him to be able to get the extra borrowing
being discussed in this case. He told us he needed that, to buy out his ex-partner, so
that he and his family could continue living in their home. He said NatWests decision
might mean they lose that home. So I do understand what this means to Mr H. But Im
sorry to have to tell him that, like our investigator, I dont think its appropriate here for us
to tell NatWest to lend him the money he wants. NatWest took a decision based on its
own lending criteria not to offer Mr H the further borrowing he wanted. And I dont think
that this decision was unfair or unreasonable.
But Mr H said that hed also lost out, because NatWests representative had told him he
could count on getting this lending, any problems could be smoothed over. Mr H said
hed checked whether he could rely on this in court, and NatWest had said yes. Mr H
said he incurred very considerable additional solicitors costs, when he found out that
NatWest wouldnt lend after all, and he had to undo what hed previously said in court.
NatWest didnt say the same. It said that Mr H had already been to court and had 
agreed with his ex-partner that he would buy her out of their former home, before his
appointment with its representative.
So I asked Mr H if our service could contact his solicitor, to see if she could confirm what
he said about additional costs hed incurred due to NatWests mistake. Mr H has given
our service his solicitors contact details, and weve asked her to comment on how much
extra this cost Mr H. However, weve had no reply.
Our service does have a responsibility to be fair to both sides in a complaint and, as part
of that, I cant delay a resolution indefinitely. As weve still had no reply within the clearly
set and extended deadline, I do now think I need to provide a resolution to this
complaint. And without confirmation of what Mr H has told us, or any details of the
additional costs he said he faced, I dont think our service can fairly and reasonably ask
NatWest to contribute to his legal costs.
I do still need to take account of the impact this issue had on Mr H personally. Mr H has
set that out in detail for us, but I need to bear in mind here that, as Ive decided
NatWests decision not to lend to Mr H wasnt unfair or unreasonable, I cant hold it
responsible for the impact that decision had on Mr H. I have to separate that out from
the impact of the poor advice NatWest initially accepted it gave to Mr H.
I also need to bear in mind, however, that NatWest was aware both of Mr Hs illness,
and of the extremely difficult circumstances he found himself in. So it was particularly
important for NatWest to be both sensitive and clear in its dealings with Mr H. Although I
note NatWest now says whats in its letter doesnt reflect the recollections of the person
who spoke to Mr H about his mortgage application, I do think its likely that NatWest is atleast partly responsible for the confusion which has arisen here.
Our investigator suggested NatWest should pay £150. And I think he had understood
NatWest hadnt paid any compensation for this complaint. But it looks from the letter
NatWest sent to Mr H on 7 December 2021, as if it has paid Mr H £75 for this complaint
already.
Considering all the points Ive set out above, I think NatWest should pay a total of £250
for this complaint. But Ill allow it to count towards that any money it has already paid. So
if NatWest has already paid Mr H £75, it will need to pay a further £175 now.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision.
Both sides replied. NatWest replied to say it had nothing to add to my provisional decision.
Mr H replied to say he reluctantly accepted the offer. But Mr Hs solicitors replied, to say that
they had sent our service some information on the costs that Mr H had incurred.
I then reached my second provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a second provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I had changed 
my mind. This is what I said then: 
I know that both of the parties had effectively accepted my provisional decision. But it 
was clear that Mr H was very unhappy about this. And evidence had been submitted to 
our service on his behalf, which I unfortunately hadnt been able to review, when I 
issued my first provisional decision. I have already written to Mr Hs solicitors to say Im 
sorry that something went wrong, so this information wasnt considered by me when I 
issued the above decision.
I didnt think it would be appropriate to finalise a decision in this case without 
considering that further information. So I have now done so. And in the light of this 
further evidence now available to me, I no longer think this complaint should be upheld 
in the same way. As this is a different conclusion, Ill explain how Ive reached that view, 
and give both sides a chance to respond before I finalise my view.
The information sent by Mr Hs solicitors covers a very wide time period, and appears to 
be based on the understanding that NatWest would be responsible for fees incurred 
once the funding Mr H was hoping for, didnt come through as expected. But I explained 
to Mr Hs solicitors that the mistake Id understood NatWest made, was in telling Mr H 
that it would be able to lend him enough money to buy out his ex-partner. This was the 
information Mr H said he then shared with the court, in the short time before it was 
corrected. The mistake wasnt NatWests decision not to lend to him after all.
Mr H said the mistake was made on 12 July, when his mortgage application was 
submitted. And it was corrected on 14 July, when his application was refused. But Mr H 
said that he attended a court hearing (remotely) on the day between, and relied on what 
NatWest had said at this hearing, making a commitment to buy out his ex-partner.
Ive listened carefully to a call Mr H had with our service on 4 April 2022, when he 
referred to details of the conversation he had with the mortgage advisor, and in 
particular discussion around his previous defaults, and the need for an exception. I can 
see that Mr Hs mortgage appointment appears to have been booked on 6 July, and the 
mortgage application appointment was then held on 12 July.Given the information Mr H recalled from this meeting, about the defaults on his file and 
the need for an exception if his application was going to be successful, I think it is likely 
that this conversation happened as part of the application itself. And Mr H confirmed that 
this happened on 12 July.
Mr H told us he received reassurances that this lending would be offered, because an 
exception could be made. He set out the reassurances he was given, and he told us that 
as part of this conversation, he asked the advisor are you sure about that, because Ive 
got court tomorrow. And he said it was because of the resulting confirmation from 
NatWest, that he relied on what had been said, at a hearing the next day.
Mr H referred to a court hearing on a Friday. But 12 July 2021 was a Monday, and 14 
July was a Wednesday.
Mr Hs solicitor has sent us very detailed bills of the advice provided to Mr H. This shows 
a considerable amount of work in preparation for a hearing in early July, which did fall 
on a Friday. But this hearing was on Friday 9 July 2021. So it would not seem likely that 
Mr H could have relied on NatWests advice on 9 July, because it doesnt seem likely 
that it had been given then.
Having considered this very carefully, I am sorry to have to tell Mr H that I no longer 
think that this complaint should be upheld, and NatWest should pay him the same 
amount in compensation.
I note that although NatWest initially upheld this complaint, when it then wrote to our 
service about this, it said the letter it had sent to Mr H wasnt an accurate reflection of 
how the mortgage advisor Mr H spoke to remembered things. And, in the light of the 
detail provided by Mr Hs solicitors invoices, I now dont think that events are most likely 
to have unfolded in the way Mr H has described.
I think there may have been some confusion about the events that took place and the 
advice that was given. I do still think NatWest should pay the amount of £150 in total 
(including the £75 it had already paid) which it agreed to pay in response to our 
investigators conclusion that it hadnt managed Mr Hs expectations appropriately. But 
in the light of the additional evidence Ive now considered, I can no longer support Mr 
Hs contention that a clear undertaking was given by NatWest, that he would get this 
lending, the day before he attended a court hearing, where he relied on that advice.
I do think its unfortunate that NatWests final response letter of 7 December 2021 didnt
reflect its own internal evidence, but I think the total payment of £150 that it has already
agreed to make, provides fair and reasonable compensation for that issue.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest said it agreed with my decision, and had nothing to add.
Mr H said he didnt agree, and I hadnt taken into consideration the mental effects things 
have on people. Mr H said hed expected us to just look after the bank, and that was what he 
felt wed done. Mr H said that wed told him NatWest had no record of calls, but then in the 
next sentence wed told him we have a recording. Mr H said we didnt care about lies and additional costs he had incurred. Mr H said he would be taking this up elsewhere, because 
he felt that we had sided with the bank and not done the right thing for him and his family.
I know our service told Mr H that NatWest didnt have a record of its call with him. That 
hasnt changed, and I havent been able to listen to that call. What I did listen to, was a call 
that Mr H had with our service, where he set out when he spoke to NatWest. And it was in 
comparing the information from that call, as well as the dates NatWest held as records of its 
discussions with him, to the dates on the invoices provided by Mr Hs legal team, that I then 
concluded that it didnt seem most likely that events had unfolded in the way Mr H described.
I appreciate that the background to this case has involved an extremely difficult time in Mr 
Hs life, and Im sorry if he feels I havent taken that into account. I have sought to do so, but 
what I havent been able to do here, is to decide that something went wrong which was 
NatWests fault. And without that, I cant ask NatWest to pay to put things right. 
So Im sorry to have to tell Mr H that I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I 
originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc must pay Mr H £75 now, in addition 
to the £75 it has already paid to Mr H for this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman