DRN-3128689
The complaint
Mr and Mrs V are unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG declined a claim they made on 
their travel insurance policy.   
What happened
 Mr and Mrs V booked a holiday abroad. They were due to travel in mid-April 2020 and 
return the following month. 
They had the benefit of an annual platinum multi-trip travel insurance policy underwritten by 
URV (the policy) The policy covered the period August 2019 to August 2020.
On 16 March 2020, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but 
essential international travel to the country Mr and Mrs V were travelling to. And that country 
had announced the closing of its borders as of 16 March until 28 March 2020 (except for 
nationals who wanted to return). And on 17 March 2020 the FCO advised against all but 
essential international travel due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic.
Mr and Mrs Vs trip was cancelled on 20 March 2020. And they subsequently made a claim 
on the policy for their pre-paid costs of the trip. 
In August 2020, URV declined to cover the claim on the basis that there was no cover under 
the policy for cancelling a trip because of the impact of Covid-19. Unhappy, Mr and Mrs V 
complained to our Service.
Since bringing their complaint to our Service, Mr and Mrs V were able to recover some of 
their pre-paid expenses from a third party. But they say there is around £3,500 outstanding. 
Our investigator ultimately recommended that URV should reassess the claim outside of a 
strict interpretation of the policy terms and conditions. This was on the basis that it wouldnt 
be fair or reasonable for Mr and Mrs V to be left in a position where they had no cover for 
cancelling the trip due to a change in FCO advice but to also have no cover if theyd gone 
ahead and travelled in the event that it was possible for them to do so. 
URV disagreed so this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that our investigator identified, and set out, the relevant industry rules and 
guidance which apply to the specific circumstances of this case in her follow up view dated 
19 October 2021. 
The investigator also highlighted, and referred to, the key documents which are relevant to 
this complaint. 
The policy documentation
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) summarises the cover available. On 
page one it says:
The following summary does not contain the full policy terms and conditions of the 
contract which can be found in your policy documentation. The agreed sums insured 
are specified in your policy schedule. 
Under the are there any restrictions on cover? section of the IPID (also on page 1) it says:
Unless agreed with us there will be no cover if the FCO advise against travel to your 
destination. 
Page 12 of the policy sets out the general conditions and exclusions applying to the policy. It 
says URV wont pay for claims arising directly or indirectly from: 
Your travel to a country, specific area or event when the Travel Advice Unit of the 
Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FC) or regulatory authority in a country to/from 
which you are travelling has advised against all or all but essential travel. 
(clause 14)
Ill refer to this as the FCO exclusion.
On page 16 of the policy the section entitled: Policy A: your Pre Travel Policy sets out the 
circumstances under which pre-paid costs will be covered. These are if the trip is cancelled 
due to:
The death, bodily injury, illness, disease or complications of pregnancy of you, any 
person you are travelling or have arranged to travel with, any person you have 
arranged to stay with, your close relative, your close business associate
 
You or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with being 
quarantined, called as a witness at a Court of Law or for jury service attendance
Redundancy of you or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel 
with 
  You or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with are a 
member of the Armed Forces, Territorial Army, Police, Fire, Nursing or Ambulance 
Services or employee of a Government Department and have your/their authorised 
leave cancelled or are called up for operational reasons provided that the 
cancellation could not reasonably have been expected at the time when you 
purchased this insurance or at the time of booking any trip 
The police or other authorities requesting you to stay at or return to your home due to 
serious damage to your home caused by fire, aircraft explosion, storm, flood, 
subsidence, fallen trees, collision by road vehicles, malicious people or theft. 
Was it unreasonable for URV to decline the claim? 
I think its fair and reasonable for URV to treat the claim as covered under the cancellation 
section of the policy because: 
Mr and Mrs Vs trip was cancelled because the FCO advised against all but essential travel abroad  which included to the destination they were due to travel to. Thats 
not something thats covered under the cancellation section of the terms and 
conditions of the policy - as its not a specific or listed insured event. However, taking 
into account the relevant law and industry guidelines, I dont think that leads to a fair 
and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this case for the reasons Ill go on 
to explain. 
If Mr and Mrs V had travelled abroad (and were even able to enter the country of 
intended destination  which is doubtful) theyd have not followed FCO advice. And 
so, under the FCO exclusion Ive outlined above, they wouldnt have been covered 
by the policy terms and conditions. But, under the terms and conditions of the policy, 
if their trip was cancelled due to changes in FCO guidance, they also werent covered 
by the policy. I dont think that was made sufficiently clear to Mr and Mrs V.   
Mr and Mrs V wouldve needed to read the full policy terms and conditions and cross 
reference different sections of the policy  in conjunction with the IPID - to 
understand that this set of circumstances wasnt covered. So, I dont think that this 
information was brought to their attention in a fair, prominent and transparent way. 
Im satisfied the combined effect of the policy terms and IPID in this case means it 
wasnt made reasonably clear or obvious to a reasonable policyholder that theyd 
have no cover under the policy if they travelled against FCO advice. And nor was it 
made reasonably clear that theres no cover in place their travel plans were cancelled 
on the basis of FCO advice changing in between buying the policy and their intended 
departure date, as is what happened here.
I think this created a significant imbalance in the rights and interests of Mr and Mrs V 
and URV which is unfair in this case. I think its unlikely that Mr and Mrs V wouldve 
bought the policy had they realised that there was no cover under the policy if the 
FCO guidance changed after theyd bought it. 
Ive taken into account URVs point that the policy had a cooling off period and so Mr 
and Mrs V couldve cancelled within that period once theyd had a chance to read 
through the terms and were unhappy. However, even with a cooling-off period, I think 
a consumer might not be able to easily understand the full effect of the policy.
Putting things right
I direct URV to treat Mr and Mrs Vs claim as covered as an insured peril under the 
cancellation section of the policy. And URV should assess the claim under the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy  including (but not limited to) the financial limits of the 
policy, and any applicable excess.
My final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Vs complaint against Union Reiseversicherung AG and direct it to put 
things right in the way Ive set out above 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman