DRN-3749866
The complaint
Mrs Ks representative, a Claims Management Company (CMC), complains on her behalf 
that she was given unsuitable investment advice by Phoenix Life Limited, referred to as 
Phoenix Life or the business.   
In short, the CMC says that the funds selected for her represented more risk than she was 
prepared to take; no other savings vehicles or charges were discussed; and she did not 
need the life cover included in the policy.
What happened
In 1993, Mrs K was advised to invest in a unit-linked endowment savings plan (the plan). It 
ended in March 2003, with a value of £5,789.72. The CMC says she suffered a loss of 
£1,508.76. 
In April 2021, the CMC complained to Phoenix Life. The same month Phoenix Life rejected 
the complaint. In short, it said:
the fact find completed at the time of the sale shows that Mrs K had a shortfall in both 
life and critical illness cover (CIC), so she had wanted to review this;
the term of the policy was chosen to reflect her preferred retirement age of 55;
the crux of the complaint was about the fund choices and charges;
the policy ended over 17 years previously and it was or should have been very 
obvious to Mrs K that the policy fell short of what she was led to expect;
that would have been reasonably obvious on the basis that she received less back 
than she had paid in;
therefore, she would have had full knowledge in 2003 of the impact of the charges on 
the maturity value of her investment;
the three-year limb of the time limit applying to this service therefore ended in 2006.
Having initially refused consent, Phoenix Life subsequently consented to us considering the 
merits of this complaint but didnt accept that the investment was unsuitable. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
On balance, hes satisfied that the recommendation was suitable. 
Hes seen nothing to suggest that the features of the plan, including the charges, 
werent made clear to Mrs K within documentation provided.  
The fact find shows that savings and protection was a priority for Mrs K. She 
wanted to save money to help her when she retired but she also wanted to leave 
money for her family if anything happened to her before then. 
The policy was in line with Mrs Ks objective. In other words, she couldve taken a 
sum upon maturity, but if anything happened to her, she had life cover which meant 
her family wouldve been left with a lump sum. 
The adviser noted in the fact find, that Mrs K was shown several options but chose 
this policy as it provided both savings and life cover. 
In terms of funds, Mrs K had a balanced attitude to risk (ATR) which includes a 
broad spread of investments.  Mrs K wanted capital growth and the chosen funds 
offered investments in underlying assets which matched her ATR. 
Despite what the CMC says about the charges, no specific claim has been made 
about any detriment/loss caused. Plan documentation was provided which made 
reasonably clear the nature and operation of the policy, charges and how theyd be 
deducted.  
The CMC disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. A 
number of points were made in correspondence with the investigator. But in summary, it 
made the following key points. 
Phoenix Life regularly acknowledged the issue of the funds in question  when 
compared to a balanced risk profile  and have upheld complaints. 
Even with a combination of funds, its higher than a medium risk. 
It (the CMC) had to correct a view regarding this issue, and it was agreed that the 
funds chosen werent suitable for a balanced risk profile. The international fund not 
only had geopolitical issues, but also added problems of currency fluctuations. 
It provided a reference number for the case mentioned, in which Phoenix upheld the 
complaint because of the risk issue, which the previous investigator was unaware of. 
That case had also initially been time-barred like this one. 
Regardless of circumstances, the fund combination is unsuitable.    
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. In summary, he said. 
With complaints involving a number of funds, we wouldnt look at whether an 
individual fund matched the customers risk profile. It isnt fair to consider a fund in 
isolation. 
Instead we consider all the funds to decide whether the investments were (overall) in 
line with the investors risk profile. 
The combination of funds matched Mrs Ks risk profile, and its clear some 
investments were held in funds which had less exposure to risk.  
Having considered the case referred to by the CMC, he wasnt persuaded to change 
his mind. Phoenix confirmed that the personal circumstances in the case referred to 
by the CMC were significantly different, and thats why it was upheld. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says, Im unable to 
safely say that the recommendation was unsuitable. 
On balance, Im not persuaded that the selected funds carried more risk than Mrs K was 
prepared to take; that no other savings vehicles were selected; or that the inclusion of life 
cover was unsuitable. Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mrs Ks strength of feeling about this matter. She has provided submissions to 
support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope Mrs K 
wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in 
as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mrs K, and Phoenix Life, and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but its for me to decide, based on the available information Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I think its more likely (than not) that Mrs K was 
provided with key policy documentation that made reasonably clear the nature and operation 
of the plan, including cost and life cover. If Mrs K had an issue with the policy, she ought 
reasonably to have raised it with the adviser at the time. I note she didnt then, or in 2003, 
upon surrender. 
I note it was recorded that Mrs Ks priority was savings and protection, which suggests that 
this was something she needed and wanted. She also wasnt without investment experience 
so wouldve been broadly aware how these plans worked. I note Mrs K preferred the plan to 
other investments discussed. 
Whilst Mrs K and her husband had some life cover in place, I note it was recorded that there 
was a significant shortfall in case one of them died, so in the circumstances I cant say that 
additional life cover was unsuitable. Im also aware that Mrs K had no cover at all for critical 
illness, and she was a bit concerned about that. 
On balance, Im also satisfied that her priorities were met by the recommendation. I note she 
wanted to save money to help in retirement, but she also wanted to leave money for her 
family if anything happened to her before then  Im satisfied that the recommendation met 
her key objectives and needs for this. In the event of a valid claim  if Mrs K died or was 
diagnosed with a specified critical illness within the term of the plan  the policy wouldve 
paid out. 
Despite what the CMC says about life cover and cost, on balance, Im not persuaded that life 
cover wasnt something that Mrs K didnt want. Its likely that the cost of providing life cover 
had an impact on her investment  its generally how these plans work  but I dont think Mrs 
K ever thought she was getting life cover without having to pay for it. 
I note what the CMC says about Phoenix Life previously dealing with similar complaints, but 
every case must turn on its facts. So, by not treating this complaint in exactly the same way 
as some other cases  which I understand had different facts  doesnt mean that it has 
done anything wrong. 
The CMC will be aware that ombudsmen are not bound by the decisions of other 
ombudsmen or adjudicators. Every case is considered on its own merits. Even the tiniest 
factual difference can make a difference in outcome.
Applying the CMCs own analogy, it could be argued that this case wasnt upheld by Phoenix 
Life because the advice was generally suitable for Mrs K. I note Phoenix Life made clear the 
other cases were upheld because the facts were different. On balance, I agree with the investigator that where there are a number of funds, generally 
wed consider whether (or not) the overall investment was suitable, rather than considering 
whether or not an isolated fund was in line with an investors risk profile. I dont think thats 
unreasonable. 
Given that some of the funds had less risk exposure, broadly balancing out the overall risk, I 
cant safely say that the recommendation in this instance was unsuitable for Mrs K. In other 
words, I agree with the investigator that the investment didnt involve more risk than Mrs K 
was prepared to take in order to achieve capital growth.  
I note the CMC says that regardless of the clients circumstances the fund combination is still 
unsuitable, but on balance I dont agree. The recommendation mightve been high risk for 
the investor(s) in the cases referred to, but I dont think it was in this instance for Mrs K. 
An investors circumstances are an important part of what level of risk they were willing to 
accept. And in this instance, given Mrs Ks overall circumstances  notwithstanding what Ive 
already said about the combination of funds  I cant safely say that the recommendation 
was unsuitable for her. I note it was recorded: The funds chosen were 50% managed and 
50% international according to the clients risk assessment and for a term of 10 years, the 
minimum period of investment. 
   
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im not persuaded that Mrs K wasnt willing to 
take a risk with her investment. Im aware of the comments made by the CMC, and whilst 
she may not have had much investment experience, I dont think she was risk averse, or that 
she wanted to take a lower risk. The documentation made clear that there were no 
guarantees; she could get back less than she would put in, and her investment value was 
dependent on investment performance. On the face of it, Im satisfied that Mrs K was 
prepared to invest on this basis.
I note Mrs Ks investment temperament was assessed as Balanced which includes a 
broad spread of investments, good prospects for capital growth in the long term. This was in 
between Cautious which offers steady and dependable long term growth with a limited 
degree of unit price fluctuation and Adventurous which offers possible sharp rise and fall 
in unit price, potential for high capital return in long term.
I appreciate the investment didnt achieve the anticipated maturity value but thats not 
something I can blame the business for. I note the maturity value was down to the financial 
markets and it wasnt something that the business could predicted or control.  
With unit-linked plans the value depends on the total value of the units purchased during the 
term of the policy. The value of the units varies according to the performance of the 
investments which make up the fund. This makes returns susceptible to rises and falls with 
the value changing from day to day. I note Mrs K wasnt given any guarantees as to what 
she might get back. 
Ive seen no persuasive evidence that Mrs K didnt at the time want to invest in the plan and 
take the requisite risk. So, in this instance Im unable to safely say that the plan was 
unsuitable.
I appreciate Mrs K will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to give her 
what she wants. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman