DRN-2188441
The complaint
Mr R complains that Hastings Insurance Services Limited (Hastings) sold him a policy which 
it cancelled when he told it about a change.
What happened
Mr R bought his buildings insurance online using a comparison site. He chose a policy 
arranged by the broker, Hastings.
Mr R correctly answered no to the question asking whether building work was taking place. 
He was expecting building work in the future, so he made a note to contact Hastings nearer 
the time.
Around eight months later, when he told Hastings the work was due to start, it said the 
underwriter would no longer provide cover because the scope of work exceeded its criteria. 
Hastings cancelled the policy without charge.
Mr R was unhappy that it hadnt been made clear when he bought the policy that the building 
work would result in cancellation. He assumed it would simply be an increased premium.
Hastings explained that it didnt list all eventualities on the website because of the extent of 
information an underwriter considered when deciding what risks it would cover. But Hastings 
reassured Mr R that it wasnt the type of cancellation that hed need to declare on future 
policies. Mr R remained unhappy that he was left needing to find cover at short notice.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought that Hastings had asked the 
appropriate questions when Mr R bought the policy, and supplementary information was 
available to him for clarity. 
Mr R didnt agree. He said he correctly answered the questions on the website and made a 
note to contact Hastings when he started building work. At no point was he made aware that 
the policy could be cancelled. Mr R didnt think it was reasonable to expect the average 
consumer to make enquiries about future building work when taking out the policy, and he 
thought there was a lack of consumer protection in terms of the underwriting criteria.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr R will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill explain 
why.
The issue here is that Mr R thinks Hastings failed to ask clear and specific questions on its 
own website after his policy purchase transferred through to it from the comparison site 
during the sales process. Because of that, he bought the policy believing he could advise of 
work he knew was going to be done at a later date, but it was cancelled during the policy 
term because that work wouldnt be covered. Therefore, he couldve avoided the problem if 
Hastings had made the underwriting criteria clear from the outset.
Theres no dispute that Mr R correctly answered the question about current building work 
during the sales process. So Ive thought about whether the question was clear and specific 
such that Mr R could make an informed decision knowing he was going to undertake work 
during the policy term.
The questions posed on a comparison site help to narrow down the list of companies which 
might provide cover. Mr R knew he would be having building work done, but thats not the 
question he was asked. But I think the fact that building work was asked about shouldve 
been enough to prompt him to think that it was something that mattered. Indeed, Mr R said it 
made him think he must let Hastings know nearer the time.
Its from here that theres disagreement about the process. The comparison site narrowed 
down the choice of insurers which would offer cover if there wasnt any ongoing building 
work. But Mr R thinks Hastings shouldve helped narrow down the options further by asking 
whether there was any planned building work. I understand what hes saying but I dont 
agree. Thats because if Hastings asked about planned building work, and the answer was 
yes, then there would be too many if this, then that type scenarios. Thats more or less 
what Hastings explained to him when it said that its not possible to list every scenario or 
publish underwriter criteria.
I would only expect Hastings to bring to Mr Rs attention any particularly unusual points 
when he was looking to purchase the policy. Restricting or deciding not to cover a building 
where there is extensive building work ongoing is not unusual. As it wasnt aware of the 
planned building work, theres little Hastings couldve done in the circumstances.
Even so, Ive thought about whether Hastings did anything at all to bring this to Mr Rs 
attention and I think it did. In the policy documents, theres a relatively large green box in 
which it says:
Important
You must tell us if you intend to carry out any building work or changes to your home, for 
example, an extension, loft or garage conversion or any structural alteration, before any 
work begins.
Ive also seen that Hastings asks about changes in circumstances:
Changes in your circumstances
The terms of your policy and premium are based on the information youve given us. If 
any of it changes you should tell us by calling our customer service team
Any changes to your policy are subject to your insurers agreement and may not be 
acceptable. If a change to your policy is acceptable it may result in revised terms and/or a 
change in the premium. 
Changes we need to know about include, but are not limited to:
Your home is undergoing structural alteration, structural repair, restoration or 
renovation
Any of the information provided and recorded in your statement of insurance has 
changed.
At this point cover hadnt started, and Mr R couldve contacted Hastings to ask more about 
the statement. After all, he was aware of the planned building work and the extent to which his home would be altered. I dont think its unreasonable that an insurer would want to 
reassess its risk.
I know Mr R is unhappy that Hastings withdrew cover, leaving him to find an alternative 
policy during a busy festive period. But I dont think Hastings acted unfairly. It left cover in 
place up to the date the building work was due to start, which gave Mr R more than three 
weeks to find suitable alternative cover. I can see that Hastings didnt charge a cancellation 
fee. Before cancellation, the cover was available to Mr R so Hastings hadnt provided him 
with insurance which he couldnt claim under. The only inconvenience Ive identified is that 
he needed to take out new cover three months earlier than he wouldve done if the policy 
had run to the end of its term. I dont think Hastings actions have caused Mr R any loss, so I 
dont think theres anything it needs to resolve here.
My final point is Mr Rs concern about having to declare to other insurers that he has had a 
policy cancelled. Hastings has reassured him that this type of cancellation isnt one which is 
reported or needed by other insurers. He hadnt breached the terms of the contract  such 
as giving incorrect information or failing to pay  so the cancellation is simply a change in 
circumstances which he rightly reported and for which Hastings couldnt provide cover. 
There should be no detriment to Mr R as a result of Hastings cancelling his policy.
In summary, Mr R gave correct answers to the specific questions asked when he bought the 
insurance policy through Hastings. While it didnt ask more probing questions about whether 
there was planned building work, I think Mr R had a greater responsibility because it was 
information he knew and couldve checked proactively once he was directed to Hastings 
website. I dont think Hastings did anything wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman