DRN-3515228
The complaint
Mr F has complained Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund £2,000 for a payment he didnt 
authorise.
What happened
In November 2020 Mr F noticed a transaction he didnt recognise on his bank account. He 
complained to Barclays as he told them hed not made this payment. Despite being on a call 
for a while, he was disappointed a few days later to find that nothing had happened. 
Barclays eventually told him he wouldnt be refunded as they believed hed made the 
payment.
Mr F brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence provided by both Barclays and Mr F. He felt overall 
this showed Mr F had made the payment so he wouldnt be asking Barclays to do anything 
further.
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr F has asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Mr Fs complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks and financial institutions to refund 
customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. Other factors do apply but 
nothing specific in Mr Fs case.
The details of this case arent in dispute. Barclays evidence points to Mr F having made this 
transaction whilst Mr F has remained consistent in his discussions with us that he didnt. 
Overall, I believe that its most likely Mr F did authorise the transaction. I accept Mr Fs 
evidence that this transaction is out of character for him. This was a payment of £2,000 to 
someone Mr F hadnt paid before. Previous (and subsequent) activity doesnt show anything 
else of this nature.
I dont dispute these facts, but I need to balance these with how the transaction was carried 
out. Every aspect of the transaction shows genuine data and devices were used. The new 
payee was set up on Mr Fs account and verified by Mr Fs genuine debit card. The device 
registered to his account for mobile banking was used. The transaction came from an IP 
address that Mr F had used before (and after) this transaction. These facts strike me as too 
difficult to ignore despite the unusual aspect of the transaction and Mr Fs consistent 
statements. Mr F has confirmed his phone and his card have remained in his possession.
It is not up to me to consider why Mr F may have made a transaction he now disputes. It is 
possible hes not told our service all he knows about what was going on. There remains a 
possibility that he allowed someone else to use his device and card to make a payment and 
now wishes he hadnt.  
But in light of the evidence Ive seen Ive decided Mr F has authorised this payment. I wont 
be asking Barclays to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my decision is not to uphold Mr Fs complaint against Barclays 
Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn1
Ombudsman