DRN-4027897
The complaint
Mr F has complained that Trinity Lane Insurance Company Limited wont cover damage 
which he says was incident related when he made a claim under his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr F made a claim for damage to the rear of his car to his insurer, Trinity. 
Trinity appointed an approved repairer to carry out the incident related repairs. 
Mr F complained that Trinity didnt repair all of the incident related damage. 
Trinity didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint. So he asked us to look at his complaint. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. She found Trinity had 
acted reasonably in relying on the professional opinion of an independent assessor (IA). 
Mr F didnt agree. Hes provided photos which he says were taken a day before the incident 
and show that the damage the IA said was pre-existing wasnt there. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our role isnt to decide the outcome of a claim, but to decide whether an insurer has acted 
reasonably and in line with the policy. 
Mr Fs policy provides indemnity for incident related damage in the event of an insured 
event. 
Mr F wants Trinity to meet the costs of £900 to repair the spare wheel well and rear near 
side quarter panel.
An IA inspected Mr Fs car in relation to the disputed repairs. 
Mr F said there were errors in the IAs findings. He said his car was incorrectly described as 
a two door saloon, which is lighter in weight than his car. So the impact in reversing into a 
bollard would have been greater. The IA described the incident as a collision with a third 
party vehicle which wasnt correct. Mr F said the area of impact arrowed on the report wasnt 
exactly right. 
In response, the IA replied to Aviva with the following comments:
The vehicle was self selected on the tablet, however due to the age of the vehicle 
there were no repair options or mode selection so all costings are self inputted, does 
not affect the quoted repair cost or report.
The arrow showing the point of impact is not specific to the exact impact point but is 
there to show the area and direction of impact as on this vehicle it was hit in the rear.
The vehicle does weigh approximately 2 tons however the damage on the rear of the 
vehicle was limited to the rear bumper, a small area on the rear panel as imaged and 
a small chipped area of paint on the edge of the boot lid which was also moved out of 
alignment.
I inspected the vehicle on a second occasion at the repairers on a raised lift, with the 
repairer.
There has been no damage to the inner panels of the vehicle, no damage to the floor 
or rear chassis and no intrusion to the inside of any panel apart from the rear panel 
damage and that is very minimal.
The repairer also agreed no movement or damage present that would have damaged 
the left rear quarter panel or caused the left rear door gap to of closed up.
You would normally expect to find damage on the boot floor or rear chassis to 
support the door gap closing.
The dent on the left rear quarter is below where the rear bumper is bolted on, the 
rear bumper mounting point has not been distorted in the incident even though the 
bumper was impacted. There is no cracked or flaking paint to support the dent was 
caused in this accident.
The insured also stated that the boot floor had been damaged in the incident but this 
can clearly been seen that this has been caused by the incorrect jacking up the 
vehicle with a trolley Jack in the wrong area.
I have reviewed the images and not one shows the side of the vehicle or the area in 
question.
Whether the vehicle was hit in the rear by a Third Party or the Insured reversed into a 
post this would not alter the outcome of my decision on the alleged damage to the 
left quarter panel. This is based on my professional experience and vehicle repair 
knowledge over 42 years as a vehicle body repairer and paint sprayer and vehicle 
engineer.
As we inspect many vehicles, although we can remember the vehicle, it is not always 
possible to remember the circumstances so as this was rear damage I mentioned 
that when it was hit in the rear by the Third Party however the insured advised he 
reversed in a post which then reminded me.
So I think its clear from the IAs comments that they considered Mr Fs concerns and 
reviewed the photos he provided of his car. But in light of the IAs detailed response, I think 
Trinity acted reasonably in relying on their professional opinion when reaching a decision 
about incident related repairs. 
I understand Mr F is unhappy that witness statements he provided from fellow members of 
the car club havent been taken into account as to the condition of his car before the 
incident. But as I havent seen that Aviva has been provided with independent evidence of 
equal weight to the IA to find that their opinion is wrong, I cant safely conclude that Trinity 
has acted unreasonably. 
I understand Mr F will be disappointed. But from the information available, I think Trinity dealt 
with Mr Fs complaint in a reasonable way. So Im not asking it to pay for additional repairs.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman