DRN-3227606
The complaint
Miss C has complained that Nationwide Building Society (NW) acted irresponsibly by 
increasing her overdraft limit on two accounts when she was in financial difficulty.
What happened
Miss C had two accounts with NW. Account ending 1430 had an overdraft with a limit of 
£300. This was increased six times and eventually reached £1,000. Account ending 3779 
again had an overdraft with a limit of £300 which was increased nine times until the limit 
reached £1,000. 
Miss C complained to NW that it acted irresponsibly by allowing her to increase her overdraft 
limits on a number of occasions. She says the increase in limits was unaffordable for her and 
the charges caused her financial difficulty.  NW didnt uphold the complaint. And as Miss C 
was dis-satisfied she referred the complaint to our service.
Miss Cs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that NW ought 
to have realised that Miss C was experiencing financial difficulty on account ending 1430 
from February 2019 when the overdraft limit was increased to £1,000 and for account ending 
3779 from June 2019 when the overdraft limit was increased to £800. And so they thought 
NW shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from these point onwards. 
NW didnt respond, so the case was passed to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NW will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that NW acted unfairly 
when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after it increased Miss Cs 
overdraft limit on account ending 1430 from February 2019 and account ending 3779 from 
June 2019. By these points, it ought to have been clear that Miss C was in no position to 
sustainably repay what she owed within a reasonable period of time. 
By 2019, Miss C was hardcore borrowing. In other, words she hadnt seen or maintained a 
credit balances for an extended period of time on either of her accounts. NWs own literature 
suggests that overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency borrowing not prolonged day-to-day 
expenditure. Miss C was already clearly struggling to manage her existing overdraft limits 
with NW.when it again agreed to increase her limit on both accounts. A cursory look at her 
statements show she wasnt able to bring down the overdrafts from the limits she already 
had.
So I think that Miss Cs overdraft usage should have prompted NW to have realised that 
Miss C wasnt using her overdrafts as intended and shouldnt have continued offering them 
on the same terms. As NW didnt react to Miss Cs overdraft usage and instead continued 
charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably.
Miss C ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdrafts and this 
ended up exacerbating difficulties she already had in trying to clear them. So I think that NW 
didnt treat Miss C fairly and she lost out because of what NW did wrong. And this means 
that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Cs complaint for NW to put things right by:
Re-work Miss Cs current overdraft balance so that any additional interest, fees
and charges applied as a result of the overdraft limit increases from February 
2019 (for account ending 1430) and June 2019 (for account ending 3779) 
onwards are removed. This means that from February and June 2019 onwards 
interest can only be charged on first £500 and £400 respectively, of any 
overdrawn balance.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdrafts once these adjustments have 
been made NW should contact Miss C to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Miss Cs credit 
file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the process of 
taking corrective action on the overdraft in February and June 2019.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss C along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then NW 
should remove any adverse information from Miss Cs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires NW to take off tax from this interest. NW must give Miss 
C a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Cs complaint. Nationwide Building 
Society should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman