DRN-4091504
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mishandled his query about account 
activity he didnt recognise.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
here. In brief summary, Mr M contacted BOS in October 2022 about account activity he 
didnt recognise. Hes unhappy about how BOS then dealt with things. He couldnt reach 
agreement with BOS, so referred his complaint about BOS to us. An Investigator here 
looked into things and didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr M asked 
for an Ombudsmans decision, so the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached materially the same conclusions as our Investigator and for the 
same reasons. I dont uphold this complaint.
Mr M phoned BOS on 17 October 2022 to report an account transaction he didnt recognise. 
A recording of this call evidences the following exchange between Mr M and BOS:
BOS: Thats Now TV 
Mr M: Now what?
BOS: That is Now TV
Mr M: Now TV. Ive not got Now TV
BOS: Right, so that payment also came out on the twentieth of September. So you 
might have subscribed to some sort of subscription.
Mr M: No. No. Not for Now TV
Mr Ms and BOSs conversation continued, with BOS explaining that if Mr M didnt recognise 
the transactions, itd need to report them as fraudulent, but that Mr M might want to check 
with Now TV just in case hed accidentally accepted some terms and conditions (or 
something like that). But Mr M reiterated that he didnt have Now TV. So, BOS explained that 
it would block his card (to protect his account) and send him a new card that should take 
around five days to arrive. 
BOS processed temporary refunds of the transactions. But on receipt of information 
suggesting the transactions werent fraudulent, it re-debited such transactions from Mr Ms 
account which Im satisfied wasnt unreasonable. 
Mr M complains BOS should have given him prior notice it would be re-debiting the 
transactions from his account. However, Ive listened to a recording of a telephone 
conversation between Mr M and BOS on 27 October 2022, within which Mr M said hed 
received email from BOS yesterday (26 October 2022) saying it was going to re-debit the 
transactions. So Im satisfied BOS did give Mr M prior notice of the re-debits. 
I understand Mr M also complains that BOS should have told him at the start the 
transactions were for Now TV. I understand his point to be that if BOS had done so, he 
mightve avoided some inconvenience, including his card needing to be blocked, given he 
was able to resolve things when he later contacted Now TV directly. But, actually, thats 
exactly what BOS did tell Mr M before it blocked his card. Im satisfied from the evidence that 
BOS did tell Mr M the transactions were for Now TV before it blocked his card and it 
suggested Mr M might want to check in with Now TV to make sure he hadnt made a 
mistake. But Mr M was clear he didnt recognise them. And I dont think BOSs decision to 
therefore block his card (to protect his account) was unreasonable. And overall, it seems to 
me that BOS has simply tried its best here to help Mr M with transactions he mistakenly 
thought were fraudulent. So, I dont uphold this complaint or require BOS to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman