DRN-3224900
The complaint
Ms T complains that Advantage Finance Ltd (Advantage) irresponsibly granted her a loan 
she couldnt afford to repay. 
  
What happened
In January 2018, Ms T acquired a car and financed the deal through a hire purchase 
agreement with Advantage. Ms T was required to make 47 monthly repayments of £155.07, 
with a final payment of £330.07 which included an option to purchase fee after which Ms T 
would become the owner of the car. The total repayable under the agreement was 
£7,618.36. The car was voluntarily surrendered in May 2020 and after sale of the car a 
balance remains outstanding.
Ms T says that Advantage didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Advantage didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment. It reviewed Ms Ts credit file and took information from 
her about her personal circumstances and income and it also explained it verified this 
income prior to making a lending decision. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought Advantage ought to 
have realised the agreement wasnt affordable for Ms T.
Advantage didnt agree and said Ms Ts credit file showed her credit situation was improving. 
There was only £1,336 of credit over her active accounts and whilst there were three 
recently defaulted accounts they had zero balances. They said their approach was 
proportionate in the circumstances.
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Advantage will be familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
The credit check Advantage completed showed three accounts had been defaulted within 
the last seven months. It showed payments of £77 per month were being paid towards a 
home credit agreement and also identified a small balance on a utility account. The credit 
balances werent high, but I think the presence of recent defaults, even ones that had 
subsequently been settled, should have alerted Advantage to the potential that Ms T had 
been, and may still be, struggling financially. The credit broker had provided them with 
information to suggest Ms T was living in rented accommodation and they knew that Ms T 
was earning about £1,300 per month. It was clear that she would need to be able to afford 
food, energy, insurance, rent, council tax and some loan cost from that £1,300 as well as the 
£155.07 per month that was due on this agreement. I think that in tandem with the recent 
defaults, this ought to have prompted Advantage to have dug deeper to gain a more 
thorough understanding of Ms Ts expenditure before lending.
I cant be sure exactly what Advantage would have found out if it had asked about 
expenditure. In the absence of anything else, I think it would be reasonable to place 
significant weight on the information contained in Ms Ts bank statements as to what would 
most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed three months of bank statements leading up to the lending decision. These 
show that Ms T was paying about £2,350 towards her committed living expenditure including 
rent, council tax, food, and utility costs. Her income was higher than Advantage had 
recorded as she was in receipt of child tax credit and child benefits. In total I think Ms Ts 
income was about £2,550 and that left her with disposable income of £200 before this loan 
of £155.07 per month and any fuel and motoring expenses were taken into account. That 
demonstrates that Ms T didnt have enough disposable income to afford the additional 
borrowing. Advantage therefore didnt act fairly by approving the finance.
  
Putting things right
As I dont think Advantage ought to have approved the lending, it should therefore refund all 
the payments Ms T has made, including any deposit. However, Ms T did have use of the car 
for about 27 months, so I think its fair she pays for that use. But Im not persuaded that 
monthly repayments of over £155 a month are a fair reflection of what fair usage would be. 
This is because a proportion of those repayments went towards repaying interest.
There isnt an exact formula for working out what a fair usage should be. In deciding whats 
fair and reasonable Ive thought about the amount of interest charged on the agreement,   
Ms Ts likely overall usage of the car and what her costs to stay mobile would likely have 
been if she didnt have the car. In doing so, I think a fair amount Ms T should pay is £90 for 
each month she had use of the car. This means Advantage can only ask her to repay a total 
of £2,430. Anything Ms T has paid in excess of this amount should be treated as an 
overpayment. 
To settle Ms Ts complaint Advantage should do the following:
Consider any payments Ms T has made as going towards the £2,430 fair usage 
figure.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Ms Ts credit file in relation to 
this agreement.
If there is an outstanding figure for fair usage, Advantage should arrange an 
affordable repayment plan with Ms T.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Advantage Finance Ltd to put things right in the manner 
set out above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman