DRN-3687842
The complaint
Mrs W, through a representative complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out 
proportionate affordability checks before it granted her loans. 
What happened
Mrs W was advanced five home collected loans between December 2014 and 
November 2018. Ive included some of the information weve received about these loans in 
the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £500.00 06/12/2014 04/09/2015 34 £25.00
2 £800.00 11/12/2015 24/11/2016 52 £28.00
3 £800.00 09/12/2016 05/12/2017 52 £28.00
4 £800.00 05/12/2017 01/11/2018 52 £28.00
5 £800.00 01/11/2018 27/12/2019 52 £28.00
Following Mrs Ws complaint Morses wrote to her representative to explain that it wasnt 
going to uphold it. Mrs Ws representative didnt accept the outcome and referred the 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint. She thought Morses had made a reasonable 
decision to provide loans 1 - 3. But she thought by the time loan 4 was granted the lending 
was now harmful for Mrs W. The adjudicator upheld the complaint about loans 4 and 5. 
Mrs Ws representative acknowledged the adjudicators assessment, but no further 
comments were provided. 
Morses didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment, and Ive summarised its comments 
below;
Loans of the same value were repaid without undue hardship.
Mrs W had a good repayment history. 
Mrs W had enough disposable income to afford her repayments. 
She only ever had one loan running at the same time. 
The case was then passed to an ombudsman to make a decision about the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mrs W could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks couldve taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and 
Mrs Ws income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs W. These factors include:
Mrs W having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mrs W having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mrs W coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mrs W.
Morses was required to establish whether Mrs W could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mrs W was able to repay her 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mrs Ws complaint.
Neither Mrs W nor Morses appears to disagree with the adjudicators assessment that loans 
1  3 werent irresponsibly provided. So, I no longer think these loans are in dispute. But for 
the avoidance of doubt, I also dont think Morses made an unreasonable decision to provide 
these loans. So, I say no more about them.
Instead this decision will focus on whether Morses made reasonable decisions to lend in 
relation to loans 4 and 5. 
For these loans, Morses has shown that it asked Mrs W for details of her income and 
expenditure. She declared she had an income of no more than £261 per week with 
outgoings of between £100 - £126 per week. This left Mrs W with a weekly disposable 
income of £161 for loan 4 and £126 in which to make her weekly repayment of £28. 
Based solely on her income and expenditure information Morses couldve been confident 
Mrs W would be able to comfortably afford the repayments she was committed to making. But its arguable whether these checks went far enough considering how long Mrs W had 
been indebted to Morses, her future weekly commitment and what Morses already knew 
about Mrs Ws. By now, it wouldve been reasonable for Morses to have at the very least, 
started to have verified the information it was being given. 
However, I dont think I need to try and establish, in this case whether a proportionate check 
wouldve led Morses to conclude these two loans were unaffordable for Mrs W as like the 
adjudicator I also think these loans were unsustainable for her and Ive outlined my reasons 
why below.  
So in addition to looking at the checks that Morses did Ive also looked at the overall pattern 
of Morses lending history with Mrs W, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which 
Morses should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise 
harmful. And so Morses should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further 
loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mrs Ws case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan 4. I say this because:
At this point Morses ought to have realised Mrs W was not managing to repay her 
loans sustainably. This was now Mrs Ws fourth loan within two years. So, Morses 
ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mrs W was having to borrow further 
to cover a long-term short fall in her living costs. 
Mrs W was generally provided with a new loan on the same day a previous loan was 
repaid. To me, this is a sign that Mrs W was using these loans to fill a long-term gap 
in her income rather than as a short-term need.  
Over the course of the lending relationship, Mrs Ws weekly commitments stayed 
roughly the same  reaching weekly commitments of £28 per week. But Mrs W was 
committed each time to repaying over a course of year, which I think shows that she 
was, more likely than not, having longer term problems with a consistent need for 
credit. 
Mrs W wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Morses. Loan 5 was 
taken out nearly four years after Mrs Ws first loan. Her final loan was for more than 
50% more than her first loan and she was committing to spending up to another year 
indebted to Morses. Mrs W had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a 
debt to Morses over an extended period.
I think that Mrs W lost out when Morses provided loans 4 and 5 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Ws indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of 
time.
the number of loans and the length of time over which Mrs W borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Mrs Ws ability to access mainstream credit and 
so kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding Mrs Ws complaint about loans 4 and 5. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it not provided loans 4 and 5 to Mrs W, as Im satisfied it ought to have.Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs W may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, she may 
have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mrs W in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mrs W would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morsess liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have provided loans 4 and 5 to Mrs W.
A. Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs W towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything Morses have already refunded.
B. Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs 
W which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs W originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Morses should pay Mrs W the total of A and B 
D. The overall pattern of Mrs Ws borrowing for loans 4 and 5 any information recorded 
about it is adverse, so Morses should remove these loans entirely from Mrs Ws 
credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I am upholding Mrs Ws complaint in part. 
Morses Club PLC should put things right for Mrs W as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman