DRN-3342597
The complaint
Mr H says Gracombex Ltd (trading as The Money Platform) irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about six instalments loans Gracombex provided to Mr H between January 
2020 and January 2021. Mr Hs lending history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Loan Amount Highest Monthly 
Repayment
1 03/01/2020 15/03/2020 2 £250.00 £181.00
2 24/03/2020 23/04/2020 2 £250.00 £181.00
3 25/04/2020 26/07/2020 3 £1,000.00 £557.33
4 28/07/2020 21/09/2020 2 £250.00 £181.00
5 27/09/2020 08/01/2021 3 £1,000.00 £557.33
6 21/01/2021 Outstanding 3 £500.00 £278.67
Our Adjudicator upheld Mr Hs complaint and thought the loans from loan three onwards 
shouldnt have been given. Gracombex disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me 
for a final decision. Gracombex offered that Mr H need only repay the principal for loan six in 
an affordable repayment plan. But Mr H was unhappy with this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Gracombex needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Gracombex should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Gracombex was required to establish 
whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
Gracombex asked Mr H for information about his monthly income and outgoings. Mr H said 
his income was £3,030 and his outgoings totalled between £1,249 and £1,815. Gracombex 
also carried out a credit check and I cant see that this found anything untoward that should 
have prompted further checks. 
I think these affordability checks went far enough for loans one and two. These were the first 
two loans in the chain of lending and I think Gracombexs checks were proportionate and 
sufficient for them. Mr H appeared to have sufficient disposable income to repay these two 
loans sustainably. So I cant say it was wrong for Gracombex to have provided them.
But I think Gracombexs checks didnt go far enough for loan three. This was the third loan in 
under four months. The amount that Mr H asked for increased significantly and he had to 
repay it with a significant proportion of his monthly income. And so I think Gracombex should 
then have asked Mr H for further information about his other credit commitments, both short-
term and long-term. Mr H has provided us with his bank statements from the time to show 
this. But Gracombex could have checked this in other ways.  
As our Adjudicator explained, a proportionate check for loan three would most likely have 
shown that Mr H was having problems managing his money. This is because when he asked 
for loan three, Mr H already had three outstanding short-term loans with other lenders. So I 
think that if Gracombex had made sufficient checks it would have realised that Mr H would 
be unable to sustainably repay loan three or any subsequent loans. And so I think it was 
wrong for Gracombex to provide further lending from loan three onwards. 
Gracombex thought that because Mr H was able to repay loan three, it must have been 
affordable for him. But this isnt how we consider the responsibility of loan approvals. This is 
because that information would be unknown when the loan was approved.
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Mr Hs lending history with Gracombex with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Gracombex should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Gracombex should have realised 
that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Hs case, I dont think that this point was reached. I 
say this because the amounts that Mr H borrowed and the time between the loans fluctuated. Mr H had repaid his previous loans on time and two were repaid early. So I think 
there was no clear pattern to alert Gracombex that further lending would be unsustainable.
 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Gracombex should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it stopped lending to Mr H from loan three, as Im satisfied it ought 
to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr H may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and this particular lender which he may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming 
that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how it would (or ought 
to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is impossible to 
now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can 
fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would have been 
able to lend to Mr H in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr H would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Gracombexs liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
I require Gracombex Ltd (trading as The Money Platform) to do the following:
refund all interest and charges Mr H paid on loans three to six; 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
offset this refund against any balance of principal outstanding for loan six and agree 
an affordable repayment plan to clear the balance. 
remove any negative information about loans three to six from Mr Hs credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Gracombex to take off tax from this interest. Gracombex 
must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint. I 
require Gracombex Ltd (trading as The Money Platform) to carry out the redress set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman