DRN-2829090
The complaint
Mr Z complains that PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender (Mr Lender) lent to him in 
an irresponsible manner.  
What happened
Between 2014 and 2017 Mr Z was given seven loans by Mr Lender. The first loan was a 
single repayment payday loan and the others were each repayable by six monthly 
instalments. All the loans have been repaid.
Loan Amount Date lent Date repaid Highest 
repayment
1 £750 12.10.14 19.12.14 £930
2 £750 01.01.15 26.06.15 £287
3 £750 10.08.15 18.01.16 £280
4 £350 18.01.16 28.07.16 £168
5 £450 07.08.16 28.02.17 £172
6 £650 03.04.17 27.10.17 £232
7 £450 10.11.17 27.07.18 £233
Mr Z states that he experienced problems in repaying the loans and had to borrow more 
money to do so. He believes that Mr Lender was irresponsible in lending to him, and so 
would like it to refund all interest and fees hes paid on the loans (plus interest). 
Mr Lender doesnt agree. In response to Mr Zs initial complaint it did conclude that it 
shouldve carried out further assessments before approving Loan 7. It offered to refund the 
total interest paid against that loan, and to remove adverse entries about it from Mr Zs credit 
file. Mr Z accepted the offer (purely in relation to loan 7) and that element of his complaint 
was settled. As such, I will not consider Loan 7 any further within this Decision.
Mr Lender felt that, based upon the information Mr Z had provided to it, together with the 
results of its own credit checks, all the other loans were affordable, and so it did not uphold 
his complaint about loans 1 to 6.
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Zs complaint. He considered that Mr Lender had been 
wrong to give all the loans to Mr Z and that it should offer him some redress.
Mr Z agreed with our adjudicators opinion.
Mr Lender didnt agree entirely. It subsequently made a revised offer of redress in respect of 
Loans 1,2 and 3 (the terms of which were in line with our usual redress recommendations), 
but it maintained that Loans 4 to 6 had been properly given and so it wasnt prepared to offer 
redress for these loans. Mr Z declined to accept this offer.
Mr Lender has subsequently set out to us the reasons why it believes its offer to Mr Z is fair, 
including:
loans 4 to 6 were for significantly lower values than loans 1 to 3 which, it suggests, 
evidences that there was no reliance upon borrowing at the time;
at the time Mr Z applied for loans 4 and 6 respectively, he had received salary increases 
which, in turn, increased his disposable income, making the loans more sustainable;
there was a gap of over one month between loan 5 being repaid and loan 6 being given 
 which, it contends, supports a view that Mr Z was not reliant on loans;
they are concerned that our adjudicators assessment appears to recommend upholding 
loans 2 to 6 purely as a result of loan 1 having such a high repayment amount, and that it 
failed to take into account the individual circumstances of each subsequent loan. 
Because the parties arent in agreement the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
Mr Lender has confirmed to me that it is in agreement with our adjudicators 
recommendations regarding upholding Mr Zs complaint for Loans 1 to 3. But it doesnt 
agree with his complaint about Loans 4 to 6 being upheld. In these circumstances I will 
restrict my consideration of the complaint to Loans 4 to 6 only.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr Z 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and 
the consumers income and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become or was becoming 
unsustainable). 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. 
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr Z could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and, in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. 
So it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
do so without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided by both 
Mr Lender and Mr Z in this context and what this all means for Mr Zs complaint.
Before providing each of its loans to Mr Z, Mr Lender asked him for details of his income and 
regular expenditure. It also carried out some checks with credit reference agencies.
Ive considered the individual circumstances in relation to each loan:
Loans 4 to 6
I accept Mr Lenders points that:
a. Loan 3 had been repaid 10 days earlier than it needed to be, and;
b. the amount borrowed, and consequently the amount of the monthly repayments, under 
Loan 4 were lower than the previous loan.
However, I think that the overall pattern of lending by this point indicated that Mr Z had 
become persistently reliant upon short term borrowing. I say this because:
Mr Z applied for Loan 4 on the same day that Loan 3 was repaid;
 
he had been borrowing almost consistently from Mr Lender for over 15 months. I do 
acknowledge that there were gaps between Loans 1 and 2, and between loans 3 and 4  
but I dont consider these to be of sufficient substance to constitute a break in the 
consistent chain of lending;
short-term loans such as these are intended to help borrowers get through unexpected 
and unusual financial difficulties, and they arent meant to be taken over extended 
periods of time. By this stage in the borrowing relationship, I think its likely that Mr Z was 
using the loans routinely to get by, rather than as a short-term solution to a temporary 
cashflow problem;whilst Mr Zs declared monthly income had increased to £1,650 at the time he applied for 
Loan 4, his monthly expenditure had gone up further to £1,361  and so, actually, he had 
less disposable income than before (of just £289 before these loan repayments). I cant 
see that Mr Lender made any enquiries to understand what was underlying these 
changes, and I dont consider that the resultant level of disposable income left Mr Z with 
adequate margin with which to sustainably meet his commitments for this loan;
Loan 4 did represent a reduction from the first three loans, but the amount borrowed then 
increased again for loans 5 and 6. I dont think that this represents a significant and 
consistent reduction that might be sufficient to change my view away from Mr Z having 
been persistently dependent upon short term debt.
In all these circumstances I dont think Mr Lender was right to provide Loans 4 to 6, and so it 
must provide some redress to Mr Z.
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained above I am proposing to uphold Mr Zs complaint in relation to 
Loans 4 to 6 inclusive. I also require Mr Lender to put things right in respect of Loans 1 to 3 
in line with its confirmed offer. Loan 7 has already been settled.
In deciding what redress Mr Lender should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it stopped lending to Mr Z from Loan 4, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr Z may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and this particular lender which he may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming 
that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how it would (or ought 
to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is impossible to 
now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can 
fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would have been 
able to lend to Mr Z in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr Z would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
To put things right Mr Lender must:
refund all interest and charges Mr Z paid on loans 1 to 6;
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement *remove all adverse information about loans 1 to 3 from Mr Zs credit file;
the number of loans taken from loan 4 onwards means that any information about them 
is negative. So, all entries about loans 4 to 6 should be removed from Mr Zs credit file;
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr Z a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
My Final Decision is that I partially uphold this complaint and require PDL Finance Limited 
trading as Mr Lender to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2021.
 
Richard France
Ombudsman