DRN-2704895
The complaint
Mr B complains about two personal loans provided to him by Loans 2 Go Limited, trading as 
Loans 2 Go, (L2G), which he says were unaffordable. 
What happened
L2G agreed two loans for Mr B. Loan 1 was for £250 and was taken out in July 2018. Loan 2 
was for £450 and was taken out in October 2018. Loan 2 was used to repay Loan 1, but 
Loan 2 hasnt been repaid. Some of the information L2G provided about the loans is shown 
in the table below.
Loan 
numberStart date End date Loan amount Monthly 
repaymentsTerm 
(months)
1. 4/7/2018 2/10/2018 £250 £56.64 18
2. 2/10/2018 Unpaid £450 £101.95 18
Mr B says he was in financial difficulty when he took the loan out which has only got worse 
since hed had it. This has resulted in health issues and a never-ending line of debt. L2G 
also topped up his loan a few months after his first application which made matters worse. 
Mr B felt proper checks were not carried out or were ignored to be able to provide him with a 
high cost loan which L2G knew he needed due to the desperate state of his finances. He 
had been in arrears with L2G for months on end due to the loans being unaffordable.
In its final response letter L2G said that when Mr B applied for Loan 2 it had conducted a 
thorough affordability assessment and considered Mr Bs declared income and expenditure, 
verification of income via an online income verification tool along with a review of Mr Bs 
credit file. L2G said that any expenditure amounts deemed unreasonable would be replaced 
with a reasonable figure so as to ensure Mr B could afford the loan and other financial 
commitments. Mr B had declared his income as £2,000 and L2G verified that hed received a 
minimum monthly income of £1,590 via an online income verification tool. Mr B had declared 
his monthly expenditure and credit commitments to total £727. But L2G calculated them to 
total £1,423.95. L2G also added a buffer of £60 to Mr Bs expenditure, to account for any 
fluctuations in his monthly income or expenditure. This resulted in expenditure of £1,483.95 
and would have still made the contractual loan repayment of £101.95 affordable. L2G said 
that Mr B had enough disposable income to afford his contractual instalment.
Our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and didnt recommend that it be upheld. She 
thought reasonable and proportionate checks, wouldve involved L2G obtaining a thorough 
knowledge of Mr Bs financial circumstances, including evidence of his income and 
outgoings. But she said that if L2G had carried out further checks, and verified Mr Bs 
income and outgoings, the loan repayments would have appeared affordable. So, she didnt 
think L2G was wrong to lend to Mr B.
Mr B disagreed. He said, in summary, that an extremely high interest loan over a long period 
of time shouldnt have been provided to him due to his clear financial difficulties highlighted 
by the amount of his borrowing from family, friends and payday lenders each month which 
was shown in his bank statements. His credit report would also have shown multiple late 
repayments, defaults and the use of payday lenders. Mr B said that he was essentially 
borrowing off Peter to pay Paul. The loan had been unaffordable. It had taken him nearly two 
years just to repay the high interest rates which he felt he had to accept to receive the 
money as he was so desperate for it. 
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it came to me, as an ombudsman, to 
review and resolve. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr B 
and to L2G on 12 March 2021. I summarise my findings:
I firstly said that I was sorry to hear that Mr Bs health had been affected by the pressures on 
his finances. 
Id noted that when L2G lent to Mr B the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). Its 
rules and guidance obliged L2G to lend responsibly. As set out in CONC, this meant that 
L2G needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower 
could afford to meet its loan repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the 
agreement. 
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner meant being able to meet repayments out of normal 
income while meeting normal outgoings and not having to borrow further to meet these 
repayments.
The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment each time - 
sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check. Neither the 
law nor the FCA specified what level of detail was needed to carry out an appropriate 
assessment or how such an assessment was to be carried out in practice. The FCA said that 
the level of detail would depend on the type of product, the amount of credit being 
considered, the associated cost and risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers financial 
situation, amongst other factors.
The checks had to be borrower focussed  so L2G had to think about whether Mr B could 
sustainably repay his loan. In practice this meant that the lender had to ensure that making 
the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr B undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In 
other words, it wasnt enough for L2G to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Mr B. 
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks 
- the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);- the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit was 
likely to be greater and the borrower was required to make payments for an extended 
period);
- the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a person had been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing might signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable). 
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Bs case, Id considered the 
following questions:
 - Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Bs loan 
applications to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way? If 
not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
 - Did L2G make a fair lending decision? 
Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Bs loan 
applications to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way?
As set out above, L2G had gathered some information from Mr B about his income and 
expenses before it agreed the loan. It had also carried out a credit check.
Loan 1
Id noted that L2G hadnt provided any response about Loan 1 in its final response letter to 
Mr B. But it had provided this Service with information gathered from Mr Bs application for 
the loan and its credit checks as well as its loan documentation. 
Loan 1 was for £250. The interest rate on Loan 1 was 205.2 % (990.1% APR). The loan was 
to be repaid over 18 months with monthly repayments of £56.84. Although that meant Mr Bs 
monthly repayments would be relatively modest compared to what hed said about his 
income and expenditure, he was still making a relatively lengthy commitment to L2G. If Mr B 
made each payment when it was due, hed pay £1,019.52 in total. 
Id reviewed L2Gs credit checks. L2G was aware from these that Mr B wasnt in an 
Individual Voluntary Arrangement, he wasnt bankrupt and there were no county court 
judgements against him. There were also no defaulted accounts in the six months prior to 
the loan application. Mr B had a total credit balance of £5,221 outstanding. The credit checks 
showed that Mr B had three credit cards, that hed exceeded the credit limit on one card and 
that he was near the other two cards credit limits. Mr B had two current accounts and was 
near the overdraft limit on both. The checks showed that his total overdrawn balances were 
£806 with a total overdraft limit of £820. Mr B also had a mail order account which was near 
its credit limit. This account was subject to an arrangement to pay. Mr B also had a loan 
balance of £1,708 which had been subject to an arrangement to pay until the month before 
Mr Bs application for Loan 1. The checks also showed that Mr B had received other loans 
(including short term loans) in the past, but the last of these had been repaid five months 
before the loan application. Altogether, I thought the results of its checks should have 
caused L2G concerns as Mr Bs finances appeared to be under pressure as shown by the 
arrangements to pay and the six accounts over or near their respective credit limits.
L2G was aware that Mr B had declared an income of £1,850 and £1,030 for living costs and 
credit commitments on his application form which left him with a disposable income of £820. 
This seemed unlikely given that he wanted to borrow £250. So, in these circumstances I 
didnt think it was reasonable for L2G to rely on the information provided by Mr B without verifying it. I thought L2G should reasonably have taken steps to gain a more thorough 
understanding of Mr Bs financial position in order to satisfy itself that he could sustainably 
repay the loan. L2G didnt say that it took steps to do this, other than to verify Mr Bs income 
using an online tool. On balance, I didnt think the checks L2G carried out on this occasion 
were reasonable and proportionate. 
But that in itself didn't mean that Mr Bs complaint should succeed. I also needed to be 
persuaded that what I considered to be proportionate checks would have shown L2G that  
Mr B couldn't sustainably afford the loan. So, Id looked at Mr Bs bank statements and 
excerpts from his credit report to see what better checks would have shown L2G.
Loan 2
Loan 2 was taken out around three months after Loan 1. The loan amount had increased to 
£450 and the monthly loan repayments had almost doubled. Loan 1 was repaid from the 
proceeds of Loan 2 which meant that Mr B received the amount of £243.74 from the loan 
proceeds. Id noted that the interest rate on Loan 2 was 205.2 % (990.1% APR). The loan 
was to be repaid over 18 months. Although that again meant Mr Bs monthly repayments 
would be relatively modest compared to what hed said about his income and expenditure, 
he was still making a relatively lengthy commitment to L2G. And if Mr B made each payment 
when it was due, hed pay £1,835.10 in total. 
L2Gs application form showed a verified income of £1,590 and that Mr B had declared living 
costs of £727. L2G had added an amount for monthly credit commitments of almost £700. 
By L2G agreeing Loan 2 with the information it had, meant Mr B would be spending over half 
his monthly income repaying debt. L2Gs form shows a disposable income of £166.05. This 
would only have left Mr B with around £64 each month after the loan repayment although Id 
noted that L2G had added a buffer of £60 and said that the loan would still be affordable. But 
as the loan was to be repaid over 18 months, I thought there was a foreseeable risk over the 
18 months term that Mr B wouldnt have been able to meet his repayments without difficulty. 
It wouldnt have taken very much unexpected or seasonable expense to leave Mr B in the 
position of having to borrow to meet his loan repayments.
Id also reviewed L2Gs credit checks. L2G was aware from these that Mr B wasnt in an 
Individual Voluntary Arrangement, he wasnt bankrupt and there were no county court 
judgements against him. Mr B had 18 active accounts. The checks showed that Mr B had 
five credit cards. One credit card account had been defaulted in January 2018 with a 
balance of around £1,600. Another credit card account showed a balance of around £660 
with a code indicating early delinquency. The other card balances totalled £1,632. The 
checks didnt show the credit limits on these accounts. Mr B had three current accounts 
which were all overdrawn by at least £400. Mr B still had a mail order account with a balance 
of around £1,100 which was still subject to an arrangement to pay it. Mr B also had a 
defaulted loan from a telecommunications supplier with a balance of around £1,700 and 
another loan from a similar supplier had a code which indicated early delinquency. Another 
loan for around £1,700 was also subject to an arrangement to pay. The checks also showed 
that Mr B had received a loan for £291 in June 2018. Altogether, I thought the results of its 
checks should again have caused L2G additional concerns as Mr Bs finances still appeared 
to be under pressure as shown by the arrangements to pay and defaults and the increase in 
the number of credit accounts since Mr B had taken out his previous loan just three months 
earlier.
I thought the credit checks showed that Mr B was already in financial difficulties and was 
struggling to pay his existing credit commitments. So overall, I thought L2Gs checks should 
have included a full review of Mr Bs finances including further verification of his expenditure. L2G needed to ensure that the loan repayments would be sustainable over a term of 18 
months. 
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? And did L2G make a fair 
lending decision? 
Loan 1
Mr B had provided extracts from his credit report as well as bank statements from around the 
time he applied for the loan. Im not suggesting here that these are the checks that L2G 
should have done. But I thought looking at the extracts from the credit report and bank 
statements gave me the best picture of what the lender should have seen. 
Id noted that Mr Bs monthly income on the statements was the amount of £2,132.21 which 
was also shown on the payslip hed provided to L2G when applying for the loan. But had 
L2G sought some verification of Mr Bs spending, I thought L2G wouldve been in a better 
position to understand Mr Bs financial situation before it decided to lend to him. 
Id reviewed Mr Bs bank statements and credit report extracts. Id also taken into account   
Mr Bs spending patterns to get a better picture of his financial situation. I thought all these 
showed that his financial circumstances were somewhat strained. He was persistently 
overdrawn, paying daily overdraft fees and other bank charges. Mr B was also borrowing 
from other short-term lenders as well as friends and family. In each of the two months before 
Loan 1, he was repaying at least three short term lenders. Hed received three new short 
term loans in May 2018 totalling £520. In June 2018 hed received one peer to peer loan for 
£180.  There was also some evidence of gambling. 
I thought the regular spending and borrowing patterns shown on Mr Bs bank statements 
would likely have caused L2G concerns had it made better checks before lending. I thought 
if L2G had made better checks, it was likely to have realised that there were indications that 
Mr B was having difficulty managing his finances. And in Mr Bs circumstances, on balance, I 
thought there was a significant risk that Mr B would have struggled to make his repayments 
without borrowing again to repay Loan 1. 
So, I didnt think it was reasonable for L2G to have provided Loan 1 to Mr B.
Loan 2
Id reviewed Mr Bs bank statements from around the time of Loan 2 to see what better 
checks would have shown L2G. 
The bank statements showed that Mr Bs financial circumstances were still strained and 
hadnt improved since taking out Loan 1 three months earlier. He was still persistently 
overdrawn, paying daily overdraft fees and other bank charges. In the two months before 
Loan 2, he was repaying at least three other short term lenders each month. Hed received a 
new short term loan for £200 in September 2018, less than a month before Loan 2, and was 
continuing to borrow from family and friends. There was still evidence of gambling. I thought 
the regular spending and borrowing patterns shown on Mr Bs bank statements would again 
likely have caused L2G concerns had it made better checks before lending.
Id noted that L2G had said that Mr B had enough disposable income to afford his 
contractual instalment. But, allowing for L2Gs buffer of £60, this was still only around £124 
after the loan repayment was made. And it seemed to me that L2G was focussing on its 
calculation of whether the loan was affordable for Mr B on a pounds and pence basis. But 
the lender was required to establish whether Mr B could sustainably make his loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were technically affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be 
an indication that a consumer could sustainably make the repayments. But it didnt 
automatically follow that this was the case. And as a consumer shouldnt have to borrow 
further in order to make his payments, it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought 
fairly and reasonably to realise, that a consumer wouldnt be able to sustainably make his 
repayments if it was on notice that he was unlikely to be able to make his repayments 
without borrowing further.
Overall, if L2G had made better checks, I thought it should reasonably have realised that   
Mr B was continuing to have difficulties managing his finances. And it seemed likely he 
would need to borrow elsewhere to repay Loan 2. So, I thought it should reasonably have 
concluded that it wasnt appropriate to provide the second loan to Mr B.
Looking at the account information wed received from L2G, I could see that Mr B made his 
first repayment and then asked L2G for a repayment arrangement. In my view, this further 
proved the loan wasnt appropriate. 
Subject to any further representations by Mr B or L2G my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint. I intended to order L2G to put things right as shown 
below. 
Putting things right  what L2G needs to do
I understood that Loan 1 was repaid from the proceeds of Loan 2 and that Loan 2 hadnt 
been fully repaid. In order to put Mr B back into the position he would have been had                
Loans 1 and 2 not been agreed for him, L2G needs to ensure that Mr B only repays the 
principal borrowed on these loans. In other words, Mr B shouldnt repay more than the 
combined capital amount of £700 he borrowed on these loans. So, L2G needs to:
a) treat all payments that Mr B has made towards Loans 1 and 2 as payments towards the
principal amounts borrowed;
b) if Mr B has made payments above the combined capital amount, then these should be 
refunded to him, along with simple interest at the rate of 8% per year on these amounts from 
the date they were paid to the date of settlement*;
c) if after applying the refunds, there is still an outstanding capital balance then L2G needs to 
treat Mr B fairly and sympathetically in this matter. This may mean agreeing a mutually 
agreeable repayment plan with him.
d) remove any adverse information about Loan 1 from Mr Bs credit file; and
e) remove any adverse information about Loan 2 from Mr Bs credit file, once it had been
settled.
If L2G has sold the outstanding debt on Loan 2 it should buy it back if it is able to do so or 
chooses to do so and then take the steps listed above. If L2G isnt able to buy the debt back 
or chooses not to, then it should liaise with the new debt owner to bring about steps a) to e) 
above.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must
give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one. If L2G
intends to apply the refunds to reduce any outstanding capital balances, it must do so after
deducting the tax. 
Mr B responded to my provisional decision to say he had nothing more to add and accepted 
the decision.L2G responded to my provisional decision to say it had no additional points to add and 
accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. 
Given that Mr B and L2G have given me nothing further to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold the 
complaint and require L2G to pay Mr B some compensation and take the steps set out 
above.
  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint I order 
Loans 2 Go Limited, trading as Loans 2 Go, to put things right as Ive set out above under 
the heading Putting things right  what L2G needs to do.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman