DRN-2824180
The complaint
Mr M complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money mis-sold him a mortgage 
and dealt with him unfairly when he tried to port his mortgage product. Mr M believes he 
should be compensated financially for the losses he incurred.
What happened
Mr M took out a repayment mortgage with Virgin Money for £170.000 when he was buying a 
property for £190,000 in 2018. He also took out a five-year fixed rate mortgage product. If 
the mortgage was redeemed within those five years an early repayment charge would be 
payable (ERC). This could be avoided if Mr M applied and got a mortgage with Virgin 
Money on another property and transferred the mortgage product. Mr Ms circumstances 
changed in 2019 when he got married. Mr M and his wife wanted to buy a new property for 
£570,000 with a mortgage of £484,500, porting his existing mortgage product and to get a 
buy to let mortgage on his existing property. Virgin declined the new mortgage application. 
Later when Virgin refused a consent to let the property, Mr M sold the property and paid the 
ERC.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He felt that in 2018, 
Mr M got suitable advice given his circumstances at the time and that Virgin Money hadnt 
acted unfairly in refusing the new mortgage application. Mr M disagreed saying in summary 
that Virgin Money told him he could port the loan and he wasnt able to. He says that it 
refused his application on arbitrary grounds that were nothing to do with his circumstances, 
delayed the application unjustly, mis-calculated his income and refused him permission to 
let. Following a subject access request, Mr M is also of the view that his application may 
have been refused because of incorrect information held by credit information agencies 
about Mrs Ms credit status.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M makes several complaints against Virgin Money. He says that his original mortgage 
was mis-sold as he was told he could port the mortgage product and couldnt. He also 
believes that Virgin Money unfairly refused to allow him to port the mortgage product when 
he applied for a mortgage on a new property. 
Virgin Money recommended that Mr M take out a five-year fixed rate product in 2018 after 
taken into consideration his circumstances. Mr M preferred a five-year product to a two-year 
product to benefit from long term stability and indicated that he couldnt foresee changes in 
his personal circumstances that would make a two-year fixed rate more suitable. So, there 
was nothing to indicate that the five-year fixed rate that Virgin Money recommended was 
unsuitable. Like most fixed rate mortgage products, it was portable for Mr M if his new 
mortgage application was approved in line with the lenders lending criteria at time of 
application. This is set out in several documents that Mr M would have received prior to 
taking out the mortgage. So, I cant fairly say that the mortgage was mis-sold as Mr M was 
sold a mortgage product that was capable of being ported and Mr M accepted those 
conditions when he accepted the mortgage offer,
Mr Ms circumstances subsequently changed. Mr M got married and wanted to buy a 
substantially more expensive property with a much increased mortgage. In order to port the 
mortgage product Mr M would have to meet Virgin Moneys lending criteria. But Virgin 
Money refused Mr Ms application. Mr M believes that it refused the application unfairly. Mr 
M has referred to Virgin Money making an error about the calculation of his income. 
Alternatively, its suggested that it may have erroneously considered a poor credit record of 
Mr Ms wife caused by fraud on her account. I understand Mr Ms concern that his 
application was treated fairly so I asked for further information from Mr M and Virgin Money.
I have had access to documentation in the period of September to October 2019 including 
emails between Mr M and his mortgage adviser with Virgin Money when Mr M was making 
the application. I can see that the emails cover a number of points that I would expect in an 
application. But the application failed because on Cs automated system a code was 
triggered refusing the application. This code seems to have been triggered as the application 
didnt meet Virgin Moneys credit requirements due to a combination of bureau and 
scorecard requirements.  I, then note that Mr M made enquiries elsewhere about getting a 
mortgage and returns to Clydesdale about how it calculated his earnings. But Virgin returned 
on 15 October to say that irrespective of the calculation of Mr Ms earnings that the decline 
code was triggered because of the of the high loan to value (LTV) and that if it was reduced 
to 79.9%, the case could be reassessed. 
There is an argument as to whether Virgin Money could have been clearer about the 
grounds for its refusal. Mr M was given a potential solution - lowering the LTV rather than the 
cause of the refusal - the combination of bureau and scorecard requirements. On the other 
hand, I expect the Virgin Money adviser was more interested in trying to get a solution that 
would have benefited Mr M which was to see if the LTV could be reduced and so the risk. as 
there was little more to be done with improving the credit scorecard at that stage. 
Mr M raised the issue as to whether the fraud on Mrs Ms credit cards would have had any 
effect on Virgin Moneys decision making. The adviser says if fraudulent activity had shown 
up it would have been sent to the underwriters to review and that didnt happen. It also 
seems to me if this substantial fraud on Mrs M had affected her credit score  Mr M 
describes the horrendous impact on her credit file - it would surely have resulted in a 
complete refusal of credit which wouldnt be cured by tweaking the LTV. So, I cant fairly say 
that the fraud perpetrated on Mrs M affected Virgin Moneys lending decision.
Mr M also feels that Virgin Money in its calculations didnt treat his income properly. Virgin 
Money dispute that. But in any case, this application wasnt refused because of affordability 
so how Virgin Money treated Mr Ms income didnt result in the refusal of this application.
 
Virgin Money simply didnt want to proceed with this application because it was unwilling to 
accept the risk involved but offered to reconsider the application if that risk were lowered. Its 
not unusual for a lender to refuse an application on that basis. A lender can decide what risk 
that it wishes to accept and because it was unwilling to accept that level of risk for Mr M, 
given the substantially increased lending that he wanted doesnt mean its process was 
unfair.
I appreciate that Mr M invested some time in the application and hoped for and expected a 
different result. There doesnt seem to be any substantial delay in processing the application. 
Some time seems to have been spent on advising Mr M on tidying up his credit record which 
may have benefited him when he later successfully made application for a loan to a new lender. I note that when Mr M moved to his new residence, he asked for a consent to let for 
his existing property. My understanding of consent to lets is that they are a temporary 
measure when a borrower moves out of a mortgaged property with the intention of returning 
but Mr M didnt intend returning to that property. So, I dont consider Virgin Moneys refusal 
to allow a consent to let was unfair. But Virgin Money is entitled to review the application and 
decide on its appetite for risk at any time prior to issuing a mortgage offer and for the 
reasons set out above I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman