DRN-4250340
Complaint
Mr R has complained about loans Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) 
provided to him. He says the loans were unaffordable.
Background
Likely Loans provided Mr R with a first loan for £1,400.00 in February 2019. This loan was 
due to be repaid in 12 monthly instalments of £162.35. In October 2019, Mr R was provided 
with a second loan for £3,500.00. This loan had a 24-month term with 24 monthly 
repayments of £265.87. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr R and Likely Loans had told us. And he thought 
that Likely Loans hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr R unfairly. So he didnt 
recommend that Mr Rs complaint be upheld. Mr R disagreed and asked for an ombudsman 
to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Rs complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Likely Loans needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Likely Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr R could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Likely Loans provided Mr R with loans for £1,400.00 and £3,500.00 in February 2019 and 
October 2019. These loans were due to be repaid in 12 and 24 monthly instalments 
respectively. Likely Loans says it agreed to Mr Rs applications after he provided details of 
his monthly income, which was verified by recent payslips and some information on his 
expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information on a credit search it carried out. 
And all of this information showed Mr R could comfortably afford to make the repayments he 
was committing to. On the other hand, Mr R has said the loans were unaffordable.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr R and Likely Loans have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Likely Loans has provided us with an indication of what it 
saw about Mr Rs debts at the time of his applications. Crucially, Mr Rs debt total at the time 
of the applications was reasonable in comparison to his income and they appeared to be 
relatively well managed. For example there were no recent arrears, defaults or county court 
judgments recorded against him.
Ive also kept in mind that Likely Loans provided a second loan to Mr R and that sometimes 
repeat borrowing in itself can be an indication of difficulty. But Mr R repaid loan 1 in full 
before loan 2 was provided. And while there wasnt an extended break between loan 1 being 
repaid and loan 2 being provided, the amount borrowed for loan 2 didnt make it appear as 
though it was being taken because of the hole the repayment of loan 1 had left in Mr Rs 
finances. 
Furthermore, the term of loan 2 meant that Mr R would still have been indebted for less than 
3 years in total. Although I do think that the amount borrowed for loan 2 was a warning sign 
that Likely Loans ought to have kept in mind should Mr R have gone on to make any further 
applications for loans. In other words, I think that Likely Loans would have had to apply 
increased scrutiny to an application for a third loan should Mr R have made one. 
So while the pattern of lending here has seen me take a closer look at the individual 
applications, Im satisfied that it wasnt immediately obvious that loan 2 was demonstrably 
unsustainable for Mr R. And there isnt anything else obvious in either of these applications 
which clearly demonstrates Mr R couldnt have afforded the loans either. 
I accept that Mr Rs actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the information Likely Loans obtained. I know Mr R has referred 
to having defaults. But the key here is that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a 
complaint in circumstances where a lender did something wrong. 
Given the circumstances here, the lack of any defaulted accounts showing in Likely Loans 
credit checks as well as the lack of any obvious inconsistencies in the rest of the information 
gathered, Im satisfied that Likely Loans was reasonably entitled to lend to Mr R. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Likely Loans did anything wrong when deciding to lend 
to  Mr R - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out 
which suggested the repayments were affordable. And the second loan was provided in 
circumstances where Mr Rs indebtedness didnt appear to be increasing unsustainably. 
So overall I dont think that Likely Loans treated Mr R unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his loans. And Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr R. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman