DRN-2727229
The complaint
Mrs M complains about an invoice she has received from Taylor Edwards Financial 
Management Ltd (Taylor Edwards) for work theyve carried out on a claim for mis-sold 
Payment Protection Insurance (PPI). Mrs M says Taylor Edwards closed their file so they 
shouldnt be charging her their fee.  
What happened
Mrs M says she approached Lender B directly to enquire whether they had sold her PPI, and 
they confirmed they hadnt. Mrs M says she was contacted by Taylor Edwards who then 
made enquiries with Lender B. She says Lender B again confirmed they hadnt sold Mrs M 
PPI so Taylor Edwards wrote to Mrs M and said they would be closing their file. 
Lender B then contacted Mrs M and said there had been some technical issues which led 
them to revisit previous investigations and they had found they had mis-sold PPI to Mrs M. 
Taylor Edwards then sent Mrs M an invoice. Mrs M complained and said the compensation 
from Lender B wasnt as a result of any work carried out by Taylor Edwards. Taylor Edwards 
havent responded to the complaint but continued to chase for their fee.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs M. She thought Taylor Edwards are entitled to 
their fee but they should pay compensation of £150 to Mrs M for their lack of communication. 
Taylor Edwards havent responded so the matter has come to me for a decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation is a fair way to resolve matters. 
I think its important to stress Ive made my decision based on the information I have. I can 
see our investigator has provided Taylor Edwards with details of the complaint being made 
against them and allowed them a number of opportunities to provide information. And, the 
investigator has also brought to Taylor Edwards attention that, in the absence of any 
response, our service will consider the complaint based on the information we have. Its 
important that we get an account from all parties in order to consider the complaint fully. In 
this case, while Taylor Edwards havent provided any information to our service, Im satisfied 
weve taken sufficient steps, and given sufficient time, to enable them to respond. I must be 
fair to both parties and dont feel its reasonable, in this case, for Mrs M to have to continue 
waiting for an answer to her complaint.   
I can see Taylor Edwards email Mrs M in October 2018 and say Lender B cant locate her 
loan account from the information theyve received. Taylor Edwards ask for further 
information which might assist Lender B to locate Mrs Ms account. Taylor Edwards say, if 
Mrs M doesnt provide any further instructions within the next two weeks, then they will close 
the case. 
 
Lender B then write to Mrs M direct in August 2019 to confirm they have mis-sold PPI to her 
and will be paying compensation. The letter says Lender B have made this decision after 
reviewing Mrs Ms application form and their internal systems. Lender B also say You 
previously contacted [Taylor Edwards] to act on your behalf regarding [PPI] and a request 
was submitted asking us to check our records for any PPI policies in your name. Lender B 
accept they gave inaccurate responses to some enquiries and this was one such case. They 
explain they initially said they werent able to find a PPI policy but, following a further review, 
they did find a PPI policy on Mrs Ms account and raised a complaint on her behalf. They 
also say, as Mrs M was represented by Taylor Edwards, they have sent a copy of the letter 
to them.  
 
I can see Taylor Edwards write to Mrs M to confirm Lender B have upheld her complaint. 
They send Mrs M an invoice for work theyve carried out in relation to a complaint against 
Lender B for mis-sold PPI. They refer to Mrs M being awarded £5,089.60 compensation and 
their fee of £1,221.50 which represents 20% + vat of the compensation. Taylor Edwards 
chase payment in September 2019 and Mrs M responds and says she doesnt agree with 
the invoice as Taylor Edwards had closed their file and Lender Bs decision to uphold the 
complaint followed this. Mrs M complains to Taylor Edwards and says Lender Bs decision to 
uphold her complaint hasnt been as a result of Taylor Edwards involvement and followed 
an independent review carried out by Lender B. Mrs M says shes not liable for Taylor 
Edwards fee. Taylor Edwards continue to chase Mrs M for payment and, in January 2021, 
they offer to reduce their fee by 50% down to £610.75. They say this offer is only open for 
seven days after which, if the invoice hasnt been settled, the original fee will be due.   
Taking this all into account, I dont think Taylor Edwards have acted unfairly or unreasonably 
in sending Mrs M an invoice for their work. Theres no dispute here that Taylor Edwards 
have been involved in the complaint against Lender B. Mrs M accepts she did instruct Taylor 
Edwards to look into her claim against Lender B. Its clear, from what appears to have been 
an administrative error, that Lender B gave incorrect information to Taylor Edwards about 
being unable to locate a PPI policy for Mrs M. I dont doubt this led to Taylor Edwards 
closing their file, but the fact remains they were instructed and did carry out work. So, when 
the position later changed following Lender Bs review, I think its reasonable to say there 
has been a successful outcome in a complaint in which Taylor Edwards have been involved. 
And, the letter from Lender B to Mrs M confirms this as they refer to Taylor Edwards being 
instructed and correspondence between them.   
I note Mrs Ms point about Lender B carrying out an independent review and this being the 
reason why she receives an offer of compensation. I agree with Mrs Ms point here, but this 
doesnt persuade me that Taylor Edwards shouldnt receive a fee. The error in not originally 
locating the PPI policy wasnt something Taylor Edwards are responsible for. They took the 
right steps in asking Lender B to check for any PPI policies. If, at this point, and as we would 
have expected, Lender B had located Mrs Ms PPI policy, then I believe this wouldve led to 
an offer being made at this point. And, this wouldnt have led to Taylor Edwards closing their 
file. I think the key point here is that there has been a successful outcome to the complaint 
and, even though the PPI policy was found by an internal review prompted by Lender B 
themselves, Taylor Edwards were instructed and did carry out work. So, it follows they are 
entitled to their fee. 
I note Mrs M says she made enquiries with Lender B directly before instructing Taylor 
Edwards. And, Lender B also told Mrs M they couldnt locate a PPI policy. I havent been 
provided with any evidence which shows Mrs M made enquiries directly and the letter from 
Lender B doesnt make reference to this. Even if Mrs M did make enquiries directly, it doesnt change the fact that she did later decide to instruct Taylor Edwards. I agree, if Mrs M 
did make enquiries directly then, had Lender B not provided an incorrect response to her, its 
unlikely it wouldve led to her instructing Taylor Edwards. As mentioned above though, 
Taylor Edwards arent responsible for the incorrect response Mrs M mightve received. 
I can see Mrs M has emailed Taylor Edwards on a number of occasions with queries and 
also to complain. She asks for information and also the reasons why Taylor Edwards feel 
they should be paid given that their file is closed. I think Taylor Edwards shouldve 
responded to those queries to help Mrs M understand how the arrangement works. The lack 
of response has led to frustration and inconvenience for Mrs M in having to chase for 
answers. Taylor Edwards only ever respond to chase their fees  and this has generally 
taken several months. I think its right that Taylor Edwards should pay compensation as the 
lack of response has continued over a significant period and throughout our services 
involvement. This has meant Mrs M has had to wait until now to get an answer to her query 
about why Taylor Edwards are invoicing her. So, I uphold this part of the complaint and I 
think Taylor Edwards should pay compensation of £150 to Mrs M.  
Ive seen that Taylor Edwards offered to reduce their fees. I havent been provided with any 
information showing what Taylor Edwards present position is in relation to their fees. So, 
Mrs M should contact Taylor Edwards directly to see if they are still prepared to reduce their 
fees in line with the offer they made in January.    
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Taylor Edwards havent responded to Mrs Ms queries and concerns 
about why she is being charged a fee. So, I think they should pay Mrs M £150 compensation 
for the frustration and inconvenience caused. 
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Taylor Edwards Financial Management Ltd 
must pay Mrs M compensation of £150. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman