DRN-2717067
The complaint
Ms F has complained about Aviva Insurance Limiteds decision to decline her claim under 
her unemployment insurance policy.
What happened
Ms F became unemployed after entering into a compromise agreement with her employer. 
She made a claim under her policy.
After obtaining further information from her employer, Aviva declined the claim. It said that 
the employer had been unable to confirm that Ms F would have been either made redundant 
or dismissed had she not entered into the compromise agreement. It said it therefore viewed 
this as a voluntary redundancy which was excluded from cover under the policy.
Ms F complained to Aviva but it wouldnt change its position. Ms F therefore referred her 
complaint to us. She said she had entered into the compromise agreement because her 
employer had raised concerns over her performance. She considered that her situation did 
not fall under any of the exclusions listed in the policy and that Aviva should therefore accept 
her claim.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. She was satisfied 
that Aviva had acted fairly in declining the claim.
Ms F didnt accept the investigators findings. She felt she had been left with no option by her 
employer other than to enter into the compromise agreement. As such, she considered it 
was wrong to regard it as voluntary redundancy.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy states:
We will not pay any claim for unemployment: if you have resigned, retired, taken 
voluntary redundancy or the unemployment is a result of your misconduct
Ms Fs employer confirmed that her employment ended through a compromise agreement. 
Aviva asked it for further details. The employer explained that the agreement had been 
offered due to concerns about Ms Fs performance and capability. However, when Aviva 
asked it to confirm whether Ms F would otherwise have been made redundant or dismissed, 
the employer said it couldnt speculate on what might have happened.
I can understand why Ms F felt pressured to enter into the compromise agreement. It seems 
likely that if she had not done so, her employer would have started formal procedures to 
address the concerns about her performance and this could ultimately have resulted in her 
being dismissed.
However, while Ms F may have felt there was a strong risk that this would have been the 
eventual outcome, her employer has said that it was not inevitable. And so while 
I understand why Ms F felt it necessary to enter into the compromise agreement, the fact is 
that she chose to do so; it wasnt the case that she would inevitably lose her job even if she 
didnt. In these circumstances, I consider it was reasonable for Aviva to say that Ms F 
voluntarily became unemployed. As such, while I sympathise with Ms F, I consider it was fair 
for Aviva to decline her claim, either on the grounds that she had taken voluntary 
redundancy as it argued, or on the grounds that she had voluntarily resigned.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman