DRN-2051600
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain because AXA Insurance UK Plc hasnt paid a claim under their travel 
insurance policy. 
Mr and Mrs C are also unhappy with the level of service provided to them by AXA in 
connection with their claim. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs C hold a travel insurance policy, provided by AXA, as a benefit of their bank 
account. 
Mr and Mrs C were due to travel abroad on 13 March 2020. Unfortunately, they were unable 
to use their flights as the government at their intended destination cancelled all e-visas due 
to the COVID-19 (coronavirus) pandemic.  
Mr and Mrs Cs airline gave them a voucher for the full value of their original flights, to be 
used within 12 months. Mr and Mrs C used the voucher to rebook new flights departing in 
March 2021, at an additional cost to themselves. 
Mr and Mrs C made a claim under their policy with AXA for the difference in cost between 
the originally booked flights and the new flights. When AXA didnt respond, Mr and Mrs C 
complained.
AXA said the additional cost of rebooking flights isnt covered under the terms and conditions 
of Mr and Mrs Cs policy. But AXA acknowledged it had provided poor service to Mr and 
Mrs C when dealing with their claim, so paid them £250 compensation for any distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
As Mr and Mrs C remained unhappy, they brought their complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened, but he didnt think AXA had acted unfairly. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree, so their complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Cs policy provide cover for the cost of cancelling a 
trip in certain circumstances. 
The costs that are covered under Section A  Cancellation are any irrecoverable unused 
travel and accommodation costs. The costs that are covered in the event of cancellation 
under Section Q  Travel disruption are unused travel, accommodationand other Pre-paid 
charges that You cannot claim back from any other source.
So, only unused costs are covered. But Mr and Mrs C dont have any unused travel costs, 
because their airline has provided them with a voucher equivalent to the amount they paid 
for their original unused flights and they used that to book a new trip next year.
I understand Mr and Mrs C say that consumers are not legal experts, but cancellation cover 
under a travel insurance policy is designed to cover the cost of the trip that was originally 
booked only. The policy indemnifies the policyholder against any financial loss they may 
have if the original trip doesnt go ahead, in circumstances where the policyholder cant get a 
refund or a reasonable monetary equivalent such as a voucher from any other source. 
Any additional costs in rebooking a new trip at a future date arent an insured expense. This 
doesnt make travel insurance useless  it simply means that the unknown and variable 
costs, which can be influenced by external factors, of a policyholder rescheduling a trip 
arent something which an insurer wishes to cover as an insured risk. 
I understand Mr and Mrs C have incurred additional costs through no fault of their own, but 
these costs arent something that are covered under this travel insurance policy. The costs 
Mr and Mrs C are claiming for wouldnt be covered under most, if not all, travel insurance 
policies on the market. I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could 
fairly ask AXA to depart from the policy terms and conditions and pay Mr and Mrs Cs claim.  
Turning to how AXA handled Mr and Mrs Cs claim, regulatory rules require insurers to 
handle claims promptly. 
Mr and Mrs C registered their claim on 21 April 2020. In its final response letter of 3 June 
2020, AXA acknowledged that it didnt handle the claim as it should have and paid £250 
compensation. Given the timeframe involved, Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable 
compensation in the circumstances. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs C but I wont be recommending that AXA should do 
anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 September 2020.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman