DRN-1751122
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plcs (RSA) decision to turn 
down a storm damage claim they made on their landlords buildings insurance policy.
What happened
In March 2019, following heavy rain and high winds, a section of Mr and Mrs Hs wall 
collapsed. There was some damage to property underneath. They made a claim on their 
landlords buildings insurance policy.
RSA asked a surveyor to inspect the wall and the surrounding area. The surveyors report 
said the damage was down to the wall being in a poor condition and a large amount of 
rainfall running from the driveway above it through the wall. Based on the report, RSA turned 
down Mr and Mrs Hs claim. It said they hadnt maintained the wall in a good condition, so 
they hadnt complied with the policy terms. It also said the damage was caused over time, 
which was specifically excluded by the policy terms.
Mr and Mrs H were unhappy with RSAs decision. They appointed their own surveyor to 
carry out a geotechnical survey of the property and the wall. Their surveyors report differed 
significantly from the findings of RSAs surveyor. It found the remaining sections of the wall 
were in a good condition. So it thought the collapsed sections had been suitably maintained 
for a wall of its age. It concluded the collapse of the wall was due to an unusually large flow 
of surface water following the adverse weather conditions. Mr and Mrs H sent this report 
onto RSA for its consideration.
RSA looked at the report, but it didnt change its mind. It said the structural integrity of the 
wall had been undermined by the surrounding vegetation. It said it wouldve expected the 
wall to be more adequately maintained. It also said if the wall hadnt been in a poor 
condition, the rain wouldnt have had such an effect on it. So Mr and Mrs H asked us to look 
into their complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld. He was more 
persuaded by the findings of Mr and Mrs Hs surveyor. He thought the damage was caused 
by excessive rainfall. He recommended that RSA should deal with the claim; that it should 
pay for the costs of Mr and Mrs Hs surveyors report; and he recommended it should pay Mr 
and Mrs H £100 for the distress and inconvenience its handling of the claim had caused 
them.
RSA disagreed with some of the investigators findings. It sent Mr and Mrs H a cheque for 
£100. But it didnt agree to deal with the claim. It acknowledged its surveyors report differed 
from that of Mr and Mrs Hs surveyor. But it thought it had enough to maintain its decision 
based on the vegetation growing out of the wall. And it said previous weather conditions 
would show this damage wasnt due to a one-off event.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided it wasnt fair 
for RSA to turn down Mr and Mrs Hs claim. Ill explain why.
When we look at complaints about storm damage, there are three questions that we need to 
ask:
 Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim? 
 Is the damage consistent with storm damage? 
 Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to any of these questions is no then the claim wont succeed. 
Were there storm conditions on or around the date of claim?
RSA doesnt dispute that there were storm conditions around the date of the claim. Ive 
looked at the local weather report and I can see that three days before Mr and Mrs H made 
the claim; there were wind speeds of up to 51 mph and rainfall of 41.4 mm over a 24 hour 
period. So Im satisfied there were prevailing storm conditions around the time of the claim.
Is the damage consistent with storm damage?
Mr and Mrs H claimed for a section of wall which collapsed during storm conditions. Given 
the high wind speeds and the substantial rainfall recorded at the time and the nature of what 
happened, I think the damage is consistent with storm damage.
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
The key issue Ive focused on is whether the storm was the main cause of the damage. In 
this case, I have two pieces of conflicting expert evidence. One which attributes the damage 
to poor maintenance, which isnt covered by the policy. And one which states the wall 
appeared to have been properly maintained and attributes the cause to the unusually heavy 
rainfall. So I need to decide which report I find most persuasive.
RSAs surveyors report says: there are several walls in this area and all are in a poor 
conditionIt is my opinion that the wall has collapsed due to it being in a poor condition and 
a large amount of rainfall running from the driveway above it through the wall. This was the 
first expert evidence RSA received about the claim . So on the face of it, it did appear that 
the cause of the walls collapse was the failure to properly maintain it. This wouldve 
constituted a breach of the policy condition requiring property to be well-maintained. So I can 
understand why RSA initially turned down Mr and Mrs Hs claim.
But Mr and Mrs H then provided RSA with the report from their own surveyor. This stated 
that while there wasnt any record of the previous state of the collapsed section, we have to 
conclude on the evidence of the remaining sections of the wall they were suitably well-
maintained for a Burr wall of this age. In relation to the fallen wall, he said that there has 
been no significant degradation or weathering of the stone. This would suggest the surveyor 
considered the collapsed section of the wall had been well-maintained.
This surveyor found that: on the balance of probability the perceived cause of the collapse 
has therefore been put down to an unusually large flow of surface water from flooding on the 16th running down the drive and through the collapsed section of the wall. While this is a 
logical likely cause the slopes of both the lane and drive would not, during a less severe 
rainfall event cause water to flow over or through the wall. Therefore it has to be concluded 
that such an event is not foreseeable in normal rainfall conditionsThe length of time the 
wall has stood until its failure would strongly support this. 
So in the opinion of Mr and Mrs Hs surveyor, it appears that the wall had been well-
maintained and the damage was down to the storm conditions.
Ive considered both reports carefully. It isnt clear what RSAs surveyors qualifications are. 
From Mr and Mrs Hs surveyors report, it appears the surveyor has qualifications in 
Geology. RSAs report doesnt go into much detail. It appears the surveyor did a visual 
inspection of the site and of the walls before coming to a conclusion about the cause of 
damage. I accept it was their professional opinion that the damage was due to a lack of 
maintenance and Ive borne this in mind.
Mr and Mrs Hs surveyors report is far more detailed. It seems he carried out a detailed 
analysis of the site, including both the remaining sections of the wall and the collapsed 
stones. The report describes the construction of the wall; its foundations and it appears 
measurements have also been taken. The surveyor also gave detailed reasons for his 
findings, based on what hed seen at the site.
Based on what Ive seen, I find Mr and Mrs Hs surveyors report more persuasive. I think its 
most likely that there werent any significant maintenance issues with the wall before the 
storm in March 2019. 
RSA has also linked vegetation growing out of the wall to suggest the damage was caused 
over time. Gradually operating causes are specifically excluded by Mr and Mrs Hs policy. 
Ive thought about this. RSAs surveyors report doesnt mention vegetation as a potential 
cause of the damage. Mr and Mrs Hs surveyors report does refer to a hedge. But it doesnt 
suggest it was linked to the collapse of the wall. 
In fact, while the report states it might be easier to remove the hedge from the damaged 
sections; it states it doesnt recommend the hedge on the remaining sections should be 
removed. If the hedge was likely to cause further issues with the rest of the wall, Id have 
expected to see its removal recommended in the surveyors report.
On this basis, I dont think RSA has shown its most likely the damage happened gradually. 
So I dont think it can fairly rely on this exclusion clause to turn down Mr and Mrs Hs claim.
Overall, Im persuaded that the main cause of the damage was storm. And so Ive decided 
RSA needs to deal with Mr and Mrs Hs claim. Ive also noted that RSA told Mr and Mrs H 
that their surveyors report would be considered if the claim was accepted. As Ive decided 
RSA needs to deal with the claim, I think its also fair for RSA to reimburse Mr and Mrs H for 
the cost of their surveyors report.
The investigator recommended that RSA should pay Mr and Mrs H £100 for their trouble and 
upset. Its already paid them this amount. I think this is fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I direct Royal & Sun Alliance Plc 
to:Deal with Mr and Mrs Hs claim, subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy. To any settlement paid, RSA must pay interest at an annual rate of 8% simple 
from the date of claim until the date of settlement.
Reimburse Mr and Mrs H the cost of their surveyors report. RSA must also add 
interest to this amount at a rate of 8% simple from the date Mr and Mrs H paid it until 
the date of settlement.
*If Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc  considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest it should tell Mr and Mrs H how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs H a certificate showing this if they asks for one, so 
they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman