DRN-2533686
The complaint
Mr T complains that Tesco Personal Finance plc continued to charge interest on the money 
transfer balance in his account after hed been told no interest would be charged if he 
credited his account with the balance outstanding for money transfers.
What happened
Mr T had a credit card account with Tesco. He says he contacted Tesco on 12 May 2019 
and asked it about interest he was being charged for the money transfer balance on his 
account. He says he was told if he paid £292.28, interest would stop accruing on this 
balance.
Mr T says he credited his account with £292.28. But he says interest continued to be
charged on the money transfer balance.
Mr T says he contacted Tesco again on 30 June 2020. He asked it about the interest he was 
being charged on the money transfer balance. He says he was told that if he paid £398.46, 
no further interest would be charged. But Mr T says interest continued to be charged on the 
money transfer balance. So, he complained to Tesco.
Tesco investigated his complaint. It said that when payments were made to Mr Ts credit 
card account they were allocated in a certain order. This meant they were used to pay items 
which were billed first, and which had a higher balance. So, the payments Mr T had made 
were allocated against his purchase balance and not his money transfer balance.
Tesco said the information it had provided to Mr T on 12 May 2019 was correct. But it said it 
shouldve also told Mr T about how payments were allocated. It said it had refunded the 
interest charged on the money transfer balance for May 2020 and June 2020 and it had 
refunded all interest charged in July 2020. Tesco also credited Mr Ts account with £35 by 
way of apology for what had happened.
Mr T wasnt satisfied with what Tesco had done. He complained to our service. Our
investigator looked into his complaint. She said Tesco had allocated payments to the
account in line with the terms and conditions. Tesco had admitted it had made an error when 
it didnt provide information to Mr T about how payments were allocated when he spoke to it 
in May 2019.
Our investigator thought Tesco had done enough to try to put things right. She didnt think 
she could ask it to refund all of the interest charged from May 2019 when the terms and 
conditions made clear how the payments would be applied. But she thought Tesco should 
increase the amount it had paid to Mr T for distress and inconvenience. She thought £50 
would be fair and reasonable.
Tesco didnt agree with our investigator. It said shed misinterpreted the information when 
shed concluded that Tesco had given Mr T incorrect information. It said it had given correct 
information  but not the right level of information. So, it didnt think it should have to 
increase the compensation to £50.
Because Tesco didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There were two money transfers on Mr Ts account. The first was for £290.90 made 
on 29 March 2018. The second was for £100 made on 20 April 2018. The money 
transfer balances were charged at 0% - a promotional interest rate for 12 months. 
After that period the standard rate was charged.
Mr T received a monthly statement. The statements included a section called 
Summary of balances. I can see that this set out the balance and the interest rate 
for each part of the overall balance. So, it set out the balance for purchases, money 
transfers, 0% rates and other fees. After the promotional rate on the money transfer 
balance ended, the rate of interest for everything, except the 0% rate balance, was 
the same.
The interest charged each month was also set out. The statement showed separate 
entries for the amount of interest charged on purchases and the amount of interest 
charged on money transfers.
Mr T contacted Tesco on two occasions about the interest he was being charged on 
his money transfer balance. The first call was on 12 May 2019 and the second call 
was on 30 June 2020.
During the first call he was told if he paid £292.28, which was the money transfer 
balance at that time, interest would stop accruing on the money transfer balance. 
Tesco says this information was correct. It acknowledges Mr T wasnt given the right 
level of information. It says it shouldve told him that in order to stop paying interest 
he would have to pay off the entire balance.
Ive looked at the statements for the account and I dont see where Mr T made a 
payment of £292.28. He made a payment of £92.04 on 31 May 2019 which was 
greater than the minimum payment he was required to make. On 2 July 2019 he 
made a payment of £267.66 which also exceeded the minimum monthly payment he 
was required to make. After these payments were made, his statements didnt show 
any decrease in his money transfer balance or in the amount of interest he had to 
pay on it.
Id just point out at this stage that the payments Mr T made in May and July 2019 
were allocated against his purchases balance.
Tesco says its terms and conditions permitted it to allocate the payments in the way 
that it did. The terms and conditions state that any payments made to the account will 
be used to pay off the highest rates first.
The money transfer balance was charged at 0% interest for the twelve month period 
after the date the money transfers took place.The terms and conditions permitted Tesco to allocate any payments against the 
balance charged at the highest rate. During the twelve month period where the 
promotional rate applied to the money transfer balance, I can see that Mr Ts 
purchases balance was charged at a higher rate of interest. So, any payments made 
were allocated to his purchases balance. And, payments made during that twelve 
month period, were not high enough to permit the money transfer balance to be 
reduced.
After the twelve month period ended the terms and conditions provide further detail 
about how payments are allocated. The Summary Box says:
If there is more than one item at the same rate we pay off the item at the rate 
that ends first. For further details please refer to Section 6
Section 6 repeats the information set out above and then provides an example where 
there are two items at the same rate. The example is
If you have 0% on purchases for 12 months and 0% on balance transfers for 
9 months well pay off your balance transfer first
After the 0% promotional period ended, Mr T had more than one item at the same 
rate. He paid the same rate of interest for purchases, balance transfers and other 
fees. This same rate continued to apply to these categories of spending until an 
unspecified date. So, the example provided in the terms and conditions isnt relevant 
to Mr Ts case.
But, having thought about it, Ive concluded that where both items (the purchase 
balance and the money transfer balance) were at the same rate it didnt matter how 
payments were allocated. The amount of interest Mr T wouldve been charged on his 
overall balance was the same.
As Ive mentioned above, when Mr T made payments in May and July 2019 they 
were allocated to his purchases balance. His purchases balance was reduced as a 
result of the payments and he was charged less interest on that balance than would 
otherwise have been the case.
He was paying the same rate of interest on both the purchases balance and the 
money transfer balance. So, even if the payment had been allocated to his money 
transfer balance, as hed thought would be the case, the total amount of interest 
charged to his account wouldve been exactly the same. And, Im satisfied he hasnt 
had to pay more interest or charges as a result of how his payment was allocated.
I can understand why Mr T says Tesco gave him incorrect information when he 
asked it about how he could stop accruing interest on the money transfer balance. It 
has acknowledged it didnt give him the right level of information in May 2019. And, 
having reviewed the transcript of the call on 30 June 2020, I dont think it made the 
position clear then either.
During the call on 30 June 2020, Mr T asked if he paid the amount of the money 
transfer balance would that stop the interest. He said:
If I pay that today, interest will stop?
and the adviser responds:Yes.
Tesco didnt provide any explanation about how the payment would be allocated. 
And, Tesco didnt tell Mr T that because he was paying the same rate of interest on 
both balances, it wouldnt change the overall amount of interest he would have to pay 
even if the payment was allocated against his money transfer balance. So, I can 
understand why Mr T complained when he noticed, even after hed made the 
payment he was told to make, interest was still accruing on his money transfer 
balance.
When a business provides incomplete or incorrect information, its not our role to fine 
or punish it. Our role is to consider the action the firm took to try to put things right.
In this case Tesco agreed to refund the interest charged on the money transfer 
balance in May and June 2020. It also agreed to refund all of the interest charged for 
all balances in July 2020. In total this was £19.95 of interest. And, it agreed to pay Mr 
T £35 by way of apology. Our investigator didnt think this was enough. She thought it 
should pay Mr T a further £15. But Tesco disagreed.
Ive thought about the distress and inconvenience Mr Ts been caused as a result of 
the incomplete information he was given. Hes had to contact Tesco and hes raised 
a complaint about the information he was given. I dont think hes experienced any 
further inconvenience. And, as mentioned above, I dont think hes had to pay more 
interest on his account as a result of acting on the information he was given.
Ive also been provided with a copy of Mr Ts credit card statement dated 6 October 
2020. I can see, on that statement, Tesco has adjusted how it dealt with the payment 
Mr T made to it on 1 July 2020. At that date Mr T had made a payment equal to his 
money transfer balance. But itd been applied to the purchases balance. On the 
October statement that has been adjusted so that it has now been applied to the 
money transfer balance. So, Tesco has now allocated the payment in the way Mr T 
had requested.
Ive considered whether the interest refund, applied to the account on 7 July 2020, 
taken together with the £35 apology payment, credited to the account on 14 July 
2020, is enough.
Determining the right level of compensation is not an exact science. But having 
thought about it, Im currently of the view that Tesco has done enough to try to 
resolve the situation here. I think the actions its taken and the amount its already 
paid Mr T is fair and reasonable. So, I dont intend to require it to do anything more.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, my provisional decision is that I do not intend to require 
Tesco Personal Finance plc to take any further action to resolve the complaint.
 
Tesco said it didnt have any comments to make in response to my provisional decision.  
Mr T also didnt make any comments in response to my provisional decision.
So, I now need to make my final decision
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Tesco nor Mr T have made any comments about my provisional decision. So, for the 
reasons set out in my provisional decision, I remain of the view that Tesco doesnt need to 
take any further action to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about Tesco Personal Finance 
plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman