DRN-3021541
The complaint
Ms H is unhappy with the renewal price of a pet insurance policy she had with Royal &
Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA), trading as More Th>n
Any reference to RSA includes the actions of its agents. 
What happened
The background and circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ill 
only summarise the events that lead to this complaint.
Ms H took out a life time pet insurance policy for her dogs in 2013. Ms H has made a 
number of successful claims on the policy since 2013. When she received a renewal 
invitation in 2020 she was surprised at the cost of the renewal quote. She complained to 
RSA about the price increase.
RSA didnt uphold the complaint, but offered Ms H £600 compensation for any upset or 
inconvenience caused by the premium increase at renewal.
Ms H remained unhappy and referred her complaint to our service for an independent 
review. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, but as Ms H didnt accept his findings 
the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Was Ms H given clear information about the policy costs?
With the type of life time policy that Ms H purchased, the usual benefit of this type of policy 
is that itll continue to cover any medical conditions that were claimed for since policy 
inception (so long as the premiums continue to be paid). However, its also not uncommon 
that the cost each year after policy inception can increase. This can be due to a number of 
factors including, but not limited to; the age of the pet, claims made or any conditions 
developed. 
As our investigator has already outlined, its not the role of our service to dictate how 
businesses view risk or the insurance premiums they charge. I also dont have the power to 
tell a business what their insurance should cost or how they should calculate the risk they 
are insuring. If I did so, in effect, Id be telling a business how they should operate  and 
thats not my role. So I cant say the cost of Ms Hs policy was too high or she should have 
been charged less for the policy. That said, Ms H has my sympathy for the financial and 
emotional impact shes described when she received the policy renewal.
I find that Ms Hs premium has indeed increased quite significantly since policy inception in 
2013. RSA has explained to us the reasons for that increase and whats caused that change. 
I havent seen any evidence to suggest RSA has treated her differently to how it would have 
treated any other policyholder in a similar position. So as a result I cant tell RSA to charge 
Ms H a lower premium going forward. 
Ive also considered and placed the appropriate weight on examples Ms H has provided of 
other policies taken out by friends of hers. As our investigator has already pointed out, it 
would be unsafe to assume that all the policies taken out by Ms Hs friends were the exact 
same as the level of cover she had and that theyd had the same number of claims for the 
same reasons. Its also reasonable to assume many will not have been with RSA and every 
insurer has their own underwriting criteria that dictates premium prices. 
I do find that Ms Hs policy cost increased by a lot more than she had expected. RSA 
themselves have said this in response to the complaint. So its not in dispute that the 
information given (about the likely longer-term costs increases) wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been when Ms H took this policy out in 2013.
Would Ms H have acted differently if she had been given clearer information at the time of 
taking this policy out?
Ive gone on to look at what Ms H likely wouldve done differently if she had been given clear 
information in 2013. Ive to look at the facts and then make a judgement call based on the 
balance of probabilities. That is, what Ms H more likely than not would have done - not what 
Ms H definitely wouldve done - as nobody can safely say that given the passage of time.
Had Ms H been given clearer information about the lifetime policy, I think shed have been 
left with the options of:
not taking the policy at all; or
going ahead and taking the policy out; or
taking a (likely cheaper) standard policy offering less cover; or
taking the same type of life time policy with a different insurer.
Ms H has described herself as a conscientious and responsible pet owner who wanted to 
have her pet insured comprehensively from puppy hood. Based on what Ive seen, I agree 
that she is a responsible pet owner. She chose to take out pet insurance in 2013, so its fair 
to say she wanted some type of cover for her dogs.
At the time, she chose to take out what would have been a more expensive lifetime policy. 
This suggests to me that she had a greater interest in the higher level of cover it provided. 
Ive also considered that she may well have decided to take out a life time policy with 
different insurer from the start. But its impossible for me to know what other policy Ms H 
would have ended up with  it might well have been cheaper, but it could also have been 
more expensive. 
Overall, on balance, I find that its unlikely better information about the possible future costs 
of this policy would have resulted in Ms H not taking out this life time cover policy. 
The overall impact on Ms HMs H did make a number of claims on this policy (totalling over £6,000) so I think shed have 
reasonably expected that there may be some price increase as a result. That said, RSA has 
already recognised the overall increase may have caused Ms H upset and inconvenience 
and offered her £600. I consider that fair, reasonable and proportionate and I dont make any 
further award. 
I know Ms H will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what 
we  in trying to informally resolve her dispute with RSA  can do for her.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman