DRN-2829695
The complaint
Mr K has complained that Soteria Insurance Limited renewed his car insurance policy 
against his wishes. Hes also unhappy about the way Soteria dealt with a claim he made. 
What happened
In June 2020 Mr K made a claim under his car insurance policy as he was unfortunately 
involved in an incident with another vehicle. 
His insurer Soteria instructed an engineer who reported that it wasnt economical to repair 
Mr Ks car. So in line with the policy terms, Soteria offered Mr K a total loss settlement. This 
was initially £1,350 but increased to £1,461.
In July 2020 Soteria Insurance renewed Mr Ks policy with it and collected the first months 
premium from his bank account. 
Later that month Mr K complained to Soteria. He said hes asked it not to renew his policy in 
good time before the renewal date. Separately Mr K complained about the way Soteria 
intended to settle his claim. Mr K wanted his car to be repaired. He didnt think he should pay 
the excess as he wasnt at fault for the incident. 
In August 2020 Soteria replied to Mr Ks complaints. It apologised for renewing his policy. It 
refunded the premium and paid him £30 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. It asked Mr K to provide information about any bank charges he may have incurred. 
Soteria apologised to Mr K because when he disputed the valuation, the engineer checked 
the motor trade guides and found valuations much higher than the original valuation guides 
Soteria had relied on. Using the revised valuations, the average came to £1,974. 
To put things right, Soteria revised its total loss settlement sum to £2,000 and paid Mr K £50 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Soteria said the excess was correctly payable in the event of a claim, irrespective of who 
was at fault for the incident. 
Mr K remained unhappy as he wanted either a settlement of £2,200 or for Soteria to repair 
his car. He was unhappy it had made the decision to write it off. 
But Soteria said it had now provided a fair valuation for it. It explained that if Mr K wanted to 
retain the car, Soteria would deduct a salvage fee from the total loss settlement in line with 
the policy. 
Mr K brought his complaints to us. Our investigator thought Soteria had done enough to put 
things right for the complaints it upheld. He didnt think Soteria had acted unreasonably. 
Mr K didnt agree. He says he wasnt provided with a courtesy car and says he brought this 
complaint to Soteria in June 2020 but it hasnt been addressed.
He disagrees with the valuations and our approach to the guides. Mr K says the 
compensation he received doesnt reflect the distress and inconvenience caused to him and 
his family. 
Mr K doesnt feel we have captured the enormity and seriousness of the issues he 
complained about. So he wants an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ks policy with Soteria says it will provide a courtesy car while his car is being repaired. 
However, it wasnt economical for Soteria to repair Mr Ks car.
I understand Mr K wanted a higher settlement claim and he doesnt believe he should have 
to pay the excess. 
Ive looked at the terms of the policy Mr K held with Soteria. The policy says that in the event 
of a claim the most it will pay is the market value of his car at the time of loss. And Soteria 
can decide whether to repair a car or pay a market value for it instead. This isnt an unusual 
term as Ive seen it in most  if not all motor insurance policies.
We dont decide a valuation. But we can look at whether an insurer reached is valuation in a 
reasonable way and in line with the policy. 
I think Soterias initial valuation was wrong. It cant provide an explanation for this. And I can 
see that the error only came to light when Mr K raised concerns. 
I think Soterias final settlement sum of £2,000 is fair based on the correct motor trade 
guides for Mr Ks car at the time of loss. We find the motor trade guides more reliable than 
adverts. They can provide valuations based on the same make, model, age, condition and 
mileage as Mr Ks car based on likely selling prices. 
Adverts tend to be less reliable as they can vary widely for seemingly similar cars. And the 
asking price tends to have a margin built in for a buyer to negotiate a reduction. 
Having checked the motor trade guide valuations, Im satisfied that the settlement of £2,000 
Soteria provided was reached reasonably. 
I appreciate that Mr K believes he shouldnt pay the excess because he wasnt at fault for 
the incident. The excess is the first payment in the event of a claim. The excess is an 
uninsured loss. Mr Ks policy says that if he has motor legal expenses cover, he can claim 
for any uninsured losses when a claim is made. However, Mr K didnt buy this level of cover. 
Mr K wrote to Soteria before the renewal date. He said he had been able to find cheaper 
quotes elsewhere and asked if Soteria would match the price. Soteria automatically renewed 
Mr Ks policy. 
Soteria accepted that it was clear Mr K intended to buy insurance elsewhere and it 
apologised for renewing his policy. In August 2020 it refunded the premium it had collected 
in July 2020 and paid Mr K £30 compensation. It asked Mr K to provide details if hed 
incurred bank charges as a result. I think this was fair.I understand that Mr K feels the compensation Soteria has paid doesnt reflect the impact its 
failings had on him and his family. I do understand Mr K spent time communicating with 
Soteria during his claim and about the renewal of his policy. But I think  where Soteria 
made errors  it put things right promptly. And I think the compensation it paid was 
reasonable and in line with awards we give for similar cases. 
I realise Mr K will be disappointed with my decision. But overall I think Soteria has done 
enough to resolve his complaints. So Im not asking it to do any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman