DRN-2640778
The complaint
Mr O complains about how The New India Assurance Company Limited (New India) handled 
his car insurance claim following the involvement of his car in an accident. Hes also 
unhappy with the amount they paid out when his car was deemed a total loss. References to 
New India include their agents.
What happened
A large part of Mr Os complaint is about delays in the processing of his claim. So, Ive 
summarised the timeline of events in some detail below.
Mr O bought a comprehensive car insurance policy insured by New India in April 2018. On 
16 November 2018 his car was involved in an accident. The driver was his wife, a named 
driver on the policy.
On 22 November 2018 New India told Mr O that the third-party driver appeared to be 
uninsured. They explained theyd need to engage another business, C, to trace the vehicles 
keeper. Mr O supplied New India with a police reference.
The following day Mr O called New India twice for an update on progress. He was advised 
that instructions were on the way to C, and that the police report was being requested but 
could take some time. Mr O said hed be calling regularly for updates. He also said that his 
wife had begun looking for a new car.
Later that day instructions were sent to C and a written request was sent to the police for the 
report on 26 November 2018.
On 4 December 2018 Mr O called New India to chase the trace result and police report  he 
was under the impression the trace would be returned within two weeks and wasnt happy 
with the lack of progress.
An engineer assessed Mr Os car on 6 December 2018. He reported that the car was in 
good condition before the accident but concluded the repairs would cost more than the 
vehicles value.
On 7 December 2018 Mr O called New India for an update and was advised that Cs trace 
had returned no registered keeper details. They confirmed theyd still be seeking the police 
report and explained what generally happens when a third party cant be traced/is uninsured.
During this call it was explained that Mr O should get a total loss settlement offer within a 
week (he said the engineer had told him three working days), but seasonal low staffing 
levels might extend that timescale.
A week later, when he hadnt received an offer, Mr O contacted New India and spoke with a 
manager. The manager gave him a provisional figure of £1,160. Mr O made it clear he 
wasnt happy with this or the time it had taken. He assessed the value of his car as at least 
£2,500.
On 17 December 2018, New India wrote to Mr O increasing the offer to £1,690. Mr O 
responded with further examples of the same car being offered for sale at prices between 
£1,993 and £3,495. It was explained that taking into account the age of the car and the 
mileage it had done, they wouldnt be increasing their offer.
In January 2019, after Mr O expressed his dissatisfaction with the service hed received and 
the valuation of his car, the claim was reviewed. It was noted that correspondence had been 
received from the police on 14 December 2018, but hadnt been actioned. And that Mr O 
hadnt been asked for all the paperwork needed to obtain the police report (specifically, an 
appendix D form). With regard to the valuation, the reviewer noted theyd looked at some 
classified ads but didnt think the offer should be increased.
New India received the outstanding paperwork from Mr O on 15 January 2019 and 
completed the police report request (the police report was eventually received on 22 March 
2019).
On 23 January 2019 Mr O told New India his wife had made an error when providing the 
third partys car registration number. The third party was then traced, and contact made with 
their insurer.
Mr O remained keen that the police report was still obtained; he was concerned that the third 
party might deny liability. On 8 February 2019 Mr O called New India to say he hadnt 
received a promised update about whether the police report had been received. And he was 
still awaiting acknowledgement of his complaint (made on 9 January). He said the process 
had been inefficient, there had been delays, hed been left without a vehicle, hed had to do 
all the chasing, and the valuation was too low. He added that he wanted to be compensated 
for the inconvenience caused. New India issued a final response letter on 12 February 2019. 
They said:
They hadnt handled the process for requesting the police report correctly, and there 
had been a significant delay caused  they apologised and said feedback had been 
given to the relevant team manager.
Although Mr O was, under his comprehensive car insurance policy, only entitled to a 
courtesy car from an approved repairer whilst your vehicle is being repaired, he did 
have additional Hire Car Cover which could have been implemented.
After further review of the valuation they would not be increasing the total loss 
settlement but would waive Mr Os £100 excess in recognition that the third party was 
likely to admit liability, and also amend his no-claims bonus to be unaffected by the 
claim.
They didnt correctly log and acknowledge Mr Os complaint and so their complaints 
team were unaware of it until 8 February 2019  they apologised and offered Mr O 
£250 for the inconvenience hed experienced whilst making his claim.
Unhappy with this response, Mr O approached our service.
Our investigators view
Our investigator partly upheld Mr Os complaint. He agreed that Mr O had had to spend a 
considerable amount of time on the phone to New India, and that they hadnt always 
explained things clearly. He also agreed that there had been delays and that New India 
could have done more to obtain the police report sooner.With regard to the valuation figure he thought New Indias offer was fair. Finally, he said 
more could have been done to let Mr O know he had additional Hire Car Cover, but as he 
didnt think Mr O had been disadvantaged by this, he didnt uphold that part of the complaint.
To compensate Mr O for the poor service New India gave him, our investigator 
recommended that they increase their offer of £250 to £400.
New India agreed. But Mr O said the compensation was still too low. He disagreed with the 
investigators assessment that he hadnt been disadvantaged through not having a 
replacement car. He also didnt agree New Indias total loss valuation was fair.
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
The scope of this decision
Part of Mr Os complaint is that he was left without a replacement vehicle during his claim. 
Hes said that he was provided with incorrect information about his Hire Car Cover and was 
caused major inconvenience over the busy Christmas and New Year period including £900 
in costs.
New India have said that Mr O had additional Hire Car Cover which could have been 
implemented. However, because that additional cover wasnt insured by New India, its not 
something I can consider in this decision. Here, I can only look at matters relating to Mr Os 
claim under the comprehensive part of his car insurance policy. So, Ill address Mr Os 
complaint about the additional cover in a separate decision.
Further information
I asked New India for evidence of how many calls Mr O made to their agents between 
November 2018 and March 2019. They provided records showing that there were at least 50 
telephone contacts with Mr O over the period.
I also asked them to explain exactly when it was decided Mr Os car was a write off. They 
explained:
 following the initial report of the incident and Mr Os explanation of the damage, it 
was thought that the car would be repairable, although this had yet to be established. 
The vehicle was inspected, with the estimate for repairs sent to engineers by the 
inspecting garage on 29 November 2018, who officially deemed the vehicle a total 
loss on 6 December 2018. The replacement vehicle clause of the [New India] policy 
only comes in to effect at the point that the vehicle is deemed repairable.
My provisional decision
Having considered all the available evidence, I reached similar findings to our investigator, 
but because Mr Os complaint involved more than one business and Id altered the scope of 
what we were looking at against New India, I issued a provisional decision on 22 January 
2021. I said:
I currently agree with the investigator that the service New India provided Mr O could 
have been better in some respects, and caused him some inconvenience. Ill explain 
why.
For ease of reference Ive structured my decision against the main points of Mr Os 
complaint.The claims process was disjointed, Mr O had to do all the chasing to progress 
his claim and obtain the valuation figure, and New India failed to follow the 
correct process for requesting the police report and caused delays
Having summarised the timeline of events in some detail above, I agree that there 
were occasions when the service New India provided could have been better. Ive 
listened to recordings of many of the conversations Mr O had with New India, and I 
can hear that he was very worried about what effect the involvement of an uninsured 
third party would have on him. He was concerned that the third party might never be 
traced and that hed lose his no claims bonus. And I dont think New Indias response 
to those concerns was always clear, consistent or reassuring.
There were also times when his expectations of a call back, action or update were 
raised but not met, even though hed made it very clear he wanted things to be done 
as efficiently as possible and to be kept updated. For example, neither of the 
timescales he was given for receiving the total loss settlement figure were met 
leaving him feeling he once again needed to chase progress. And his complaint 
wasnt passed over to the appropriate team and acknowledged as it should have 
been.
That said, I recognise that New Indias claim handlers often tried hard to manage 
Mr Os expectations of how quickly things would move forward in the circumstances. 
I also note that Mr O said early on hed be calling frequently, so I cant say all his 
calls could have been avoided if New India had done things differently.
New Indias approach to requesting the police report also let the service down. 
Although they sent the initial request promptly, when a reply was received (on 
14 December 2018) it remained unactioned until Mr O chased what was happening 
in the New Year. And it was only at that point it was realised Mr O hadnt been asked 
to complete all the necessary forms. This pushed the completion of the request back 
to 15 January 2019.
Ive thought carefully about what material difference it would have made to the 
progress of Mr Os claim if the process of requesting the police report had gone more 
smoothly. If Mr O had been asked to complete the necessary forms at the outset, and 
New India had acted on the polices reply within a reasonable timeframe, I think the 
request could have been completed by no later than mid December 2018. If that had 
happened, its fair to say, based on the fact that it took almost ten weeks to arrive 
once it was requested, that the police report would likely have arrived with New India 
in February 2019. That would certainly have meant the report was received earlier. 
But I dont think it would have hastened the conclusion of Mr Os claim significantly. I 
say this because once Mr O had corrected the error with the third partys car 
registration, the third party was quickly identified, and liability was accepted towards 
the end of February.
So, although I agree that the service Mr O received didnt always meet his 
expectations of customer service, efficiency or speed, I dont think New Indias 
actions delayed the conclusion of his claim by much. I think the main impediment to 
swifter progress at the start of the claim was the incorrect registration number. This is 
what led to Mr O being told the third party was untraceable and likely uninsured; 
news which caused him understandable alarm and heightened his concern that the 
claim be dealt with quickly. But thats not something I can fairly hold New India 
responsible for.New India originally offered Mr O £250 in recognition of the inconvenience hed 
experienced whilst making his claim. Our investigator thought this should be 
increased to £400, and New India accepted that. Whilst I understand Mr O thinks this 
isnt enough, I dont think there are grounds to require New India to pay more. As Ive 
said, the customer service could have been better in some respects. But I dont think 
New India caused all of Mr Os distress and inconvenience, and the portion they did 
cause is, I think, fairly reflected by £400.
Mr O wasnt provided with a replacement vehicle
As Ive explained above, Mr Os complaint regarding his additional Hire Car Cover is 
the subject of a separate complaint as that part of his policy wasnt insured by New 
India. So, Im only looking here at whether there were any failings on the part of New 
India in relation to providing Mr O with a replacement car.
Mr Os policy entitled him to a replacement car for use whilst Your Car is being 
repaired at a garage. But the policy went on to say:
A replacement car is not available  If Your Car has been damaged beyond 
economical repair; or Whilst Your car is being inspected if the likelihood is it 
has been damaged beyond economical repair; 
New India have explained that Mr O wasnt provided with a replacement car because 
his car was never being repaired. Mr O does seem to have known from the outset 
that the car was likely to be written off. Thats why his wife was looking for a new car 
by 23 November 2018 and entered into a finance agreement for a new family car 
shortly afterwards.
As Mr Os car always looked likely to be written off, subject to inspection, and was 
never actually taken into a garage for repairs, I cant say that New India did anything 
wrong by not providing him with a replacement car. I provisionally find its not 
something the New India part of his car insurance policy entitled Mr O to.
The settlement valuation - £1,690 - was way too low
Mr O is unhappy with what he was offered for his car, and he provided both New 
India and us with links to car sales websites to support his point.
Ive noted that the terms of Mr Os policy explain that New India wouldnt pay more 
than the Market Value of Your Car at the time of the loss or damage. And the policy 
included the following definition of Market Value:
The cost, in the reasonable opinion of an independent motor engineer, of 
replacing Your Car with a car of the same make, model and pre-loss or 
damage condition, specification, mileage and age.
To help it determine the market value New India looked to the engineers valuation 
(£1,160) and consulted motor trade guides which gave a top mileage adjusted 
valuation of £1,690. I can see that they also looked at an example of the same make 
and model advertised for £2,795, and another advertised at £3,495. But those cars 
had done significantly fewer miles than Mr Os.
Our investigator carried out his own check of the relevant trade guides before issuing 
his view and received similar valuations ranging from £1,375 to £1,690. He was 
therefore satisfied New Indias valuation was fair.Its not my role to provide valuations for cars but to consider whether an insurer 
reached its valuation fairly and reasonably. To do this we look to motor trade guides 
used for valuing second hand vehicles. We generally find the valuations given in 
these most persuasive because their valuations are based on extensive nationwide 
research of selling prices. We dont usually find advertisements for similar vehicles 
very persuasive on their own because vehicles are often sold for less than the 
advertised price and differences in mileage, year of registration, model type etc. can 
significantly affect the value. So, unless the vehicle is unusual or theres reason to 
think theres an error in the guides, wed normally agree the insurers valuation is fair 
if it is within the range of the guides valuations.
From what Ive seen, the valuation New India gave Mr O was at the top end of the 
figures it found from the trade guides  which seems fair. I can also see that it 
considered the examples Mr O provided of what he said were comparable vehicles 
from car sales websites that cost more than the valuation hed been given. But from 
what Ive seen, these examples differed from Mr Os car in relation to the age and/or 
mileage. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for New India to conclude the trade 
guides were still more reliable.
Taking all of this into consideration, Im satisfied New India acted fairly and 
reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Os policy in giving the 
valuation they did. So, I dont intend to direct them to increase the amount they paid 
Mr O.
New India accepted my provisional decision, but Mr O didnt. He said his complaints had 
been watered down and simplified, and that the additional £150 was short of [his] 
expectations.
He remained of the view that he was entitled to a replacement vehicle. He said he thought 
hed made many more calls to New India than was shown by their records. And he didnt 
think the examples hed provided regarding the cars value had been considered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, although I understand Mr O will be disappointed, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional decision.
For the reasons I set out in that decision, I remain of the view that the customer service New 
India provided could have been better in some respects. But I dont think there are grounds 
to increase the compensation that New India have already agreed to pay (an additional 
£150).
I acknowledge that, at times, Mr O was left feeling that he needed to chase progress. He did 
make frequent calls to New India and during the handling of his complaint New India did tell 
him there were 90 or so calls on their systems. But the evidence Ive seen shows far fewer 
than that, and New India have explained that the recording system will sometimes show one 
call as multiple recordings. So, I think thats why the complaint handler mentioned the figure 
of 90. I also remain of the view that Mr O would likely have called frequently even if New 
Indias handling of the claim had been better. He was very clear early on that hed be calling 
often to make sure New India were progressing things.With regard to the provision of a replacement vehicle I still find, for all the reasons set out in 
my provisional decision, that this wasnt something Mr O was entitled to under the New India 
part of his policy.
Finally, Id like to assure Mr O that the examples he put forward to support his cars valuation 
were considered. But those examples didnt lead me to conclude there was any reason to 
depart from our usual approach in these types of cases. New Indias valuation was at the 
higher end of the trade guide valuations. So, I think they acted fairly and reasonably in 
valuing his car, and I wont be directing them to offer Mr O any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Os complaint in part.
If they havent already done so The New India Assurance Company Limited should pay Mr O 
an additional £150 to reflect its services contribution to Mr Os distress and inconvenience 
(bringing the total compensation to £400).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman