DRN-1635494
 
Complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mr M says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him the PPI.
Background
I sent Mr M and Capital One a provisional decision on 18 February 2020. I explained why 
I didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold, but did think Capital One had to pay back to Mr M 
any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. In that 
decision, I said:
Mr Ms credit card application had a section for optional extras, one of which was PPI. It 
offered him the choice to take the policy or turn it down. Mr M ticked the option to buy PPI 
and signed the application to confirm his choices. Mr M completed his application by post in 
his own time, without any pressure or involvement from a staff member. I think that Capital 
One made it clear Mr M had a choice about buying PPI and that he chose to take it  though 
I can understand why he might no longer remember doing so after so long.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M, so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. It did have to make sure Mr M got the information he needed to decide if it was right for 
him. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed his mind. Here, Mr M chose to take out the policy, which indicates he wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, it looks like he was 
eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of the key exclusions or limits.
The PPI wouldve paid out on top of Mr Ms work benefits and covered him for much longer, 
and he doesnt seem to have had any other alternative cover. While I understand Mr Ms 
friends and family may have been happy to help, there was always the chance theyd be 
unable to help when needed. And this policy meant Mr M wouldnt have to ask his friends or 
family to make his credit card payments. So the policy could have been useful for Mr M in 
case something went wrong. And it was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr M could 
cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information about the 
PPI was likely to have put him off taking it out.
This means I dont think Capital One has to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Capital One has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr M about that. Because Capital One didnt 
tell him, that was unfair. 
 To put that right, Capital One has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
 
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
3 March 2020. But neither Mr M nor Capital One sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that Capital One doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI, but does have to pay back some of it.
What the business needs to do
Capital One should pay back to Mr M any commission and profit share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Capital One should also pay back to Mr M any extra interest 
he paid because of that.
That means Capital One should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr M the 
difference between what he owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit 
share it got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Capital One should also pay Mr M 
8%* simple interest if he paid off the credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr M can claim back the tax if he 
doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. If it has already done this, then 
I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman