DRN-2968701
The complaint
Mrs H complains about the advice she received from HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) regarding 
her pension.
What happened
Mrs H said that she and her husband appointed HSBC to undertake a review of their 
pensions. One of the aims of the review was to manage any inheritance tax exposure. She 
said they did not anticipate needing to access the pensions under review in retirement. They 
wanted to leave their residual pension to their chosen beneficiaries in a tax efficient manner. 
This was stated as an objective on page 2 of the report prepared by HSBC. She took a 
second opinion on the advice and was told by her new adviser that her existing pension was 
not written under trust and would form part of her estate. In addition, the scheme would pay 
out a lump sum with no option for her son to keep it in a pension environment. This was 
confirmed to be correct by the existing pension provider. She said the advice given was 
therefore seriously flawed as it didnt say this. She wanted to receive a refund of the fee paid 
for the advice. She felt that the advice should have highlighted that if she didnt do anything 
this was a risk. She didnt feel HSBC had properly investigated her complaint and she 
wanted to be refunded double the fee paid. 
HSBC didnt uphold the complaint. It said that individual personal pensions are generally 
arranged in the form of a trust and it was reasonably sure that the existing pension would not 
form part of her estate on her death.
I issued a provisional decision in this case. In summary I said the following.
In order to make an award against HSBC I needed to conclude that it did something wrong.
Mrs H said that had she died the existing policy would have been paid into her estate and be 
liable to inheritance tax. She felt that this should have been drawn to her attention as an 
important risk that needed urgent action should she decide not to follow the recommendation 
in the HSBC report.
I considered the reply from the existing provider which Mrs H said highlighted the issue she 
complains about. It said the following
Your policy is not inherently written under trust. You can however set up a trust on your 
pension plan, this is something we can facilitate.
Your policy also does currently form part of your estate, at present there would be no option, 
as the plan stands, to keep the funds in the pension plan and have the passed on to your 
son.
I thought the answer is confusing, and the existing provider and HSBC are answering two 
different question.
I said that because as HSBC says, most personal pensions are in the form of trust. This may 
very well be correct here, but there is a difference between whether a pension scheme itself 
is established as a trust and whether the benefits payable on death from the pension policy 
(whether or not established as a trust) are held in trust after death. 
The reply from the existing provider simply said that the policy wasnt written inherently 
under trust but offers to help do this. I thought the provider was saying that on death any 
benefits are not held within a trust.
I considered the actual provisions, as set out in the booklet for the scheme. The existing 
pension policy had provisions applicable on death which state that if Mrs H dies before 
payment of her pension has commenced or benefits are paid from the pension fund, the fund 
would be applied broadly to provide benefits for a surviving spouse or a lump sum death 
benefit. If Mrs H hadnt given an instruction to pay to a spouse, the fund would be paid as a 
lump sum death benefit.
The provisions applicable to lump sum death benefits indicated that the provider would 
decide who should receive the lump sum from a list of potential recipient groups. One of 
those groups includes any trust you made available for inclusion within the class of potential 
recipients. You may wish to set up a trust for this purpose. It also says, you can establish a 
trust or make a nomination at any time.
The booklet does not say that the lump would be paid to her estate automatically. The 
potential recipients include any trust Mrs H had made, any widow, her dependants and 
relatives, her estate or anyone entitled under her will to any interest in her estate. There are 
a broad range of choices available to the provider. Only one of those options was payment 
to her estate. So, the suggestion that unless Mr H had given a direction the money would fall 
to her estate automatically was not correct and in my view the answer from the existing 
provider that it did fall into her estate, was not correct.
Secondly the reply says that there would be no option, as the plan stands, to keep the funds 
in the pension plan and have the passed on to your son. 
That may well be correct but to enable this to happen Mrs H needed to transfer to a policy 
whose provisions would enable this to happen. The existing policy didnt allow for this option 
and it didnt matter whether Mrs H gave an expression of wishes or declared a trust 
regarding the death benefits. This is partly why HSBC recommended a new policy as this 
option could only be gained by transferring to a new policy that offered such terms.
So, for the reasons given I dont think HSBC made a mistake. 
I did accept that it might have been helpful to suggest that Mrs H should have given an 
expression of wish to the existing provider. This might have decreased the risk that the death 
benefit would be paid to her estate on death but could not have guaranteed this. I say that 
because the booklet is clear that such an expression didnt bind the provider and wouldnt 
have guaranteed that the payment would be made in accordance with that wish nor that it 
wouldnt be paid into her estate. 
So, for those reasons I dont think the advice given was fundamentally flawed.
Even if I am wrong in that conclusion thankfully Mrs H didnt die and as such the benefits 
were not paid to her estate and didnt cause an inheritance tax charge. So, no financial loss 
was incurred.
I didnt propose to uphold the complaint.Mrs H said she agreed that no financial loss was incurred. However, she said that what she 
was buying was not a policy but advice. She still thought the advice was flawed as it did not 
highlight the risks inherent in the existing policy. She still wanted a reasonable return of the 
fee paid. 
HSBC did not respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have not changed my mind for the same reasons given in my provisional 
decision. In the light of that I do not think HSBC had done anything wrong and on that basis, 
I have no power to make an award for financial loss or distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman