DRN-3534486
The complaint
Mr F complains about a payment he asked National Westminster Bank Plc to make from a 
client account he held with them. The payment was delayed and as a result of this Mr F says 
that his client incurred losses. Mr F says that he agreed a settlement with his client and is 
unhappy the bank will not reimburse him for his losses.
What happened
Mr F requested the bank make an electronic payment, in the region of £200,000, from a 
client account he had with the bank. The payment area within the bank raised some 
questions with the branch but there was a delay and the payment was not processed as 
initially intended. I understand there was a delay of around eight to ten days before the 
payment went through. 
Mr F says the payment related to the purchase of gold and because of the delay in the 
payment being made his client lost out on the transaction. Mr Fs client believes it has lost 
out in excess of £100,000 and has sought recovery of its losses directly from Mr F. 
Mr F has provided a copy of a settlement agreement he says was reached between him and 
his client and this is essentially a credit note for Mr Fs services. Mr F agreed to provide his 
services, essentially free of charge, up to the value of £100,000 of his time, based on an 
agreed rate. 
The bank apologised to Mr F and accepted the level of service it provided to Mr F was below 
what it would expect to provide. It didnt however consider it was responsible for the losses 
Mr F was seeking. 
The complaint was referred to our service, where it was considered by an investigator. In 
summary, the investigator didnt consider there were sufficient grounds to recommend the 
bank reimburse Mr F for the £100,000. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it 
has been referred to me for consideration.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information is incomplete or perhaps contradictory, as it is in this case, I have 
reached my conclusions based on the balance of probabilities. If I dont comment on any 
specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. Having 
considered all the parties have said and provided, I have not upheld this complaint. I 
appreciate this decision will likely come as further disappointment to Mr F.
The bank accepts that the service it provided here fell short of its expectations and that the 
result of this was that the payment Mr F wanted to make did not complete when initially 
intended. The consideration that remains relates to the impact of that and that Mr F believes 
he has suffered significantly as a result of the delayed payment. 
Mr F believes that he has lost out up to £100,000 because of the banks error. This is 
because of a negotiated settlement Mr F says he made with his client after it claimed losses 
of £146,000. Mr Fs client believes that these losses flow from the delayed payment as it lost 
out on the deal to buy the gold. 
In order to direct the bank to reimburse Mr F the £100,000 he is seeking I would need to be 
satisfied, amongst several other things, that this loss flows from the banks failure. While 
there is no dispute the payment did not go through as initially intended and Mr Fs client 
believes it has lost out £146,000, I have not seen sufficient evidence to demonstrate that is 
actually the case. The payment was delayed, but this same or another payment was made a 
little over a week later. Had the deal fallen through I may have expected that there was no 
need for the payment to be made. It is not clear if some, or perhaps all, of the initially thought 
losses were reduced through the later payment and perhaps the later purchase of gold, 
albeit perhaps at a different price. 
I should stress that as this is Mr Fs complaint, not his clients, I am not able to make a 
finding on the potential losses incurred by the client. And that where I have above referred to 
not having seen sufficient evidence of the clients loss this is merely to illustrate the 
difficulties in this case in determining if any loss was actually incurred as a result of the 
banks actions and if so what that actual loss was. 
This is particularly relevant in my view as Mr F and his client have reached an agreement 
and it appears that they have accepted there was a substantial loss. And that Mr F is 
responsible for that loss. However, any negotiations between Mr F and his client did not 
include the bank and the bank therefore had no ability to consider or challenge what the 
parties discussed and what amount, if any, any party was actually liable for. I dont consider 
it reasonable for Mr F and his client to agree a significant settlement resolution and simply 
then expect the bank to reimburse Mr F for what they agreed. The settlement agreement 
also appears to have been made in July 2020, after Mr F had complained to the bank, but I 
havent seen anything to indicate the bank was made aware of this prior to it being agreed.
The agreement Mr F reached with his client was that Mr F would essentially provide credit of 
£100,000 that could then be used, at an agreed hourly rate, for Mr Fs services. At the 
agreed rate of £200 an hour this equates to 500 hours of Mr Fs time/services. 
Mr F told us that he agreed to dedicate one eight-hour day per week with a minimum of three 
days each month. Some months were however more and perhaps fives in those months. Mr 
F says the arrangement started in August 2020 and ended in December 2021, when all days 
had been utilised. 
Mr F has provided us with a letter from his client which states, in summary,
Further, we can confirm that we insisted that [Mr F] worked for us for at least one day 
a week from the date of the settlement agreement, until we had fully utilised the time 
he owed us, under the settlement agreement. This was not necessarily formally 
policed, as the work that [Mr F] provided for us, in the main related to a litigation 
matter, which he ran for us, which has now come to an end. [Mr F] also provided us 
with significant advice relating to our investors and the litigation matter. [Mr F] was 
required to control and run completely the litigation matter, so it would spread over 
the week, but we were aware that it took up at least 8 hours of his time on a weekly 
basis.
Despite what Mr F and his client have set out here, and what Mr F has told us about the hours worked, I have not seen any further supporting evidence to demonstrate what amount, 
if any, of the agreed hours were actually worked. This is a considerable amount of work 
apparently carried out over more than a twelve-month period and it would not therefore be 
unreasonable to expect some supporting documentary evidence to log and record the hours 
worked. 
I understand the work was on a consulting or legal basis and it is common to record the 
hours worked and therefore invoiced so that each party is aware of the time taken and the 
cost of the work. I appreciate Mr Fs circumstances might be slightly different, in so far as he 
was working against a credit note, but it would still be reasonable to expect supporting 
evidence to show how much of the credit note had been used. Had Mr F not been working 
against a credit note and in fact billing his time in a more traditional way, I consider it unlikely 
no breakdown or some form of supporting evidence of the hours worked would be produced. 
I see little difference here when working against a credit note. 
Ultimately, having considered the circumstances here I am not persuaded that there are 
sufficient grounds to hold the bank liable for the losses that Mr F is seeking. Nor have I seen 
sufficient evidence to indicate that Mr F has actually incurred the losses he claims through 
the use of his services. 
My final decision
It is for the reasons set out above that I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint against National 
Westminster Bank Plc
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Mark Hollands
Ombudsman