DRN-3111233
The complaint
Mr S and Miss S complain that Santander UK Plc wont refund money they lost to an 
investment scam. 
As Miss S had most of the dealings with Santander, for ease of reading, Ill refer to her alone 
in this decision. 
What happened
Miss S came across the merchant Blackstone 500 (B) on social media through a mutual 
friend who told her he trades and would be able to teach her how to. Miss S was contacted 
by an agent of B and was persuaded to invest. She paid a registration fee and downloaded 
an application which was the trading platform of B. She also created an account with 
Bitstamp (a crypto exchange company). Miss S began to invest via another one of her 
banking providers and her agent at B would manage her trades and regularly update her 
with progress. 
Miss S was told that shed made a profit which she could withdraw but the agent advised 
shed first need to pay tax (which was not initially mentioned). Miss S was told to send her 
payments through Bitstamp and so on 14 October 2020, Miss S made a Faster Payment of 
£1,898.91 using her Santander current account to Bitstamp. She made another Faster 
Payment of £1,898.91 on 15 October 2020 to Bitstamp in accordance with the agents 
instructions. 
Miss S says her agent at B disappeared and also deleted all their text messages. 
On 20 October 2020, Miss S reported the scam to Santander. After investigation, Santander 
wrote to Miss S to explain it was unable to return her payments. It said that it was satisfied 
she sent the Faster Payments from her online banking and that tailored scam warnings 
would be presented based on the reason she selected. It said it contacted the recipient bank 
but it advised the funds had been immediately sent on after receipt. 
Miss S referred her complaint to this office. 
One of our Investigators reviewed Miss S complaint and concluded first of all, that the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code wasnt applicable in her case because she 
sent the payments to her own account and from that account to the scammers. She also 
didnt think the payments were unusual for Santander to have intervened. 
Miss S asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint and the complaint has therefore 
been passed to me for determination. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Miss S complaint and Ill explain why. 
The payments Miss S made werent paid directly from her own account to the scammers. All 
payments were made via an account set up by Miss S in her name with Bitstamp. So Im 
satisfied the CRM Code doesnt apply in this case. 
But Ive also considered Santanders other obligations in this case. Theres no dispute the 
payments Miss S made were authorised even though she was the victim of a scam. The 
payments were made by her and under the Payment Services Regulations (PSRs), and the 
terms and conditions of her account, shes presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
That said, as a matter of good industry practice, Santander shouldve taken proactive steps 
to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, there is a 
balance to be struck: banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to 
act in their customers best interests, but they cant reasonably be involved in every 
transaction. 
Ive first thought about whether Santander could have identified that Miss S was paying a 
potential scammer but Ive noted that she didnt pay the scammers directly and instead paid 
a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange. So, I dont think the payee on the face of it, should 
have caused Santander any particular concern.  
Ive therefore thought about whether Santander should have suspected Miss S could be 
falling victim to a potential fraud or scam, based on any significant change in the normal 
pattern of her spending. 
I dont think the payments here were sufficiently unusual, uncharacteristic or suspicious to 
reasonably say Santander shouldnt have allowed the payments through without first getting 
in touch with Miss S to check everything was in order. 
When Miss S reported the scam to Santander, it tried to recover her payments from Bitstamp 
but Bitstamp explained no funds remained as they were quickly moved on once received. 
I appreciate how disappointing this will be for Miss S and she will understandably feel 
aggrieved about her loss. But for the reasons set out above, I dont consider it fair to hold 
Santander liable for this.
My final decision
My final decision is, despite my natural sympathies for Miss S loss, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Miss S to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman