DRN-3117288
The complaint
Mr K complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAM) didnt give 
sufficient warnings when he made a stop loss instruction.
What happened
Mr K has a share dealing account with HLAM. In 2019, Mr K wanted to set a stop loss 
instruction to sell his shares if the price per share went below 45 pence. When Mr K input his 
instruction, hed input the share price to sell as 0.45 pence. This meant the stop loss didnt 
trigger when he believed it would, as a result he sold his shares at 31.82 pence per share 
and lost out. Mr K complained as he felt his intentions were clear to sell at 45 pence per 
share.
HLAM explained to Mr K that it wouldnt question his intentions and it felt the platform was 
clear enough that the price entered was in pence. HLAM also said, as an additional 
measure, it showed him the percentage difference if his shares were to sell at the price he 
set. Mr K said he didnt see this. He complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service and 
sent in a video to show that the warning HLAM suggests it showed, wasnt visible when 
using the app.
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He explained that the warning was in the app, 
but Mr Ks screen settings meant that the warning was covered up by his keyboard. He said 
that HLAM had done enough to make things clear when he was placing the trade.
Mr K disagreed. He said that he wouldnt have lost money had the app displayed the 
warning in the same way the website did. He believes its unreasonable that the app doesnt 
display it the same way, and that screen settings can interfere with this. So, hed like HLAM 
to compensate for the losses he made. Mr K provided additional videos of what he sees 
when using the platform and how the app and website differ. He asked for an ombudsman to 
consider the complaint so it has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator that HLAM hasnt made an error. Ill explain 
why.
Ive considered all the evidence that Mr K and HLAM have submitted. I can see that HLAMs 
app and website asks for the stop loss instruction to be entered in pence. So, Im satisfied 
that it was Mr K that made the error when putting in 0.45. I wouldnt expect HLAM, as an 
execution only service, to have questioned Mr Ks intentions when he set this price for the 
stop loss.
Mr Ks main complaint is that the warning to show the percentage difference wasnt visible to 
him when he used the app. Hes sent in a video to show this and I agree that when he input 
the price, he couldnt see the warning. But this was because of his screen settings. The 
warning was there and it was clear, from the video he sent to us, it was then covered with his 
keyboard. Had he scrolled down hed have seen it as it was directly under the area where he 
input the price.
I understand that if hed used the website, he wouldve seen the warning as it is displayed 
differently. But the nature of websites and apps mean that usually they display differently. 
HLAMs responsibility is to ensure that the important information is visible in both. And Im 
satisfied that it is. When using a mobile phone app its common for the keyboard to cover part 
of the screen  which is what happened here. It is Mr Ks responsibility to ensure he looks at 
the whole available screen before proceeding with instructions.
I do understand Mr K will be disappointed with this decision as hes lost a significant amount 
of money. But I dont think that was because of an error HLAM made. The loss was because 
Mr K input the price wrong. And although his screen settings meant he didnt see the 
percentage difference, it was there and wouldve been accessible by Mr K had he scrolled 
down or minimised his keyboard. Im satisfied that HLAM hasnt made an error.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman