DRN-2052029
The complaint
Mrs W complains that AXA France IARD mis-sold her a monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in 1997 in connection with a store card.
What happened
Mrs W says she bought a PPI policy in 1997 to support a store card. PPI premiums were 
added to her store card account. The policy was sold during a meeting in store. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld because she thought AXA France 
hadn't given Mrs W enough information about the cost and benefits of the policy which 
was clear, fair and not misleading. Our adjudicator thought Mrs Ws employee benefits 
and savings outweighed the benefit of the PPI cover. 
AXA France disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at 
again.
AXA France added that it was unlikely Mrs W would get 6 months sick pay from her 
employer at the time of the sale.
As AXA France has accepted responsibility for looking at this complaint, I will refer to 
AXA France as the PPI seller.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs W's case.
Having done that, Ive decided to uphold Mrs W's complaint and Ill explain why.
Im satisfied from the evidence that Mrs W was eligible for the optional PPI policy which she 
bought.  
AXA France said it was a non-advised sale. So AXA France needed to make sure it 
gave Mrs W enough information about the policy so she could decide for herself if she 
wanted to buy it. But I dont think it did give Mrs W clear enough information about the 
policy.
I dont know exactly what was said to Mrs W during the meeting when she bought PPI. I 
dont know how AXA France explained what percentage of her outstanding balance 
would be covered, that the PPI premium would be added to the store card balance and 
could attract interest or that Mrs W would need to keep paying the PPI if she made a 
successful claim - which in real terms would reduce the level of benefit to less than 15% 
of the outstanding statement balance.
I think this would have mattered to Mrs W because she said she would have got the 
equivalent of six months full pay from her employer if she couldnt work due to illness and 
she had savings worth six months salary. So I think she could have met her store card 
repayments for a while without the policy. I dont think Mrs W would have bought the policy if 
shed known the true cost of it. So, I think Mrs W has lost out because of what AXA France 
did wrong.
Ive taken into account AXA Frances comments including what its said about the likelihood 
of Mrs Ws sick pay. But I still think I should uphold this complaint. Mrs W has been certain in 
telling us about her sick pay benefits from her employer and her savings when this policy 
was sold. So I still think Mrs W could have managed without the PPI for long enough not to 
need it. 
Taking into account everything Ive read and been told, I think its fair to accept what Mrs W 
has said. I think Mrs W would have had enough sick pay and savings to mean she didnt 
really need the policy. So I dont think Mrs W would have bought it if shed had better 
information about it.
Putting things right
I think AXA France - which has taken responsibility for looking at this PPI sale - did 
something wrong so it needs to do something to put things right for Mrs W.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
AXA France IARD should put Mrs W in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt 
taken out PPI.
A. AXA France IARD should find out how much Mrs W would have owed when 
she closed her store card account if the policy hadnt been added. So, it should 
remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-
sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA France IARD should then refund the difference between what Mrs W owed when she 
closed her account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA France IARD can take off 
what she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B. AXA France IARD should add simple interest on the difference between what 
Mrs W would have owed when she closed her account from when she closed it 
until she gets the refund. The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
C. If  when the AXA France IARD works out what Mrs W would have owed each 
month without PPI  Mrs W paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA 
France IARD should also pay simple interest on the extra Mrs W paid. And it 
should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs W wouldve owed AXA 
France IARD something on her store card. The interest rate should be 8% a year. 

D. AXA France IARD should tell Mrs W what its done to work out A, B and C. HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA France IARD to take off tax from this 
interest. AXA France IARD must give Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax its 
taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman