DRN-4508732
The complaint
Mr B and Ms P complain about the settlement paid by AWP P&C SA following a travel
insurance claim.
What happened
Mr B and Ms P have travel insurance cover with AWP as a benefit of Mr Bs bank account.
Mr B and Ms P, as well as their three children, had booked to get a train to France on 28
January and then return to the UK on 31 January. They were told on 27 January that their
return train had been cancelled due to strikes in France. They went ahead with their trip, and
ended up staying in France for a further night before they could get a train back to the UK.
Mr B and Ms P made a claim under the policy. They said they were told by AWP they could
claim £350 per person, and so they were expecting a settlement of £1,750. However, AWP
only paid them £153.53, to cover their hotel and taxi costs. This was initially dealt with under
the travel delay section of cover, but AWP later said it shouldnt have done this as it was a
cancellation claim. Unhappy with the settlement paid, Mr B and Ms P brought a complaint to
this Service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Although AWP had said the
claim was a cancellation claim, he didnt think this section of the policy applied. He also
didnt think there was cover under the travel delay section.
I issued a provisional decision on 28 November 2023. Heres what I said:
Ive looked at the policy terms to see what is covered.
Under the cancellation section, the policy says:
If your trip is cancelled or rescheduled for a covered reason listed below, we will 
reimburse you for your non-refundable trip payments, deposits, cancellation fees and 
change feesup to the maximum benefit for Trip cancellation cover shown in the 
Benefits summary.
The policy then lists several reasons where a cancellation claim would be paid. None of the
reasons includes strikes. So I agree with our investigator that the claim wasnt covered under
the cancellation section. And in any case, Mr B and Ms Ps trip wasnt cancelled or
rescheduled. They still went on their trip.
The policy also provides cover for trip interruption. This does include cover for a strike or
industrial action, but Mr B and Ms P would have needed to miss at least 50% of the length of
their trip because of this. They didnt do so, and therefore a claim cant be payable under this
section either.
The policy does provide cover for travel delay due to a strike. This says:
If your or a travelling companions trip is delayed for one of the covered reasons 
listed below, we will reimburse you for the following expenses, less available refunds, 
up to the maximum benefit for Travel delay shown in the Benefits summary;
1. Your lost prepaid trip expenses and additional expenses you incur while 
and where you are delayed for meals, accommodation, communication and 
transportation, subject to a limit for the first complete 4 hours and a limit for 
each complete hour thereafter, as shown in the Benefit summary, as follows:
If you provide receipts, the With receipts daily limit applies; or
If you do not provide receipts or do not incur expenses, the No receipts 
daily limit applies
The policy definition of a trip is Your travel originally scheduled to begin from your primary
residence on your departure date and end on your return date
I think Mr B and Ms Ps trip was delayed, as they couldnt return on 31 January as they had
originally intended due to strike action, and had to return a day later. I therefore intend to find
that their claim should be dealt with under the travel delay section of cover.
Turning to the settlement of the claim. Ive looked at the Benefits summary table referred to
in the travel delay section outlined above. This sets out the daily limit, and says:
Covered up to
If you have receipts - £500 per beneficiary
(£100 limit for the first complete 4 hours and £100 limit for each complete hour after 
this)
If you do not have receipts or have not incurred expenses - £350 per beneficiary
(£70 limit for the first complete 4 hours and £70 limit for each complete hour after 
this)
Mr B and Ms P paid for a hotel room and a train (costing £153.53), and I understand they
were able to provide receipts for these. Mr B and Ms P say they also paid for food as well as
other travel costs, but dont have receipts for these expenses. AWP reimbursed the £153.53,
and said the £350 per beneficiary amount wasnt payable because Mr B and Ms P were able
to provide receipts.
The policy wording makes it seem as though the aim of travel delay benefit is to cover
expenses (lost prepaid trip expenses, and/or additional expenses incurred whilst delayed).
However, it also says that up to £350 per beneficiary would be payable if there are no
receipts or no expenses were incurred. So this suggests a claim would be paid up to £350
(subject to the £70 limit for the first four hours, and then the £70 limit for each hour
thereafter) regardless of whether receipts were kept or any expenses incurred. 
Using AWPs logic, by Mr B and Ms P providing receipts for £153.53, theyve effectively lost 
out on a total payment of £1,750, which is what AWP would have paid if they hadnt provided 
any receipts. This doesnt seem fair to me. This term is contradictory, and so I think itd be 
fair and reasonable for the policy to be interpreted in Mr B and Ms Ps favour.
As Mr B and Ms P were delayed for around 19 hours, then I think £350 should be paid for
each beneficiary. This could increase to £500 if they had incurred costs higher than £350
each and had receipts to show this. Mr B and Ms P had some receipts, but didnt incur costs
higher than £350 each. So I intend to require AWP to pay £350 per beneficiary, plus interest.
I also think Mr B and Ms P have been caused unnecessary upset by AWPs handling of thisclaim. They had understood from the outset from AWP that £350 would be paid per
beneficiary, but then AWP said only £153.53 would be payable. AWP then told Mr B and
Ms P the claim couldnt be settled because they didnt miss 50% of their trip, and then
concluded the claim shouldnt have been paid at all. I intend to require AWP to pay Mr B and
Ms P £150 compensation for the confusion caused.
I asked both parties for any further comments they wanted to make before I made a final 
decision.
AWP didnt respond by the deadline we gave. 
Mr B and Ms P accepted my provisional decision and didnt have anything to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new submissions, I see no reason to depart from the 
findings I made in my provisional decision. So Ive reached the same conclusions, and for 
the same reasons. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AWP P&C SA to pay £350 per 
beneficiary for the travel delay benefit (less the £153.35 that has already been paid). Interest 
should be added to this at 8% simple per annum from the date the £153.53 was previously 
paid to the date of settlement*.
I also require AWP to pay Mr B and Ms P £150 compensation**.
*If AWP considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from
that interest, it should tell Mr B and Ms P how much its taken off. It should also give Mr B
and Ms P a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
**AWP must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr B and 
Ms P accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at8% a year 
simple. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms P to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman