DRN-1700721
 
The complaint
Mr U's complaint concerns the redress offered in respect of the mis-sale of a whole of life 
policy by a predecessor business of Phoenix Life Limited. He's represented by a claims 
management company (CMC).
What happened
Mr U's CMC complained to Phoenix that he'd been mis-sold the policy in 1988 as a means 
by which to mitigate an inheritance liability. Phoenix looked into the matter and concluded 
that there was no evidence the policy had been related to IHT. But Phoenix did acknowledge 
that the documentation from the time of the sale suggested Mr U had actually been seeking 
a term assurance policy.
It offered to compare the cost of the recommended policy with the cost of a 25-year term 
policy with a sum assured of £100,000 (the level at which the mis-sold whole of life policy 
had started), a term which would've taken Mr U to retirement. Phoenix found that the 
monthly cost of the term assurance would've been more than Mr U had paid for the whole of 
life policy (£60.59 as opposed to £54.50). So, it felt there was no loss to Mr U. 
The CMC didn't accept this as it felt Mr U would only have required cover up to the point his 
son - who was aged four at the time - came of age. So, it felt a comparison with a 15-year 
term assurance would be more appropriate. 
The matter was referred to this service, but our investigator concluded that Phoenix's offer 
was fair. She didn't think there was anything to suggest that Mr U would've only wanted 
cover until his son reached a specific age. She felt it was reasonable to base redress on the 
assumption that Mr U would've wanted cover until retirement. 
The CMC remained of the view that the offer was not fair. It said, in brief;
The fact find had said that the Mr U wanted cover on a 'maximum' basis, meaning 
that he was happy for the level of cover to reduce after 10 years. As noted, he only 
needed cover until his son came of age.
There was no logic in a 25-year term. After retirement, Mr U's wife would still have 
been dependent on him. There was perhaps an even greater need for cover after 
retirement.
If Phoenix wouldn't agree to a comparison with a 15-year policy, then it should make 
an offer based upon the deduction of the actual cost of life cover provided by the 
whole of life policy, as in previous decisions.
 
The investigator wasn't persuaded to change her opinion, so the matter's been referred to 
me to review. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've come to the same 
conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
As it's been agreed that the whole of life policy sold to Mr U in 1988 wasn't suitable, I'm 
considering only what represents a fair resolution to the complaint. The sale documentation 
supports a requirement for term assurance, so the issue in question is specifically what term 
should be used for a comparison, or should the redress be based on deducting the cost of 
life cover from the premiums paid to the whole of life policy and refunding any difference.
As there was a clear requirement for term cover I see no reason not to base redress on a 
comparison with a such a policy. A refund of premiums, minus the cost of life cover provided 
by the mis-sold policy, is appropriate where it's difficult to determine with any certainty what 
term would have been used for a suitable term assurance.
But I don't think that's the case here. It seems reasonable to me that Mr U would've wanted 
cover to retirement, which is a very common option when deciding on a suitable term when 
there's not a specific liability - like a mortgage - involved.
As noted, the CMC has suggested a term of 15-years, but I don't think it's likely Mr U 
would've wanted cover for that limited period. He maintained the whole of life policy for 
longer than that - to 2005 - and by that point the reviews of the policy had reduced its sum 
assured significantly, to around £32,000. So, it's quite possible that had the cover remained 
at the original level - as would've been the case with a term assurance policy - he might 
have opted to maintain it for longer.  
And I'm not sure that opting for 'maximum' cover at the outset tells us much about Mr U's 
intentions at the time. He clearly wasn't happy with a reduction in the cover provided by the 
policy as he complained about the reviews in 2003 when the sum assured fell to the £32,000 
level (the issue of the policy reviews was subject to a separate complaint dealt with at the 
time).
So, on balance, I'm satisfied that using a comparison with a 25-year term assurance policy 
to determine if there's been any loss is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint, as I consider the 
offer already made by Phoenix Life Limited to be fair and reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
James Harris
Ombudsman