DRN-2817353
The complaint
The estate of Mr W complains that American International Group UK Limited (AIG) cancelled 
Mr Ws personal accident insurance policy due to non-payment of premiums. This meant 
that a claim made by the estate wasnt covered.
The estate of Mr W is represented by Mrs P.
What happened
Mr W took out a peronal accident insurance policy in 2010. In September 2019, AIG tried to 
collect Mr Ws monthly premium by direct debit from his bank but wasnt able to do so. So 
AIG wrote to Mr W on 4 September 2019 to let him know that the premium hadnt been paid 
and that itd try to re-request the payment within 10 working days. It wrote to Mr W again on 
18 September 2019 to let him know that the payment hadnt been successful. It explained 
that the policy would remain active to give Mr W time to make sure the next payment could 
be made on 1 October 2019. But it said that if it wasnt able to collect the next premium, then 
Mr Ws policy would be cancelled.
AIG tried to collect Mr Ws direct debit payment on 1 October 2019. But it wasnt able to do 
so. So it cancelled Mr Ws policy and wrote to him on 3 October 2019 to let him know.
Sadly, on 24 October 2019, Mr W suffered an accident and passed away as a result of his 
injuries. Mrs P contacted AIG to look into whether the estate was able to make an accidental 
death claim on Mr Ws policy. AIG explained to Mrs P that as Mr Ws premiums hadnt been 
paid, there hadnt been in a policy in force at the time of his accident. So it told Mrs P that it 
couldnt consider a claim.
The representatives of Mr Ws estate were unhappy with AIGs decision, so Mrs P asked us 
to look into this complaint. She said there was no proof that Mr W had received AIGs letters 
and she therefore didnt think hed known the premiums hadnt been paid. As Mr W had had 
the policy for many years, she thought hed most likely have wanted the cover to continue. 
And she didnt think AIG had correctly followed its contractual process when it cancelled Mr 
Ws policy.
Our investigator didnt think AIG had acted unfairly. While she sympathised with Mrs Ps 
position, she felt the policy terms made it clear that if premiums werent paid, then there was 
no cover available. And she considered that AIG had provided sufficient evidence to show 
itd sent the letters to Mr W before it cancelled his policy. So she didnt think AIG needed to 
consider an accidental death claim.
Mrs P disagreed. She felt that if the complaint was taken to court, the burden of proof would 
be on AIG to prove itd sent the letters. She didnt believe the letters had been sent to Mr W 
and so he hadnt known his premiums hadnt been paid. She also asked why AIG hadnt 
attempted to contact Mr W by any other means.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mrs P and the other representatives of Mr Ws 
estate, I dont think AIG has acted unfairly. Ill explain why.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of the policy, as these formed the basis of the 
contract between Mr W and AIG. This policy provided ongoing, monthly personal accident 
insurance for each month the relevant premium was paid. The contract says:
The premium is payable monthly as shown in the schedule. It is due on the first premium 
due date and subsequently on the 1st day of each month. Each premium paid purchases 
cover under the terms of this policy for the calendar month in which it is due. 
So I think its clear that personal accident cover is only in force if the monthly premium has 
been paid. The contract goes on to say:
If any premium is not paid on the date it is due, the policyholder has 30 days in which to pay 
it. If it is not paid during that period, the policy will be automatically cancelled from the date 
on which the unpaid premium was due. If the premium is paid during the 30 day period, then 
cover will operate as if it had been paid on the due date.
Im satisfied the terms of Mr Ws policy make it clear that if a policyholder doesnt pay their 
premium within 30 days of it falling due, then AIG is entitled to cancel the policy. In this case, 
AIG has provided evidence to show that Mr Ws bank returned his direct debit payment 
unpaid on 1 September 2019. So AIG wrote to Mr W on 4 September 2019 to let him know 
about the situation and that it would try and collect the payment within 10 working days. As 
the recollection was unsuccessful, it contacted Mr W again on 18 September 2019. At this 
point, AIG was still covering Mr W, but it let him know that if it couldnt collect his premium on 
1 October 2019, the policy would be cancelled. Ive seen evidence that the bank returned Mr 
Ws direct debit unpaid on 1 October 2019 and so, AIG cancelled the policy.
Taking the above into account, its clear that Mr Ws September and October 2019 premiums 
were unpaid. This meant the monthly premium hadnt been paid within the 30 day period 
AIG set out in the contract. So Im satisfied AIG was reasonably entitled to cancel Mr Ws 
policy on 1 October 2019. And unfortunately, this meant AIG was no longer insuring Mr W 
against the risk of him suffering an accident on 24 October 2019. As such, this means I think 
it was fair for AIG to tell Mrs P that a claim wouldnt be covered.
I appreciate Mrs P feels strongly that theres no proof that Mr W received AIGs letters or that 
he knew the premiums had been returned unpaid. I dont doubt her testimony that she didnt 
find these letters amongst Mr Ws records. However, Im satisfied, on balance, its most likely 
the letters were sent. Each of the copies of the letters to Mr W were addressed to the same 
address Mrs P has referred to her in correspondence. So Im persuaded the letters were 
correctly addressed. AIG has also provided me with a copy of its records showing the 
generation of the letters on the relevant dates; what each letter referred to and the employee 
who produced them. I find its most likely the letters were sent to Mr W and to the correct 
address AIG had on file.
It wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to hold AIG responsible for any failure of the three 
letters to reach Mr W in these circumstances. Its also told us that the letters werent returned 
to it by the postal service, which suggests its more likely than not that the letters were 
delivered as planned. On this basis then, I think AIG took fair and reasonable steps to give 
Mr W a chance to pay his premium within the relevant timescale. And AIG wasnt required to 
try and contact Mr W by phone or text, or to send this type of mail by recorded delivery.Overall, while Im very sorry to hear about the sad circumstances of Mr Ws death and I offer 
my sincere condolences to Mrs P and Mr Ws representatives, I dont think AIG has done 
anything wrong. So Im not telling it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman