DRN-3082677
The complaint
Mr S complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) irresponsibly 
granted him a loan he couldnt afford to repay. 
  
What happened
In December 2015, Mr S acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
MBFS. Mr S was required to make 24 monthly repayments of £340.92, with a final optional 
payment of £10 if he wanted to own the car at the end of the agreement. The total repayable 
under the agreement was £13,867.08 towards which Mr S paid a deposit of £5,675.
Mr S says that MBFS didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. MBFS didnt agree. It said that it carried 
out a thorough assessment and the application was automatically approved based on the 
information provided by Mr S and a credit search which it is no longer able to view.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought MBFS ought to have 
realised the agreement wasnt affordable for Mr S.
MBFS didnt agree. They said Mr S had told them he was a builder at the time of application 
and not that he was receiving Personal Independence Payments. They said his credit file 
showed well managed accounts and they said the bank statements our adjudicator had 
reviewed didnt show a full picture of Mr Ss financial situation.
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MBFS will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
MBFS didnt ask Mr S for his income prior to lending. Without any understanding of what 
Mr S was earning, I dont think it was possible for MBFS to make a fair assessment of his 
ability to afford the repayments without undue difficulty. It therefore didnt complete 
proportionate checks. 
I think it would have been proportionate for MBFS to have requested and verified Mr Ss 
income in some way. Ive seen that Mr S was receiving Personal Independence Payments of 
£46.25 per week at the time. That was significantly less than the monthly repayments he 
was required to pay under the hire purchase agreement with MBFS and that meant he 
couldnt afford to sustainably repay the new agreement. I think MBFS would likely have 
found this out too if it had completed proportionate checks, it therefore didnt act fairly by 
approving the finance. 
MBFS have said that Mr S told them he was a builder at the time of application, but I dont 
think that alone would have been sufficient to demonstrate his capacity to repay the 
agreement sustainably. I think it would have been proportionate for MBFS to have dug 
deeper and requested evidence of income. Had they done that I think its fair to say they 
would have found information to suggest the repayments were not affordable for Mr S 
because his income was insufficient.
MBFS have also said the bank statements are secondary. Ive reviewed Mr Ss credit file 
and can see the only working account was the one he has provided statements for. Those 
statements show the income from the Department of Work and Pensions and they are from 
the account that MBFS had details of on their system. I dont think its unreasonable to rely 
on those statements and regardless, I dont think there is evidence that Mr Ss income 
before any living expenses were accounted for, was enough to afford the repayments due on 
this new agreement.
Putting things right
As I dont think MBFS ought to have approved the lending, I dont think its fair for it to
be able to charge any interest or charges under the agreement. Mr S should therefore only 
have to pay the original cash price of the car, being £7,500. Anything Mr S has paid in 
excess of that amount should be refunded as an overpayment. 
To settle Mr Ss complaint Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited should do the 
following:
Refund the deposit  including any part exchange value of a previous car  adding 
8% simple interest per year* from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund any payments Mr S has made in excess of £7,500, representing the original 
cash price of the car. It should add 8% simple interest per year* from the date of 
each overpayment to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ss credit file regarding the 
agreement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited to take off 
tax from this interest. It must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he 
asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited to put 
things right in the manner set out above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman