DRN-2927472
The complaint
Mr Y complains that AvantCredit of UK, LLC (AvantCredit) lent to him in an irresponsible 
manner.
What happened
Mr Y was given a loan by AvantCredit in October 2015. He borrowed £1,900 and agreed to 
repay the loan in 60 monthly instalments. Mr Y appears to have faced some problems 
repaying his loan and a balance remained outstanding when he made his complaint.
Mr Ys complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that the results 
of AvantCredits checks suggested that Mr Y would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable manner. So he didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr Y didnt agree with that assessment. In particular he thought the investigator had failed to 
consider that he had been unable to make his repayments over the lifetime of the agreement 
without borrowing further. He didnt think it was reasonable to base the assessment on what 
happened in 2015 when the loan was agreed  he thought we needed to consider the things 
that had happened since. 
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process.
I can see that Mr Y has recently referred a further complaint to us about AvantCredits 
actions in using a continuous payment authority to collect some repayments. That complaint 
hasnt yet been investigated by this Service. So it wouldnt be appropriate for me to deal the 
matters Mr Y has raised in that complaint in this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mr Ys complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time AvantCredit gave this loan to Mr Y required it to carry 
out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he 
owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so AvantCredit had to think about whether 
repaying the credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr Y. In 
practice this meant that AvantCredit had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt 
cause Mr Y undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for 
AvantCredit to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider 
the impact of any repayments on Mr Y. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether AvantCredit did what it needed to before agreeing 
to lend to Mr Y.
I think I should first address Mr Ys response to our investigator about the scope of our 
enquiries. This complaint relates to whether it was reasonable for AvantCredit to give the 
loan to Mr Y. The decision that AvantCredit made has to be based on both what had 
happened in the past, and anything that was reasonably foreseeable in the future. But that 
doesnt mean a reasonable decision in 2015 should be considered to be irresponsible simply 
because it is being viewed the benefit of hindsight. My decision must focus on what 
AvantCredit knew, or should have reasonably foreseen, when it made its lending decision.
AvantCredit gathered some information from Mr Y before it agreed the loan. It asked him for 
details of his income, and his normal expenditure It asked him for copies of his bank 
statements so it could verify some of the information hed provided. And it checked his credit 
file to assess how much he was repaying to other creditors and how he had managed credit 
in the past.
Mr Y was entering into a significant commitment with AvantCredit. He would need to make 
monthly repayments for a period of five years. So I think it was right that AvantCredit wanted 
to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Ys financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks Ive described above 
were sufficient to achieve that aim  I think that AvantCredits checks were proportionate. 
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to 
react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. 
Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. So 
Ive looked at the results of AvantCredits checks to see whether it made a fair lending 
decision.The credit check that AvantCredit performed only provided the lender with a summary of 
Mr Ys circumstances. So it couldnt see in detail the other credit accounts that he was 
currently using. But those results didnt suggest that Mr Y was facing any serious problems 
managing his money  for example hed only opened one new account in the past three 
months, and his overall outstanding balance wasnt much greater than one months income. 
So I dont think there was anything in the credit check results that should have caused 
concerns to the lender.
And I dont think the evidence from Mr Ys bank statements suggested that he would face 
problems repaying the loan from AvantCredit in a sustainable manner. His bank statements 
verified the income that hed declared to the lender. And the statements dont show evidence 
of any serious financial problems such as regular unpaid transactions or escalating levels of 
overdraft or other debt. 
I appreciate how disappointing my decision will be for Mr Y. But, in summary, I think the 
checks AvantCredit did before agreeing this loan were proportionate. And I dont think the 
results of those checks should have led to the loan request being declined. I appreciate that 
Mr Y has said that he has faced significant problems repaying this loan, needing to borrow 
from other lenders to make ends meet. He says that during the past five years he has only 
been able to work for around 10 months. I am genuinely sorry to hear about the problems 
Mr Y has faced, but I dont think those were reasonably foreseeable, either by him or 
AvantCredit, at the time he applied for the loan. So I dont think AvantCredit was wrong to 
give this loan to Mr Y.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
AvantCredit of UK, LLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman