DRN-3664355
The complaint
In summary, Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank Plc blocked a payment he had made and 
wouldnt release it when he asked it to do so. He says he lost out on an investment 
opportunity as a result.
What happened
In March 2022, Mr B made a payment to purchase an investment. The payment was blocked 
by Lloyds, so Mr B contacted to it to have the payment released. 
When Mr B phoned Lloyds he was transferred to its fraud team. Lloyds representative asked 
Mr B a number of questions about the payment including what it was for and where the 
payment was to be made. 
Mr B wasnt happy with the questions he was being asked and ended the call. He then 
complained to Lloyds about what had happened. Lloyds explained that it thought its 
representative could have been clearer in the call as to why the payment had been flagged 
for more security checks. And it said it would pay him £40 for the poor service. It then went 
on to explain that security checks could be carried out and payments stopped in line with the 
terms of the account if it considered it necessary. 
Mr Bs complaint was then looked into by one of our investigators. She explained why she 
didnt think Lloyds had done anything wrong in blocking the payment. And that it didnt need 
to do anything else in relation to the poor service in the call. Mr B didnt agree, and the 
complaint has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
I do understand that Mr B found it frustrating that his payment was blocked and that he was 
questioned about what the purpose of the payment he was making. But I think it was 
appropriate for Lloyds to have taken steps to protect Mr Bs money, if it had concerns that he 
might be a potential victim of a fraud or a scam.  
The terms and conditions of Mr Bs account did provide for Lloyds to stop payments and 
carry out additional security checks. And taking into account the type of investment Mr B was 
wanting to make, I dont think it was wrong of Lloyds to have carried out additional security 
checks and ask Mr B questions regarding the payment he wanted to make. 
Ive listened to the calls Mr B had with Lloyds and taken into account his argument that 
having said that he understood the risks involved with the investment he was intending to 
make with the payment, that Lloyds should have released the payment as he had requested. 
But I dont think it was wrong of Lloyds representative to have asked the additional questions 
that Mr B wasnt happy with. Lloyds needed to satisfy itself that Mr B wasnt the potential 
victim of a fraud or a scam. And its representative did explain in the call, that the information 
he asked for and the questions he was asking, were to ensure that Mr B wasnt being 
scammed. He also went on to explain that once that information was provided, the payment 
would be released.
My impression from the call is that Mr B was frustrated by the questions he was being asked. 
He then told Lloyds representative to leave the money where it was and not to authorise the 
payment, and that he intended to withdraw all of the money out of his account. So, Im 
satisfied that ultimately the payment wasnt released as a result of Mr B telling Lloyds not to 
authorise it. 
My final decision
My decision is to not uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman