DRN-2927490
The complaint
Mrs W and Mr W complain that Insure Group Limited wont allow them to cancel their home 
emergency policy without a charge and wont refund the premium. 
Mr W is representing Mrs W in this complaint.
What happened
Mr W took out a home emergency policy with Insure in July 2020. He says this was always 
subject to receiving the policy documents, which he made clear to Insure several times. He 
says he could not open the electronic version of the policy documents and asked for copies 
to be provided through the post. He says these finally arrived in November.
Mr W says that on looking through the policy terms he did not think it covered anything of 
value to him. So, he contacted Insure and asked for a refund. Mr W says this was declined 
by Insure as it said the policy had been in place for several months. 
Insure says Mr W was provided with emails that contained links to the relevant policy 
documentation. It says its agent tried to help him access the information whilst he was on the 
phone, but he didnt want to do this. Insure says it provided postal copies of the policy 
documents when Mr W requested this in July 2020. It also says this information is readily 
available on its website. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ws complaint. She decided Insure had been fair in 
not upholding this complaint. She concluded the companys records showed information had 
been sent by post when requested. She also thought Insure had acted reasonably in trying 
to help Mr W access the links during the sales call, although he was not willing to do this. 
The investigator thought Mr W could have contacted Insure sooner than he did when he 
didnt receive the policy document via the post. She felt the company had acted fairly in 
relying on the terms of the policy to apply an administration fee and not refunding premiums 
for the time cover had been in place. 
Mr W disagreed with this outcome. The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint and for the same reasons as 
our investigator. Let me explain.
Mr W was sent an email by Insure in July 2020 that contained a quotation. Within this email 
were links to other information relating to the policy terms. This included a link to the policy 
document Mr W has referred to in his complaint. 
The day after this email was received Mr W spoke to Insure on the phone. A recording of this 
call has been provided. During this call Insure talked about the policy, the cover provided 
and how much it cost amongst other information. In the call Mr W says he could not open the 
email attachments. The agent he spoke to offered to help him, but Mr W said he didnt want 
to try at that time. 
Its unfortunate that Mr W did not accept the offer of help at this juncture. As Insure has 
suggested, its possible this would have allowed him to view the policy documents straight 
away. 
Mr W contacted Insure a few days later to say he had received the welcome email but was 
again unable to view any documents. I have looked at the records Insure has supplied, 
which show documents were posted out that day in response to his request.
In his complaint Mr W says he made it clear to Insure that the policy shouldnt start until he 
received the policy document. Having listened to the recording, Mr W agreed for the policy to 
start the day after the call. He was asked by Insures agent if he wanted it to commence 
immediately. Mr W repeated he wanted it to start the next day. From this I think its clear that 
Mr W gave permission for the policy to commence. 
The next contact from the available records is from Mr W at the end of October 2020. A 
further copy of the policy document was sent via email at this time. A contact was later 
logged in November requesting cancellation. The notes say the policy documents had only 
recently been received by Mr W and he had decided the cover wasnt suitable. This ties in 
with the timeline of events he provided. 
In its final response to Mr Ws complaint, Insure highlights the 14-day cooling-off period that 
it mentioned during the sales call. It says he could have cancelled the policy during this 
period with no financial penalty. As cancellation was not requested during this period Insure 
referred to its policy terms. The terms state an administration fee of £35 is applicable for 
cancellation outside of the cooling off period. 
I have thought about whether Insure relied on its terms fairly in its dealings with Mr W. I have 
seen the emails he received. These do include a section toward the bottom containing links 
to where the policy documentation can be found. I do not dispute that Mr W struggled to 
access this information. However, he could have allowed Insure to help him access this 
during the sales call. 
Mr W was also made aware, during the sales call, that the policy terms could be viewed 
anytime on the companys website. It has supplied information to support where this 
information can be found. I have viewed its website to confirm this information is available. 
The records indicate a postal copy of the policy documents was sent to Mr W when he asked 
for this a few days after the policy commenced. I dont dispute what he says about not 
receiving this information via the post. But the indication is it was sent, based on the records 
provided.   
I note our investigator asked Mr W why he did not contact Insure earlier than October when 
he didnt receive the policy documents. She noted his response that he may have forgotten 
about it until then. 
I think its reasonable to expect Mr W to have contacted Insure sooner when the policy 
documents did not arrive as expected. He requested them in mid-July 2020 but didnt make 
contact again until the end of October, over three months later. Mr W hasnt provided an 
explanation as to why this couldnt have happened sooner. The terms of the policy state that an administration fee is applicable for early cancellation 
and the premiums paid for the time on cover are non-refundable. 
Taking all this into consideration, I think Insure was fair to rely on the terms of the policy 
when declining Mr Ws request to cancel without charge. So, I cant reasonably ask Insure to 
do anything more to resolve his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman