DRN-3237628
The complaint
Mr S complains that Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Trust Two) lent him a loan 
he couldnt afford.
What happened
Mr S took out another loan on .. ..... 2019 with Everyday Lending Limited, but this is being 
looked at under reference number ............ I am looking into whether it fairly provided the 
loan Mr S took out on .. . ... 2019.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all 
again here.
Trust Two lent Mr S a loan of £3000 on .. ..... 2019, this is not in dispute, so Ill focus on 
giving the reasons for my decision about this loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator concluded Trust Two did not carry out proportionate checks and if it had 
done so it would have seen that Mr S couldnt afford the loan. I agree with the 
investigators findings for these reasons:
oTrust Two says it carried out proportionate checks before agreeing to lend to Mr 
S. It says it asked him about his income and expenditure, verified his income as 
well as conduct a credit search. It recorded down that Mr Ss income was £2750 
a month and that his rent was £695. It used a figure of £962.50 for his living 
expenses and after working out what it felt Mr S was paying each month for 
credit commitments it calculated he had around £850 in disposable income.
o The loan was due to be repaid over 36 monthly instalments of around £146 and 
Mr S asked for the loan for debt consolidation. When I look at the Trust Two 
calculations, I can see that, on the surface of it, it had worked out that Mr S 
would have enough disposable income to afford the loan repayments. But the 
credit search results that it had in front of it showed information that I think ought 
to have given Trust Two concerns. There were two credit cards that Mr S had 
spent over the credit limit on. And as our investigator had concluded, Mr S had 
taken out and then repaid several payday loans. Mr S also told Trust Two that he 
was going to repay payday loans with the proceeds of the loans, but these open 
short-term loans were not showing on the credit search. I think due to the size of 
the loan and the length of the term, it ought to have been concerned about what 
it saw and what it was being told, at least enough that it shouldve prompted it to 
want to find out more.
oTrust Two should have done more to ensure that Mr S could repay the loan 
repayments over the length of the loan term. This I think, should have included a 
complete review of his finances including breaking down and verifying his 
expenditure. As a responsible lender it ought to have done this once it had 
carried out its initial checks and seen the results from its credit check. I cant see 
that it did this or verify any of Mr Ss expenditure and so I dont think its checks 
went far enough. So, as I dont think it did enough, I need to consider what it 
would have seen if it had carried out proper checks.
oMr S has provided copies of his bank statements from around 2 months before 
and then leading up to the start of the loan. Ive relied on this to give me an 
indication as to what Trust Two would have seen, as I think his bank statements 
provide a clear picture about his actual financial circumstances at the time. I 
agree with our investigator, I think Mr S had more expenditure than Trust Two had 
assessed him to have and I dont think the loan was affordable for him, based on 
what his bank statements have shown me. He was also gambling heavily and 
frequently. There were also clear signs that he was using pay day loans to make 
up the shortfall in his finances that his additional expenditure had created. I can 
see that Mr S took out 10 new loans in the 2 months that the bank statements 
covered for a total of £11,600. This was predominantly from short term loans. Mr 
S also had unauthorised overdraft fees and charges on his account. It is clear 
from looking at the statements that Mr S had become reliant on short term loans 
to make ends meet and fill a shortfall in his finances. When I consider this all 
together, I think if Trust Two had carried out further checks it would have seen 
that Mr S was having problems managing his finances and that the loan 
repayments were not affordable and not sustainable over the 3-year loan term.
oSo, it follows that I uphold Mr Ss complaint. Trust Two now needs to put things 
right.
Putting things right
While I think Trust Two shouldnt have lent to Mr S, I think it will be fair for him to repay 
the capital of £3,000 which he borrowed. So, to put things right, Trust Two should:
add up all the payments made by Mr S, if it exceeds the capital amount of 
£3,000, then the overpayments plus 8% simple interest* should be paid to Mr S, 
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr S credit file as a result of this 
loan.
If there is a balance outstanding, Trust Two should treat Mr S fairly and 
look to arrange a payment plan that is affordable for him.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Trust Two to deduct tax from the interest payment referred 
to above. Trust Two must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he 
asks it for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld and direct Everyday 
Lending Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 March 2022. 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman