DRN-3038643
The complaint
Mr R1, Mrs R and Mr R2 complain that The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance 
Society Limited, trading as NFU Mutual (NFU), unfairly declined a claim under their travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr R1 and Mrs R held an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy with NFU which ran from 
June 2019 for the year. In January 2020 Mr R2 was added to the policy cover.
 
In March 2020, Mr R2 was meant to be travelling abroad to complete an internship which 
was to last for a year. However, as a result of the Coronavirus outbreak, the internship was 
cancelled. Mr R2 made a claim for the cancelled outbound flight and visa costs to NFU. 
NFU refused the claim for these costs as it said the policy only provided cover for trips that 
are a maximum of 30 days in duration. As Mr R2 was due to be going abroad for a year, 
NFU said this trip was not one covered by the policy.
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr R1, Mrs R and Mr R2 complained to NFU and brought the 
matter to this service. Our investigator looked into the complaint but found that the claim 
wasnt covered due to the length of the trip and so she didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld.
Mr R1, Mrs R and Mr R2 disagreed with our investigators opinion. As no agreement could 
be reached the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding 
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurers set out what events they will and wont cover in the terms and conditions of the 
policy. They are entitled to decide what risks they will accept (in return for a premium) but 
the policy does need to make the position clear to the policyholder. A policy may not cover 
every single eventuality.
Mr R1, Mrs R and Mr R2 were provided with several documents relating to their travel 
insurance cover, including a schedule of insurance, an Insurance Product Information 
Document (IPID) and a policy containing the terms and conditions of cover. On the schedule 
of insurance, I can see that it states the following:
About your Annual travel cover
Any one holiday must not exceed30 Days
In addition, the IPID states;
What is this type of insurance?
Annual travel insurance for people living permanently in the UK and going on 
personal or business trips.
The policy covers multiple trips in a year, up to 30 days for each trip, for people up to 
75 years of age as standard.
The policy terms and conditions include a section called Basis of Cover and the relevant 
part of this says the following;
What is insured
YOUR TRIP must not exceed the number of days shown on YOUR SCHEDULE 
during the PERIOD OF COVER
Having looked at these various policy documents, Im persuaded that NFU has made it clear 
that cover will only be provided for trips that are less than 30 days in length. Mr R2s trip was 
going to be for a year, so Im satisfied NFU has acted in accordance with the policy terms 
and conditions when refusing the claim. 
Mr R1, Mrs R and Mr R2 say the first 30 days of the trip should be covered, as this is the 
maximum trip duration. I appreciate their point of view, but I dont agree that NFU needs to 
consider the claim on this basis. Im satisfied that NFU has made it clear in the insurance 
documentation that it doesnt cover trips over 30 days  so it would never expect to be on 
risk for anything that occurred relating to this trip, regardless of when the event happened. 
Im also aware this travel was mentioned in a call with NFU when Mr R2 was added to the 
policy and from the discussions on that call Im persuaded that it was clear Mr R2 wouldnt 
be covered for this trip. If Mr R2 had wanted insurance cover for this trip I would have 
expected him to have looked for a policy which specifically covered travel for that duration. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that NFU has acted fairly and reasonably 
refusing the claim for the cancelled trip. I therefore dont require NFU to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R1, Mrs R and 
Mr R2 to accept or reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman