DRN-3378566
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with how Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) communicated with him 
about renewing the monthly reward on his current account, and that he has to do this. He 
says it meant he failed to receive the £5 monthly reward despite meeting the criteria.
What happened
On 23 April 2021 Halifax sent a message to Mr R via his online banking inbox advising that 
his existing offer was due to end and so he needed to select a new offer, or he would no 
longer receive a monthly reward. As he didnt do this he didnt receive a reward from June 
2021 onwards. When he complained to Halifax it offered to pay the missed six months of the 
£5 reward as a gesture of goodwill, but Mr R rejected this offer. He feels the bank should 
allow his chosen reward to remain active unless he contacts it: he should not have to opt 
back in each year. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Rs complaint. He said he could find no error in the banks 
actions. Mr R had accepted online statements which also allowed for other communications 
to be sent via his online banking inbox. And the terms and conditions of the reward scheme 
set out that an offer lasts for a set period, so it was right he needed to opt back in.
Mr R disagreed with this assessment. He said this issue had impacted a number of other 
people and had we investigated the scale - so how may goodwill offers had been made and 
how much did Halifax gain by changing the renewal onus. He said the investigator had not 
reached a fair outcome in the circumstances and asked for an ombudsmans review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am not upholding Mr Rs complaint. I will explain why.
Whilst I can understand that Mr R is frustrated, I cant find any failings on the part of Halifax. 
The terms of the reward scheme made clear the offer lasts for a set period and that the bank 
will contact accountholders before the end of the period to tell them what will happen next. It 
did this, communicating electronically with Mr R in line with his chosen preference. I note 
Halifax offered to return to paper communications when he complained but he did not want 
this. How the terms of the reward scheme work is a commercial matter for the bank, and not 
something we would interfere in.  
Halifax offered to pay Mr R the £5 reward for the months he had missed since failing to opt 
in, but he rejected this offer. I dont however think it is fair that he cannot take advantage of 
this because he chose to come to this service. So if he wishes to take Halifax up on its offer, 
I would ask that it honours it. I will leave it with Mr R to decide if he wishes to do so and he 
can then contact the bank directly to let it know. As I have found no failing on the part of the 
bank there are no grounds for me to award Mr R compensation as he requested.
Mr R asked for information on the scale of missed renewals and the financial impact of 
Halifax making accountholders opt in to the reward. But such an inquiry is not within our 
remit. We are an informal dispute resolution service that looks at the circumstances of 
individual complaints to decide if a business has made an error, and if so how it should 
correct any error. Any systemic issues would be considered by the industry regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority.   
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman