DRN-3225410
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Likely Loans lent to him 
irresponsibly.
What happened
There is limited information available about this matter. Mr D took two loans from Oakbrook 
in 2017 and 2018.
Loan 1 in September 2017 was for £2,000  due to be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of 
about £131. The total amount repayable was around £3,145. This loan was settled in July 
2018.
Loan 2 in August 2018 was for £1,000 - due to be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of about 
£52. The total amount repayable was around £1,901. 
One of our adjudicators has looked into the complaint but didnt think Oakbrook had been 
wrong to provide Mr D with either loan. Mr Ds representatives disagreed with the 
adjudicators assessment. As the complaint has not been settled, it has been passed to me 
to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Mr Ds complaint.
Oakbrook needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr D irresponsibly. 
I think there are key questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did Oakbrook carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr 
D was in a position to sustainably repay the loans? If not, what would reasonable and 
proportionate checks have shown at the time? Did Oakbrook make a fair lending 
decision about the loans?
Did Oakbrook act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr D in some other way?
Oakbrook was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment or affordability check 
each time. The checks had to be borrower focussed  so Oakbrook had to think about 
whether repaying the loans sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for 
Mr D. 
Oakbrook had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr D 
would be able repay the loans sustainably. There was no set list of checks that Oakbrook 
had to do, but it could consider a number of different things such as the loan amount, the 
length of the loan term, the repayment amounts, and the borrowers overall financial 
circumstances.
In light of this, I think that reasonable and proportionate checks ought generally to have been 
more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); and
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
Ive carefully considered all the evidence, arguments, and information Ive seen about this
matter and what it means for Mr D.
Oakbrook asked Mr D for information about his income and it acquired credit reports before 
providing the loan. Oakbrook says it made calculations about Mr Ds financial position using 
ONS data. Oakbrook thinks its checks were reasonable and proportionate, and that the 
loans were both affordable for Mr D.
As Ive explained, there is limited information available about what happened at the time. 
Oakbrook says it does not hold full credit reports from the time it lent to Mr D, but says it has 
some information extracted from the credit data.  Oakbrook says there wasnt anything on 
either credit report that would have prevented its lending to Mr D. 
Mr D thinks that his credit record at the time would have shown that hed previously had a 
CCJ and a defaulted account. He says he had taken a large number of other credit accounts 
in the past and that Oakbrook ought to have considered the impact of the loans over a long 
period.
Ive reviewed the very limited credit information available from Oakbrook. From what Ive 
seen, I think Oakbrook was aware of at least one defaulted account, dated from 2014 and 
settled in 2016.  But I think a lender would expect reasonably expect there to be some 
adverse information given the type of lending involved and in any event, I think Oakbrook 
might reasonably to have considered the adverse information on Mr Ds report to be historic. 
Oakbrooks information does suggest that Mr D had taken several payday loans previously 
and he had some outstanding unsecured lending. But I think Oakbrook would reasonably 
have thought from the information that it had gathered each time that Mr D was up to date 
with his payments with a relatively low level of outstanding credit.
Mr Ds representative has provided credit reports that it says were provided by another 
lender and which roughly cover what Mr Ds credit reports would have looked like when he 
applied for his Oakbrook loans. But different checks show different things and I cannot fairly 
say that the information available in these reports would have been available to Oakbrook 
when it assessed Mr Ds loan applications. Or whether it would have made any difference to 
its decision to lend to Mr D.Oakbrook thinks its checks were reasonable and proportionate. 
But Mr D was applying to Oakbrook for costly loans, repayable over an extended period 
each time. I would have expected the lender to want to obtain a thorough understanding of 
Mr Ds financial circumstances to satisfy itself that he could sustainably repay the loans.  Mr 
D doesnt appear to have been asked to supply independent evidence of his income such as 
wage slips, or his expenditure such as bank statements. Overall, I cant fairly say that I think 
Oakbrooks checks were reasonable or proportionate before either loan.
But from the limited evidence provided, its not clear to me whether better checks by 
Oakbrook would have uncovered anything that would have shown that Mr D might have 
difficulty repaying either loan in a sustainable manner. Ive thought about whether the checks 
that Oakbrook did carry out ought reasonably to have led it to decline to lend to Mr D on 
either occasion. On balance, I didnt think they did.
There isnt enough information available for me to fairly say that I think Oakbrook ought 
reasonably to have concluded that it shouldnt lend to Mr D or that it lent to him irresponsibly.
Ive not seen anything which makes me think that Oakbrook treated Mr D unfairly in any 
other way. And as I have explained, on the information provided, I cant fairly say that I think 
Oakbrook ought reasonably to have declined to lend to Mr D. Or that it lent to him 
irresponsibly. Im sorry that Mr D has struggled financially. If the second loan remains 
outstanding I would expect Oakbrook to treat Mr D positively and sympathetically and try to 
agree a repayment plan that is affordable for him.  
I know Mr D will be disappointed by my decision. But Id like to reassure him that I have 
carefully considered the limited information that has been provided about this matter. Having 
done so, I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint about either loan.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint or make any award against 
Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Likely Loans.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2022.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman