DRN-3430700
The complaint
Company S is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc wouldnt reimburse the money they lost due 
to an authorised push payment scam. 
What happened
The background to the complaint is well known to both parties and so I wont repeat it at
length here. Briefly, in November 2020 the accountant of S received an email purportedly 
from the companys director instructing them to make two payments, one for about £6,500 
(to a different bank account) and another for about £10,000 (to an account with HSBC). 
The accountant processed the payments as instructed. A little later they received another 
email asking them to make two further payments. The accountant became suspicious and 
contacted the director. At that point it came to light that S had been a victim of fraud. 
S immediately contacted HSBC. The director says that it took nearly nine hours to get 
through to the right people at HSBC. The bank says that they took action as soon as they 
were made aware of the fraud but by that time unfortunately very little money remained in 
both the accounts to which the payments were made.
S would like HSBC to refund their loss, which totalled about of £16,500. They feel that
HSBC had not done enough to prevent the fraud. 
Our investigator was of the view that the complaint should be partially upheld. They said, in 
summary:
The transactions were not unusual or out of character to S normal account activity. So, 
there wasnt much HSBC could have done when the payment was made.
S werent able to contact HSBC for a few hours despite their best efforts. This shouldnt 
have happened. However, by the time S became aware of the fraud, the fraudsters had 
already removed most of the sums transferred to the recipients accounts. 
However, HSBC could have done more in relation to the payment that went into one of 
their own customers account. Therefore, it is fair that HSBC refunds that sum together 
with interest.
S accepted the investigators opinion, but HSBC didnt. In summary it said:
There is no basis for concluding that had the bank intervened and contacted their 
customer (the recipient) they wouldnt have given a reasonable explanation for the 
incoming and outgoing payments. 
S didnt do enough to prevent the fraud.  In particular, the accountant could have noticed 
that the email wasnt really from the director. Therefore, it is fair that the company be 
held at least partially liable for the loss. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. I have taken that into account when deciding what is 
fair and reasonable in this case. But that is not the end of the story. HSBC also has an 
ongoing obligation to be alert to various risks in relation to accounts with it. Specifically, Im 
mindful that it:  
must conduct their business with due skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for 
Businesses 2);
have a longstanding regulatory duty to take reasonable care to establish and maintain 
effective systems and controls for compliance with applicable requirements and 
standards under the regulatory system and for countering the risk that the firm might be 
used to further financial crime (SYSC 3.2.6R of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook, which has applied since 2001);
must fairly and reasonably been monitoring accounts and any payments made or 
received to counter various risks including anti-money laundering and preventing fraud 
and scams. At the material time, those requirements included maintaining proportionate 
and risk-sensitive policies and procedures to identify, assess and manage risk, e.g. 
through customer due-diligence measures and the ongoing monitoring of the business 
relationship including through the scrutiny of transactions undertaken throughout the 
course of the relationship;
must have systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate risk of fraud. This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and 
scams in recent years.
Ultimately, it is a matter for HSBC as to how it chooses to configure its fraud detection 
systems and strike a balance between allowing its customers to transact business and 
questioning transactions to confirm they are legitimate.  But where it is alleged that it didnt 
do enough to prevent a loss which resulted from an authorised push payment fraud, I will 
look into the circumstances of the case and decide, based on what I have seen, whether in 
that case HSBC could have fairly and reasonably done more. 
Did HSBC do enough as the sending bank?
I agree with the investigator that in this instance there isnt anything specific to indicate that 
HSBC should have done more when S made the two payments. The payments were 
authorised by S and the amounts werent unusual. S had frequently been making similar or 
larger payments. 
The payments were to new payees but given the account history I think this alone wouldnt 
have given HSBC much cause for concern. Moreover, S didnt speak to or interact with 
HSBCs staff at the time of the payment. So, it isnt the case that the bank missed an 
opportunity this way to identify that the payment was being made in relation to a scam.Irrespective of the above, it is possible to consider whether a customer is covered under the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model code which, on some occasions, provides for 
reimbursement of the amount even if the bank wasnt at fault. However, as explained by the 
investigator, S isnt covered by the code. 
I have also considered whether HSBC ought to have done more to recover the payment. 
S says that HSBC wasnt easily contactable, and though they spotted the fraud quickly they 
were effectively trying for nearly nine hours even to report it to the HSBC. It does appear that 
S had considerable difficulty in getting through to the right people at HSBC when they 
wanted to report the fraud. This shouldnt have happened. 
Nevertheless, from the available information it seems that even before S realised what had 
happened, almost all of the money that was transferred to the two accounts were taken out 
by the fraudsters.  Therefore, even if HSBC was contactable sooner, the bank couldnt have 
prevented that from happening.
Did HSBC do enough as the receiving bank?
This is in relation to the sum of £9,960.75 that was transferred into another account with 
HSBC. 
The bank has provided relevant information to our service to allow us to investigate this. I am 
limited as to how much information I can share because it relates to a third-party account. 
But Id like to assure that I have carefully reviewed everything before reaching my decision. 
Having reviewed the submissions, I agree with the investigator that HSBC could have done 
more here, for the reasons they have explained. Briefly, the beneficiarys account was 
opened in late 2019. The account opening form stated that the applicant was a full-time 
student with no income. And until the receipt of the above payment, the transactions were 
mainly of low value. The payment from S was the largest ever received into the account. And 
it was withdrawn very swiftly. The outgoing payments too were untypical for the account. 
Given the historical activities on the account, this represented a sudden and uncharacteristic 
increase in spending. 
Taking all of the above into account, I agree with the investigator that there was enough 
going on to the extent that HSBC could and should reasonably have made additional checks 
with its customer before it processed the payments. 
I cannot be certain as to what would have happened had HSBC contacted its customer at 
that point, though it seems that when HSBC later tried to contact them, they were not 
contactable and the bank proceeded to close their account. HSBC has said that had it 
contacted its customer at the time the payment was made out of the account, it was quite 
possible that they would have responded and provided a plausible explanation because they 
would have wanted to access the money. 
However, that had not happened and so I will have to consider what more likely would have 
happened had HSBC looked into this closely, contacted its customer and if they were 
reachable, asked all the right questions. 
I consider that had the bank done so, it is more likely than not that the fraud would have 
come to light. I cant see how the beneficiary could have given a reasonable explanation for 
such a large payment to come into their account from S. I think its most likely that the 
beneficiary wouldnt have responded plausibly or at all had HSBC reached out to ask about the payments. This would have raised further alarm bells, and generally when there are 
concerns about a payment, banks do not take further action with the payment until theyve 
had an answer and/or investigated matters. 
Further, as the payer was also the customer of HSBC, it would have been easy for the bank 
to have contacted the payer and queried the genuineness of the transaction. Had it done so, 
I consider that the fraud would have been discovered. Moreover, any investigation by HSBC 
would also have allowed time for the fraud notification to be received  which was made to 
HSBC on the same day.
I appreciate that HSBC needs to strike a balance in the extent to which it intervenes in 
payments, against the risk of unduly inconveniencing or delaying legitimate payment 
requests. I acknowledge the main perpetrator here is the fraudster. But overall, I think HSBC 
failed to recognise the unusual behaviour on the receiving account or respond to it 
appropriately, and therefore missed an opportunity to help prevent loss to S. Therefore, it is 
fair that they compensate S for this loss.  
The funds were lost from a business current account, which earned little interest. But the 
relevant question is the opportunity cost of the lost funds to S. In this case, I cannot be 
certain about the cost to S of being deprived of the money because it might have used the 
funds in a variety of ways. Without any compelling reason to depart from our usual 
approach, I consider it fair and reasonable that HSBC pays S simple interest at 8% p.a. on 
the above sum. 
Did S act reasonably in the circumstances?
HSBC strongly feels that S didnt. I have carefully considered what HSBC has said, but on 
this occasion, it is my view that S acted reasonably in the circumstances.  I say this for the 
following reasons:
S has explained that it is isnt unusual for the director to give payment instructions 
through email. This was more so as the staff were working from home due to Covid. 
There wasnt anything unusual about the content of the email. Also, the amounts 
instructed to be paid werent unusual in relation to the normal payments.
S says that there was nothing suspicious with the email address as it was delivered 
to the accountant. Only if someone clicked into the email address it could be noted 
that the address was actually different, but this wasnt something that was readily 
visible. 
It is difficult for me to know now with certainty what the accountant actually saw, but I 
have no reason to doubt their explanation. It isnt unusual that the actual email 
address wasnt automatically visible.  As S could be receiving several emails from 
various parties in a day, I think it would unreasonable to expect S to click each and 
every email address to check their genuineness. This is unless something was 
obvious or unusual. I havent seen anything to persuade me that was the case here. 
The payment to the HSBC account came up as a match and so there was nothing 
suspicious there. It appears that the second payment came up a partial match / 
mismatch. Looking at what had happened it seems that the fraudster gave most of 
the name correctly but when it came up as a partial match / mismatch the accountant 
went back and queried it with who he thought was the director. The director asked to add another word to the name at the end and then it came up as a match. Again, I 
dont think this in itself ought to have raised suspicion as this sort of issue could arise 
where a full name of the payee wasnt used in the first instance.
When the accountant received another email soon after asking for payments to be 
made to two more (new) payees, they felt that this was unusual and promptly 
contacted the director. Thus, they didnt contact the director in relation to the first 
payment as on the face of it there was nothing suspicious but did so but as soon as 
they felt something was suspicious.  
Taking all of the above into account, I am unable to conclude that S acted unreasonably and 
therefore I do not agree that they should share the loss as suggested by the bank.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of it, HSBC should:
Refund the amount of £9,960.75 (less any money already returned), together with interest at 
8% simple p.a. Interest should be paid from the date S first raised the fraud with HSBC until 
the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman