DRN-1993491
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2005. The policy was added to 
Mr Ms Barclaycard account when he applied for the card over the internet. And he also 
ticked and signed separately for the PPI policy on his Barclaycard credit agreement.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with our adjudicator.
Mr Ms main complaint is that he was unaware he was taking out PPI. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Heres why I say this.
Based on what we know about the way Barclays sold PPI over the internet, I think Mr M 
wouldve seen that he had to say if he wanted to take out the PPI. It wouldnt have been put 
on his account if he hadnt selected the option to add it on. 
And following on from his online application Barclays sent Mr M a paper credit agreement to 
sign. This included a separate section for PPI and I can see that Mr M ticked next to where it 
says: I wish to purchase Barclaycard Payment Protection. 
Mr M crossed through another optional extra that he didnt want to take out. And hes also 
signed this part of the agreement confirming that he wanted the PPI. 
Its understandable that hes forgotten after so long, but I think Mr M wouldve understood at 
the time that it was his choice to have PPI  and it was added on to his credit card account 
when he chose to take it.  
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
him. But Ive looked carefully at whether it gave him enough clear information so he could 
decide for himself if he wanted to have PPI.
Mr M was eligible for the policy. There were some things the policy didnt cover but it doesnt 
look as if those applied in Mr Ms case when he took out his credit card. So, I dont think 
having more information about things the policy didnt cover wouldve put him off taking it 
out. 
Mr Ms employer wouldve paid him full sick pay for at least 6 months if he was off work as a 
result of accident or sickness. But the policy wouldve paid more than his minimum credit 
card repayments for up to 12 months per claim in the event of accident or sickness  on top 
of any work benefits. Bearing in mind that Mr M mightve also had some additional costs if he 
was too unwell to go back to work or disabled, I think this couldve been a useful benefit at a 
difficult time. 
And as well as this, the policy wouldve also protected Mr Ms credit card repayments if he 
lost his job unexpectedly and was out of work. 
Mr M mentioned in his complaint to Barclays that he was entitled to a pension, death in 
service benefit and redundancy. 
PPI provided a different sort of cover and paid out in different circumstances to these 
benefits. And being entitled to redundancy benefits from his employer wouldnt have helped 
Mr M if he was off work sick. PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any redundancy money he 
mightve got if hed lost his job, giving Mr M some additional financial security in those 
circumstances.
Ive also taken into account that Mr M had some savings at the time. But I dont know if he 
wouldve always had savings to rely on if hed needed to make a claim. 
So, looked at overall, I think the policy offered him valuable cover. 
I dont know if Barclays properly explained what the policy would cost, or what it might pay 
out if Mr M made a claim. But even if he hadnt fully appreciated how much PPI would 
actually cost on a month to month basis, Mr M chose to take out the policy when he didnt 
have to  so he seems to have wanted it. The policy appears to have been affordable for him 
when he took it out  and he couldve cancelled it at any time if his circumstances changed 
or he didnt want to keep paying for it. 
Looked at overall, given the benefits PPI offered him, I think it unlikely Mr M wouldve made 
a different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think hed still have 
taken out the policy.
Ive also taken into account what Mr M said about the way other PPI cases have been dealt 
with. But each complaint is looked at on its own merits - Ive looked at the circumstances that 
apply in this particular case and what happened on other cases doesnt change my 
conclusion here.  
This means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M. 
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr M about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mr M, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so 
I dont award any further compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman