DRN-1520675
 
The complaint
Mr P says Provident Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr P took out a loan with Satsuma in August 2018. The loan was for £400 and was 
repayable in six monthly instalments.
An adjudicator considered Mr Ps complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. Mr P didnt 
agree, so his complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr P 
could repay this loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
I can see that before lending to Mr P, Satsuma asked him some questions about his income 
and expenditure. Mr P declared an income of £2,232 per month and total monthly 
expenditure of £720  this was comprised of £250 for housing, £150 for financial 
commitments and £320 for other expenditure. Satsuma applied what it calls buffers or 
safeguards to these figures, which increased Mr Ps expenditure to £1,151.88 per month.
Satsuma also carried out a credit check. This report showed that Mr P had no active 
accounts in arrears and had taken three payday loans in the last three months.
I think Satsumas checks were proportionate and that it acted reasonably by lending to Mr P. 
I understand why Mr P feels Satsuma should have done more, but for this one, relatively 
small loan, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Satsuma to take a wider, or more 
detailed look at his financial circumstances.
For these reasons, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint against Provident Personal Credit Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2020.
 
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman