DRN-2928804
The complaint
Ms Ms complained that New Mount Reclaim Limited, trading as Money Reclaim Experts 
(MRE) didnt submit a claim to recover payment protection insurance (PPI) before the 
deadline.  So she lost the opportunity to recover any PPI shed been mis-sold.
What happened
Ms M contacted MRE about a potential claim to recover mis-sold PPI from a financial 
institution Ill call L.  Its not clear exactly when she did this.  But shes sent us a copy of a 
letter from MRE dated 28 November 2018, asking her to return letters of authority.
The deadline for submitting a claim to recover mis-sold PPI was 29 August 2019.
In early February 2021, Ms M received a letter from L about her claim.  L said theyd 
received the claim in July 2020  so it was out of time and they hadnt considered its merits.  
Ms M provided further information, which L considered.  But they wrote to her in March 2021 
to say it hadnt changed their original decision.
Ms M brought her complaint to us.  She told us shed contacted MRE many times to try and 
find out about her claim  but without success. 
We referred the complaint to MRE for them to consider under their complaint handling 
procedure.  Ms M hadnt heard anything after eight weeks.  So she asked us to investigate. 
Our investigator considered the matter.  He concluded that MRE hadnt treated Ms M fairly 
and needed to take steps to resolve her complaint.  He said that, as a claims management 
company, MRE would have been aware of the August 2019 deadline.  And he was satisfied 
that the letter of 28 November 2018 demonstrated that Ms M had instructed MRE before 
this.  
Ls letter made it clear the claim wasnt submitted until July 2020.  So, based on what hed 
seen, the investigator was persuaded that MRE hadnt submitted the claim in time.  He said 
he couldnt say if the claim wouldve been successful.  But he was satisfied that missing the 
deadline, and failing to update Ms M about the claim, had caused her trouble and upset.  He 
said MRE should pay Ms M £250 compensation for this.
MRE havent responded to the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Ms Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
I agree with our investigator that the evidence shows Ms M contacted MRE well before the 
PPI deadline.  Thats evidenced by the letter of 28 November 2018.  Ms M said she did what 
MRE needed her to do to pursue the claim.  Ive been given no reason to doubt that.
And its equally clear from Ls letters to Ms M that they received a claim on her behalf  
although it was well after the PPI deadline.   In the absence of any evidence to the contrary, I 
can only conclude that MRE didnt submit the claim in time for L to consider it. 
Putting things right
Ms Ms obviously unhappy that shes potentially lost out on a significant amount of money.  I 
sympathise.  But  as our investigator explained  it wouldnt be fair for me to say MRE 
should pay Ms M the value of her claim, because I cant say that it would have been 
successful.
So I think the fair thing to do is to compensate Ms M for the loss of her opportunity to make a 
claim to L.  I agree with our investigator that the right amount of compensation is £250.
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Ms complaint about New Mount Reclaim 
Limited, trading as Money Reclaim Experts and directing them to pay her £250 for the 
trouble and upset they caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman