DRN-1354330
The complaint 
Mr M complains about the charges Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited, trading as 
Audi Financial Services (VWFS), asked him to pay to refurbish a car that hed handed back 
after ending a financial agreement.  
What happened
In October 2015 Mr M entered into a four-year hire purchase agreement with VWFS for a 
new car. In August 2019 Mr M voluntarily terminated the agreement and handed the car 
back. 
Mr M says that VWFS sent him a guide on the prices for refurbishing the car if damage was 
found to its bodywork and wheels. He says that he was told by a garage that these prices 
were very reasonable and so he didnt look at arranging any repairs for the car prior to 
handing it back.
The car was inspected, and a report prepared which included photos of the damage found. 
Mr M was sent an invoice for the refurbishment costs. Mr M was upset at the amount 
charged and that VAT had been added to the costs as he hadnt been told by VWFS that the 
prices it had provided for refurbishing the car were excluding VAT. Mr M complained to 
VWFS.
VWFS reviewed the refurbishment charges and said that it would waiver the costs of the 
damage found to the bonnet, rear bumper and two wheels, as it agreed the photos werent 
clear as to the damage that had been found. It said that there was clear damage to the front 
bumper, left-hand rear door, left-hand front wheel and right-hand front wing and these 
charges had been properly raised against Mr M.
However, VWFS said it would uphold Mr Ms complaint that the prices hed originally been 
provide with, should refurbishment be required, hadnt been clear that VAT needed to be 
added. VWFS said it would remove the VAT element from the remaining charges.
Mr M was unhappy at VWFSs response. He complained to this service. Mr M also said he 
was unhappy that VWFS pursued him for the outstanding amount on the invoice during the 
complaint process. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. She said that 
VWFS had adhered to the guidance provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association (BVRLA), which provides the industry standard as to what was and wasnt 
considered to be fair wear and tear when a car is returned at the end of a financial 
agreement. 
Our investigator said, although Mr M had been charged for damage that wasnt clear from 
the photos, VWFS had reviewed this and subsequently removed that damage from the 
invoice. She said the remaining charges had been fairly applied as the damage was clear in 
the photos and wasnt due to reasonable wear and tear and that the damage was noticeable 
and bare metal could be seen through the scratches. She said this damage would have had 
an impact on the value of the car and so it was reasonable for VWFS to charge Mr M as he 
was responsible for the damage.
Our investigator said that, although she appreciated Mr M had been unhappy at the repair 
costs being provided without adding VAT, VWFS had agreed to remove this amount so the 
prices he was being charged for the damage did match those in the letter he had been sent. 
She said as VWFS wasnt under an obligation to remove this element it would be unfair to 
ask it to reduce the charges further.
Finally, our investigator said that, while she understood Mr M was upset by VWFSs debt 
collecting activities, he had owed it money and therefore she couldnt say VWFS had done 
anything wrong.
Mr M disagreed with the view of our investigator. He said that, although he was aware the 
car had damage when he handed it back, he thought it was unfair to have to pay because of 
the way VWFS had behaved.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the terms and conditions of the hire purchase agreement, it was Mr Ms responsibility 
to keep the vehicle in good repair and condition. It also set out that Mr M would be 
responsible for any damage or deterioration to the car that was outside fair wear and tear.
When a car is handed back at the end of a financial agreement then its expected that it will 
show some signs of use. The BVRLA has provided guidance, which has been used to set 
the industry standard, as to what is and isnt acceptable as fair wear and tear. And Ive 
seen that the car Mr M handed back had those guidelines applied to its condition.
I can see from the photos that it was raining at the time the car was inspected and that some 
of the photos werent clear as to the damage that was said to be present. So, I agree that the 
refurbishment invoice Mr M received did include items that, without further evidence, would 
have been unfair to charge. However, VWFS has reviewed the invoice and removed those 
charges so I think it has acted reasonably when it was asked to look again at the charges by 
Mr M.
VWFS said that the remaining damage to the car was chargeable as it didnt arise from fair 
wear and tear. Looking at the photos and referring to the BVRLA guidance I agree. The 
photos show clear and noticeable damage to the vehicle with deep scratches to the 
paintwork going through to the metal. I also think the wheel rim shows extensive scuffing 
which is in excess of what is acceptable as fair wear and tear. Looking at the evidence I am 
satisfied that the damage to the front bumper, left-hand rear door, right-hand front wing and 
left-hand front wheel is chargeable and I dont think VWFS acted unfairly in applying these 
charges and I wouldnt ask it to reduce them further.
Mr M does appear to have accepted there was some damage to the car. He says that he 
didnt seek to have the car repaired before he returned it because the guide prices for 
refurbishment charges he was provided with were reasonable. He says it wasnt clear that 
these prices were excluding VAT. While I appreciate that when he received the invoice, he 
was shocked that VAT had been added, and VWFS has accepted that the prices it provided 
may have misled him, so has removed the VAT charges from the remaining charges on the 
invoice. I think this was fair and reasonable of VWFS and Im not asking it to do more.Mr M says that he was caused unnecessary upset and stress by VWFS sending him debt 
recovery letters for the unpaid invoice while he was still openly disputing the charges. He 
also says that the amount that was due was unclear and keep changing. Ive seen that the 
original invoice was for £768 but, following its review of his complaint, VWFS reduced this 
amount to £422.40. While I accept that the collection letters refer to the original amount 
rather than the reduced amount, I cant say VWFS has acted unfairly in seeking payment. 
This is because there is an outstanding balance due to VWFS and I think the final response 
letter is clear as to the amount that is outstanding. VWFS is entitled to seek payment even 
when a dispute is ongoing so I cant reasonably say it has done anything wrong in contacting 
Mr M over the outstanding payment.  
So, for the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 05 October 2020.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman