DRN-3355551
The complaint
Mr E and Mr T complain that Landmark Mortgages Limited (Landmark) recorded a late 
payment against their mortgage account.
What happened
Mr E and Mr T hold a joint mortgage with Landmark. Their contractual payment is usually 
paid on the last working day of the month. 
Mr E and Mr T explain that in May 2021 the payment for the mortgage was made by online 
transfer on 29 May 2021. But due to this date being a Saturday, the payment was sent by 
their bank to Landmark on the next working day, which was Tuesday 1 June, due to a bank 
holiday. 
As the payment for May wasnt received in May Landmark has recorded a late payment 
marker against the mortgage on Mr E and Mr Ts credit files. Mr E and Mr T complain that 
this is unfair and doesnt consider their circumstances, as they say they had the money 
available to make the payment earlier than the date Landmark received it. 
Landmark considered Mr E and Mr Ts complaint but didnt uphold it. So Mr E and Mr T 
referred the complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered everything, but she didnt recommend the complaint should be 
upheld. Whilst she acknowledged Mr E and Mr Ts circumstances, she noted that the 
payment for May reached the mortgage account in June. And she explained that Landmark 
has a duty to report accurate information to the credit reference agencies  which in this 
case means the fact that it didnt receive a payment in May, so she didnt think Landmark 
had done anything wrong or treated Mr E and Mr T unfairly.
As Mr E and Mr T didnt agree with the investigators opinion the complaint has been passed 
to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sure thisll come as a disappointment to Mr E and Mr T but Im afraid I agree with the 
outcome reached by the investigator. Ill explain why.
I should start by explaining that Ive seen Mr E and Mr Ts comments around the funds they 
had available at the time of the payment being made, and the fact that they were on holiday 
so they didnt notice the issue immediately. But in reaching a decision on the complaint I 
need to consider what  if anything  Landmark has done wrong. And only if it has done 
something wrong, or treated Mr E and Mr T unfairly, can I tell it to put things right. 
I can see from the bank statements provided by Mr E and Mr T that the payment for May 
2021 was made as two separate instalments  one on 1 June 2021, and one on 18 June 
2021. And Landmarks records show that the payments were credited to the mortgage 
account on the same day as they were made. So with this in mind, Im satisfied that 
Landmarks records are accurate and correctly reflect the series of events that has now been 
complained about. That said, I can certainly understand why it feels unfair that the payment 
should be recorded as being made late, despite Mr E and Mr T taking action to make it 
before the end of the month by instructing their bank to send it on 29 May 2021.
Turning to what this means for Mr E and Mr T, Im afraid that I havent found a reason that 
Landmark shouldnt have taken the action that it has by reporting a late payment to the credit 
reference agencies.
I can see that Mr E and Mr Ts mortgage payment is due on the last working day of the 
month and Im satisfied that they know about that. Looking at their payment history their 
payments have always been made on the day theyve become due. 
Lenders have a responsibility to record accurate information to the credit reference 
agencies. And whilst theres often a story or reason behind late or missed payments, that 
doesnt give lenders the discretion not to report information, or to report it inaccurately. So 
whilst I fully appreciate that Mr E and Mr T have explained there was a reason behind their 
payment being made late, that doesnt change my decision on the matter.
I should also note that the payment made on 1 June 2021 was for £660.82, and the payment 
made on 18 June was for £147.50. As the payment due on 31 May was 857.25, even if 
these payments had been made on or before the due date, I still think thered have been a 
shortfall. I dont know why this happened and it may have been part of an arrangement Mr E 
and Mr T had with Landmark, but I think its likely this wouldve been reported to the credit 
reference agencies in any case.
I do appreciate that this is likely to be unwelcome news for Mr E and Mr T as theyve 
mentioned that its making it more difficult for them to re-mortgage. But Im afraid I havent 
seen anything to persuade me that Landmark has treated them unfairly by taking the action 
that it did. So I dont require it to put anything right.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr E and Mr Ts complaint against Landmark Mortgage Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
Sam Wade
Ombudsman