DRN-4018361
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as T, complains that DSL Business Finance Ltd (DSL) 
unfairly declined its request for a Recovery Loan. 
T is represented in this complaint by its director, Mr R. 
What happened
T applied for a £60,000 Recovery Loan (RL) under the Governments Recovery Loan 
Scheme. On 27 October 2022, DSLs lending panel met with Mr R to discuss the application, 
later deciding to decline it. 
T complained that DSLs reasons for declining the loan werent adequate. Mr R provided 
detailed further evidence to support the application, but DSL didnt change their mind. 
Mr R referred Ts complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. One of our investigators looked 
into what had happened, but didnt recommend upholding Ts complaint. She felt that DSL 
had given due consideration to Ts proposal and had not acted unfairly in declining it. 
Mr R disagreed with our investigator and asked for an ombudsman to consider the matter 
again. He made the following points:
He didnt accept the finding that Ts proposal wasnt viable. The company had been 
trading for 12 years and he had tackled every question asked in the panel meeting. 
DSL had not justified their conclusions. 
The quality of questioning in the panel meeting had been poor
Recovery loans were meant for businesses in a position like T. 
Directors loans could be converted to equity. So the only debt in Ts balance sheet 
was a £40,000 bounce back loan. 
He supplied an independent business report that classified T as low risk and 
recommended lending to T. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R has made a number of detailed arguments about why the lending proposal to T should 
have been approved. I have read and considered everything he has provided. But I will start 
by pointing out that my role is to decide whether DSL made errors or acted unfairly in their 
consideration of Ts loan, not to make DSLs lending decisions for them. 
Ive listened in full to the audio recording of the panel meeting. Mr R had submitted his 
business plan in advance and the panel in my view gave him ample opportunity to answer 
questions and make his case. I know Mr R takes issue with some of the questions asked. 
But I consider it to have been a professional discussion, with panel members clearly having 
read the business plan beforehand. Mr R disagrees with the conclusions reached, but I see 
no errors I the way the discussion was conducted. 
Mr R has said several times that the panels conclusions lacked evidence and were just 
hunches. But lending decisions in my view are inherently a matter of personal opinion, 
based as they are on estimates of future performance. That is why it is often considered 
good practice to use a panel to make decisions, as DSL did here, and to have an appeals 
process, which I can see was also used. In any case, whilst I appreciate that Mr R disagrees 
with them, I think the three reasons DSL gave for turning down the proposal make the 
panels reservations sufficiently clear.  
Mr R also believes that the Governments Recovery Loan Scheme was created for 
businesses just like T. But, as our investigator explained, the British Business Bank chose to 
include a viability test in the requirements for this scheme. Lenders were not obliged to lend. 
In contrast, they were obliged to carry out a lending assessment and should only lend if they 
were satisfied with the results. 
Mr R has also pointed out that with a partial Government guarantee and a personal 
guarantee from him, the risk to DSL was relatively low. But DSLs risk appetite is a matter for 
them. And they needed to consider the viability of the proposal on a stand alone basis, 
without taking into consideration the guarantees.
I can see why Mr R was so frustrated by DSLs decision. He is committed to his business 
and believes in it. He was also in a difficult position  unable to demonstrate a pipeline 
because he didnt have the budget to advertise to create one. But that isnt DSLs fault. 
There is no requirement for lenders to consider whether they are willing to lend a lower 
figure than that requested. But in any case, DSL have confirmed that they were not willing to 
do so, as they considered their concerns over debt servicing would not be overcome by 
lending a smaller sum. 
In summary, I havent seen any evidence that DSL made any errors in their handling of Ts 
application or failed to give it fair consideration. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman