DRN-1689845
 
The complaint
Mr C complains about the way Santander UK Plc handled a faster payment from his current 
account. Mr C also complains that Santander didnt do enough to help him get his money 
back. 
What happened
On 23 January 2020 Mr C set up an online faster payment for £2,600 to pay his travel agent. 
But the payment was held by Santanders fraud team. Mr C confirmed the transfer was 
genuine and the fraud team advised he would need to send it again. 
Mr C went on to set up a new faster payment instruction. But this time, the sort code Mr C 
used was wrong. Mr C attempted to make the faster payment several times, but the transfers 
were held by Santander. When Mr C discussed the faster payment attempts he was advised 
that the use of a full stop in the reference may have prevented them going through. 
On 24 January 2020 Santander offered to process the faster payment for Mr C over the 
phone. Mr C provided the sort code and confirmed the account number to be used and the 
faster payment for £2,600 was sent. But the sort code was wrong, so the payment didnt 
reach the intended account. 
Mr C asked Santander to try and recover the faster payment. Santander contacted the 
recipient bank on 24 January 2020. On 24 and 27 January 2020 Santander attempted to 
contact Mr C to check some details about the transaction. After the information was 
provided, Santander forwarded it to the receiving bank in support of its attempts to get 
Mr Cs money back.  
While discussing the missing faster payment Mr C was incorrectly told by Santander that he 
would receive a temporary refund. 
Mr C complained and Santander responded on 4 February 2020. Santander agreed Mr C 
had been given incorrect advice about receiving a temporary refund, apologised and paid 
him £200. But Santander said Mr C had given the wrong sort code over the phone and that it 
had made the faster payment in line with his instructions. 
On 3 March 2020 Santander wrote to Mr C and confirmed the receiving bank had been able 
to recover £343.10 of the £2,600 sent. Details of how to obtain the beneficiaries details were 
provided. Mr C says that he was subsequently able to contact the payment recipient who 
advised they had offered an arrangement to repay the payment via their bank. Santander 
has advised that its involvement in the matter has now ended and its up to Mr C to decide 
what arrangements to make in order to recover the rest of his money. 
Mr C referred his complaint to our service, and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Santander had made reasonable attempts to recover Mr Cs money and that it dealt 
with the complaint fairly. Mr C asked to appeal so his complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are several different issues involved in this case, so Ill look at each in turn. Ill begin 
by talking about the way the faster payment was processed and sent. 
Mr Cs first attempt to send the faster payment contained the correct sort code and account 
number but was held by Santanders fraud prevention systems for further checks. I 
understand this was inconvenient for Mr C, but Santanders account terms say it can block a 
payment if it suspects fraudulent activity. Ive listened to Mr Cs calls with Santander on 
23 January 2020 and he confirmed the payment was genuine. Santander advised Mr C 
needed to make the payment again. 
As a result, Mr C attempted to make the payment online several more times. But the sort 
code Mr C used was wrong by one digit and the reference he used contained a full stop. 
Mr C spoke with Santander about the attempted payments on 23 January 2020 and again on 
24 January 2020. Ive paid particular attention to the call on 24 January 2020 when 
Santander offered to take Mr Cs instructions over the phone. Whilst I understand Mr C feels 
Santander should have done more to check he provided the correct information, the call Ive 
listened to shows Mr C supplied both sort code and account number. During the call, Mr C 
appeared to check information he had at hand when he confirmed the correct account 
number. Im sorry to disappoint Mr C but Im satisfied Santander acted in line with the 
instructions he provided when it sent the faster payment to the wrong recipient. 
I havent found Santander made an error when it sent the faster payment, so Ive gone on to 
look at its attempts to recover Mr Cs funds. I can see that Santander contacted the recipient 
bank on 24 January 2020. And Santander asked Mr C for additional information which was 
forwarded to the recipient bank to try and help it recover his funds. Santanders notes show it 
regularly chased the recipient bank to find out whether it was possible to recover the funds. 
Ultimately, the recipient bank wasnt able to retrieve all the money Mr C sent but was able to 
get £343.10 back. Whilst I can understand Mr Cs upset and frustration that he wasnt able to 
get all his money back, Im satisfied Santander did actively try to retrieve his funds. I havent 
found that Santander treated Mr C unfairly. 
Mr C has told our investigator that after his money was partially repaid he was able to get the 
details of the account holder who received his funds. Mr C says the recipient has made 
offers of a payment arrangement to repay the rest of his money via their bank and that 
Santander hasnt assisted. But Santander says the issue of any remaining funds owed to 
Mr C by the recipient is a matter for them to work out privately. I wouldnt expect Santander 
to become involved in arrangements Mr C makes with the payment recipient and I agree 
thats something he can pursue without its involvement. 
Santander accepts it incorrectly told Mr C his missing faster payment would be temporarily 
refunded when it spoke with him. I agree that the information provided was wrong. 
Santander has apologised and paid Mr C £200 to reflect the impact of its error. Whilst I 
appreciate the incorrect information was particularly frustrating at a difficult time, I think the 
£200 Santander has paid reflects that. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr C but Im satisfied Santander acted in line with its instructions 
when it sent his faster payment on 24 January 2020. Santander actively tried to get Mr Cs 
money back and I havent found evidence of unnecessary delays or poor service. As Ive 
said above, I wouldnt expect Santander to take an ongoing role in Mr C retrieving the rest of 
his funds  thats a private matter between him and the recipient. Santander has paid £200 and apologised for the incorrect information it gave Mr C. As Im satisfied Santander has 
dealt with Mr Cs complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any further action.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman