DRN-3817324
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. declined a claim they made under their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B purchased a single trip travel insurance policy on 5 October 2019. The policy 
was to cover a trip Mr and Mrs B were due to go on, between 11 July 2020, and 18 July 
2020.
Mr and Mrs B had booked their flights and accommodation separately  paying a non-
refundable deposit of £737.10 for the hotel they were due to stay in. However, before the trip 
went ahead, the airline that Mr and Mrs Bs flights were booked with contacted them, to let 
them know both their outward and return flights, were cancelled.
Mr and Mrs B received a refund for the cost of the flights. And they tried to get a refund for 
their hotel costs but were unsuccessful. So, they contacted their insurer, Mapfre, to make a 
claim under their travel insurance policy for this loss.
Mapfre considered the claim but declined it. Mapfre said there wasnt any cover under the 
policy for the situation Mr and Mrs B found themselves in. They said the only way that cover 
may have been provided under the cancellation section of the policy is if Mr and Mrs Bs 
cancellation of the trip was due to Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) 
advise. But Mapfre said there hadnt been any advice in this respect at the time.
Mapfre said the abandonment section of the policy didnt cover the situation either  as this 
only covered abandonment of a trip in certain situations. And Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances 
didnt fall into those.
Mr and Mrs B felt this was unfair. Theyve noted the cancellation of the trip was through no 
fault of their own. And they said that in addition to their flights being cancelled, the place they 
were due to holiday in had Coronavirus testing requirements, which would hinder their ability 
to fully participate in the trip. In addition to this, Mr and Mrs B said if they had caught the 
Coronavirus whilst on holiday, they would have needed to quarantine for 14 days  which 
was longer than the trip length.
Mr and Mrs B raised a complaint with Mapfre about the decline of their claim. But Mapfre 
maintained its position on the matter. Mr and Mrs B remained dissatisfied with this. So, they 
referred their complaint to this service, for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. The 
investigator considered that Mr and Mrs Bs claim had been declined fairly, and in line with 
the terms and conditions of the insurance policy. So, they didnt recommend Mapfre do 
anything differently here.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree. They felt Mapfre hadnt met its obligation to deal with their claim 
promptly and fairly. 
As Mr and Mrs B didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I appreciate Mr and Mrs B will be 
disappointed with this  its clear they feel strongly about it. But Ive explained my reasoning 
for this below.
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly. So, Ive thought about whether Mapfre 
acted in line with these requirements when it declined to settle Mr and Mrs Bs claim. 
Ive reviewed Mr and Mrs Bs policy documentation, to see what cover it provides to them. 
And I can see the policy does provide cover for cancellation of a trip. But, as is common with 
insurance policies of this nature, they dont provide cover for every eventuality. Rather, for 
the loss to be covered  the cancellation needs to have occurred because of one of the 
events listed as insured under the section. If the event isnt listed  then it isnt covered.
Ive reviewed the events listed under the cancellation section. These include events such as 
cancellation due to illness, redundancy and jury service. Im aware none of these apply to 
the situation Mr and Mrs B found themselves in. The only possible event of relevance under 
this section is one which talks about the inability to travel due to FCDO advice changing 
before the trip commenced. And Im aware Mapfre considered this.
But, at the time Mr and Mrs Bs trip was cancelled, there was no advice from the FCDO, or 
any other government rules and guidance, which stopped Mr and Mrs B from travelling to 
their intended destination. So, Im satisfied this event wouldnt apply either. As there was no 
event covering Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances under the cancellation section of the policy, 
Im satisfied Mapfre acted fairly in noting this, and declining the claim under this section.
Im aware Mapfre also considered the claim under the delayed departure or abandoning your 
trip section of the policy. But this section also notes it will only provide cover for certain listed 
events  such as delays caused by strike or industrial action, poor weather conditions or 
mechanical breakdown. None of which apply to Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances either. So, Im 
also satisfied Mapfre fairly found there was no valid claim to pay under this section either. 
Ive reviewed the remainder of the policy  and am aware there isnt another part of the 
policy that provides cover for Mr and Mrs Bs claim. As Mr and Mrs Bs policy doesnt provide 
cover for the situation, I think Mapfre acted fairly, and in line with the policy terms, when 
declining Mr and Mrs Bs claim. So, I dont require it to do anything more in this regard.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs B have said they dont consider Mapfre acted promptly and fairly. 
But as above, I do consider it acted fairly here. Im aware that Mr and Mrs B did raise their 
claim on 8 July 2020, and they didnt receive an answer on the claim until 28 September 
2020. But, from looking at email correspondence, I can see Mapfre were moving the matter 
forward. And came to the right decision on the claim. So, I dont think it acted unreasonably 
here. My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. to do anything 
more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman