DRN-3400280
The complaint
Mr A complains that BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited (BMWFS) says his account is in 
arrears even though hes paid its settlement figure to end his financial agreement.
What happened
Mr A entered into a hire purchase agreement with BMWFS for a new car in March 2018. In 
April 2021 Mr A voluntarily terminated the agreement and handed the car back. Mr A says 
he paid BMWFS the amount it asked for and hes unhappy that it now says theres an 
additional amount outstanding on his account. Mr A told us:
He asked BMWFS for a settlement figure and he paid that amount to it;
hes now been told theres arrears on his account - £964.34  even though the 
settlement figure explicitly stated there were no arears;
BMWFS should accept the settlement figure it quoted as full and final so that the 
agreement can be terminated, and his account closed. And it should restore his 
credit file so that theres no record of any arears;
BMWFS should compensate him for the effect this has had on his credit file together 
with the stress and inconvenience its caused him. He says the service hes received 
from BMWFS has been poor; its failed to return his telephone calls and it repeatedly 
sent him arrears notices when it shouldve been investigating his complaint.
BMWFS accepted that it had initially provided Mr A with an incorrect settlement figure, and in 
recognition of this and the confusion this caused, it offered him £100 as a goodwill gesture.
It explained that the settlement figure correctly confirmed that there were no arrears on the 
account; Mr A had made all the payments required of him. But it said that the settlement 
figure didnt take account of the fact that BMWFS had agreed to Mr As request for a 
payment deferral  it didnt take into consideration that hed made no payment in February or 
March 2021. At this time, these missing payments were not arrears, because payment 
deferrals had been agreed. But it said these payments did need making even though theyd 
been omitted from Mr As settlement figure.
Unhappy with the outcome, Mr A brought his complaint to our Service.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said he didnt think it should be upheld. He said 
it was clear that BMWFS had provided Mr A with an incorrect settlement figure, a figure that 
Mr A had relied on when he made the payment to settle his agreement.
But he went on to explain that although he could understand why Mr A may not have noticed 
that the April settlement figure was the same as the figure provided in February  Mr A was 
busy making decisions about what to do with the car  he had asked for the payment 
deferral; he knew it had been granted and as a result made no payments; and this money 
was still owed to BMWFS. And hed agreed to make all payments when he first took out the 
hire purchase agreement in March 2018.
He went on to explain that the outstanding debt was the reason BMWFS was allowed to 
contact Mr A; it had yet to receive payment and there was no repayment plan in place. So, it 
wasnt wrong for BMWFS to contact Mr A about his arears or to notify the credit reference 
agencies that this money was still outstanding.
Our investigator accepted that the confusion had been caused by BMWFS, but he said its 
apology and £100 goodwill gesture was fair in the circumstances and he didnt think it 
needed to do anything else.
Mr A disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly 
the same reasons.
Its clear to me that BMWFS made a mistake and provided an incorrect settlement figure to 
Mr A when he asked to voluntarily terminate his agreement. I think it shouldve made it clear 
in the paperwork that the figure it provided did not include the deferred payments requested 
by Mr A and agreed by BMWFS.
But thats not to say that Mr A doesnt need to pay whats owed under the hire purchase 
agreement he signed. And the deferred payments are still owed. So, Im satisfied Mr A is 
liable for the outstanding amount.
BMWFS notified Mr A that £964.34 is still outstanding on his agreement, and the fact that he 
didnt pay this sum when notified does mean that hes in arrears in terms of what he owes 
the business.
And when Mr A didnt pay the outstanding arrears, BMWFS was required to report the matter 
accurately to the Credit Reference Agencies. So, I cant ask it to amend the credit file 
because I dont think it has done anything wrong.
Ive noted Mr As concerns that his credit rating has been affected, he says the limit on two 
credit cards held with the same banking group were reduced. But I cant say with any 
certainty that the arrears on his credit agreement was the sole reason his credit limits were 
reduced. Mr A might, however, be interested to know that he can place a Notice of 
Correction on his credit records. The purpose of such a notice is to allow someone the 
opportunity to add any explanatory circumstances that they would like prospective lenders to 
take into consideration when making lending decisions. And if he wishes to do this, he 
should contact the credit reference agencies directly.
Mr A says hes been caused unnecessary upset and worry by BMWFS sending him arrears 
letters for the outstanding amount while he was still disputing it.  ve considered this carefully 
but, having done so, I cant say that BMWFS has acted unfairly in seeking payment of the 
outstanding balance even when a dispute is ongoing; this is because there is an outstanding 
balance and its final response letter is clear as to the amount that remains unpaid.
Finally, turning to the matter of the poor service provided by BMWFS, I think that £100 in 
compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman