DRN-4010715
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as R, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wrongly prevented 
access to its bank account.
Ms M, who is now a director of R, complains on its behalf.
What happened
Ms M told us:
She and her late partner, Mr E, set up R together. Up until his death in July 2021 he 
took care of Rs finances, but afterwards she needed access to Rs account herself. 
Amongst other things she needed to pay Rs employees salaries, cover rent and 
bills, and make payments to Companies House and HMRC.
From July 2021 onwards she spent ten months attempting to gain access to Rs bank 
account. She submitted multiple requests to be added to the mandate for Rs 
account, only for HSBC to either lose the request or reject it for spurious reasons.
HSBC did eventually allow her to access Rs account, but only after she made wholly 
unnecessary changes to Companies Houses records.
To resolve her complaint, she would like HSBC to pay her substantial compensation 
for the chaos that it caused, and for the serious impact on her health.
HSBC told us:
It was not prepared to make changes to the mandate on Rs bank account until it 
received proper authority from a director of R. Ms M was not a director of R until 
November 2021, so it could not accept her instructions until then.
It accepts that it used an incorrect salutation on one of its letters, and that there 
were delays when Ms M called. It has already paid R £100 in compensation, and it 
has offered a further £100 (which it is still willing to pay).
Ms M does now have access to Rs bank account. The form it received shows the 
wrong date of birth for her, but it is nevertheless satisfied that it has received properly 
authorised instructions to allow Ms M to operate the account.
One of our investigators looked at Rs complaint, but he said the £200 HSBC had already 
offered in compensation was enough. He said HSBC was entitled to reject change of 
signatory forms that were not signed by one of Rs directors. He also said it was entitled to 
reject forms which did not reflect the information shown on Companies House. He accepted 
that Ms M had been extremely frustrated by HSBCs actions, but he did not think it had done 
anything wrong. 
Ms M did not accept our investigators conclusions. Briefly, she said:
The summary the investigator provided did not properly reflect what happened after 
she told HSBC of her partners sudden death. She spent weeks telephoning HSBC 
every day, being passed from one department to the next, being given contradictory 
advice, and often being asked to call back on numbers she had already called.
It took weeks before HSBC even told her that she needed to do anything to change 
the signatories on Rs account. Nobody at HSBC seemed able to tell her how to 
proceed, and she knew nothing about mandates.
HSBC kept turning down every mandate she filled in because her deceased partner 
had not signed it. This was devasting to her on many levels. Even after she wrote to 
HSBCs chief executive, the bank still didnt help her. 
She filled in one of the forms together with an HSBC employee in the bank. That 
employee subsequently told her to change the information Companies House held 
about R. But she wants to stress that I was a Director of the company at this point. I 
did not have to change the information. I was Company Secretary which is a 
Directors position. I only did it because of the endless delays caused by HSBC up to 
that point and I was desperate to have the matter resolved.
The form she filled in with the HSBC staff member was the fourth mandate to be 
rejected, not the first. She suspects that HSBC has provided our service with a highly 
edited version of what happened.
HSBC later claimed that her date of birth was incorrect on the form it finally accepted. 
But there is no way that she would have entered her own date of birth wrongly.
She has recently learned that a third party organisation has rejected Rs funding bid. 
R missed the previous funding round  it could not participate because HSBCs 
errors meant that she had no access to Rs bank account. Missing two funding 
rounds in a row has meant that R has no reserves left, and she has no choice but to 
wind R up. HSBC has caused her to lose the enterprise she and her late partner 
spent more than twenty years building up, and left her with nothing.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the key difference of opinion here is that Ms M believes HSBC should have treated 
her as a director of R throughout, but it was not prepared to do so until Companies Houses 
records showed that she was a director. Im sorry to further disappoint Ms M, but in the 
circumstances I dont think it would be right for me criticise HSBCs approach.
I am aware that some limited companies choose to appoint a company secretary to take on 
some of the directors responsibilities. And in some companies  apparently including R  
there is little to no practical difference in the daily duties of the companys secretary and its 
directors. But the way a company chooses to assign responsibilities doesnt change the legal 
duties of the directors; the directors are legally responsible for the company whether or not a 
company secretary has been appointed.
It is possible in some circumstances for a single individual to act as both company secretary 
and director in relation to the same company. But that is not what happened here. Ms M was Rs company secretary until November 2021, and then she resigned that position to take up 
a role as a director.
I do think there was some confusion between Ms M and HSBC. There were times when 
HSBC explicitly requested that a document be signed by a director, and it appears Ms M 
assumed that her signature as company secretary would suffice. HSBC then refused to 
accept her signature, in her words because it said she was only a secretary. But I do not 
criticise HSBC for that  it didnt want to give Ms M access to Rs bank account unless it had 
permission from a person legally responsible for R.  
Given that Ms M genuinely believed that she was a director before November 2021, I think it 
is likely that she told HSBCs staff that she was indeed a director of R. Any information the 
staff gave about mandate changes would then have been based on the false belief that 
Ms M was a director, and so I dont think it is surprising that the information turned out to be 
wrong.
HSBCs customer here was R, not Ms M personally. HSBC had an obligation to protect its 
customer, and I think it was reasonable for HSBC to refuse to accept instructions from Ms M 
until she was properly recorded as a director on Companies Houses records.
Once Ms M did become a director of R, HSBC finally accepted her request to be added to 
the mandate of Rs bank account. That last change of mandate form has the wrong date of 
birth for Ms M, and I understand why she says that is not a mistake she would have made 
(people sometimes accidentally write todays date when they mean to write their date of 
birth, but they very rarely make a mistake with just part of the date). However, regardless of 
how that error came to be on the form, I dont think it is material. HSBC accepts that Ms M is 
now a director of R, and I consider that once it received proper authority it gave her access 
to Rs account within a reasonable period.
Overall, I think the only errors HSBC has made here are the two that it acknowledges: its call 
waiting times were too long, and it sent correspondence with an incorrect salutation. That 
incorrect salutation was in fact correspondence it sent to Mr E, long after it had been told 
that Mr E had died  and which understandably caused Ms M considerable upset. However, 
as a limited company R is not itself capable of feeling distress, so I cannot award 
compensation for injury to Rs feelings. I can award compensation for the inconvenience R 
suffered, but I think HSBCs offer of £200 (£100 of which it has already paid) is fair in that 
respect. 
Ms M has eloquently described the distress that she suffered personally as a result of 
HSBCs actions. I entirely accept her evidence on that point. It is obvious that she has been 
through an extraordinarily difficult time, both personally and professionally, and I am sorry to 
hear about the financial difficulties that both she and R are continuing to suffer. But I simply 
have no power to make an award to her for her personal distress. The bank account at the 
centre of this dispute belongs to R, and the complainant is therefore R rather than Ms M 
personally. 
Putting things right
HSBC should pay R an additional amount of £100 to compensate it for the inconvenience it 
suffered. My final decision
My final decision is that the compensation HSBC UK Bank Plc has already offered is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. It has already paid R £100, and I order it 
to also pay the further £100 that it has offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman