DRN-3584948
The complaint
Miss K complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) has unfairly 
charged her for damage to a car she returned when her contract hire agreement came to an 
end. 
What happened
In April 2017 Miss K entered into a three-year contract hire agreement for a new car. The 
agreement required Miss K to return the car in a good state of repair. It set out in some detail 
what levels of damage would be acceptable as fair wear and tear and what would what not 
be acceptable. That included information about wheels; minor scuffing was acceptable, for 
example, but cracked or distorted rims were not. 
The hire agreement also said that, if the car was not returned in a satisfactory condition, 
Miss K would have to pay the costs of repair or refurbishment or the cost of the consequent 
reduction in value. 
Miss K returned the car in March 2020 and it was inspected on behalf of MBFS. Amongst 
other things, the inspection report said that both left hand wheels were poorly shaped and 
needed to be replaced. The cost would be £530.90 for each wheel. The report noted that all 
four wheels had been the subject of an unsatisfactory repair. 
Miss K did not think this was fair. She said that the wheels had been professionally repaired 
before she returned the car and that they could be repaired for very much less than the 
replacement price quoted. 
MBFS did not accept what Miss K said. The wheels could not, it said, be repaired and the 
replacement price was fair and realistic.
Miss K referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered what 
had happened. He thought that the inspection report and the photos supplied with it did 
show that the wheels were distorted and accepted that they needed to be replaced. The 
charges were therefore fair. He noted however that Miss K had given authority for her father 
to act on her behalf, but that MBFS had been slow to act on those instructions. He 
recommended that MBFS £100 in recognition of that. 
MBFS did not respond to the investigators assessment, but Miss K did not accept it. She 
suggested, through her father, that MBFS should return the damaged wheels and that any 
losses to MBFS were less than claimed because it could reclaim the VAT on replacements. 
Further, there was no evidence that MBFS had in fact replaced the wheels.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like the investigator, I have considered carefully the contents of the inspection report and, in 
particular, the photographs that accompany it. I agree that they do show damage to both 
wheels. More specifically, I am satisfied that the photographs show that both wheels are 
distorted. I accept the inspectors view that they cannot be properly repaired. 
I have also considered therefore whether the charge is fair. Having looked at the price of 
replacement like-for-like wheels, I am satisfied that the charge levied by MBFS is not 
unreasonable. 
I do not believe that MBFS was or is under a duty to return the damaged wheels to Miss K. 
She did not own them, since the car was leased to her by MBFS, which remained the owner. 
And the hire agreement did not provide for that. 
Nor do I think that I can fairly conclude that MBFS should deduct VAT from the charge. It 
may be right that any VAT charged will be taken into account as part of MBFSs tax 
arrangements, but Miss K was liable to pay VAT on all her payments under the hire 
agreement. There is no reason in my view to treat this payment any differently. 
I note that the investigator suggested a payment of £100 because MBFS did not deal with 
Miss Ks father as she asked. I believe that is fair. 
My final decision
My final decision is that, to resolve Miss Ks complaint in full, Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited should pay her £100.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 August 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman