DRN-1344588
Complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1993. Mr D and Mrs D say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr D and Mrs Ds case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
There isnt very much information available about the sale. Mr D and Mrs D say they were 
told they had to take the PPI, but they havent given us much detail about what happened or 
what was said. And Santander hasnt been able to send us any evidence from the sale 
showing Mr D and Mrs D chose to take the PPI. Due to the amount of time that has passed 
since the sale though, I dont think this is unreasonable.
But what it does mean is that, because of the limited information available, I dont think 
theres enough evidence for me to say that Santander told Mr D and Mrs D that they had to 
take the PPI. So I think its most likely it made it clear to Mr D and Mrs D that they had a 
choice about it, and that they chose to take it.
Mr D and Mrs D have said they were subject to a hard sell for the PPI and felt pressured into 
taking it. But they havent given us much detail about why they felt this. This is 
understandable given how long ago the sale was. But I dont think theres enough evidence 
here for me to say that Santander unfairly pressured Mr D and Mrs D into taking out the PPI.
Santander recommended the PPI to Mr D and Mrs D, so it had to check that it was right for 
them. And, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, Mr D and Mrs D dont appear to have been affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover. The PPI couldve paid out for longer than Mr D and Mrs D have told 
us they wouldve been entitled to full sick pay. And theyve told us they didnt have any 
savings or other means they couldve used to make their repayments if they werent earning.
As well as checking it was right for them, Santander had to give Mr D and Mrs D clear 
information about the PPI. Its possible the information it gave them wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But a mortgage is a serious financial commitment, and Mr D and Mrs Ds 
property couldve been at risk if theyd failed to make the repayments. So I think they 
couldve found the protection he policy offered appealing. And, for the same reasons I think it 
was right for them, it seems like the PPI would have been useful for Mr D and Mrs D if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have put Mr D and Mrs D off taking it out. 
My final decisionI dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 June 2020.
Alan Millward
Ombudsman