DRN-1901340
The complaint
Miss B has complained that, because of delays by HBFS Equity Release Limited (HBFS), 
she has lost £1,338 which she is asking HBFS to reimburse.
What happened
The complaint arises from events that began in January 2019. At the time Miss B already 
had an equity release mortgage with a lender I will call A which shed taken out in October 
2014 when she had just turned 55 (the minimum age for an equity release loan). Miss B had 
initially borrowed £55,000 but on 29 November 2016 Miss B had borrowed an additional 
£10,338 from A.
Miss B wanted to borrow some more money from A to refurbish her kitchen and keep some 
over in savings, so she contacted HBFS to discuss her requirements.
A said that its current desktop valuation of Miss Bs property was £300,000, which meant 
that it would only lend her £75,000. This would not be enough to repay her existing 
borrowing.  Miss B told HBFS that a local estate agent had recently valued her property at 
£375,000 and so she was unhappy about As decision.
HBFS discussed with A whether it would be possible to re-finance the loan with A onto 
another one of its products in order to release further funds, but A said this wasnt possible. 
In order to borrow more from A, Miss B would need to repay her existing mortgage to A and 
take out a new one with it. 
A redemption statement was obtained from A, which showed that the original loan and 
interest across both loans totalled about £85,000, but there was also an early repayment 
charge (ERC) of just under £14,400, giving a total redemption figure of around £100,000.
Miss B didnt have the money to pay for a valuation fee so HBFS looked at whether other 
lenders were available who wouldnt charge a valuation fee. A lender was sourced, which I 
will call M2L. A valuation was carried out on 11 February 2019 which came back at 
£375,000. M2L was prepared to lend £105,000, but after taking off the ERC (which by this 
time was about £15,000), this would leave Miss B with only around £7,200.
HBFS advised Miss B that it would not be financially sensible to proceed with M2L, and 
Miss B agreed. Instead, given the valuation with M2L had been much better than As 
desktop valuation, HBFS advised Miss B to stay with A and make a fresh application for a 
further advance. HBFS sent A the valuation report carried out on behalf of M2L, and A sent a 
Key Facts Illustration (KFI) to show that it would lend an additional £9,700.
This would require a valuation fee of £200 and an administrative fee of £75. Miss B asked 
HBFS to see if A would accept the valuation carried out for M2L, thus avoiding the valuation 
fee. A would not accept M2Ls valuers report, and would require the valuation fee to be paid 
upfront. Miss B corresponded with A about this, as did HBFS, but A was adamant that it 
required its own valuation to be done.
HBFS paid the valuation fee on Miss Bs behalf, after agreeing with her that she would 
reimburse HBFS when the further advance completed. HBFS also agreed to reduce its 
broker fee from £995 to £250 and eventually agreed it would waive this. HBFS confirmed 
that if the valuation came back at £375,000, A would be willing to lend about £9,700.
The valuation was carried out on 11 June 2019, and I understand the funds were released to 
Miss B on 24 July 2019. On 25 July 2019 HBFS sent an invoice to Miss B for the valuation 
fee which I understand remains outstanding. On 5 August 2019 Miss B raised a complaint 
with HBFS. She said that because of delays by HBFS in the application process, the amount 
she was able to borrow was reduced from the amount shed have been able to borrow in 
March 2019 from M2L (£9,637 plus £75 application fee) to a lower sum from A in June 2019 
(£8,299, plus £75 application fee). 
Miss B said that HBFS should have known that A wouldnt agree to use another lenders 
valuation report. Miss B also criticised As policy never to use valuations carried out for 
another lender, particularly when they all use the same surveyors. Miss B said that it was the 
same person who valued her property in 2014 and 2016 who also inspected it for M2L in 
February 2019 and A in June 2019. Miss B said this policy appears ludicrous and must be 
for financial gain.
Miss B also said that she had recently been given written proof from A that information 
about her own health conditions hadnt been provided to it in 2014. Miss B said that she 
thought that if A had had this information in 2014, she would have been given an enhanced 
Lifetime Mortgage, which she said would have been more beneficial to her.
Miss B also complained that in 2014 shed given HBFS two valuations from an estate agent 
carried out in 2010 and 2012. Miss B said that when A valued the property in 2014 at 
£300,000, HBFS should have challenged this because it affected the amount she was able 
to borrow in 2014 and again in 2016.
Miss B wanted HBFS to reimburse her for the difference in what shed have been able to 
borrow from M2L in March 2019 and the amount she borrowed from A in June 2019  an 
amount of £1,338. Miss B said that this sum reflected the fact that no health information was 
given to A in 2014, which she says was a serious oversight on the part of HBFS.
HBFS didnt uphold the complaint. It was satisfied that it wasnt responsible for any delays 
and that, when Miss B had asked if A would accept the valuation carried out by M2L, HBFS 
said that it would ask, but could not guarantee it would do so. The only way forward was for 
Miss B to proceed with A by paying a valuation fee, which HBFS paid for her and which she 
has not yet reimbursed. HBFS also pointed out that if Miss B had proceeded with the 
application to M2L, shed have had to pay HBFSs broker fee of £995. 
Dissatisfied with HBFSs response, Miss B contacted the Financial Ombudsman Service. An 
investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Miss B disagreed 
and made further points, which I summarise below.
Miss B states that at no time has she ever said she wasnt able to afford to pay for a 
valuation;if this had, in fact, been correct, was it ethical for HBFS to act for her;
the most professional course of action would be for HBFS to tell her it could not assist;
she doesnt know what prompted HBFS to pay the valuation fee for her and although she 
was grateful, she made it clear that she was not without the means to pay it herself;
Miss B was told by HBFS that M2L looked more favourably on borrowers with chronic 
illness; 
medical information given to HBFS in 2014 wasnt given to A;
Miss B says M2Ls offer was much better than As, although Miss B knows shed have 
had to pay legal fees of £800 and HBFSs fee of £995;
Miss B only contacted A about the valuation at the insistence of HBFS;
she remains unhappy with the surveyors and the valuation of her property;
as a matter of principle, Miss B still believes the February 2019 valuation should have 
been accepted by A;
in June 2019 A settled her complaint by paying her £250 for delay;
the case of Donoghue v Stevenson [1932] UKHL 100 is the basis of all Duty of Care 
protocols in government, healthcare, businesses, etc, HBFS could have and should have 
been aware that their actions in permitting the application process to become so drawn 
out would cause anxiety and distress
Miss B also raised new issues about the advice shed been given, saying that HBFS knew at 
the time that she was going to sell her property and move in to a friends property at a 
peppercorn rent. Because of this, Miss B says that the M2L mortgage should have been 
viewed as a much better option for her. 
Miss B also continued to raise her concerns about the surveyors and said there were 
proceedings involving  questionable valuations undertaken by them
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Miss B has raised a new complaint about the suitability of the advice given by HBFS in 
2019. I am also told by Miss B that she complained to A and was paid £250 compensation to 
settle her complaint.  I will explain here that the surveyors are not subject to the jurisdiction 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, so I wont be commenting on Miss Bs concerns about 
the various valuations of her property that have taken place over the years. This complaint is 
about whether or not there were delays in the application process caused by HBFS which 
resulted in Miss B losing out on £1,338.
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome. 
This includes the type of mortgage A was prepared to offer her in 2014. If Miss B thinks A 
should have given her a different type of mortgage based on her medical history, thats 
something shell need to raise with A. It is not an issue which is material to the complaint 
here about delay in 2019 by HBFS when Miss B wanted to raise additional funds.
I will also explain that the Financial Ombudsman Service isnt a court. In this regard, Miss B 
has quoted the case of Donoghue vs Stevenson in support of her contention that she has 
suffered harm due to the actions of HBFS and that this must have been reasonably 
foreseeable by HBFS. But the Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt deal with claims of 
personal injury or harm, or award damages in the way a court would. Our remit is to look at 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint, pursuant to the 
provisions of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. 
Having reviewed the timeline of events, Im afraid I have disappointing news for Miss B; Im 
not upholding her complaint. These are my reasons.
First, I find that it was reasonable, when A initially said that it could not lend further funds 
based on a desktop valuation, for HBFS to look for an alternative provider.
The offer from M2L also required legal fees of £800 to be paid by Miss B, as well as HBFSs 
broker fee of £995  a total of £1,795. After taking into account the ERC payable to A, and 
after discussing the position with HBFS, Miss B agreed in February 2019 not to proceed.
I dont think there was any delay by HBFS in dealing with matters. After the M2L application 
was cancelled on 18 February 2019, HBFS contacted A about whether or not it would be 
prepared to lend if the valuation was higher, and HBFS confirmed this to Miss B on 18 
March. Miss B told HBFS shed had email problems on 28 March 2019 and the application 
for further borrowing was sent to her that day. On 30 March 2019 Miss B asked HBFS if A 
would accept the M2L valuation. A confirmed to HBFS on 10 April 2019 that it would not.
In the meantime, Miss B wrote to A on 8 April 2019. Miss Bs letter to A was about a lack of 
duty of care by A when her property had been valued in 2014 and 2016. Rightly in my 
opinion, this was treated as a complaint by A and Miss B was informed of this by A on 
12 April 2019. Miss B had to chase A up for its response to her complaint on 15 May 2019, 
but in the meantime on 23 April 2019 she asked HBFS to contact A again to ask if it would 
use the February 2019 valuation for an application for a further advance on her existing 
equity release mortgage.
I can see from the emails that the person HBFS needed to speak to at A wasnt available 
initially and HFBS had to chase them up, but an answer was given to Miss B on 22 May 
2019 when HBFS provided a detailed explanation as to why A couldnt accept the valuation 
done for M2L.
The following day HBFS confirmed that A had sent a KFI for new borrowing based on an 
assumption that the property would be worth £375,000  but that any application would be 
subject to valuation, for which a fee would be payable.
The application was submitted on 29 May 2019, the valuation was done on 19 June 2019 
and the offer was issued on 27 June 2019. It completed on 24 July 2019.
After looking at the above sequence of events, I dont think there was any delay on the part 
of HBFS in progressing matters in accordance with Miss Bs instructions. I also dont think Miss B has lost £1,338 as a result of delay by HBFS, as she claims. Both the further 
advance and the M2L mortgage had a lenders administration fee of £75, which was to be 
added to the loan amount. If Miss B had gone ahead with the M2L mortgage in March 2019, 
she would, indeed, have been able to borrow £1,338 more than she was able to borrow from 
A in July 2019. But shed also have had to pay legal fees of £800 and £995 for HBFSs 
broker fee. The only extra fee she needed to pay for a further advance on her existing 
mortgage with A was the £200 valuation fee (which she has not, in fact, paid).
The timeline of events and the evidence persuades me that Miss B, not HBFS, was the 
driver behind the requests to A asking it to accept the M2L valuation. Im satisfied that HBFS 
was clear that it thought A was unlikely to agree to this. Miss B has confirmed she was 
aware A would require a valuation fee  shed previously paid these to A in relation to her 
equity release borrowing. But Miss Bs position appears to have been that she had a 
perfectly good valuation carried out for M2L  from the same surveyor who A would be 
instructing  and so didnt see the need to pay a fee to A for the same person to reinspect 
her property.
The application couldnt proceed without the fee being paid. Miss B disputes that she said 
she didnt have the funds to pay for this; rather she didnt see, as a matter of principle, why 
she should pay the fee given that she thought A should use the M2L valuation. That was her 
prerogative, but she couldnt have the funds from A without following its procedures. I think it 
was generous of HBFS to agree to pay the valuation fee upfront and I find that, on the 
balance of probabilities, HBFS would not have done this if it had not been agreed with 
Miss B that she would reimburse the fee after completion.
In all the circumstances, Im unable to find that HBFS caused any delay in this transaction.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 November 2020.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman