DRN-3558111
The complaint
Mr G complains about the handling of his claim by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited,
involving damage caused by an escape of water under his home insurance policy.
What happened
In August 2011 Mr G contacted RSA to make a claim for a water leak that had damaged his
ground floor shower room. The claim was accepted, and repairs were carried out by RSAs
appointed contractors.
Mr G describes ongoing issues with leaks and dampness in the shower room and into the
surrounding rooms since that time. He contacted RSA in April 2018 due to the ongoing
issues and it appointed a loss adjuster to discuss what needed doing and handle the claim.
This resulted in RSA carrying out further investigations to identify the source and more work
to dry the property and carry out repairs.
Mr G says the way RSA handled the claim was unprofessional. He experienced numerous
and ongoing delays when communicating with the business. Mr G says many visits from
RSAs experts and contractors have taken place to try and identify the cause of the leak. He
says the shower room couldnt be used for much of this time. He also says the kitchen floor
tiles were removed as part of RSAs investigations into the leak and dampness issues, which
caused further disruption.
Mr G says several of the household suffer from health issues. He says the ongoing
disruption, dust and absence of the shower and toilet facilities in this room has been a
concern because of these issues. In addition to the general inconvenience and disruption
caused over such a long period.
Mr G says RSA subsequently decided to offer him a settlement payment to arrange for
reinstatement of the affected parts of his home. This meant he was left to arrange
completion of the building work, which caused him further distress and inconvenience.
RSA says there are damp issues in Mr Gs property that are unrelated to the works it
undertook following the claim in 2012. It says the damp issues had to be remedied before
the works needed to reinstate the property could be completed. It says one of the issues is
rising damp, which isnt covered by its policy. It also says inappropriate building materials
were used in the construction of the solid floor and wall plaster that readily absorbs
atmospheric moisture.
RSA says its policy doesnt cover the damp issues identified, which are Mr Gs responsibility.
Because of this it provided a settlement payment for £14,500 to pay the cost of the
reinstatement works as covered by Mr Gs policy. RSA acknowledges delays and periods of
poor service with its handling of the claim. It has provided compensation payments to
acknowledge the impact of this, which amount to £1,750.
Mr G didnt think the compensation offered was fair given the impact on him and his family
over such a long period. So, he referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt
uphold his complaint. She thought RSA had provided a poor standard of service at times as
well as being responsible for delays. She says the evidence showed this had been a
complex issue to resolve requiring a number of different contractors, in order to identify the
possible causes of a leak and dampness. Our investigator thought the compensation already
provided by RSA was fair to acknowledge these points.
Mr G disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in May 2022 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mr Gs 
complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Gs complaint can be split into two main points. RSAs handling of his claim and
compensation it offered to acknowledge delays and poor service. As well as the decision to
settle his claim with a cash payment. My remit here is to consider whether RSA treated Mr G
fairly with respect to these points.
The parties involved are well aware of whats happened in this dispute. The detail of which
stretches back a number of years. I wont repeat all that here. But I will set out the key points
that impact on my decision.
Mr G asked that we consider all issues he raised in his complaint. There are limitations set
by the industry regulator regarding when this service is able to consider a complaint. This
includes a six-month time limit from when the insurer sends its final response for its
customer to refer to our service. RSA sent several final responses, covering the issues Mr G
raised over the years. Some of these issues were brought to our service outside the six-
month timeframe, which ordinarily means we cant consider them. However, RSA has given
its authorisation for us to consider Mr Gs entire complaint.
Claim handling and delays
When the initial claim was made in 2012 RSA arranged for drying work to be carried out, the
removal of damaged materials and the reinstatement of the shower room. Unfortunately,
problems with dampness re-occurred requiring further investigations. Issues were found with
the original repairs, which meant remedial work had to take place.
Issues with dampness continued. Further attempts were made to carry out remedial work
and several different contractors were employed to try and identify the source of the
dampness.
I have read through the lengthy emails and written correspondence. Both Mr G and RSA are
well aware of the discussions that took place, so I wont repeat that in detail here. But the
records show Mr G was regularly in contact with RSA and its agents to try and progress
matters over a prolonged period. This involved several meetings, numerous emails, and
phone calls.
RSA sent a complaint response to Mr G in November 2017. This highlights defective
workmanship on the part of its contractor, and the numerous contacts Mr G had to make to
progress his claim. It acknowledges that the, service has been exceptionally poor and paidMr G £1,000 in compensation for these issues.
Issues resolving the dampness continued and RSA sent a further complaint response to Mr
G in 2019. In this it advised that following the various investigations into the possible causes
of the ongoing dampness, three factors were identified. It says this included: faulty
workmanship when the shower cubicle was installed by RSAs contractors, a possible further
leak from a pipe buried in the wall, and rising damp. It says strip out works are proposed,
including a section of the kitchen to allow further investigation of the cause of dampness to
be found. In order to acknowledge the inconvenience caused by the ongoing issues RSA
paid a further £750 in compensation to Mr G.
In its letter RSA explained that correcting and installing a damp proof course isnt covered by
its policy. But the faulty workmanship and resolution of a leak, is covered as part of Mr Gs
claim.
Investigations continued and further specialists attended Mr Gs property toward the end of
2019. In January 2020 RSAs loss adjustor wrote to Mr G. The letter says the damp
specialist report recently obtained indicates the dampness and subsequent damage is due
to, or at least exacerbated by, a number of non-insurance related issues and defects. This
includes the lack of an effective damp proof course to a number of walls and floors. As well
as the inappropriate use of soft building type sand within the floor construction. RSA says
there is also an issue with the wall plaster used in the original construction that readily
absorbs atmospheric moisture.
RSA offered a settlement payment for £14,500 at this time. It says this is because its not
responsible for the inherent damp issues. It says once this work is complete its payment will
cover the cost of reinstatement required following its investigation and stripping out work.
I can see that that Mr G disagreed and didnt want to accept a settlement payment. In an
email sent to RSA in January 2020 he refers to the poor workmanship identified with
contractors RSA had initially used. As well as long delays between its investigations and
action being taken. He highlights that previous damp specialists hadnt identified issues with
the wall plaster absorbing moisture. He also says the shower room is within an extension
built more recently, not at the time of the original construction. Mr G says that in his view the
current problems have arisen from the negligence of the contractors appointed by RSA.
Mr G raised a further complaint. RSA responded in May 2020 to again say that it was unable
to reinstate his home due to the damp issues inherent to the original construction. It says it
did seek recovery from the contractor it originally used in respect to repair work it carried out,
but no evidence was found regarding inadequate materials used by this contractor. It refers
to the solicitors letter it sent to Mr G in December 2018 confirming the action was
abandoned.
In its letter RSA explains that the costing for its settlement payment was based on
commercial rates that are available to the public, as opposed to the discounted rates it would
pay its contractors. I understand Mr G was provided with a copy of the schedule of works.
Mr G complained again to RSA regarding inferior materials used by the contractors it had
originally used in relation to his claim. The business responded in January 2021. It says
details of the materials used are no longer available, but the reason it couldnt carry out
further rectification works was related to the damp issues inherent to the original construction
of his property, not the previous work of its contractors.
I understand the dampness issues at Mr Gs property have since been resolved and the
repair works have been completed as of January 2022. The work was arranged bycontractors appointed by Mr G.
I have thought about the impact all of this had on Mr G and his family. Im sorry that he has
had dampness issues impacting on the use of his home for such a long time. I can
understand that this must have been extremely disruptive and distressing. Im glad this has
now been resolved.
I acknowledge that RSA accepts it didnt handle the claim well. Its clear that this led to much
more involvement from Mr G to try and progress his claim than he should reasonably expect.
Its also clear that poor workmanship was the cause of some of the investigative and
restoration work that was required. Its also apparent that identifying the underlying cause of
the dampness proved difficult - highlighted by the different contractors and specialists that
were involved over a number of years.
I dont think it was unreasonable for RSA to instruct specialists and to rely on their expert
opinion in deciding how best to handle Mr Gs claim. I acknowledge Mr G has strong views
about the original contractors that were used, and that they are responsible for the ongoing
issues. But I think it was reasonable for RSA to rely on the experts to ensure the underlying
source of the dampness was identified to prevent further issues when carrying out repairs.
Poor workmanship wasnt thought to be the only factor with the ongoing damp issue.
In his letter to our service dated December 2021 Mr G says the leak has since been repaired
by alternative contractors and there is no sign of dampness returning. I can understand his
view and frustration that RSA wasnt able to achieve this. But I dont think hes shown that it
was unreasonable for RSA to rely on the opinion of the experts or that the information they
provided was incorrect.
In the circumstances I think its fair that RSA compensates Mr G for the delays, poor claim
handling, poor communication, and poor workmanship identified. I am also mindful that the
ongoing issues meant the use of the shower room was impacted for a long time. As well as
disruption caused by floor tiles being lifted in the kitchen. Mr G has explained that he has a
household of seven and several members of his family have heath issues that were
impacted during this time. Both by the restricted facilities and the dust created during the
works.
I understand Mr Gs home has another toilet and a family bathroom (including a toilet) that
were available. But I accept his point that not having the use of the downstairs shower room
for long periods was problematic and distressing for his family because of their health
issues.
Theres no doubt that any claim such as this will involve a certain level of inconvenience and
disruption for a household. But I think this couldve been managed better and resolved
sooner if it wasnt for the failings on RSAs part.
I asked RSA about the damp specialist report from 2012 that highlighted evidence of nitrates
indicating a problem with dampness caused by groundwater. I asked why it continued with
the reinstatement works at that time but decided not to in 2020 because of inherent damp
issues. RSA says it was agreed that all other possible causes of the damp would be ruled
out first to confirm that the only remaining cause was inherent damp.
I dont think this is a reasonable position. If, as indicated in the specialist report from 2012
dampness was inherent due to groundwater, it wouldve been prudent, and consistent with
its later approach, to resolve this issue before completing the original reinstatement works.
Its not clear from Mr Gs comments if damp proofing works have now been carried out. But
its clear that RSA received expert opinion indicating inherent damp in the property at anearly stage in the claim.
Having given careful thought to all of this, whilst being mindful of the impact on Mr Gs family
due to their health issues, I dont think the compensation RSA offered fairly acknowledges
the inconvenience and distress caused. I think some of the delays were avoidable, as was
the poor claim handling and communication. Because of this I think a total payment of
£2,250 represents fairer compensation in the circumstances described.
Settlement offer
RSA decided to offer Mr G a settlement payment for £14,500 because of the inherent damp
issues its experts had identified that werent covered by his policy. It thought it was best to
allow Mr G to arrange for the necessary works to be carried out and use the settlement
payment to pay for the reinstatement works after this was completed.
I have read the policy terms to see what is expected here. Under Policy exclusions the
terms say:
This insurance does not cover any of the following:
Existing Damage  Any loss, damage, injury or accident occurring before cover
commences.
This shows inherent damp issues arent something covered by Mr Gs policy. So, I dont
think it was unreasonable for RSA to decline to cover this work.
The terms also say:
Our Rights Following a Claim In the event of a claim or possible claim under this policy we
will be entitled to:
(i) repair, reinstate or replace the property lost, damaged or stolen or pay the cost to us of
repair, reinstatement or replacement. Wherever possible we will arrange repair or
reinstatement through our nominated repairer and replacement networks.
RSA chose to pay the cost of the repair. The terms entitle it to make this decision. In the
circumstances I think it was fair to calculate the repair costs based on what Mr G would have
to pay for the repairs, not the discounted rates RSA would pay. I understand this resulted in
further inconvenience in order for Mr G to arrange the repair work. But its experts had told it
the uninsured inherent damp issues must be resolved before reinstatement works began.
So, I dont think RSA behaved unreasonably in offering this payment, which is in line with the
terms of the policy.
In summary I dont think RSA treated Mr G fairly because of the delays in resolving the
dampness, for the poor workmanship, poor claim handling, poor communication, and for the
distress and inconvenience caused. I think it was fair to provide compensation, but this
should be increased to £2,250. I also think it behaved fairly when relying on its policy terms
and offering a settlement payment.
I said I was intending to uphold this complaint and Royal & Sun Alliance should:
pay Mr G a total of £2,250 minus the payment it has already provided for the distress 
and inconvenience it caused. I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
RSA didnt provide any further comments or information.
Mr G provided a number of comments that I will summarise below:
With reference to the provisional decision Mr G says there appears not to be a mention of 
the impact of the health issues affecting several members of his family. He highlights that 
this includes a child whose health has been poor since 2013. Mr G says he has provided 
detailed explanations of the health issues suffered by his family, but the provisional decision 
doesnt reflect the detailed information he supplied.  
Mr G says the reason he was much more involved in the progression of his claim is because 
of RSAs lack of ability and professionalism. He says it failed to take the appropriate 
investigatory action. And it was only by his and his familys involvement that contractors and 
specialists were instructed. Mr G says this had an adverse impact on their health and their 
ability to carry out their employed roles.    
Mr G says he finds it astonishing that RSA, with the involvement of its experts couldnt 
identify the cause of the dampness for such a long period. Yet the contractors and experts 
he sourced were able to rectify the issue within months. 
Mr G says it is acknowledged in the provisional decision that the lack of access to the 
shower room facilities was problematic and distressing. He doesnt think this 
acknowledgement goes far enough. He says a household of seven cannot be expected to 
have use of just two toilets when several members of the household have health issues. Mr 
G thinks my provisional decision suggests he should be grateful his family had the use of 
more than one toilet, which he says is unacceptable. He also says no household should 
have to put up with this disruption for a period of over ten years.
In relation to the dampness Mr G says he was able to research and source his own experts 
to establish the issue. This was remedied and the restoration of the shower room was 
completed in February 2022. He says this is not his area of expertise. RSA was entrusted to 
carry out the investigations and remedial work, which it failed to do on more than one 
occasion. He says its not reasonable to expect him to spend his time sourcing experts to 
rectify these problems. 
Mr G asks how a compensation payment for £2,250 represents a fair acknowledgement of 
the inconvenience and distress caused to a household of seven over a period of ten years. 
He also asks on what basis RSA calculated its settlement figure of £14,500 given the length 
of time and history of this situation. He says this was accepted without prejudice to his right 
to pursue a claim for compensation. 
Mr G asks why when RSA are deemed to be experts, did it take a second deconstruction of 
the shower room to ascertain the cause of the problems. He references the efforts he made 
to obtain a report from RSA. And says that if received earlier this could have reduced the 
time spent without the use of the shower room. He says he sought alternative experts to 
ensure a thorough investigation was carried out and so the shower room could be restored. 
He highlights this was at the expense of his own time away from his job. 
In choosing to pay a settlement figure Mr G says RSA wanted to wash their hands of the 
situation. This left him with no choice but to instruct alternative contractors. He says the lack 
of continuity has contributed to the delayed restoration of the shower room, causing further 
distress and inconvenience. Mr G concludes his comments to say £2,250 in compensation doesnt come close to 
representing a fair amount in the circumstances he has described.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mr G thinks the impact on his familys health issues wasnt adequately 
considered within my provisional decision. I can, however, confirm that I carefully read all of 
the evidence provided by both Mr G and RSA prior to setting out my findings. Having done 
so I was aware of the detail Mr G provided about his familys health issues and what this 
meant for them when access to the shower room facilities wasnt available. By no means is 
my intention to diminish the impact experienced by Mr G and his family because of the delay 
in restoring the shower room. But I have already considered these issues when considering 
an appropriate compensation payment.
I acknowledge Mr Gs comments about his and his familys involvement in the claim. RSA 
says it didnt handle the claim well, which I agreed with. I said Mr G had spent much more 
time dealing with the matter than he should reasonably expect to. So, I have already 
considered the role Mr G, and his family, played in the handling of the claim when setting out 
my findings in my provisional decision. Although I understand his frustration with RSA 
around this point, I dont think his further comments here justify a change to my decision. 
I note Mr Gs comment that he finds it astonishing RSA wasnt able to identify the source of 
the problem yet the experts and contractors he appointed were able to within months. I can 
understand his frustration given the time taken to identify the source of the problems and to 
complete the restoration work. In my provisional decision I said RSA had behaved 
reasonably by instructing specialists and relying on their expert opinion. Based on this it 
ultimately decided there was inherent dampness at the property. This needed to be resolved 
by Mr G as an uninsured issue, prior to the restoration work being completed. I have 
considered Mr Gs further comments, but I still think RSA behaved reasonably when relying 
on the expert opinion to inform it how to proceed with his claim. 
Mr G says his contractors and experts have since identified the source of the dampness and 
restored the shower room. Im glad this is the case. And I acknowledge Mr G had to spend 
time arranging for this to happen. But I dont think hes shown the opinion RSAs experts 
provided was incorrect or that RSA behaved unfairly when relying on it. 
I accept that Mr Gs household were limited to two toilets when the shower room facilities 
werent available. I thought it was useful to confirm in my provisional decision what facilities 
were available, to understand the impact the delayed restoration had on Mr G and his family. 
He has a household of seven, some of whom have health issues, which I also accept added 
to the distress and inconvenience caused. I dont doubt that this was a difficult situation for 
Mr G and his family, especially as the problem wasnt resolved for a long time. But I did take 
this into consideration when setting out what I thought was an appropriate compensation 
payment in my provisional decision. Im not persuaded that there is new information here 
that warrants a change to my decision.
Mr G asks why, when RSA are the experts, did it take a second deconstruction of the 
shower room for it to identify the problem  and points to delays in it providing information 
that couldve been avoided and ultimately impacted on the time to complete the restoration 
works. In my provisional decision I acknowledged that some of the delays experienced were 
avoidable and RSA should compensate Mr G for this. I also said there were clear instances 
of poor communication and claim handling. I think the compensation I set out is fair in 
acknowledging these points. 
Mr G asks how £2,250 represents a fair compensation amount in these circumstances. 
When our service considers how much compensation to award, we look at what trouble and 
upset the insurer has caused above and beyond that which wed normally expect to see 
associated with a claim of this type. 
When thinking about this I considered the impact the delays, the poor claim handling, poor 
communication, and poor workmanship had on Mr G and his family. These were all areas 
that RSA handled poorly. I also considered the specific health issues Mr G highlighted and 
the additional distress and inconvenience this created. As well as the more general 
inconvenience from the lack of shower room facilities, the ongoing disruption, and from the 
dust created during the investigations and repair works. Given the time this matter took to 
resolve, together with the difficulties described, I thought a significant compensation award 
was justified. I think £2,250 is fair in these circumstances and is in line with our principles for 
making awards.           
I understand why Mr G disagrees with RSAs decision to provide a settlement payment. And 
that he thinks this was done to avoid it having any further involvement in the matter. But its 
experts did identify a problem with inherent dampness at Mr Gs property. His policy terms 
show this isnt covered. The terms also mean that RSA can choose to pay the cost of the 
repair as opposed to arranging for the work to be completed. It explained that it couldnt 
continue with the restoration until the uninsured inherent damp issue was rectified. In these 
circumstances I think RSA behaved reasonably and according to its policy terms. 
I acknowledge Mr Gs comments about what basis the settlement payment was calculated 
upon. He refers to the time involved and the history of the situation. In RSAs final response 
letter to Mr G dated in May 2020, it acknowledges his request for details of how the 
settlement payment was arrived at. It says it has provided a copy of the schedule detailing 
the works covered. I note Mr Gs reference to the history of his claim and the time involved, 
but I think its correct for the settlement fee to be based on the cost of works established in 
the schedule. I havent seen evidence that shows RSAs approach was unfair here.   
Im sorry that Mr G feels the compensation I set out in my provisional decision is inadequate. 
I sympathise with the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused him and his family 
over such a long period. But I think £2,250 represents a fair payment. So, Im not persuaded 
to change my decision.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Gs 
complaint. Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited should:
pay Mr G a total of £2,250 minus the payment it has already provided for the distress
and inconvenience it caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Mike WaldronOmbudsman