DRN-2950493
The complaint
Mrs and Mr H complain that Santander UK Plc processed their direct debit indemnity (DDI) 
request incorrectly.  
Mrs and Mr H is represented by a family member in bringing this complaint. But for ease of 
reading, Ill refer to any submission and comments he has made as being made by Mrs and 
Mr H themselves.
What happened
Mrs H contacted Santander to raise a DDI as three direct debits which she didnt authorise 
had been taken by her previous insurance company. While processing the DDI, Santander 
made an error and refunded an additional twelve direct debit payments which were made to 
the previous insurance company, resulting in Mrs and Mr H receiving more than £300 than 
they expected. 
Mrs H complained to Santander regarding their error and was worried that the insurance 
company would think she was a fraudster. Santander upheld the complaint. They explained 
it was their error and apologised to Mrs H. They advised Mrs H to keep the surplus amount 
(over £300) in her account for when the company rejects her direct debit claim and 
apologised for their error.
Mrs and Mr H brought their complaint to our service. Mrs H explained that she has since 
spent the overpayments as there were several small amounts credited to the account which 
she thought was a bonus. She now doesnt have the funds to pay back the insurance 
company and feels Santander should pay them the money as Santander made the error.
Our investigator has said that it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for Santander to pay the 
insurance company as although they had made an error, Mrs and Mr H had the benefit of 
this money. She also said that Santander had wrote to Mrs H and advised that she would 
need to keep the funds in the account for when the insurance company rejects the DDI for 
the 12 payments. But our investigator said it would be fair for Santander to pay Mrs and Mr 
H £100 for the distress and inconvenience they caused them. Mrs and Mr H did not agree 
with our investigator and wanted an Ombudsman to review their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs and Mr H have made a number of points to both Santander and this service and Ive 
considered and read everything theyve said and sent us. But, in line with this services role 
as a quick and informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of their complaint in deciding whats 
fair and reasonable here.
Santander have admitted that they made an error by refunding an extra 12 months of 
insurance premiums. So, what I wouldve expected Santander to do here, is to apologise to 
Mrs and Mr H for their error, recognise what impact their mistake would have on Mrs and Mr 
H and to pay them compensation to reflect this impact.
But Im not persuaded that it would be fair to ask Santander to pay the overpayments to the 
insurance company. I say this because Mrs and Mr H have had the benefit of this money. 
This was not their money to spend, even though Santander made an error and refunded the 
payments to their account. Santander informed Mrs and Mr H that they would need to keep 
those funds in their account for when the DDI would be rejected for the extra payments.
As our investigator has highlighted, although Mrs and Mr H said they did not have the funds 
to pay the insurance company, they did have the funds to do so at the time they were 
refunded, but they did not keep this money separate to repay the insurance company. 
Santander did apologise to Mrs and Mr H. But Im not persuaded they recognised the impact 
of the mistake their error had on Mrs and Mr H as they didnt offer any compensation. I do 
think that Mrs H will have been inconvenienced by contacting Santander to inform them of 
their error and I also think they will have been distressed by what happened as Mrs H said 
she was worried that the insurance company may think she is a fraudster. So I think it would 
be fair for Santander to pay Mrs and Mr H £100 for the inconvenience and distress they 
suffered as a result of Santanders error.  
Putting things right
Our investigator has suggested £100 compensation is fair in the circumstances and I agree 
this is a reasonable amount for the impact Santanders error had on Mrs and Mr H.  
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Santander UK Plc should pay Mrs and Mr H £100.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman