DRN-3143890
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy Amtrust Europe Limited turned down a claim he made on his 
residential property owners insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A has an insurance policy with Amtrust which includes legal expenses cover for a 
property he rents out. In September 2020 he contacted Amtrust because the tenant was in 
arrears and he wanted to pursue legal action for rent recovery and eviction. Amtrust turned 
down the claim because Mr A hadnt obtained a deposit from the tenant (and registered 
this with the relevant scheme) which was a requirement of the policy.
In response to the complaint Mr A made, Amtrust said it also needed to consider whether 
its position had been prejudiced by non-compliance with this term. It noted Mr A had been 
able to issue the relevant notices seeking possession. It also didnt feel it could rely on a 
term relating to credit checks to decline the claim. But it said the tenant had been in arrears 
for some considerable time and the policy provided cover where all your normal credit 
control procedures have been exhausted. It didnt feel Mr A had taken proper steps to 
ensure the rent was paid and that had prejudiced both his and its position.
Our investigator accepted Mr A hadnt met the requirements of the policy terms as they 
relate to the deposit. But he didnt think Amtrust had shown how that had prejudiced its 
position in this case. Even if a deposit had been obtained the arrears were in excess of that 
amount and a claim would still have arisen. And although the tenant had previously fallen 
into arrears that issue was resolved some time ago and this claim related solely to 
problems that had arisen more recently. He thought Amtrust should reconsider the claim in 
line with the remaining terms and conditions.
Amtrust didnt agree. It said Mr A hadnt acted in line with the terms of the policy and 
highlighted comments it had previously made about how its position had been prejudiced 
by this. Mr A said he was disappointed Amtrust hadnt agreed but didnt have any further 
comments. So I need to reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Amtrust has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Mr As policy. The relevant section says, 
subject to other terms being met, it will cover legal expenses relating to the recovery of an 
undisputed debt for rent unpaid by your tenant. The policy also covers legal expenses to 
assist you with gaining possession of the building when the tenant refuses you access to 
the building at the end of the tenancy agreement or if the tenant has failed to pay the rent.
However, it doesnt cover:
Disputes and/or legal proceedings between you and a tenant where you or 
your letting or managing agent are unable to:
a) Produce one satisfactory financial or credit reference and one 
other satisfactory written reference for each tenant or guarantor;
b) Prove that a minimum of one months rent as deposit was obtained 
before letting the building to the tenant;
c) Prove, by evidence of a certificate, that the rent deposit was placed 
in a Tenancy Deposit Scheme
Amtrust accepted in its response to the complaint that it couldnt rely on the credit 
referencing section of this term. So I havent considered that further. But I dont think its 
in dispute Mr A hasnt met the requirements of the policy as they relate to a deposit 
because his tenant didnt provide a deposit (and so nothing has been registered with the 
Tenancy Deposit Scheme).
However, I also need to consider whether its fair and reasonable to apply that term in this 
case. In response to our investigator Amtrust said it thought its position had been adversely 
affected by Mr A not obtaining a deposit because:
The insured does not have recourse to utilise the loan to mitigate the loss claimed
The tenant is less likely to comply with tenancy obligations if a deposit is not 
retained (thus making a claim more likely)
Not following a suitable procedure in respect of arrears can complicate claims as 
the arrears become large and it reduces the prospect of being able to recover 
losses
It prevents the tenant from being put under pressure to make payment
However, all of those are general points and Amtrust hasnt explained how they apply in 
this case. And under the terms of Mr As policy Amtrust doesnt cover the actual loss and 
so he isnt claiming that from it. Having said that I accept in principle the absence of a 
deposit could increase the risk to Amtrust; any arrears that arise wouldnt be covered by a 
deposit meaning legal action to recover the outstanding amount might be more likely. But 
in this case the arrears that prompted Mr As claim are substantially more than a months 
deposit would have been (and continued to accrue after the claim had been made). So 
even if that had been obtained (and placed with the relevant scheme) the claim would still 
have arisen.
Im also mindful of what Amtrust said in its final response to the complaint. In that it 
acknowledged Mr A was in breach of this term but accepted it needed to consider what 
prejudice had been caused as a result. And it hasnt suggested the absence of a deposit 
impacted the legal action Mr A wants to take (and which he wants Amtrust to fund). In fact 
it acknowledged not obtaining a deposit hadnt prevented Mr A from issuing the required 
notice seeking possession.
The policy in any case requires any claim must have reasonable prospects of success and 
only provides for the payment of reasonable legal costs. So, if the absence of a deposit 
does impact on either the likelihood of the claim succeeding or the ability to recover the 
arrears from the tenant, then Amtrust will be able to take this into account. However, Im not 
persuaded its position in this case has been prejudiced in and of itself because the tenant 
didnt provide a deposit. And I dont think its fair of it to rely on that to turn the claim down.Amtrust also argues Mr A should have acted in a way that minimised the risk of a claim 
being made and has referenced policy wording which says all your normal credit control 
procedures have been exhausted. However, Im not clear what, if any, checks it has 
done into what credit control procedures Mr A had in place and whether they have been 
exhausted. So, as it stands, I dont see it can use this clause to turn down the claim.
But I accept the policy separately says the insured must try to prevent any event or 
circumstances that may give rise to a claim. So Amtrust is right to say Mr A should try 
and minimise the risk of a claim being made. Amtrust has produced a spreadsheet which 
it believes shows the tenant got into arrears in July 2018 and while payments were 
subsequently made the account remained in arrears from then until Mr A made his claim 
in September 2020. Amtrust doesnt believe Mr A took appropriate action to remedy the 
problem at the point it arose.
However, as our investigator pointed out, that doesnt appear to be correct. When the 
tenancy was taken out the tenant paid £1,125 of rent in advance which was applied as a 
credit to his rent account. That isnt something Amtrust has taken into account when 
calculating the arrears. Doing so means although the tenant still got into arrears in late 
2018, the regular payments they then made in excess of the monthly rent cleared those 
arrears by early 2019. That remained the position until the events which gave rise to Mr As 
September 2020 claim to Amtrust.
Amtrust has argued Mr A increased the risk to it by not acting as a prudent landlord in 
obtaining a deposit. I accept he didnt do that but I think he nevertheless took steps to 
mitigate that risk by ensuring, as Ive explained, the tenant paid more than a months rent 
in advance. So I dont think Amtrust can fairly say Mr A hasnt sought to prevent an event 
or circumstance that might give rise to a claim.
Putting things right
I dont think Amtrust can rely on the reasons its used to turn down this claim. So it will 
need to reconsider the claim against the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Amtrust Europe Limited will need to put things right 
by doing what Ive said in this decision. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
James Park
Ombudsman