DRN-3844227
The complaint
Mr K and Miss M complain that Target Servicing Limited (Target) wouldnt allow them to 
redeem their help to buy loan, which caused them delays. 
What happened
Mr K and Miss M bought a flat in August 2015 with the assistance of the help to buy scheme. 
The help to buy scheme is a government scheme in place to support home ownership. In 
addition to the usual mortgage from a regular lender, a borrower takes a shared equity loan 
funded by the government to reduce the amount of cash deposit that would be otherwise 
required. Mr K and Miss Ms property is in England, and they took the loan out with Homes 
England, which was formally known as Homes and Communities Agency. They are an 
executive agency and non-departmental public body sponsored by the Department for 
Levelling Up, Housing and Communities. Homes England lends a percentage of the property 
purchase price to the borrower to enable them to buy a home.
Help to buy shared equity loans are interest free for the first five years. From year six 
onwards, interest is payable. Help to buy shared equity loans are secured by way of a 
second charge over the property, ranking behind the main mortgage. This means that the 
loan must be repaid at the end of its term which is generally 25 years. But if the property is 
sold before then, it must be repaid on the sale of the property. A borrower can also elect to 
repay the loan at any time, even if the property is not being sold. 
What the borrower must pay back is calculated by reference to the value of the property at 
the time they want to sell it or otherwise repay the shared equity loan. So depending on how 
property prices have changed in the meantime, the borrower may have to pay back more or 
less than the amount they originally borrowed. 
A help to buy shared equity loan is not a financial product regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). And Homes England is not a regulated firm within the jurisdiction 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service. Formally, this type of lending is known as a shared 
equity loan, though theyre commonly referred to as help to buy loans. A help to buy loan is 
simply a shared equity loan offered through the help to buy scheme. 
Homes England has appointed Target to administer help to buy loans on their behalf. Target 
is a regulated firm within the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service and is 
therefore the respondent to this complaint. 
Mr K and Miss M contacted Target in January 2020 as they wanted to understand the steps, 
they needed to take so they could repay the loan.
On 3 February 2020, Mr K wrote to Target and explained they had read the customer 
information pack they were previously given, and it stated that the surveyors they wanted to 
use to value the property, had to meet the requirements of Target. Their property was 
affected by cladding, so Mr K said he approached Target with a list of surveyors they wanted 
to use in order to get their approval. 
Mr K and Miss M said they were chasing Target for approval since February 2020 and 
Target told them they were waiting to hear from Homes England, and once they did, they 
would be in touch. Mr K and Miss M said that Target promised to call them back on several 
occasions, but they didnt get back to them. 
In May 2020, Mr K and Miss M complained to Target as they hadnt heard anything. Target 
then contacted Mr K and Miss M in September 2020 to let them know that they needed to 
obtain a valuation report based on the property and not the building. Target told Mr K and 
Miss M that they needed to submit this report for them to proceed with the repayment 
process.
Target acknowledged their service could have been better and offered Mr K and Miss M £75 
to compensate them for any additional costs they might have incurred due to the delays they 
encountered. 
Target asked Mr K and Miss M to instruct a surveyor which they did and submitted the 
valuation report to Target on 15 October 2020. This value of Mr K and Miss Ms property at 
this time was £305,000  based on the valuation report. On 20 October 2020, Target said 
they sent the valuation report to Homes England and they would provide a further update 
when they heard back from them.
Mr K contacted Target again in November 2020 for an update and he said Target said they 
were still waiting for further instructions from Homes England and that Homes England 
would instruct a surveyor.
Mr K and Miss M complained again telling Target that there wasnt anything in the customer 
information pack that stated that they would need to wait for Homes England to instruct a 
surveyor because of the cladding. So Mr K and Miss M felt Target were not complying with 
the terms and conditions set out for the repayment process.
Homes England arranged for a valuation to be carried out and sent the report to Mr K and 
Miss M in May 2021.The value came back at £375,000 which was more than the previous 
valuation.  Mr K and Miss M were disappointed with the valuation report as they said the 
housing market had increased by a further 20% in their area, so they felt they had been 
disadvantaged financially because of the delays. 
Mr K and Miss M believe they should have been given the correct information in February 
2020 when they first enquired about the repayment process. They feel there have been 
delays in them trying to repay the loan and they said there isnt anything in the customer 
information pack that states a second valuation was necessary because of the cladding 
issues. 
Mr K and Miss M brought their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service where it was 
looked at by one of our investigators. Our investigator upheld the complaint and said that 
Target should allow Mr K and Miss M to redeem the loan based on the valuation report they 
obtained in October 2020. She said that Target should provide Mr K and Miss M the 
settlement figure within three months of the redemption date and arrange for the lenders 
charge to be removed from their property. 
Our investigator asked Target to refund all interest and management fees applied to the loan 
from July 2020 because of the incorrect information given to Mr K and Miss M  until 
September 2020. In addition to that, she said Target should remove any missed payment 
markers that may have been recorded on Mr K and Miss Ms credit file after July 2020  if 
they missed any payments. And finally, she told Target to pay £725 compensation in 
addition to the £75 offered by Target due to the stress that this situation caused Mr K and 
Miss M. 
Target disagreed. In summary they argued that while the Financial Ombudsman Service has 
jurisdiction to consider the complaint about how Target treated Mr K and Miss M, we do not 
have jurisdiction to consider anything to do with the terms of the shared equity loan itself, 
given that it wasnt a regulated mortgage contract or a regulated mortgage agreement, given 
that Target is not the lender. 
Target also said the delays in which Mr K and Miss M experienced were the result of Homes 
England and not down to the administration of the account by Target. They referred to the clause in the contract where it states a valuer must be agreed by Homes England and the 
valuation in October 2020 was clearly reduced due to the cladding issues. The valuation that 
was later conducted in May 2021 had shown an increase in value, without the mention of 
cladding and Mr K and Miss M had the opportunity to redeem at that point but didnt do so. 
Mr K and Miss M have since redeemed their help to buy loan after another valuation was 
carried out in March 2022. Mr K and Miss M were unhappy with the previous valuation from 
May 2021 as this showed an increase in value  hence another valuation being carried out.  
The third valuation came back at £360,000 and Mr K and Miss M redeemed the help to buy 
loan on 1 July 2022.
As Target disagreed, they asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it 
was passed to me to decide. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 11 November 2022. I said:
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr K and Miss M have told us that since their complaint has been with the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, they have since managed to redeem their help to buy loan. 
They said on 1 July 2022, Target approved the redemption of the loan. Ive seen a 
letter dated 1 July 2022 which confirms that Target approved the redemption on a 
value of £360,000 so this meant that Mr K and Miss M paid around £72,000 to pay off 
the loan  based on borrowing of 20% of the propertys value. 
Mr K and Miss M have also given us a considerable amount of information as they 
believe they have suffered financial loss because of the actions of Target. They said 
they wanted to initially redeem their mortgage two years ago  since their enquiry in 
February 2020, and their plans were to pay off the help to buy loan, and let their 
property out. Mr K and Miss M said they would then have borrowed additional money 
to purchase a new property. They said they wanted to move to a different area so 
that their daughter could go to a good school but because they couldnt redeem the 
help to buy loan  they ended up renting a property rather than buying in the area 
where they wanted to live. 
They have provided us with evidence that shows that from November 2021, they 
signed a tenancy agreement for 12 months and are paying £1950 per month. They 
also paid a deposit of £2,250. Mr K and Miss M said they also had to pay their 
council tax for that year which is £2,435.05. They have also provided us with 
evidence of their solicitor fees which increased by £127.20 from when they initially 
made enquires in 2020. 
Mr K and Miss M are frustrated because had they been able to purchase a property 
earlier, when they first enquired about redemption in 2020, they would have been 
able to do so within their budget. But house prices have now increased so they feel 
they have lost out. They also said the stamp duty holiday would have helped them 
save money as a family, but they have also missed this opportunity because of the 
delays and actions of Target. 
Before I consider what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case, 
I will address the jurisdiction concerns that Target have raised. 
Target disagrees the Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction to consider Mr K 
and Miss Ms complaint. Ill explain why I think that the Financial Ombudsman 
Service does have jurisdiction to consider Mr K and Miss Ms complaint. Then I will 
set out what I think Target needs to do in order to put things right for Mr K and Miss 
M.Timeline of events
In February 2020, Mr K and Miss M enquired about redeeming their help to buy loan. 
Mr K and Miss M read the customer information pack so they could understand what 
steps they needed to take. 
I have looked at the customer information pack and it shows that Target is 
responsible for operating this process. The pack states that it requires borrowers to 
obtain a valuation and send the report to Target. It also confirms that the borrower 
should send a Loan Redemption Form to Target and make a payment to their bank 
account.
The information pack also confirms that borrowers should appoint their own surveyor 
as long as they are a qualified member of the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors 
(RICS)  The pack states Target reserves the right to agree specific appointments in 
certain cases, for example, where the building is affected by cladding  as it is here  
but subject to that, Target are happy to accept the borrowers choice of surveyor. 
Mr K and Miss M made enquires to redeem their loan in February 2020 and after 
months of delays, a qualified surveyor valued their property in October 2020.  The 
valuation identified that there was cladding on the building. Mr K and Miss M sent this 
valuation to Target who then said the valuation report was with Homes England and 
they would provide Miss K and Mr M further updates when they heard from Homes 
England. 
Mr K and Miss M continued to chase Target for a response, but Target said they 
were still waiting for further instructions from Homes England and they then said that 
Homes England would instruct a surveyor.
My jurisdiction to consider this complaint
The Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction is set out in our rules (including the 
Dispute Resolution: Complaints chapter (DISP) of the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) handbook and in legislation (including the Financial Services and Market Act 
2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (the RAO). DISP says that we can consider 
a complaint where (among other things) both the firm and the activity complained 
about fall within our jurisdiction. 
The Ombudsman can consider a compliant under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it 
relates to an act or omission by a firm in carrying on one or more of the following 
activities:
(1) Regulated activities or any ancillary activities, including advice, carried on 
by the firm in connection with them.
A firm includes an entity that is authorised and regulated by the FCA. Homes 
England is not authorised and regulated by the FCA and so we cannot consider a 
complaint against Homes England about anything it may or may not have done. 
However, Target is authorised and regulated by the FCA and so is a firm for the 
purposes of DISP 2.3.1R.
DISP 2.3.1R(1) says we can consider a complaint against Target if it relates to an act 
or omission by it in carrying on a regulated activity (or ancillary activities, including 
advice, in connection with a regulated activity). In turn, the definition of regulated 
activities refers in the main, to the list of activities set out in the RAO. 
Target doesnt dispute that they are carrying on (and authorised by the FCA to carry 
on) two regulated activities in relation to Mr K and Miss M: the activities of debt 
administration (Article 39G) and debt collection (Article 39F).
So far as is relevant for present purposes, Article 39G(1) of the RAO defines debt 
administration as:taking steps
(a) To perform duties under a credit agreementon behalf of the 
lender, or 
(b) To exercise or enforce rights under such an agreement on behalf 
of the lender
So far as is relevant for the present purposes, Article 39F(1) of the RAO defines debt 
collection as:
taking steps to procure the payment of debt due under a credit agreement
For the purposes of both Articles 39F and 39G and in the context of this complaint, 
(see Article 3 of the RAO) a credit agreement has the meaning given in Article 60B 
of the RAO. Article 60B(3) says that a credit agreement means:
an agreement between an individual or relevant recipient of credit (A) and any 
other person (B) under which B provides A with credit of any amount.
In this case, its not in dispute that the shared equity loan is a credit agreement for 
the purposes of Articles 39F and 39G of the RAO. 
In response to the investigators view, Target argued that the Financial Ombudsman 
Service doesnt have the jurisdiction to consider anything to do with the terms and 
conditions of (or processes relating to) Mr K and Miss Ms help to buy loan because 
the loan is not regulated. What I understand Target to mean by this is that our 
jurisdiction is limited by the fact that this loan is not a regulated credit agreement or 
regulated mortgage contract as defined in Articles 60B and 61(3) of the RAO 
respectively. 
I dont think this makes any difference to my jurisdiction. The definition I have quoted 
above refers to a credit agreement not a regulated credit agreement. It doesnt 
matter that this is not a regulated credit agreement, since the definitions of the 
activities of debt administration and debt collection are not limited to regulated credit 
agreements; they cover all credit agreements. 
That means the Financial Ombudsman Service can consider a complaint about 
Target about their acts or omissions  what they did but also what they failed to do  
in carrying on the regulated activities of debt administration and debt collection 
relating to the shared equity loan that Mr K and Miss M took out. In other words, we 
can consider not just the steps that Target took but also consider whether they 
should have taken steps but omitted to do so. And in considering that, I can have 
regard to all circumstances of this complaint  including the terms and conditions of 
the loan.
Now Ive set out the extent of my jurisdiction on this complaint, Ill go on to consider 
what happened and what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
Mr K and Miss M wanted to redeem their loan. Ill start by setting out some of the 
context in which this complaint arises, as well as what the valuation obtained by Mr K 
and Miss M said. Ill then move on to considering the contractual redemption process 
as well as considering the terms and conditions and whether Target failed to do what 
they should have done. 
The relevance of cladding to this complaint
Mr K and Miss M obtained a valuation in October 2020. The surveyor noted that 
cladding was present on Mr K and Miss Ms property. Following the Grenfell Tower tragedy in 2017, there was an increased awareness 
and risks caused by certain types of building construction, including potentially 
combustible composite cladding, particularly on blocks of flats. 
Uncertainties around whether individual buildings either have cladding, or whether  
if they do  the cladding is a fire safety risk. Or whether there are other non-cladding 
fire risks present, also have a significant impact on both sales and mortgage lending 
markets in the years since the Grenfell fire. Identification of risks on affected 
buildings, and the responsibility for carrying out, and paying for, any necessary 
remediation continue to be matters of public concern and controversy. 
Im aware from this complaint and other complaints, that presence or potential 
presence of unremedied combustible cladding and other fire safety concerns can 
cause difficulty in valuing affected properties. 
The valuation
Mr K and Miss M eventually managed to get a valuation carried out on the property in 
October 2020 after spending months chasing up Target. They were keen to redeem 
their loan and made enquires from February 2020. Target acknowledged those 
delays and agreed to pay £75 for this. 
The loan agreement sets out quite clearly what is supposed to happen when a 
borrower wishes to redeem their loan. Section 7 states:
7.1 If the Borrower wishes to redeem the loan before an event specified in clause 5 
the following procedure shall apply:
7.1.1 The Borrower shall apply in writing to the Lender
7.1.2 Within fourteen (14) days of service of the notice as specified in 7.1.1, the 
Borrower shall apply (at its own cost) to the valuer (whose decision shall be final) to 
determine the Market Value as at the date of receipt of such application and within 
five working days of receipt of such determination by the Valuer shall serve a 
Valuation Notice on the Lender.
7.1.3 At any time within three (3) months (or four (4) months if extended by the 
Valuer) of service of the Valuation Notice the Borrower may pay an amount equal to 
the Redemption Sum together with any reasonable costs and expenses incurred by 
the Lender pursuant to this Loan and together with any other sums payable and 
outstanding under this Loan.
7.1.4 As soon as reasonably possible after receipt of such payment the Lender will 
duly discharge this security and apply to the Land Registry to remove the restriction 
referred to in clause 11 from the Register. 
Capitalised terms have specific definitions as set out in clause 1.1 (interpretation):
valuer means
An independent qualified valuer appointed by agreement between the parties 
or failing agreement by or on behalf of the president for the time being of the 
Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors on the application of either party.
Valuation Notice means notice of the determination of the Valuer of the Market 
Value.
Repayment Sum means
The Remaining Proportion [the initial percentage of the purchase price less 
any earlier payment] of the Market Value shown in the Valuation obtained 
under clause 6.7 or 8 as the case may be. 
Market Value meansThe price which the Property would fetch on the open market on a sale by a 
willing vendor to a willing purchaserprovided that in the case of Disposal 
where the Disposal price (disregarding any part of that price attributable to 
any additions or improvements made by the Borrower with the written consent 
of the Lender) is greater that the Market Value then the Market Value shall be 
substituted with such Disposal price when calculating the Repayment Sum.
Disposal means
A transfer to a third party of the Borrowers interest in the Property or any part 
of the Property
For the purposes of administering the shared equity loan, Homes England appointed 
Target as their Nominated Agent.
Following a request for redemption, Target sends out an information pack. There is 
nothing in the information pack that says they need to wait for Homes England to 
send out an additional surveyor. Homes England arranged a further valuation in May 
2021. 
Mr K and Miss M wanted to repay their help to buy loan. This means that in order to 
redeem the loan, Mr K and Miss M should apply to the lender, and then to the valuer. 
The valuer will determine the market value to be used for the redemption, and 
according to the terms and conditions the valuers decision will be final. Mr K and 
Miss M then had three months to pay the redemption figure. 
The agreement also says that the valuer is to be appointed by agreement between 
both parties, or if the parties cannot agree by the president of RICS.  There is nothing 
in the agreement that gives either party the right to refuse to accept a valuation. 
Once a valuer has been appointed by agreement, their valuation is final. 
In practice, although the loan agreement talks about the lender, this process is 
actually done by Target. It is to Target that the application to redeem the loan is 
made, and its Target that agrees the valuer and Target that communicates the 
redemption figure to the borrower following on from the valuation. 
This is made clear in the customer information pack that Target produces. Ive looked 
at this information pack and it shows that Target is in practice responsible for 
operating this process. All contact details given are for Target, not Homes England. 
And all queries are to be directed to Target. The pack says The Homes and 
Communities Agency (known as Homes England) has appointed Target Servicing 
Limited as its Loan Administrator to manage the redemption process. The pack 
requires borrowers to obtain a valuation report and send the report to Target. It 
says the process requires the borrower to send a Loan Redemption Form to Target 
and to make a payment to Targets bank account. 
The information pack also confirms that Target is content for the borrower to appoint 
their own valuer, as long as the valuer is a properly qualified RICS surveyor. The 
pack says it reserves the right to agree specific appointments in advance in certain 
cases, such as where the building is affected by cladding. But subject to that, its 
content to accept the borrowers choice of surveyor. 
The contact notes I have seen show that Mr K and Miss M first told Target of their 
plans to redeem the loan in January 2020 and they told Target that their property was 
affected by cladding. 
In February 2020, Mr K and Miss M followed the process as outlined in the customer 
information pack. Target didnt get back to Mr K and Miss M until September 2020 
even though Mr K and Miss M had been chasing them for an answer. Target asked 
Mr K and Miss M to appoint a surveyor of their own choice despite knowing that their property had cladding issues. Target therefore agreed to the surveyor that Mr K and 
Miss M intended to use before the surveyor was actually instructed. Although the 
information pack says Target reserves the right to agree a surveyor in advance, in 
this case it did not exercise that right  despite being on notice that the property was 
potentially affected by cladding. And while the terms and conditions say that the 
valuer has to be appointed by agreement, by telling Mr K and Miss M to instruct a 
surveyor of their choice  and not requesting agreement in advance  Im satisfied 
this means that Target agreed to Mr K and Miss Ms choice of valuer. In turn, this 
means that the valuer was an agreed valuer whose valuation was to be final in 
setting the repayment sum.
Although Mr K and Miss M didnt instruct the valuer within 14 days of notifying Target 
of their intention to redeem, Im satisfied that this was because they were waiting for 
Target to respond to their queries about instructing a valuer. Once Target confirmed 
it would agree to their choice in September 2020, they instructed a valuer promptly. I 
dont therefore think it would be fair and reasonable to say that the valuer was not 
properly appointed because they werent instructed within 14 days. 
Mr K and Miss M instructed a RICS surveyor and the valuation was carried out by a 
RICS surveyor in October 2020. The surveyor said that the property was valued at 
£305,000 and said we have applied the following rationale; the unencumbered value 
of the property is considered to be in the region of £400,000. The property is 
considered un-loanable given the EWS1 form identifies combustible materials to the 
building which are considered a safety risk to the occupiers. We have therefore, 
applied a cash buyers discount of 15% to the unencumbered value and we have 
also deducted £35,000 to reflect the potential leaseholder contributions towards the 
remedial works. Given assumptions with respect to remedial costs and lack of clarity 
with respect to the responsibility for undertaking the necessary remedials work to the 
building and there is no completion date for the works, our valuation is reported on 
the basis of material uncertainly.
Mr K and Miss M sent this valuation report to Target on 15 October 2020 and 
Targets contact notes show that they sent the report to Homes England for further 
instructions and that a second valuation would be necessary. 
The bank statements that Mr K and Miss M provided us show that they had sufficient 
funds since March 2020 to pay off the loan. They were therefore ready and able to 
pay off their loan as soon as Target set the redemption sum, and werent dependent 
on re-mortgaging or selling the property to be able to do so. Mr K and Miss M 
continued to chase Target but it didnt give them any further specific information. 
Target hadnt approved the valuation and didnt provide Mr K and Miss M with a 
redemption statement to enable them to repay the loan.
The second valuation was carried out in May 2021 and the property was valued at 
£375,000 which Mr K and Miss M were unhappy about. They said house prices had 
increased significantly and this meant they would need to pay more than they would 
have done since the first valuation. This second valuation, carried out by surveyors 
appointed by Homes England, also reported that its valuation was based on material 
uncertainty as a result of the cladding issues with the property.
Target have said they are not responsible for the failure of Mr K and Miss M not 
being able to redeem their loan. They say they followed Homes Englands 
instructions and that any delays  and losses that flow from them  are not due to 
Target or their administration of the loan, but rather due to decisions taken by Homes 
England which Target was entitled to act in accordance with. Ive already set out above that, in administering Mr K and Miss Ms shared equity 
loan on the lenders behalf, Target is carrying out the regulated activity of debt 
administration. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, I take into account 
relevant law, regulation, guidance and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time  as required by our rules.
I think that Mr K and Miss M did everything necessary to comply with their contractual 
obligations regarding the redemption of the loan. Target told them to appoint their 
own surveyor and they did so. That meant that surveyors valuation was final and 
binding. Although it cited material uncertainty, so did the later valuations  and this 
is a feature of the market for this type of property at that time. I dont think that this is 
a reasonable basis for disregarding the first valuation but not the later ones. And so 
Target should have issued Mr K and Miss M a redemption figure based on the 
valuation from October 2020 which their surveyor produced in accordance with the 
timescales set out in the loan agreement.  
Having thought about everything thats happened, I dont think Target have treated 
Mr K and Miss M fairly. Mr K and Miss M wanted to redeem their loan and started the 
process in early 2020. Target delayed the process and didnt accept the valuation 
that they submitted in October 2020  in line with their terms and conditions. 
Im satisfied in this case that the valuer was properly appointed in accordance with 
the terms and conditions of the loan agreement and the information pack. In 
particular, the loan terms require a valuer to be appointed by agreement. In the 
redemption information pack, Target told Mr K and Miss M they would accept a 
valuer of their choice provided they were a qualified RICS surveyor. And I can see 
from the contact notes that they also directly told Mr K and Miss M to go ahead and 
appoint one, which they did in September 2020. 
Target were aware of the cladding issues to Mr K and Miss Ms property. But it did 
not exercise the lenders right to agree the surveyor in advance  it agreed to Mr K 
and Miss M making their own selection. The surveyor that Mr K and Miss M 
appointed was therefore the agreed surveyor as set out in the contract. Target, acting 
on the lenders behalf, agreed to the valuer before Mr K and Miss M instructed them. 
This means the valuer was correctly appointed and the valuation was final for the 
purposes of the redemption of the loan. 
While I accept that this process was designed before there was an understanding 
about the issues that cladding might cause, the loan agreement set out a contractual 
process for Mr K and Miss M to redeem the loan and they followed this process. Mr K 
and Miss M are therefore contractually entitled to have had the redemption proceed 
on that basis. 
It seems Homes England at one point accepted this  it told Mr K and Miss M that 
their redemption could go ahead based on their valuation in March 2021. But it later 
retracted this as a mistake. And then it instructed its own valuation. 
From the contact notes provided by Target, I can see that Mr K and Miss M were still 
unhappy with the second valuation that was carried out in May 2021. The notes show 
that in June 2021, Target wrote to Homes England and attached a couple of emails 
that they had received from Mr K and Miss M. The notes suggest that Mr K and Miss 
M were not interested in challenging the figure given on the valuation report but 
Target advised Mr K and Miss M that they could involve the president of RICS due to 
the time that had been taken in trying to resolve the situation. It was noted that 
Homes England would instruct a third valuation on Mr K and Miss Ms behalf but the 
third valuation would be binding for both parties.  A redemption figure would then be based against the new valuation regardless of whether the market value increased or 
decreased and there would be no appeals process challenge available. 
This valuation was carried out in March 2022 and the valuation came back at 
£360,000. Mr K and Miss M redeemed the help to buy loan based on this valuation 
and paid around £72,000 to redeem the loan. But Mr K and Miss M would have 
needed to pay less than this, had they been allowed to redeem the loan on the basis 
of the first valuation of £305,000, as Im satisfied they should have been. Im satisfied 
that in delaying their redemption until a later valuation at a higher price was carried 
out when the first valuation should have been binding, Target has not acted fairly and 
reasonably in all the circumstances. It is a regulated firm with obligations in its own 
right to ensure that the loan is administered in accordance with the lenders 
contractual obligations, and that did not happen. Im satisfied that this resulted in 
financial loss as well as distress and inconvenience.
As Mr K and Miss M were not able to redeem the loan when they should have done, 
they have also ended up paying higher solicitor costs. I have seen evidence which 
shows me that they paid an additional £127.20 than they would have done if they 
were allowed to redeem the loan earlier. So Target should also refund this for Mr K 
and Miss M. 
Putting things right
As Ive explained Mr K and Miss M have now redeemed the loan, but this is after 
several months when they should have been able to do this much earlier than they 
did. There was a delay to Mr K and Miss M in being able to redeem the loan since 
February to September 2020. We were in the middle of a pandemic but its 
reasonable that by July 2020, a valuer could have been appointed and this could 
have been approved by Target. This means that Mr K and Miss M could have paid off 
their loan sooner and wouldnt have had to pay the management fee, interest and 
any third party associated costs applicable to their loan after October 2020. I say that 
because if a valuation could have happened in July, its reasonable to say Mr K and 
Miss M could have redeemed their loan by October. Ive seen evidence they had the 
funds available to do so at this time.
Once it did agree to Mr K and Miss M instructing a surveyor, Target should also have 
allowed Mr K and Miss M to redeem the loan based on the valuation report from 
October 2020. Once this valuation was carried out, Target, as the lenders 
representative, should have allowed Mr K and Miss M to redeem their loan within 
three months at the agreed rate of 20% of the market value in line with the terms and 
conditions. As that didnt happen, Mr K and Miss M have now redeemed the loan 
based on a valuation of £360,000 and paid around £72,000  which was more than 
they would have paid if the redemption figure was based on the valuation of 
£305,000 from October 2020. 
Target should refund the difference between the redemption sum based on the 
October 2020 valuation  which is what they ought to have paid  and the 
redemption sum they actually paid based on the third valuation.
Although the property has also increased in value over this time, and therefore Mr K 
and Miss M have benefitted from increased equity, in the circumstances of this case I 
dont think its fair to take that benefit into account or offset it from the refunded 
excess redemption sum. Thats because Mr K and Miss M were not selling the 
property and therefore this is not a windfall gain they would not have otherwise had. 
The delay in not being able to redeem the loan and the impact of Target not allowing 
Mr K and Miss M to redeem the loan when they should have done has caused 
significant upset and distress for them over a long period of time. This caused a lot of 
worry for Mr K and Miss M when this situation didnt have to be so stressful for them. I therefore think that Target should pay Mr K and Miss M £1425 for the 
inconvenience they were caused. This is in addition to the £75 that Target previously 
offered. 
I understand that Mr K and Miss M have said they suffered financial loss and are 
looking for their rental payments, deposit and council tax bills to be refunded. I have 
considered what Mr K and Miss M have said and while I appreciate this would have 
been a difficult situation for them, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to ask 
Target to refund these costs. 
They said they wanted to relocate for their daughters school which I understand 
would have been an important factor for them, but this was ultimately a choice that 
they wanted to make. They could have stayed at the property and continued to pay 
their contractual monthly payments rather than decide to move into rented 
accommodation. I am not making light of what they chose to do, as I acknowledge 
this would have been a priority for them, but based on these considerations, I wont 
be asking Target to refund these costs. 
I have also considered what Mr K and Miss M have said about the fact that house 
prices have increased which has made it more difficult for them to find somewhere to 
purchase. Its not known at this stage whether Mr K and Miss M are still in fact 
renting or if they have since purchased another property. 
This is a further complication as property prices may have well changed in the 
meantime. If the property values have increased since 2020 then there is a possibility 
that it could be more difficult for Mr K and Miss M to find somewhere to purchase now 
that is within their price range. However, I dont think I can fairly conclude that there 
is financial loss here. Theres no guarantee Mr K and Miss M would have found a 
property sooner had they redeemed sooner, or that a property they might find now is 
comparable to one they would have found then. Theres no basis on which I can 
make an award of quantifiable financial loss. 
With regard to the stamp duty argument and the fact that Mr K and Miss M feel they 
have lost out on the stamp duty holiday, there is never a guarantee that they would 
have found somewhere to purchase and complete on time. There are a number of 
outside factors that could cause an application to be delayed such as valuation 
issues, title issues etc, which would make it extremely difficult to suggest that Mr K 
and Miss M would have completed on a new property within the necessary timeframe 
to save on stamp duty. I therefore wont be asking Target to pay any costs with 
regards to this. 
So in order to put things right, I intend to uphold this complaint and directing Target 
Servicing Limited to:
Calculate what Mr K and Miss M would have paid if they were allowed to redeem 
their mortgage from the October 2020 valuation at £305,000 and refund them the 
difference based on what they did pay when they redeemed the help to buy loan 
using the third valuation at £360,000. Target should add 8% simple annual 
interest running from the date Mr K and Miss M redeemed their loan to the date 
of settlement
Refund all the interest and management fees applied to the loan from October 
2020 to the date they redeemed the loan due to delays that Mr K and Miss M 
encountered. They should add 8% simple annual interest on each payment to be 
refunded running from the date they made each payment up until the date of the 
refund
Remove any missed payment markers that may have been recorded on Mr K and 
Miss Ms credit file after October 2020  if there were any late paymentsPay £1425 compensation in addition to the £75 Target already paid for the 
distress and inconvenience caused
Refund the difference in their solicitor costs of £127.20 plus 8% simple annual 
interest from the date they paid these costs to their solicitor until the date of 
refund
Developments
Mr K and Miss M responded to the provisional decision, and they confirmed they didnt have 
any further comments to make. 
Target hasnt responded to the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I havent been provided with any further comments to re-consider, I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional decision. My outcome therefore remains the same. 
My final decision
For the reasons given in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint and direct Target 
Servicing Limited to:
Calculate what Mr K and Miss M would have paid if they were allowed to redeem 
their mortgage from the October 2020 valuation at £305,000 and refund them the 
difference based on what they did pay when they redeemed the help to buy loan 
using the third valuation at £360,000. Target should add 8% simple annual 
interest running from the date Mr K and Miss M redeemed their loan to the date 
of settlement
Refund all the interest and management fees applied to the loan from October 
2020 to the date they redeemed the loan due to delays that Mr K and Miss M 
encountered. They should add 8% simple annual interest on each payment to be 
refunded running from the date they made each payment up until the date of the 
refund
Remove any missed payment markers that may have been recorded on Mr K and 
Miss Ms credit file after October 2020  if there were any late payments
Pay £1425 compensation in addition to the £75 Target already paid for the 
distress and inconvenience caused
Refund the difference in their solicitor costs of £127.20 plus 8% simple annual 
interest from the date they paid these costs to their solicitor until the date of 
refund
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman