DRN-2883122
The complaint
Mrs A is unhappy with how Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) has dealt with a claim she 
made under her home insurance policy for damage caused following a leak in her kitchen. 
She complains of poor workmanship, incomplete repairs, as well as delays.
All references to Aviva include agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
In May 2019, Mrs A made a claim on her home insurance policy with Aviva for damage 
caused to various parts of her kitchen following a leak in the pipework underneath her 
kitchen sink. An inspection was carried out and damage was found to some of the base 
units, end panels, and skirting boards. There was also a presence of high moisture content 
beneath the floor tiles in the kitchen as well as some of the flooring in the lounge. 
Mrs A didnt wish to take up Avivas offer of alternative accommodation due to her and her 
husbands health conditions, so Aviva took steps in mitigating the impact of the drying and 
restoration works. It offered her a disturbance allowance as there was likely to be disruption 
for a couple of months, but Mrs A also declined this. 
Over the next few months, Mrs A raised several concerns about different aspects of the 
claim. She wanted her hallway carpet to be replaced as well, but Aviva said it was in a 
different room and wasnt damaged, and her policy didnt provide cover for matching items. It 
offered a cash settlement in case Mrs A wanted to use this towards replacing the floor 
coverings in all three rooms. Mrs A complained shed bought the floor coverings to be fitted 
by Aviva, but it said fitting wasnt discussed with the cash settlement option. Mrs A wanted 
the dishwasher to be replaced and Aviva agreed to this despite being unable to inspect 
whether it was functional and, if not, whether the damage was caused by the leak. 
Although the leak had caused damage to the base units in the kitchen, Aviva agreed to 
Mrs As request to replace the undamaged sections as well to restore appearance. Following 
the re-fitting of her kitchen, she asked if one of the radiators could be replaced with a shorter 
one as it was getting in the way of the replacement drawer. Mrs A offered to pay for the 
radiator and Aviva agreed to replace it for her. Subsequently, Mrs A complained about 
issues with the electrics in the kitchen. Aviva didnt consider this to be linked to the claim but 
sent out an electrician who found a fault to outside lights and isolated the affected switch.
Mrs As husband sadly passed away. She contacted Aviva again in November 2020 and 
raised several concerns about the repairs. In summary, she said: Aviva didnt carry out the 
drying properly; there was a crack and condensation on the kitchen window as well as the 
window in the lounge and upstairs bedroom; an electric wire was hanging down under one of 
the kitchen units; the lights werent working; the wall behind the units wasnt plastered; and 
she wasnt reimbursed for the carpets, the radiator and the plumbers bills.
Mrs A referred the matter to us after shed given Aviva eight weeks to investigate her 
complaint. While the complaint was with our service, Aviva accepted it hadnt yet paid the 
cash settlement to Mrs A for the floor coverings. Shed paid more than the cash settlement, 
but Aviva said it would only pay what it had originally offered. But it offered £250 
compensation in addition to this amount to recognise the delay and the lack of empathy at 
times during the claim. Aviva also appointed a surveyor to review the issues Mrs A had 
highlighted. The surveyor concluded the issues with the windows werent related to the 
repairs, but the loose wire shouldnt have been left hanging. He couldnt comment on the 
plaster as he didnt know the condition before remedial works were carried out. 
Aviva also arranged for an electrician to inspect the lighting issues, but despite several 
chasers it was unable to obtain a report. Two months later, while our investigator was 
looking into this complaint, Aviva learnt the electrician had left Mrs As home without 
completing an inspection due to a disagreement with Mrs A. Another electrician was sent out 
who found cables had been disconnected in the junction boxes in the loft. A fault was 
identified with one of these cables and the electrician concluded significant work was 
needed.
Our investigator was satisfied Aviva had carried out the drying to a good standard. She 
agreed Aviva was required to pay cash settlement for floor coverings to the kitchen and the 
lounge only and was satisfied amount offered fairly reflected that. She considered the £250 
compensation offered for the delay was appropriate. The investigator also thought the issues 
with the windows and electrics werent related to the original claim as Aviva carried out 
works on the ground floor only, and it didnt need to reimburse Mrs A for the plumbers bills 
since they related to work that was carried out months before the claim was submitted. In 
relation to the plastering, our investigator explained photographs taken before the repairs 
were carried out showed the affected wall wasnt plastered or painted. So, it wouldnt be fair 
to ask Aviva to plaster the wall as insurance policies arent designed to offer betterment (or 
an improved condition).
But the investigator recommended Aviva to pay a further £400 compensation to Mrs A to 
recognise the impact on her and her husband of having limited use of the kitchen for a 
prolonged period, as well as for Mrs A having to chase Aviva for snagging issues and the 
electricians report. She also recommended Aviva to rectify exposed wired. And in the 
circumstances, the investigator considered Aviva should reimburse Mrs A £30 that she paid 
for the new radiator.
Aviva accepted the investigators recommendation. But Mrs A didnt fully agree and asked 
for an ombudsman to review her complaint. In summary, shes said shell forget about the 
hallway carpet. But she still considers Aviva should reimburse her for the plumbers bills and 
pay for the repairs to the windows and the electrics. Shed also like the affected kitchen wall 
to be plastered and painted. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by expressing my condolences to Mrs A for the loss of her husband. 
I appreciate this has been a difficult time for her. Id also like to reassure Mrs A and Aviva 
that although Ive only provided a summary of what happened, Ive read and considered 
everything in its entirety. That I concentrate on the crux of the issue in my decision isnt 
meant as a discourtesy but reflects the quick and informal service we provide.
I understand Mrs A feels very strongly about her complaint and the overall situation. 
I appreciate shed like all the issues shes highlighted to be rectified, but I can only ask Aviva 
to settle the claim in accordance with the policy terms and conditions. And where remedial 
work its carried out hasnt been to a satisfactory quality, I can ask it to rectify this.Aviva has already acknowledged it hasnt paid the cash settlement for the lounge carpet and 
the kitchen vinyl. And following our investigators assessment, it has also agreed to fix the 
loose wire hanging in one of the kitchen units, as well as pay for the radiator. So, I dont 
need to go into these issues. Whats left for me to consider are the other aspects Mrs A feels 
Aviva should be held responsible for, and what I consider to be fair compensation.  
Reimbursement for plumbers bills
Mrs A has claimed reimbursement for two invoices dated 13 and 18 March 2019 
respectively. But these plumber visits took place nearly two months before she submitted a 
claim to Aviva. Ive carefully considered the work that was carried out on these occasions. 
The plumber has noted on their first visit that the kitchen mixer tap was dripping, and this 
was replaced during the second visit. Some alterations were also made to the pipework. 
I acknowledge the plumber attempted to fix a leak. But this doesnt automatically mean Aviva 
should cover it. Mrs As policy provides cover for damage caused by a leak, but it doesnt 
include home emergency cover. I consider the work carried out by the plumbers to be akin to 
something that would be covered under a home emergency policy. Its most likely the leak 
the plumber fixed contributed to the damage to the base units in the kitchen. And Aviva has 
already covered the damage as it should. But the steps the plumber took to stop the leak (in 
other words, attending to the emergency) isnt something Mrs As policy provides cover for. 
Accordingly, I dont consider it needs to reimburse her for these invoices.
Repairs to the windows and electrics
Aviva obtained an independent expert opinion regarding the cracks and condensation on the 
windows. The engineer concluded the leak underneath the kitchen could not have caused 
condensation or cracks to the windows in the kitchen, lounge and upstairs bedroom. It was 
their opinion this was gradual deterioration of the windows. 
Like most insurance policies, Mrs As policy doesnt include cover for damage caused due to 
wear and tear (or gradual deterioration). Our investigator has already explained and, having 
reviewed the available information, I agree the drying process was carried out to a good 
standard. Aviva checked moisture levels before removing the drying equipment. Given this, 
I dont consider the issues Mrs As highlighted with the windows were caused by the leak or 
due to poor workmanship. It follows I dont think Aviva is responsible for the repairs. 
I can see Mrs A has alleged Aviva deliberately damaged the electrics, but Ive not seen 
anything to suggest this happened. The electrician Aviva sent out earlier this year concluded 
the fault with the electrics in Mrs As home was in the loft. As Avivas work was limited to the 
ground floor, I cant see how it could have caused damage to the electrics. I can see both 
Aviva and our investigator gave Mrs A the opportunity to arrange her own independent 
inspection and provide an expert report. But this hasnt been forthcoming. Based on the 
available information, Im not persuaded Aviva needs to pay for electrical repairs.
Plastering
Home insurance policies aim to put the policyholder back (or as close as possible) in the 
position they were in just before the damage happened. 
Ive looked at the available photographs and note the wall Mrs A has referred to wasnt 
plastered or painted prior to Aviva carrying out any remedial work. In the circumstances, 
I dont think its reasonable to ask Aviva to plaster and paint the wall as this goes beyond indemnifying Mrs A and would mean she ends up in a better position than she was in prior to 
the damage.
Fair compensation
Theres no dispute things didnt always go as they should have during the claim. There were 
some snagging issues that Aviva is responsible for. And Mrs A has had to chase Aviva at 
different points. This has understandably caused her a considerable level of distress. But Im 
also mindful not everything that went wrong  such as the issues with the lighting and the 
windows  was caused by Avivas actions. 
Having carefully considered everything, I consider the total compensation of £650 that our 
investigator has suggested fairly recognises the distress and inconvenience Mrs A was put 
through as a result of Avivas actions. 
Putting things right
I require Aviva Insurance Limited to do the following to put things right for Mrs A 
Pay her a cash settlement of £1,299.45 in respect to the floor covering;
Pay £30 to reimburse her for the radiator;
Arrange for the rectification of the loose wire hanging from one of the kitchen 
cabinets (by either sending an electrician or reimbursing Mrs A upon receipt of an 
invoice for this work); and
Pay Mrs A £650 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is I uphold this complaint. To resolve things, Aviva 
Insurance Limited needs to put things right as set out above within 28 days of receiving 
notice of Mrs As acceptance of this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2021.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman