DRN-3683632
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wont refund him for a deposit 
he paid for accommodation using his credit card. 
What happened
Mr S made a booking for a Spanish villa stay to take place in 2020 for him and others. 
However, due to concerns around the Covid-19 pandemic the booking was moved to 2021.
Mr S says that leading up to the new holiday date he still had concerns around travelling and 
quarantine requirements during the pandemic so contacted the supplier for reassurances 
about what might happen if they didnt go. He says that the supplier acted unfairly by failing 
to provide reassurance and cancelling his booking without refunding the deposit.
Mr S used his credit card to pay the deposit so contacted Halifax to try and claim the money 
back. However, Halifax would not refund Mr S. In summary it said there is no valid 
chargeback or grounds for a successful claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (Section 75). It noted that in this scenario Mr S broke the terms of the contract with 
the supplier by not paying the balance of the booking cost.
Our investigator looked at the case and felt Halifax had not acted unfairly in the way it had 
considered things. Mr S requested that an ombudsman take a look at the case. In summary 
he says:
he acted responsibly by asking the supplier for reassurances and without these could 
have been in a far worse position;
no consideration has been taken for the pandemic and that he and his party were not 
treated fairly while in a vulnerable situation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The global Covid-19 pandemic clearly put Mr S and his party in a difficult position which 
ultimately has resulted in him not going on holiday and being out of pocket for the deposit. 
However, it is important to emphasise why Halifax is involved here. It is not a supplier of 
travel services so any liability it has for what took place between Mr S and the supplier is 
limited to the specific card protections which are available. In this case chargeback and 
Section 75.
Chargeback
The chargeback scheme is one way which Halifax might have been able to recover the 
funds for Mr S. However, Halifax is limited by the particular scheme rules that apply as laid 
down by the provider of said scheme. I have considered the scheme rules and relevant 
supplementary guidance published in light of the Covid-19 pandemic in order to decide if 
Halifax has treated Mr S fairly.
It appears that Halifax did not progress a chargeback for Mr S and in the circumstances I 
dont think that was unreasonable. From the evidence I have been given I dont think there 
was a reasonable prospect of the chargeback succeeding for the following reasons:
despite Mr S having concerns about travel and quarantine requirements the villa 
service was still available to use
Mr S appeared to have cancelled the booking through his actions in which instance 
he has no contractual right to a refund
Section 75
Section 75 can allow Mr S to hold Halifax responsible for breach of contract or
misrepresentation by a supplier paid by credit card in respect of goods or services
purchased. There are certain criteria that need to be met for Section 75 to apply, relating to
the parties to the transaction, the way the payment was made and the price of the goods or
services. I am satisfied these have been met so I have moved on to consider the substance
of any potential Section 75 claim.
In considering whether there has been a breach of contract here by the supplier I have 
considered the written terms of the agreement between the parties.
From what I can see as a result of the pandemic the parties mutually agreed to move the 
booking from August 2020 to 2021 and agreed a new contract with payment due by 23/4/21. 
The contract is also clear that if full payment is not paid 10 weeks before the start of the 
rental that is deemed a customer cancellation with the deposit retained by the supplier.
I can see the supplier was flexible in not chasing Mr S to pay straight after 23/4/21. However, 
because Mr S had not paid by mid-July 21 (now within the 10-week period referred to above) 
the supplier wrote requiring immediate payment. Because this was not followed  the 
booking was cancelled in accordance with the terms of the contract. 
I can see Mr S was unsure about travelling due to the rules in place at the time and what that 
might mean to him and his fellow travellers both in terms of cost and inconvenience. This 
was no doubt understandable. However, there is nothing in the contract that allows him to 
delay payment for this reason. And despite potential travel restrictions there is nothing to 
suggest that the villa was not open and available to accept guests at the time.
Overall, I dont see persuasive evidence that the supplier breached its contract with Mr S (or 
misrepresented it) and because of that, and with Section 75 in mind, I dont consider it fair 
and reasonable for Halifax to have to refund Mr S the deposit.
My decision that Halifax has not acted unfairly is not meant to make Mr S feel at fault here. 
Ultimately circumstances around the global pandemic fostered a difficult situation and I dont 
think he was unreasonable in worrying about travelling. However, while I recognise the 
overall unfairness of the situation resulting from the pandemic  this in itself does not mean 
that Halifax is at fault.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2022.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman