DRN-1894640
The complaint
Ms S complains that NewDay Ltd shouldnt have increased the interest rate on her credit 
card and this has caused her to pay more in interest than she agreed. And shes complained 
shes been unable to reach it when looking for help with the repayments after her 
circumstances changed.
What happened
Ms S had a credit card which she took out with Company A. The card is branded with 
Company As name but the credit has been provided by different lenders over the time shes 
had it. The credit is now provided by NewDay and the interest rate has changed number of 
times since it took over.
Ms S has been experiencing financial difficulties and said she tried to speak with NewDay 
but her phone calls went unanswered. She asked Company A to help as it had sold her the 
credit card originally and she was having difficulty speaking with NewDay. She spoke with 
the store manager on three separate occasions to do this and the manager made calls on 
her behalf to NewDay to request a call back to Ms S. Ms S said she never received a call 
back and was unable to explain her situation and ask for help. 
Ms S said shed hoped to have the interest frozen on her account so she could focus on 
repaying as much of the outstanding balance as possible over 12 months and then reassess 
the situation after this point. She doesnt think its fair she now has a default registered in her 
name or that the account was not closed with the interest frozen from the point she wanted 
this to happen.
Ms S believes her account was closed by a manager at Company A and this was in August 
2019. From this point she said NewDay shouldnt have continued to add interest to the 
account.
When Ms S failed to make the minimum repayments on her account, NewDay passed the 
debt to a debt collector, Company B. Ms S feels Company Bs actions amounted to 
harassment when it tried to recover the debt and arrange repayment plan for this. 
Our investigator looked into Ms S complaint and didnt agree NewDay had done anything 
wrong with the interest rate increases on the account. He explained the terms and conditions 
set out how this could be increased overtime and this was something NewDay could do 
providing the correct notice was given. He felt this had been given and as Ms S continued to 
use the card after being informed the interest rate was changing, she accepted the 
increases. 
He felt NewDay failed to call Ms S when it should have but he didnt think it was fair to say 
this increased Ms S level of indebtedness beyond what it might have been had the calls 
been made. He explained there is an expectation on a business to work in a positive and 
sympathetic way with a customer who is experiencing financial difficulty. But this didnt mean 
that interest on any debt would automatically be frozen. Often if a repayment plan results in 
a customer paying less than the agreed minimum repayment amount, the account will still 
build up arrears and eventually a default will be registered. And it is from this point interest 
and charges are frozen. Ms S account was defaulted and the interest was frozen in 
November 2019.
He said NewDay had written to Ms S in September 2018 and June 2019 to explain the 
account was in persistent debt. In short it meant shed paid more in interest and charges 
than she had towards the outstanding balance of the account. The letters highlighted that by 
only making the minimum contractual payment on the account she was paying more overall
than if she was able to make larger monthly payments. Our investigator felt NewDay did 
what it needed to when highlighting this but when Ms S didnt make contact to discuss her 
repayments or let it know she was in financial difficulty, it was unable to assist with anything 
further.
He didnt believe there was anything to suggest the account had been closed by a manager 
at Company A and he explained it was unlikely a request from a third-party company to 
close the account would have been accepted by NewDay. So he didnt think the account had 
been closed when Ms S said it was or that NewDay had acted unfairly when it continued to 
apply interest to balance outstanding. He also didnt think the actions of Company B were 
unreasonable or disproportionate to it taking reasonable steps to try and agree a repayment 
plan with Ms S for the debt.
Overall he felt NewDay could have made arrangements to call Ms S when it was clear its 
written communications were not being received. And for the inconvenience of not doing this 
he felt NewDay should pay Ms S £200.00 in compensation. 
Ms S didnt agree with the outcome. She provided additional information from Company A to 
show how shes asked it to contact NewDay on her behalf. And how it was clear shes 
attempted to be in touch with both NewDay and Company B about the debt and that its not 
fair she now owes more because this didnt happen.
NewDay responded to say that it felt its original offer of £100.00 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by this matter is fair. It couldnt agree interest would have been frozen 
sooner and didnt feel anything else was warranted. Because Ms S and NewDay dont agree 
the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed all the information on this complaint, I dont think NewDay needs to do 
anything else to put things right  beyond what has already been recommended by our 
investigator. I know this is not the outcome Ms S was hoping for but Ill explain why Ive 
reached this decision.
Interest rate changes
Our investigator explained that NewDay is entitled to change the interest rate on Ms S card 
providing it provides the notice of this change in line with the account terms and conditions. 
And it needed to give Ms S the option to cancel the card and repay the balance in line with 
the previous interest rate if she wasnt happy with the increase  which it did. I dont think NewDay has done anything wrong when it changed the interest rate on Ms S 
account. Ultimately as the credit provider, it is entitled to determine on what basis it is happy 
to offer the borrowing it is providing and Ms S can decide whether to accept this or not. Ms S 
continued to use the card and by doing so accepted the interest rate change over choosing 
to stop using the card and repay the balance in line with the previous interest rate. NewDay 
provided the notice it should and gave Ms S the option to opt out of the interest rate change 
and Im satisfied its acted fairly when doing this. 
Account closure and call back
Ms S said she believed her account was closed in August 2019 by a manager at Company A 
and that NewDay has acted unfairly by reopening this and applying further interest to the 
balance after this point. I appreciate the card is branded as a Company A card, but 
Company A doesnt provide the credit and Ive seen nothing to suggest it has the option to 
close an account on behalf of NewDay. 
Ive listened to the phone call provided by NewDay. This is a call with a manager of 
Company A and NewDay in September 2019. In this call the manager from Company A 
doesnt indicate they believed the account to be closed. They confirm they are not sure why 
Ms S has requested a call back but asked that the account be placed on hold from that day 
with a request for a manager to call her back by 4pm the following Wednesday. 
I dont think from this call that Company A did tell Ms S the account was closed in August. It 
passed on the request for a call back to NewDay at this point as asked and asked if the 
account could be put on hold. NewDay said to the manager at Company A that it was unable 
to place an account on hold without speaking with Ms S directly and as she wasnt present it 
was unable to do this. But it took the details which it said it needed to arrange the call back.
NewDay said it was unable to call Ms S back but accepted it should have made efforts to 
find a way to do this when it was clear its written communication wasnt being received and 
has offered £100.00 in recognition of it failing to do this. But it said even if it had spoken with 
Ms S sooner, this wouldnt have meant the interest on the account would have been frozen.  
I agree this isnt guaranteed, nor was there an obligation on NewDay to do this  so this 
seems reasonable to me.
Financial difficulties
Ms S missed her minimum repayment on her account in August 2019 and when her 
September statement was received it informed her she was in arrears  requesting the 
minimum payment for August and the September payment. This payment was not met and 
as Ms S had missed two payments she was sent an arrears notice in October 2019. This 
included details on what the arrears meant and several organisations which might be able to 
assist if she was experiencing financial difficulties. And as with the statements for the 
account, it requested she contacted NewDay to discuss the payment. Ms S was also sent a 
default notice in October 2019 and November 2019.
Interest continued to be added and although I dont disagree Ms S attempted to make 
contact with NewDay via Company A, I cant see that she spoke with them directly or made 
NewDay aware that she was in financial difficulties. Businesses are required to act in a 
positive and sympathetic manner when someone is experiencing financial hardship. And 
when someone is in arrears or default, they should be considered with forbearance and due 
consideration.
NewDay hadnt spoken to Ms S and wasnt aware she was in financial difficulties in August 
or September, but it was clear by October 2019 that she was in arrears. At this point it waived interest on the arrears amount and provided Ms S with information to assist her if she 
was in difficulties and from November 2019 it suspended interest on the account.
I think NewDay has acted fairly here and in line with its obligations. I appreciate Ms S would 
like the interest reduced from August but at this point I dont think NewDay was aware she 
was in any financial difficulties and it hasnt been unreasonable in maintaining the interest at 
the contractual rate on the account.
Company Bs actions
Ms S feels the actions of Company B who pursued the debt on behalf of NewDay were 
unreasonable and amounted to harassment. Ive considered its actions but I dont agree 
these were excessive or could be considered harassment.
I note that a text message and letter were sent to Ms S on 24 December 2019 requesting 
that she contact Company B. And with the nature of a text message this would have been 
received on the same day. It is unfortunate that the debt was passed to Company B for 
recovery around this time and receiving contact from it over the holiday period would be 
upsetting. But I dont think Company B was excessive in its attempts to contact Ms S. So 
while I appreciate it would be upsetting to receive its contact at this time, I dont think it or 
NewDay has done anything wrong here.
Fair redress
Our investigator recommended that in total NewDay should pay Ms S £200.00 for the 
distress and inconvenience shes experienced as a result of this matter and how it has 
responded to her. This was a recommendation of an additional £100.00 on top of the 
compensation offered by NewDay.
NewDay doesnt feel its done much wrong with this complaint and although it could have 
arranged a call back when it received returned post from Ms S, this wouldnt have changed 
the overall outcome of her debt. And so it feels the £100.00 it offered for the distress and 
inconvenience caused is fair.
Having looked at everything, I think this should be increased to £200.00 as recommended by 
our investigator. When someone is experiencing financial difficulty it will understandably be a 
difficult and worrying time. In this case it is clear Ms S was keen to speak with NewDay, so 
much so, that she left her personal details with a manager at Company A to call on her 
behalf after she felt her efforts to call had been exhausted. The call agent indicated hes 
never had a request like this before but took the details for a call to be made  although this 
couldnt happen. 
But from this point in September 2019 at the very latest, NewDay were aware Ms S was 
trying to contact them and discuss the account and shed asked for to be placed on hold.
NewDay doesnt think the account balance and interest charges would have changed on the 
account if it had spoken with Ms S sooner. This may well be the case and although there are 
expectations Ive explained above for treatment of people in financial difficulties  freezing 
interest isnt mandatory. But moreover I understand the frustration Ms S will have felt when 
she feels shes done all she can to contact NewDay and ask for its help. And this with the 
continuation of being chased for the debt will have clearly been distressing. Because of this, 
in this case I think £200.00 is fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint and direct NewDay Ltd to pay 
Ms S £200.00 in total for the distress and inconvenience caused by its actions. If already 
paid, NewDay can deduct the £100.00 it awarded previously from this.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2020.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman