DRN-4125172
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that they were given unsuitable investment advice by HSBC UK 
Bank Plc, referred to as HSBC. They are being assisted by a claims management 
company (CMC). 
In summary, the CMC says that they were advised to invest in high-risk products  namely 
various Selected Investment Funds (SIFs)  but given their inexperience the advice was 
unsuitable. So, to put things right, theyd like compensation based on what they wouldve 
received had they been advised to invest in lower risk products. 
What happened
In 2007 Mr P was recommended the following:
SIF ISA  initial contribution of £333 a month invested in the JPM Europe Fund. 
Mrs P was recommended the following:
SIF taxed plan - £5,000 invested in the Perpetua UK Growth, and £5,000 into the 
JPM Europe Fund.  
SIF taxed account. Initial contribution of £333 a month into Schroder Global 
Properties Fund. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
In 2007, Mr and Mrs P met with an adviser regarding investment advice. A fact find 
was completed dealing with their finances, aims, and risk appetite. It was recorded 
that their objective was capital growth. 
In the risk assessment it was recorded that they accepted the possibility of higher 
returns by increasing exposure to equities and of a negative return increase. The 
assessment questionnaire also revealed that some funds could perform poorly.  
Mr and Mrs P had previous investment experience  including in the following:
oInvestments in guaranteed bonds, mini equity and cash ISAs, stocks/shares, 
and a Personal Equity Plan (PEP) which was invested in global financial 
collective investments with equities.  
They were advised to invest in a diversified and mixed portfolio  when viewed 
collectively, it matched their attitude to risk and objective for capital growth.  
Although they say they were cautious investors, HSBC assessed them as balanced 
risk investors prepared to take some risk. 
Given their answers to the risk questions, they didnt match the profile for cautious 
risk investors. 
Mr and Mrs Ps portfolio contained diversified mixed funds. Some were invested in 
more risk real estate holdings, whilst others in more secure established European 
holdings. For the most part the portfolio was invested in known European stock. So 
overall the portfolio was balanced and consistent with their attitude to risk. 
Mr and Mrs P disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. In summary, the CMC made the following key points:
The vast majority of Mr and Mrs Ps holdings  ISAs, PEPs, and shares  were low 
risk. 
The equity ISAs were fixed term structured products with capital guarantee. 
The shares were held in Friends Provident  acquired when they were first listed in 
the stock market and given to Mr P because he held an account  and HBOS, which 
were given to Mr P as he was an account holder when Halifax initially demutualised.
The only genuine capital at risk product Mr and Mrs P had was a tax efficient PEP 
believed to be relatively low risk  having shares in high dividend paying banks and 
insurance companies. Although the investment performed well, it wasnt comparable 
to the later investments which was for a greater amount. 
In retirement, Mr and Mrs P wanted to spend time living in the UK and abroad. They 
wouldnt have wanted to gamble with funds (earmarked) for an early retirement, 
especially if this would delay their retirement. 
Whilst overall they had a reasonable cash reserve, the majority of this was already 
locked into fixed term accounts. They were also already taking a risk that their 
structured products might mature with no gain therefore taking a further risk was 
unsuitable and didnt meet their objective. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind. In summary, she said:
Mr and Mrs Ps previous investments may have been at a different risk category, 
however their investment knowledge grew with experience which was gained from 
exposure to different investments. 
Their past investment experience (more likely than not) broadened their appetite for 
risk.  
The CMC made the following observations:
It doesnt accept the investigators points about retirement age. Standard age for 
retirement was 65 (and has been since the 1940s). Whilst they wished to retire early, 
this wasnt something they wouldve risked retiring at the normal age for. 
The paperwork shows the retirement age for the product as 65 years of age. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr and Mrs P say, I cant safely 
say that they were given unsuitable investment advice. 
Before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise their strength of feeling about this matter. The CMC has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I 
hope they wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, 
and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
role is to consider the evidence presented by the CMC and HSBC, and reach what I think is 
an independent, fair, and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and best 
industry practice, but unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, 
based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
I dont uphold this complaint. Given that the issues are quite narrow, in brief, I do so for the 
following reasons:
Based on the answers provided, I cant safely say that Mr and Mrs P were advised to 
invest in products that were too high risk for them. I agree with the investigator that 
overall and on balance, they were advised to invest in a diversified and mixed 
portfolio which, when viewed collectively, matched their balanced attitude to risk. 
In other words, the investment was affordable, met their objective for growth and 
didnt involve more risk than they wouldve wished for. I note, based on what the 
business says, that just over 60% of the portfolio was in non-risk based deposits 
following the 2007 advice, which I dont think is unreasonable for them given their 
objective. 
Despite what they say, Im not persuaded that they were cautious risk investors, so I 
dont agree that they shouldnt have been advised to invest in products with greater 
risk. Therefore, in the circumstances and on balance I dont agree that theyre 
entitled to any compensation as suggested by the CMC. Im also mindful that they 
were  more likely than not  provided with key documentation that made reasonably 
clear the nature and operation of the policy including the risks involved. 
Im mindful that they accepted the possibility of higher returns by increasing exposure 
to equities (as well as of a negative return), which isnt consistent with a cautious risk 
investor. I note their objective was capital growth, and on balance Im satisfied that 
based on their answers provided they were willing to take a greater risk to achieve 
this aim and were aware that there was a risk to capital. 
Im mindful that they had an identified shortfall in retirement that they wanted to 
address and would need to take a risk-based approach to fulfilling this need - and 
were in a good position to achieve this. I note they had savings and owned their own 
home but that their son was paying the mortgage.   
Its arguable that given how their (capital at risk) PEP performed, Mr and Mrs P were 
prepared to take a greater risk for a better return on their investment. Having 
previously held lower risk investments probably meant that they were able to make a 
meaningful comparison and consequently were prepared to take a greater risk with a 
portion of their funds going forward, in order to achieve their objective. 
Im mindful that lower risk investments werent and arent without risk, so they werent 
risk averse in any event, and were willing to take some risk to achieve a better return. 
In any case, based on what the business says they had the flexibility to alter their risk 
appetite, as well as the funds they were invested in, if their needs changed in future. 
I note HSBC made clear the following:
oOur records show that when Mrs P (name anonymised) withdrew the sum of 
£3,623.64 from her taxed plan to transfer into her ISA, the monies were 
switched into the HSBC World Selection Balanced Fund at her request. She 
also requested that the total amount of £700 invested into her taxed plan on a monthly basis from 10 November 2010 to 10 March 2011, was also invested 
into the HSBC World Selection Balanced Fund.
oThis doesnt suggest that Mr and Mrs P didnt know what they were doing. 
I should also point out that our service doesnt generally consider complaints about 
investment performance alone, which can be dependent on a number of factors  
such as the stockmarket for example  which are outside the control of HSBC. Based 
on what the CMC says, it seems the investment didnt do as well as Mr and Mrs P 
mightve hoped, but in the circumstances thats not something I can blame the 
business for.
Its only with the benefit of hindsight the CMC might be able to say that other 
investments mightve performed better, but that doesnt mean the recommendation 
by HSBC at the time was unsuitable.
Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs P werent without investment experience either, and that 
they broadly understood risk and what it meant for their capital. On balance, I also 
agree with the investigator that exposure to different investments will have increased 
their experience, and appetite for risk such that they on balance they knew what the 
wanted. In any case, I dont think they were made to do anything that they didnt want 
to.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I cant say that this investment was 
unsuitable despite what the CMC says about their plans regarding retirement. On 
balance, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs P  more likely than not  wanted to retire 
early (and split their time living in the UK and abroad) and were willing to take a 
greater risk to make that happen. It was recorded in the fact find that they wanted to 
retire as soon as possible  their dream was retirement in five years time  and 
thats why they bought a property abroad which they owned outright. On balance, I 
dont agree that they wouldve seen this as a gamble. On balance I think they 
probably wouldve seen this as an opportunity to make their dream a reality.  
If Mr and Mrs P were unhappy with the recommendation, they couldve cancelled at 
any point during the cooling off period. Im satisfied that they will have received 
regular statements and invitations to investment reviews but havent, until the CMCs 
complaint letter, raised any issues. This suggests that they probably werent unhappy 
with the advice from HSBC. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs P will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isnt what they want to 
hear. Whilst I appreciate their frustration, I cant safely say that HSBC gave unsuitable 
investment advice. 
In other words, on the face of the available evidence, and on balance, I cant uphold this 
complaint and give them what they want.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this compliant.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman