DRN-2593701
The complaint
Mr N complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund money he lost as part of an authorised 
scam. And hed like the money refunded. 
What happened
On the 31 July 2019 Mr N was searching for flights from the UK to Jamaica. Unfortunately he 
was contacted by fraudsters pretending to be a travel agents  and after exchanging a 
number of emails about flight availability and cost he agreed to pay £469.95 for return flights 
via his credit card. Soon after the payment the fraudsters attempted a further transaction of 
£2,222, which was fortunately picked up by Santanders fraud detection system and blocked. 
Within hours of making the payment, Mr N had two telephone conversations with Santander 
the first to check the genuine nature of the transaction and the second after he was 
contacted by the bank about the attempted payment of £2,222. During the calls the bank 
advised Mr N that the payment had been sent to Bank S  an e money provider acting as a 
payment aggregator  which he advised hed never heard of. 
After making the payment Mr N couldnt get hold of the travel agents and realised that the 
flights hed been given tickets for didnt exist.
 
Mr N complained to Santander, but the bank didnt uphold his complaint. In summary they 
said that Mr N had authorised the disputed transaction  and therefore the bank had no right 
to retrieve the funds. 
Mr N didnt accept Santanders response so complained to our service.
 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ns complaint  and thought that Santander should 
have done more. She explained that when Santander identified that Mr N was likely the 
victim of a sophisticated scam the bank should have acted sooner. And if they had done so 
its likely they could have recovered the funds from Bank S. 
Santander didnt accept our investigators opinion. In response they said:
The payment to Bank S for airline tickets wasnt unusual. 
The chargeback wouldnt have been raised immediately because Mr N needed to 
complete paperwork before it was processed. 
Theres no evidence the chargeback would have been successful  Mr N didnt 
provide any evidence he tried to contact the travel agents.  
As Santander didnt accept our investigators conclusions its been referred to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. And Ill explain why below. 
I accept that this was an authorised payment even though Mr N was the victim of a 
sophisticated scam. He used his security credentials to request the payment. So, although 
he didnt intend the money to go to the scammers under the relevant regulations, Mr N is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Santander should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Ive firstly considered if Santander should have identified the transaction made by Mr N as 
unusual at the time. And on balance I dont think they should. I say this because the 
transaction wasnt unusually large or out of character. Ive moved on to consider Santanders 
actions once the payment was completed.
On balance I think Santander should have done more during the phone calls to help Mr N  I 
think that there were enough signs on both calls that the bank should have picked up on, 
and asked more questions. And I think if they had then its likely that it would have come to 
light that Mr N was being scammed and he wouldnt have lost his money.
 
In the first call Mr N had with Santander after the disputed payment, Mr N explains hes 
calling up to check if its a legitimate company. The advisor informs him the payment was to 
Bank S, which Mr N is clearly surprised about. And he explains to the advisor hes 
purchased an airline ticket. I think at this point the bank should have picked up on a number 
of concerns and asked Mr N further questions. Firstly its clear Mr N was suspicious about 
the transaction  so Id have expected Santander to explore this further with him. Then 
theres Mr Ns surprise that the money went to Bank S  and the unusual nature of a 
payment for an airline ticket going to an e-payment provider. 
In the second call there are similar concerns where Id expect Santander to probe including 
asking questions such as has Mr N used the travel agents before and how did he find them. 
During the call Mr N reiterated that he didnt know the first payment was made to Bank S and 
asked whether the payment could be recovered. However, Santander didnt take this forward 
at the time. 
As the bank are the experts in dealing with scams, if Santander had asked relevant 
questions then I think theyd have concluded he was most likely the victim of a scam. And 
then raised a chargeback, via the relevant card scheme, for goods and services not 
received. Its important to note that Mr N spoke with Santander on two occasions within hours of the credit card payment so I think its likely  if Santander had contacted Bank S as 
quickly as Id have expected them to  that the funds wouldnt have been moved on. I cant 
be sure about this, as unfortunately Santander havent raised a chargeback at any point or 
contacted Bank S to ask when the funds were moved on. But, Im satisfied, the funds would 
likely have still remained. 
Santander have raised a number of points in response to our investigators view. Including 
the payment to a payment facilitator like Bank S isnt unusual, because Mr N needed to 
complete a chargeback form it wouldnt have been raised immediately and its unlikely to be 
successful because of the lack of evidence. 
Ive considered Santanders arguments here, but Im afraid I dont agree. The bank have 
argued that purchasing an airline ticket via a payment facilitator like Bank S isnt unusual. 
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont think the payment to Bank S was the sole factor 
to make the transaction unusual. I think there were sufficient factors to raise concerns 
including Mr Ns suspicions about the travel agents, his surprise at paying Bank S and the 
large transaction the fraudsters attempted after the initial payment. 
Ive considered the banks second and third points, about how long it would have been 
before Santander were able to raise the chargeback and the evidence required. However 
this doesnt change my outcome. I say this because firstly theres evidence Mr N would have 
acted quickly if he needed to complete any paperwork based on him calling Santander twice 
on the day of the transaction to raise concerns. And secondly even if I accept there may 
have been a small delay Santander havent supplied any evidence from Bank S to show 
when the funds were transferred out. Therefore I cant fairly say the chargeback wouldnt 
have been successful. Ive considered Santanders last point, but I cant say I agree. I think 
the evidence Mr N has supplied, including being sold flight tickets that dont exist and an 
inability to contact the travel agents is convincing and likely strong enough for a successful 
chargeback. 
Ive also seen evidence provided by Santander about the relevant chargeback scheme 
which states A chargeback may be processed immediately upon learning the travel services 
will not be provided to the Cardholder. As Ive previously stated, I think if Santander had 
asked relevant questions to Mr N it would have been clear that its very unlikely the travel 
services would be provided. 
Overall considering the unusual attempted transaction to Bank S and the concerns raised in 
both phone calls, I think there was enough going on to have alerted Santander that Mr N 
may have been at risk of financial harm. It follows that I think more should have been done 
and Santander should have identified the scam sooner, and therefore quickly raised a 
chargeback. 
I do acknowledge that the main perpetrator here is the fraudster, but I dont think 
Santanders intervention went far enough. Im satisfied the service which was provided on 
the two calls Mr N had with Santander could have been better, and this has caused Mr N 
some inconvenience and distress in his money not being recovered. Therefore Ill be 
awarding £100 in recognition of this. 
Putting things right
 I direct Santander UK Plc to:
Refund Mr N £469.95.
Rework Mr Ns credit card to remove any charges or interest. Pay Mr N £100 compensation in recognition of the inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint. And direct Santander UK Plc to carry out my 
recommendations as above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman