DRN-3022691
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Arch Insurance (UK) Limited declined a claim they made under 
a travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr T held a travel insurance policy through his employer, and it covered him and his family. 
The relevant period of insurance was between 1 July 2019 and 30 June 2020, and the 
insurer was Arch.
Mr and Mrs T were due to go on a family holiday to the USA on 15 March 2020 for two 
weeks. But they say they cancelled their trip because the USA banned flights from the UK, 
and the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) updated its travel advice against all but 
essential travel to the USA.
Arch declined the claim. It said that the policy didnt cover cancellation due to FCO advice. It 
also said there was no section in Mr and Mrs Ts policy that provided cover as a result of a 
pandemic preventing them from travelling. Arch has also pointed out that Mr and Mrs T 
cancelled their trip verbally on 14 March, and in writing on 15 March, but the FCO advice 
didnt come into effect until 17 March 2020. So, Arch says they couldve travelled, and they 
wouldve been covered by the policy during their trip.
Mr and Mrs T dont think the insurer has been fair. They say this is because the policy 
doesnt cover cancellations due to FCO advice, but it also doesnt cover them if they travel 
against that advice. So, Mr and Mrs T say Arch should pay their claim.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She noted that cancellation due to 
FCO advice wasnt covered by the policy. But the policy also didnt cover if Mr and Mrs T 
travelled against FCO advice. She didnt think Arch had clearly highlighted the exclusion, 
and she didnt think the full effect of the policy was easy for a customer to understand. 
Overall, she thought Arch should pay Mr and Mrs Ts claim.
Mr and Mrs T accepted our investigators findings. Arch didnt, and it responded in detail. 
Arch pointed out that the restrictions to travel imposed by the USA from the UK didnt come 
into effect until 17 March 2020 (UK time). Arch also said the FCO advice against all but 
essential travel didnt come into effect until 17 March 2020  but Mr and Mrs T were due to 
travel before that on 15 March 2020. So, Arch says the policy wouldve covered them, had 
they travelled. This was because they wouldnt have travelled against FCO advice, as it 
wasnt in force on 15 March 2020.
Arch also gave detailed comments about the policy terms based on our investigators 
findings. But as I dont think these are relevant in this particular complaint, I wont outline 
them here.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision on the complaint in July 2021. Heres what I said:
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules, and 
other industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. 
I think the crux of this complaint is the reason for cancellation, and the timing of it. 
The policy terms and conditions
The policy terms and conditions set out what is, and isnt, covered under the policy. The 
relevant section says: 
You are covered up to the limit as shown on the Schedule of Cover for loss of travel and 
accommodation expenses, which were cancelled before You were due to leave Your Home 
for which You have paid or are contracted to pay, proving the cancellation was necessary 
and unavoidable (and is not as a result of a mere disinclination to begin Your trip as 
arranged) due to any caused listed below occurring during the period of insurance: []
The policy sets out four scenarios in which cover will be provided in the event of 
cancellation. Ive looked through those terms, and none of them apply to the situation Mr and 
Mrs T were in when they cancelled the trip.
Additionally, under the heading Not covered the terms say that Anything caused directly or 
indirectly by prohibitive regulations by the government of any country and Anything 
mentioned on the General Exclusions. There are general exclusions for travelling against 
FCO advice and for Any epidemic or pandemic. 
Was it unreasonable for Arch to reject the claim? 
Mr and Mrs T have said they knew before travelling the FCO advice was going to prevent all 
but essential travel while they were on their trip, so they thought it wouldve been entirely 
irresponsible to travel in the circumstances. But this means that they cancelled due to an 
expected change in advice, rather than the advice being in force at the time. Mr and Mrs T 
also said on the claim form that they cancelled the trip verbally on 14 March 2020, and in 
writing on 15 March 2020.
The policy wouldnt have covered Mr and Mrs T had they travelled against FCO advice. But 
this advice didnt come into effect until 17 March 2020, so after they wouldve started their 
trip. So, I dont think this exclusion is relevant, as Mr and Mrs T wouldnt have travelled 
against FCO advice on 15 March 2020.
Our investigator upheld the complaint on the basis that Mr and Mrs T cancelled their trip due 
to FCO advice. But I dont think thats correct, as the advice didnt come into force until two 
days after their trip wouldve started. I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to ask 
Arch to pay the claim based on advice that wasnt in force at the time of cancellation, or at 
the time of the outbound journey.
I understand Mr and Mrs T wouldve been concerned to go on their trip knowing FCO advice 
would be coming into force during their trip. But as the reason they cancelled isnt covered 
under the relevant section of the policy, I dont think Arch has done anything wrong in 
declining the claim.In any event, there are also further policy terms which are relevant to the outcome of this 
complaint. Mr and Mrs T have also argued, in summary, that they wouldnt have been 
permitted to enter the country they were travelling to because of the restrictions put into 
place by their government (which restricted entry to UK citizens). This came into effect on 
16 March in that country but there was a lot of information in the media in the days leading 
up to this. 
I appreciate that this wouldnt have encouraged Mr and Mrs T to go on their holiday. 
However, that doesnt mean its something that is covered by their insurance policy. As Ive 
outlined above, this policy doesnt cover them for restrictions imposed by any government 
nor does it cover them for claims arising from epidemics or pandemics. So, this further 
persuades me that it wasnt unreasonable for Arch to reject the claim.  
Mr and Mrs T responded to my provisional decision to say that they didnt understand how I 
could expect them to travel when they knew the FCO advice was changing and they had a 
small child at the time. Mr and Mrs T maintain that it wouldve been wholly irresponsible and 
dangerous for them to travel given the situation.
Arch didnt respond to my provisional decision, and the deadline to do so has now passed. 
So, Im issuing my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The comments Mr and Mrs T have made following my provisional decision are something I 
already considered, and addressed, in my provisional decision. I appreciate the concerns 
Mr and Mrs T had about travelling at the time. But what I need to decide is if I could fairly ask 
Arch to pay their cancellation claim  taking everything into account, including the terms and 
conditions of the policy.
Having considered everything again, I see no reason to depart from the findings I reached in 
my provisional decision. So, Ive reached the same conclusions as I did my provisional 
decision, and for the same reasons. Overall, I dont think Arch did anything wrong in 
declining Mr and Mrs Ts claim for cancellation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr and 
Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman