DRN-4172369
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as I, complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited 
(trading as Cashplus Bank) wont refund a payment it didnt make.
Miss H, who is a director of I, brings the complaint on Is behalf.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator for these reasons:
Cashplus hasnt disputed this concerns an unauthorised payment. However, in line 
with the Payment Services Regulations 2017, it refused to refund it because it 
asserts Miss H failed with gross negligence to comply with the terms of the account 
and keep Is personalised security details safe. To support that, its pointed out how 
Miss H shared a one-time passcode (OTP) with a third party, as well as forwarding 
an email to trust a new device. 
Ive reflected on the circumstances that led to Miss H taking these steps. She 
received a text message that appeared to come from Cashplus  it referenced a 
request to update the phone number on Is account and told her someone would 
contact her shortly. She then received a call which similarly appeared to come from 
Cashpluss number, and she said the caller knew some of her personal information 
and took her through familiar security questions. 
Taking this all into account  how the communication appeared and the information 
they knew  I can see why she was persuaded they were calling from Is genuine 
bank. I think lots of people wouldve been. 
Miss H recalled being told about suspicious transactions that were attempted from 
somewhere thats not local to her  the caller said theyd block these, and shed need 
to reauthorise her online banking. It seems this was the guise under which the email 
and OTP came to be shared.
Having considered these circumstances carefully, Im not persuaded Cashplus has 
shown Miss H acted with very significant carelessness to be able to conclude she 
failed with gross negligence. Afterall, she trusted she was talking with her genuine 
bank, and theyd created plausible circumstances for why she needed to follow their 
instructions and share the information. 
Im also not persuaded there was anything obvious in the text message with the OTP 
and the email she received that ought to have clearly alerted her that something was 
amiss. Instead, I can see how the content fit the narrative that she was resetting Is 
details. Im also mindful of how the messages reassuringly came from Cashplus 
when Miss H was told to expect them, and how she was acting in the heat of the 
moment when she was understandably concerned about fraud on Is account. 
It follows that, in line with the PSRs, I dont consider I can be fairly held liable for this 
unauthorised payment and Cashplus needs to put things right.
Having reviewed Is statements, it appears the unauthorised payment led to a couple 
of Direct Debits being rejected  leading to fees. So Cashplus should also refund 
those caused by the unauthorised payment.
Cashplus should have restored Is account much sooner. So I also award 8% simple 
interest per year to compensate it for the time its been out of pocket. 
Ive noted that Cashplus also offered to pay £20 for the inconvenience caused to I in 
handling its claim, which I think is a fair reflection of the impact this had. So Ive not 
made a further award for Is non-financial losses. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Is complaint. Advanced Payment Solutions Limited 
must:
Pay I the total of the unauthorised payment, less any amount recovered or refunded 
 I understand this to be £2,050.00.
Refund I any fees and charges as well as amending any adverse credit information 
that were caused by the unauthorised payment.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
payment to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask I to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman