DRN-2244158
The complaint
Mr G and Miss H say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
In 2007, a standalone PPI policy was added to Mr G and Miss Hs mortgage they had with
another lender. The policy was in both their names and the benefit was split 50:50 between
them and provided cover for sickness, accident and unemployment. Mr G and Miss H feel 
that this policy was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator felt the complaint should be upheld due to a medical condition Miss H had at
the time of sale. Santander was unhappy with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint 
was passed to me. I issued my provisional decision explaining that I didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. But I asked everyone to give me anything further they wanted 
me to consider before I issued my final decision. Heres what I said:
Mr G and Miss H dont dispute that they bought the policy understanding they had a choice
about it. Their mortgage wasnt provided by Santander. And the PPI was a standalone
product which could be transferred between mortgages if needed. So, Im satisfied Mr G and
Miss H bought the PPI knowing they had a choice about it.
Mr G and Miss H say Santander didnt recommend the policy to them. Santander says it did
advise on the sale and has provided a copy of the documents from the sale of the policy.
These documents include a demands and needs report which identifies the cover
Santander thought Mr G and Miss H needed. So, I think this more likely means the policy
was recommended to them and as such Santander had to make sure the policy was suitable
for Mr G and Miss H.
Looking at Mr G and Miss Hs circumstances they seem to have had a need for the cover.
Mr G and Miss H say they have had some sick pay benefits from their employer. The policy
wouldve paid out alongside any employee benefits they were entitled to. It wouldve also
covered them if they became unemployed.
Mr G and Miss H say that Miss H had a medical condition at the time. Looking at what
Miss H has told us about her condition and how it impacted her life, I think its unlikely Mr G
and Miss H would have thought this would be the main reason they might need to claim on
the policy in the future. And the PPI would have covered them for other things. So, I dont
think the fact she couldnt claim on the policy for the condition would have put them off. And
based on what Ive seen of Mr G and Miss Hs circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like
they were affected by any of the other exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - such as
unusual working patterns.
Mr G and Miss H were borrowing funds against a large and long-term financial commitment,
which was secured on their home. And theyve said they didnt have any savings or other
means they could have relied on. So, I think having the security that their mortgage
repayments would be made if either of them was unable to work would have been important
to them.
Looking at everything Ive been given, its possible the information Santander gave
Mr G and Miss H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But Mr G and Miss H
chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. And  for the
reasons Ive explained above - it looks like the policy would have been useful for them if
something went wrong. It also looks like the policy was affordable for them. So, I dont think
better information about the PPI would have put Mr G and Miss H off taking out the cover.
Overall, I dont think Mr G and Miss H have lost out by anything Santander might have done
wrong.
Ive also thought about whether Santander needs to give Mr G and Miss H some of the
commission they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling, and new rules and guidance only
apply when PPI is bought alongside a credit product. Mr G and Miss H didnt obtain their 
mortgage with Santander, so it doesnt need to refund anything.
Mr G and Miss H replied and asked me to consider whether it would have been more 
suitable for Miss H to be provided with unemployment only cover given her medical 
condition. In reference to the commission redress, Mr G and Miss H said they did have a 
Santander mortgage but are unable to provide the details of that now  given how long ago 
they had it. 
Santander didnt provide anything further for me to think about. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr G and Miss Hs case.
Having done that, I still dont think the policy was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Ive thought about Mr G and Miss Hs comments about whether a different policy would have 
been more suitable for Miss H  given her medical condition. But as I explained in my 
provisional decision, I didnt think Miss Hs condition would have been the main reason they 
might claim on the policy  and the fact it covered them for other things. So, as I dont think 
the policy was wholly unsuitable for Miss H, I dont need to consider whether they should 
have been sold separate policies. As such this point doesnt change my decision  I dont 
think Mr G and Miss H have lost out by anything Santander might have done wrong. 
With regards to Mr G and Miss Hs comments about whether they had a Santander 
mortgage. Its possible they had a mortgage provided by Santander at some point. But for the 
commission redress element to be considered, a policy needed to be connected with a 
mortgage provided by the same entity. In Mr G and Miss Hs case, the policy they bought 
was a stand-alone product and the mortgage it was covering was with a different mortgage 
provider at the time and not Santander. So, there is no refund of the commission due.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Miss H 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman