DRN-3307851
The complaint
Mr N complains that Santander UK Plc cancelled his direct debit without his permission. 
What happened
Mr N had set up a direct debit instruction on his Santander account to pay his credit card 
bills. But in November 2020 he received a message from his credit card company saying 
hed missed a payment because his direct debit instruction had been cancelled. 
Mr N contacted Santander, who said the direct debit instruction had expired because it 
hadnt been used for 13 months. They said this was set out in the account terms and 
conditions. When Mr N queried this, Santander said the direct debit scheme rules require 
them to remove inactive direct debits. They apologised for incorrectly saying this was in their 
account terms and conditions and paid him £25 as a goodwill gesture.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ns complaint. She said there was no requirement for 
Santander to let him know his direct debit instruction had been cancelled. She agreed that 
theyd initially given him incorrect information about the time limit that applied, and where he 
could find further information about it. But as theyd since given him the correct information, 
she didnt think they should have to do anything more. She said she didnt have the power to 
tell Santander to change their policies.
Mr N disagreed. He said:
Santanders direct debit paperwork hadnt mentioned a time limit.
The direct debit scheme rules cant over-rule the contract he has with Santander, 
which doesnt allow a valid instruction to be made dormant.
The rules of the direct debit scheme provide for a minimum period. And since June 
2020, the minimum period has been 24 months.
The direct debit scheme rules may not require banks to give customers notice, but 
neither do they prohibit it. They do imply that the customer should be given the 
opportunity to complete a new direct debit before an attempt is made to collect one 
that has become dormant. 
Due to the lack of information and notification by Santander, the first thing the 
customer will know is that a direct debit has not been paid, penalties have been 
incurred and an entry made on his credit record.
Mr N asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to start by explaining that were not here to regulate businesses. We offer a free 
service that settles individual disputes between businesses and their customers. If we find 
that a business has done something wrong, we look to see what impact thats had on the 
customer. We might ask the business to take some action to put things right. If we do that, 
our aim is to put the customer into the position they wouldve been in if things had gone as 
they should have done. More details about the way we handle complaints  and the rules we 
have to follow  can be found on our website: www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/who-we-
are/make-decisions.
The direct debit scheme was set up as an efficient way for organisations to collect regular or 
irregular payments from customers. The scheme is administered and managed by Bacs. So 
banks wishing to process payments using this scheme must comply with its rules.   
A direct debit instruction is a customers authority to allow an organisation, in this case Mr 
Ns credit card company, to claim money from his account. The content of the direct debit 
instruction is set out in the scheme rules. Santander have provided evidence showing that 
the direct debit instruction for Mr Ns credit card company was set up on 29 October 2008. 
Theyve said no payments had ever been made.
The scheme rules include requirements for direct debit instructions that havent been used 
for a long time. These were introduced as a safeguard to protect payers from direct debit 
instructions being live on their account indefinitely. Ive reviewed these rules in detail. 
Ive seen that Santander would have been required to hold Mr Ns direct debit instruction on 
file for a minimum of 13 months, starting from the date it was lodged. And Im satisfied that, if 
his credit card company hadnt presented a request for payment for 13 months and hadnt 
requested an extension to the dormancy period, the scheme rules required Santander to 
treat the direct debit instruction as having expired. So, Im unable to say they did anything 
wrong by cancelling this direct debit instruction.
I appreciate Mr N feels very strongly that Santander shouldnt be able to cancel an 
instruction hed given them unless the grounds for doing so were set out in their account 
terms and conditions. But I dont think it would be reasonable to expect banks to include the 
rules of all the various payment services in their general account terms and conditions. That 
leads me to consider whether Santander should have brought this to Mr Ns attention in 
some other way.
I bear in mind that the direct debit instruction Mr N signed was provided to his credit card 
company, who in turn presented it to Santander. And I do think its clear from the direct debit 
scheme rules that the emphasis is very much on the credit card company to be aware of the 
dormancy period that applied. And, if that direct debit instruction had become dormant, to 
obtain a new authority from Mr N before attempting to collect a payment by direct debit. Im 
unable to look into, or comment on, the actions of Mr Ns credit card company as part of this 
complaint. 
Mr N feels Santander should have notified him that theyd cancelled his direct debit 
instruction to avoid him missing payments, incurring late payment fees, and potentially 
having adverse information recorded on his credit file. But as hes told us that his credit 
company cancelled the charges hed incurred as a result of the late payment, Im not 
persuaded that hes suffered any detriment here. 
That said, I can see that Santander werent clear in their initial explanations as to why this 
direct debit had been cancelled and what dormancy period applied. I can understand Mr Ns 
frustration at initially being told this was in their terms and conditions  and later being given 
confusing information as to whether the dormancy period was 13 months or 24 months. I can 
see that hes spent time looking into this. 
But Ive seen evidence confirming Santander have correctly clarified the dormancy period 
that now applies to direct debits set up on Mr Ns account. Theyve also apologised for the incorrect information they gave him initially, awarding Mr N £25 for this. So, I wont be 
directing them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman