DRN-1378264
 
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the settlement of a claim by U K Insurance Limited (UKI) following the 
theft of his golf clubs.
What happened
My P has a policy of buildings and contents insurance with UKI. In July 2019 his golf clubs 
were stolen from the boot of his car, which was parked on his drive. UKI told Mr P the policy 
limit for items stolen from an unattended car is £1,000. Mr P is unhappy with this, and says 
his documents say the limit is £2,000. UKI say Mr P is relying on old policy wording from 
2013 and the limit was changed from renewal in 2019. As Mr P says he didnt receive any 
notice of the change he thinks the old limit should be used.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. He said UKI had provided screenshots to 
show renewal documents and important information about the change in policy terms were 
sent to Mr P at the correct address. Whilst Mr P said he hadnt received these, this service 
takes the view its more likely than not they were sent. In response Mr P said the 2013 policy 
document represented the contract that was in force and UKI was required to make him 
aware of any changes. Mr P pointed out the screen shots dont show exactly which 
documents were printed and sent to him and so UKI cant definitively show he was made 
aware of the change in cover. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr Ps policy of home and contents insurance is annually renewable. This means that each 
year UKI send renewal terms which set out the cover they are prepared to provide and the 
cost. Mr P then has the choice whether to accept UKIs offer or seek alternative cover. UKI 
sent out renewal documents to Mr P in January 2019, before renewal in February 2019, and 
Mr P accepted the renewal invitation in January 2019. So, in looking at how Mr Ps claim 
should be settled I need to refer to the terms that applied at renewal in 2019, provided Im 
satisfied its more likely than not UKI took reasonable steps to notify Mr P of any changes. 
UKI need to provide sufficient information for Mr P to decide if the policy suited his needs. 
The parties agree that renewal documents were sent to Mr P, but not about what was 
included.  Mr P said he received an invitation, schedule and product information document, 
none of which mentioned the limit for theft from an unattended vehicle. He has provided 
copies. UKI have provided screenshots from its internal system and redacted versions have 
been sent to Mr P. They show a renewal quote for Mr P was printed on 14 January 2019 and 
re-printed on 21 January 2019. UKI have provided evidence of the documents that applied to 
renewals at different dates, which show in January 2019 Mr P would have been sent an 
important information leaflet and a summary of cover.  This information made the £1,000 limit for items left in an unattended vehicle clear. UKIs screenshots also show a new copy of 
the policy was sent to Mr P on 25 January 2019. 
I appreciate UKI havent demonstrated which documents they sent to Mr P when they 
recorded RENEWAL QUOTE on their system on 14 January 2019 (and re-printed on 21 
January 2019). Im persuaded on balance they sent the correct renewal information, which 
included the important information leaflet and summary setting out the lower limit for items 
stolen from an unattended vehicle. I say this because UKI have provided evidence of the 
documents they sent at renewal at various dates, and in January 2019 these documents are 
recorded. Whilst it would be clearer if UKI set out exactly which documents were sent, the 
expression renewal quote covers everything sent to a customer at renewal. Its hard to say 
why Mr P didnt receive all the renewal documents, but UKI's responsibility is only to send 
them. I'm satisfied its more likely than not they were sent. 
In any event, if I conclude Mr P wasnt made aware of the different limit for items stolen from 
an unattended car, Id be saying his 2019/20 policy was mis-sold to him. Id need to look at 
the impact on Mr P and what hed have done differently had the policy been properly sold, 
rather than simply apply the old policy terms to his claim. Mr Ps policy provided wide-
ranging cover, so its difficult to conclude that the change in the limit for items left unattended 
in a vehicle would in itself have caused him not to buy the policy and get cover elsewhere 
with a higher limit. In saying this Ive taken in to account the fact that other insurers have a 
similar limit to UKI.
After taking all the evidence in to account Im satisfied on balance UKI sent Mr P correct 
information at renewal in 2019 and can rely on the £1,000 limit for items left unattended in a 
car. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2020.
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman