DRN-3595170
The complaint
Mr N complains that he couldnt access his JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association 
(Chase) account and that it didnt contact him about the access problem.
What happened
Mr N says he was unable to access his Chase account on 26 December 2021 via its 
application (app). He says he contacted Chase and was told one of its staff would contact 
him. Mr N says some two weeks later he called Chase again as there had not been any 
contact. He would like to know why his account has been blocked and would like 
compensation of £100 as well as his postage costs of £2.25 refunded.
Chase says it upheld Mr Ns complaint. It says it carried out a review about how Mr N was 
using an account feature which it says has been used inappropriately. Chase says it has 
apologised and tried to contact Mr N about his complaint. It has paid the compensation Mr N 
requested and says he now has account access.
Mr N had brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought Chase had dealt with it 
fairly by paying the compensation Mr N asked for. The investigator didnt think Mr N had 
suffered a material impact.
Mr N doesnt accept that view and in summary says Chase hasnt apologised for what took 
place and that the block was disproportionate. He says he didnt receive Chases response 
as he had access problems which it knew about.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Chase has dealt fairly with this 
complaint by paying appropriate compensation and by apologising for what took place.
There is no question here that Chase made a mistake by not contacting Mr N about the 
account restriction and explaining why it was in place. Im satisfied that its up to Chase to 
decide if the account feature was being used inappropriately but it ought reasonably to have 
explained that to Mr N as well as contact him as it said it would. I have no doubt Mr N was 
caused inconvenience and distress and would have spent some time trying to resolve 
matters.
I can see that Mr N asked for £100 compensation and his postage costs paid. Im satisfied 
that Chase has paid that amount and am also satisfied that award is fair and reasonable. I 
dont think Mr N suffered any real financial loss as a result of what took place and have not 
seen any evidence this was Mr Ns main account. I dont think what took place justifies 
further compensation and can see in any event Mr N doesnt suggest that either.
I appreciate Mr N would like an apology from Chase. I have looked carefully at Chases 
response to Mr N and am satisfied that it did apologise for what took place. I appreciate what 
Mr N says about the access to the letter and agree that it would have been helpful in the 
circumstances for Chase to have considered sending it via a different method.
Overall, Im satisfied that Chase has paid appropriate compensation, restored account 
access and apologised for what took place. Im also satisfied that its up to Chase to decide 
when exercising its commercial judgement what action it takes in circumstances where it 
thought the account had been used inappropriately. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman