DRN-2832305
The complaint
Miss F complains about the way in which Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) has handled a 
claim under her home emergency insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss F had the benefit of a home emergency insurance policy as part of her bank account. 
The policy was underwritten by IPA.  
In early December 2020, Miss F made a claim as her boiler had stopped working. An 
engineer attended who said the problem was with the fan, which had seized up. He freed it 
which appeared to resolve the problem. But he said that if it happened again, a replacement 
fan would be required. 
Miss F says the boiler failed the next day but despite calling IPA multiple times, she didnt 
get through to anyone until almost two weeks later. At that point, a new claim was opened 
and the engineer was reappointed. 
Later that day, the engineer contacted Miss F to inform her that the cost of replacing the fan 
would be around £408. And that shed have to contribute around £158 towards it. It wasnt 
clear to Miss F why shed be liable for any costs, so she declined to pay it and cancelled her 
insurance policy. 
Miss F subsequently found her own engineer to replace the fan at a cost of £612. She 
complains that:
IPA delayed the claim by failing to replace the fan at the outset;
she was unable to get hold of IPA for almost two weeks, during which time she and 
her father were left without heating and hot water;
she shouldnt have to contribute to the costs of the repair, as her policy shouldve met 
them in full;
there were delays in dealing with her complaint, and she was later told it would be 
eight weeks before shed receive a response, which she doesnt feel is acceptable.
To put things right, Miss F wants IPA to reimburse the cost of repairing her boiler as well as 
paying compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
IPA said the claim had been handled appropriately based on the engineers advice. And 
Miss F had been asked to pay a contribution towards the repair costs as the quote exceeded 
the policys claim limit of £250. It also said there was no record of Miss F calling multiple 
times within the two weeks, and the first it heard from her was the date on which the new 
claim was raised. 
Whilst IPA says its not able to take full responsibility for whats gone wrong, it acknowledges 
that there has been some miscommunication and delays in the engineer returning. So it 
offered £200 compensation by way of an apology. In addition, it offered to reinstate the 
policy and reimburse £250 towards the cost of the boiler repair, which is what the policy 
wouldve paid had it not been cancelled.
In regard to the complaint handling, IPA say Miss F raised her complaint to her bank. This 
wasnt received by IPA until early January 2021, at which time it was dealt with in 
accordance with its complaints procedure. 
Miss F wasnt happy with this outcome, so she brought her complaint to our service. But our 
investigator didnt think IPA needed to do anything more than what it had already offered to 
put things right. As Miss F didnt accept this answer, the complaint has been passed to me 
for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. I recognise the strength of feeling Miss F has for this matter, and I know this 
outcome will be disappointing to her. So Ill explain why.
Claims decision
Miss Fs policy states that in the event of a home emergency, IPA will send a qualified 
person to attend the home and carry out any necessary repairs to resolve the issue. The 
most it will pay for any single event is £250 including VAT towards the cost of the call out, 
labour and any materials. 
Miss F says that when the engineer first attended, he recommended the fan be replaced. But 
after he sprayed it down and it appeared to be working, he said a replacement wouldnt be 
needed unless it broke again. Miss F feels that the fan shouldve been replaced at the 
outset. 
I appreciate where Miss F is coming from. But at the time of the original call out, it wasnt 
known that the fan would break down again. I can see from the engineers call out notes that 
after hed freed the fan, it was working properly. As heating and hot water had been 
restored, the home emergency was resolved. So no further repairs were necessary. 
I dont think this decision was unfair. The home emergency insurance policy isnt a 
maintenance contract, its there to resolve emergencies. And Im satisfied the engineer did 
this. Miss F was advised to call back should it break again, at which time a replacement fan 
would be arranged.
When Miss F reported that the fan had failed again, IPA appointed the engineer to replace it 
in line with the advice previously provided. A quote was obtained, and Miss F was notified 
that shed have to pay a contribution. Miss F was confused and concerned about why she 
was being asked to pay any costs. But its clear from the policys terms and conditions that 
there is a claims limit of £250. 
Miss F decided to cancel her policy and pay for the repair privately. She paid far more for the 
repair than what IPAs engineer had quoted and what she wouldve had to contribute. This 
was her decision, and I cant fairly say that IPA should reimburse her costs in full when there 
was a cheaper alternative available to her under the policy. 
Customer serviceMiss F says the fan stopped working the day after the engineer first attended. And she was 
trying to get hold of IPA continuously from that date. She didnt manage to speak to IPA until 
almost two weeks later. But IPA says it has no record of her calling prior to when it raised the 
second claim. 
Ive been provided with Miss Fs itemised phone bill for December 2020. And Ive been 
through all the numbers she called from the date her first claim was raised until the date of 
the second claim. Having done so, I cant see that Miss F called IPA during the two weeks 
as she alleges. 
I can see that she made several calls to her bank, through which she has the policy. But her 
bank isnt responsible for the policy or claims made under it. And the policy document is very 
clear on how to make a claim and provides a direct claims line number. Miss F called the 
claims line on the date her second claim was logged, which indicates that once she called 
the right number, she was able to get through. 
Miss F says she did call IPA and that many of the calls were made on her fathers phone. 
But shes been unable to provide any record of this as she says shes cleared the pay as 
you go sim card. She says she also made calls from a phone box and her partners phone, 
but again there is no record of this. 
From the evidence I have available she was calling her bank  not IPA. The first record of 
Miss F calling the correct claims line number is on the date that IPA logged the second claim 
and it was actioned that day. So I cant fairly say IPA has caused any delay or provided poor 
customer service. 
Complaint handling
Miss F isnt happy with the time it took IPA to log her complaint. She says she raised it in late 
December 2020, but she didnt hear until almost a month later. 
Miss F raised her complaint to her bank  not IPA. Her bank has passed the complaint on to 
IPA, but this was done by letter. Bearing in mind that this was over the Christmas period 
when post is often delayed and IPAs offices were closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, its 
understandable why the complaint wasnt logged and acknowledged immediately. 
The policys terms set out the complaint procedure. This gives a phone number, email 
address and postal address for Miss F to raise her complaint. She decided to contact her 
bank instead. I cant fairly hold IPA liable for these delays if Miss F has decided not to follow 
the process available to her. 
Miss F is also unhappy that IPAs complaints procedure allows it eight weeks to investigate 
and respond to a complaint. As this is the amount of time IPA is allowed by its regulator  
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  I cant fairly say that it should handle its complaints 
any quicker.  
Summary
From the information provided, Im satisfied that IPA has dealt with Miss Fs claim in line with 
the policys terms and conditions. Ive seen no evidence that its caused any delays in 
dealing with the claim or complaint raised. So Im not asking it to do anything.
IPA has offered to pay Miss F compensation of £200, reinstate the policy, and contribute 
£250 towards the cost of the repair  subject to Miss F providing proof of payment. If Miss F 
wants to accept this offer, she should contact IPA directly to do so.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman