DRN-4091252
The complaint
Mr G complains Epayments Systems Ltd (Epayments) blocked his account and withheld 
the funds held in it. Mr G also complains that an appointed representative of Epayments, 
Digital Securities Exchange Limited (DSX) withheld his funds in its e-wallet.
Mr G says Epayments actions have caused him financial loss, distress and inconvenience.  
What happened
On 11 February 2020 the regulator, The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) placed 
limitations on Epayments. As a result Epayments were not able to process any transactions 
until the limitations were lifted. So, because of this Mr G couldnt access his funds. 
Unhappy with its actions Mr G complained. Epayments upheld Mr Gs complaint but 
explained that due to the FCAs actions it was withholding his funds and that it would 
continue to safeguard them.  
Mr G referred his complaint to this service. 
The original FCA restrictions were later lifted on 23 February 2022 and Epayments began 
the process of reviewing its customers accounts and refunding them. In September 2022, 
Epayments announced it was closing its business and started reviewing its customers 
accounts in line with its legal and regulatory obligations before processing any payments. 
Epayments say Mr G withdrew his funds successfully on 7 July 2022. Mr G confirmed this, 
but then explained he had substantive funds in his DSX account.  
One of our Investigators looked into Mr Gs complaint. In summary they found: 
- Epayments is responsible for Mr G not having access to his funds. Thats because its 
accounts were restricted due to weaknesses in its financial crime controls that were 
identified by the FCA 
- As Mr G was deprived of his funds, Epayments should compensate him by paying 
8% simple interest on them from when they were first blocked up until settlement 
- Epayments should pay Mr G £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
hes suffered 
- Epayments, and its partners, have charged currency conversion fees and 
commissions when refunding any balances. Its not fair for Mr G to pay any fees or 
charges for accessing his funds  so Epayments should refund such fees and 
charges if imposed against Mr G 
- DSX was an appointed representative of Epayments between 18 December 2014 
until 16 January 2020. Mr Gs problems with DSX started from June 2020. But as this 
was after DSX ceased being an appointed representative of Epayments, this isnt a 
complaint point this service can consider 
Mr G agreed with what our Investigator said about his complaint against Epayments. But he 
wasnt happy Epayments had not told him about DSX not being an appointed representative 
of it anymore. 
Epayments didnt agree it should pay Mr G 8% simple interest on the funds, in short arguing 
theres no way to know if Mr G would have put his money in another electronic money 
providers account which would bear no interest or that he wouldve earned 8% elsewhere. 
Epayments then made alternative offers to Mr G which ranged from £500 compensation to 
1% of the balance. As Mr G refused these offers, his complaint has now been passed to me 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
As a regulated business, Epayments has certain obligations which it must comply with. 
Epayments is subject to regulation by the FCA. The FCA applied restrictions on Epayments 
for reasons widely publicised and also detailed on its company website. As a result, 
Epayments suspended its operations. This significantly impacted Mr G, given he had no 
access to his funds from February 2020 up until they were released to him in 2022. 
Whilst the FCA requested Epayments to suspend its activities there was nothing it could 
have done in relation to returning Mr Gs funds. But when it could, the funds were returned to 
Mr G. Epayments say it shouldnt be held liable for any detriment to Mr G whilst the FCAs 
limitations were imposed. 
After carefully considering this, Im not persuaded its fair or reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint to find Epayments didnt do anything wrong. I say that because Epayments 
had to suspend its operations due to failures on its part. So I think Epayments should put 
things right by addressing the fact Mr G was deprived of his funds through no fault of his 
own. 
As a regulated business, Epayments must comply with extensive legal and regulatory 
obligations. These generally cover the entire period of its customer relationship  from 
application to eventually the end of the relationship. This includes Know Your Customer 
(KYC) checks. So any refund of funds in the account would, or should have been, subject to 
these checks.   
Epayments argue that there isnt any way of knowing how Mr G would have used his funds 
should he have had access to them. Awarding 8% simple interest when a consumer has 
wrongly been deprived of their funds is in line with the approach at this service. I havent 
seen compelling enough reasons why Mr G shouldnt be awarded compensation in this way, 
so Im satisfied this is fair redress. 
Im also satisfied that £150 compensation is fair award for the distress and inconvenience 
Mr G suffered. Mr Gs explained the matter has affected his mental and physical health given 
he couldnt use the money for his family. 
Mr G says that Epayments have charged him conversion fees when releasing the funds to 
him. I dont think its fair or reasonable for Epayments to apply conversion or commission 
fees here for Mr G to access his funds. So if Epayments has applied such charges it should refund them to Mr G. 
Epayments say this service should refrain from making any significant award that interferes 
with its ability to wind down in an orderly manner. 
Its not my intention to interfere with Epayments winding down of its business  and thats 
not the role of our service. My role here is ultimately to decide what a fair way to resolve 
individual complaints between businesses and their customers, based on the individual facts 
of the complaint. Based on the facts of Mr Gs case, Im satisfied it is fair for Epayments to 
redress him as detailed above.
Lastly, Mr G has complained about GSX, as an appointed representative of Epayments, for 
withholding access to funds he held in its account. To be clear, these funds were held in a 
separate GSX operated account and are distinct to the Epayments one above. 
I note from the FCAs website that GSX ceased being an appointed representative of 
Epayments in January 2020. As Mr G is complaining about actions GSX took after this date, 
its not something this service can consider.  
Putting things right
To put things right, Epayments must now: 
- Pay 8% simple interest on Mr Gs funds from when it first restricted his access up 
until settlement*
- Refund any fees or charges it applied to Mr Gs funds when releasing them to him as 
explained above
- Pay Mr G £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused him**
* If Epayments considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr G how much its taken off. It should also give Mr G a tax deduction certificate 
if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
**Epayments must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr G accepts 
my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the compensation from the 
deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Epayments Systems Ltd must now put things 
right as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023. 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman