DRN-4295349
The complaint
Mr K complains Skrill Limited arent allowing him to access his funds. He wants those funds 
returned to him.
What happened
Mr K held an account with Skrill. In late 2020 Skrill decided to terminate its customer 
relationship with him and asked for various documents in order to release the funds it holds. 
Mr K submitted documents, but Skrill wasnt satisfied with the veracity of the bank 
statements he provided on several occasions. As a result, they continue to refuse to release 
the funds to him.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. They said Skrill acted in compliance with 
their legal and regulatory obligations. Skrill asked for certain documents and werent satisfied 
with the bank statements he provided. As a result, Skrill didnt need to release the funds to 
Mr K.
Mr K asked for a final decision from an ombudsman, so his complaint was given to me. He 
said all the documents he provided are genuine and provided copies of what he says he sent 
to Skrill.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint. I understand this will be disappointing for him to 
hear. So, Ill explain why.
Skrill has very important legal and regulatory obligations it must meet. These apply 
continuously and include when they open accounts, when accounts are running and when 
they close. Part of those requirements mean they may elect to verify a customers identity 
and other information in order to release funds they hold. 
Skrill explained that the documents Mr K sent were reviewed by qualified persons who 
concluded the bank statements didnt meet their requirements. I see Skrill werent satisfied 
with what he presented on more than one occasion.
I havent seen persuasive evidence which would lead me to conclude Skrill made an error 
when reviewing the documents Mr K presented. And, its important to say our service cannot 
verify the authenticity of Mr Ks documents  we do not have that facility. I acknowledge its 
possible the statements are valid but having carefully considered Skrill reasons for not being 
satisfied, I find what theyve said reasonable. As a result, I dont require Skrill to reconsider 
their position and to release the funds.
Mr K has asked our service to help him get the funds back. But my role is not to act for either 
party, but to instead reach a final decision on Mr Ks complaint. My final decision marks the 
end of our services involvement on his  complaint. Mr K is free not to accept my decision, 
and to pursue this matter elsewhere if he wishes.
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint for the reasons I have given above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman