DRN-2739170
The complaint
Mrs B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold her a level term
assurance policy as it wasnt suitable for her.
What happened
In 2009, Mrs B started a level term assurance plan on the recommendation of NatWest. The
plan provided cover of £174,784 over a term of 16 years, in the event Mrs B passed away.
In 2019, Mrs B complained that the plan had been mis-sold to her. She said the policy
exclusions hadnt been explained to her; and so she was unable to make an informed
decision about whether it was right for her. She said she had employee benefits that would
have paid out a lump sum if she had died. She said she didnt have a mortgage and
questioned why she needed the cover. She asked for a refund of the premiums shed paid
with interest.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She 
said NatWests recommendation was made to provide Mrs B with means to protect her 
familys standard of living should she have died, and this was to be in place until her 
youngest child was financially independent. The investigator said the term assurance would 
ensure that the financial burden would be eased on the family if one party died. 
She said the records from the time the policy was sold noted that Mrs B had death-in-service 
benefits with her employer but that this wasnt enough cover to provide what she wanted. 
The investigator said she wasnt persuaded that it was inappropriate for NatWest to 
recommend this plan to Mrs B and she was satisfied that there was a discussion about her 
circumstances, needs and requirements. 
Mrs B didnt accept the investigators findings. She said she hadnt gone to NatWest for a 
meeting about life insurance; it was a sales practice and she didnt need the policy as she 
had sufficient cover with her salary and death-in-service benefits. She said the policy wasnt 
made clear to her and she didnt understand what benefits it was going to give her. She said 
it has proved to be of no benefit. She asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done this, I find Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator for much 
the same reason.
The documentation completed at the time records that Mrs B wanted to look at life cover for 
family protection. She had two dependent children and, although she did have some death-
in-service benefits from her employer, she had no separate form of life cover.
The advisers recommendations letter that was sent to Mrs B sets out the reasons for them. 
This said Mrs B was aware that the death-in-service benefits that she had wouldnt be 
enough to meet her needs. And it further noted that Mrs B and her husband were looking for 
a plan that could generate an income for their family of £20,000 a year to be able to maintain 
their standard of living. It said this was to be in place for 16 years to take their youngest child 
to an age that they believed they would be financially independent. It records that Mrs B 
wanted to take the benefits she would receive from her employer into account within the 
recommendations.
So although Mrs B may not have had a mortgage at the time of the advice; the records from 
the time show that her plan was taken out to provide a means of protecting her familys 
standard of living in the event of her death. And I think this advice included the benefits 
Mrs B already had with her employer, as shed asked. 
In relation to the sum assured of Mrs Bs plan, the recommendations letter said:
The above level of sum assured has been recommended because this takes into
account immediate capital expenditure that would arise from your death (e.g. funeral
costs and the first years income for the family) along with the appropriate amount to
generate the specified £20,000 p.a for your family until your youngest child is
financially independent.
I do appreciate that Mrs B recalls that she hadnt gone to NatWests branch with the intention 
of having a meeting about life cover and that she feels the policy should have been 
explained so it was clear what she was agreeing to. However, I understand that the key 
features document for the plan would have been provided to Mrs B at her meeting with the 
adviser, and this is referred to in the recommendations letter sent afterwards.
 
Ive also looked at the illustrations of costs which set out the monthly premium and gave the 
details of the level term assurance plan being quoted along with a warning that it would have 
no cash-in value at any time. This said that the illustration should be read together with the 
other literature provided.
The information about the plan was also set out in the policy schedule which gave the term 
of the policy; and the level of benefit payable on death or if a claim for terminal illness benefit 
was accepted.
 
I also acknowledge that Mrs B feels that the policy hasnt proved to be of any benefit for her. 
However, this policy would have paid out a lump sum in the event that she passed away 
while it was in place.
 
Taking everything into account, I think the recorded information suggests that a discussion 
was had about Mrs Bs particular circumstances; and NatWests recommendation took these 
into account and met what Mrs B was looking for from the advice. I think that the 
documentation about the term assurance plan explained the cover it provided. It was 
affordable from Mrs Bs stated monthly budget and was a suitable means of providing the 
protection she wanted for her family. I dont think this policy was mis-sold to Mrs B.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman