DRN-3558194
The complaint
Mr K complains, on behalf of  Miss B, of problems trying to cash in a bond with National 
Savings and Investments (NS&I). He would like prompt payment of the bond and 
compensation for the time and inconvenient of dealing with this.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:
I appreciate the frustration Mr K had in  trying to cash in Miss Bs bond for her.  NS&I 
has evidenced that a search for the account details given to pay the funds into  
showed the account holder as deceased so NS&I couldnt make payment into that 
account. Its unfortunate that this led to a delay, but NS&I does have a responsibility 
to ensure funds go to the right place. So, I cant say it was at fault in verifying the 
account details given.
In the time it took to resolve payment the bond matured and rolled over into another 
bond as per the terms and conditions of the account. I appreciate that isnt what was 
wanted. NS&I has explained that this process is automatic on maturity if the funds 
havent been transferred out. Again, I appreciate the frustration but this an automatic 
process over which it seems NS&I cant override.
I appreciate Mr K wanted the funds paid as a cheque. He has told us NS&I told him 
this wasnt possible. I have seen NS&Is customer contact notes for the phone  call 
with  call Mr K. These show  Mr k said he would consider a cheque; the call handler 
didnt say this wasnt possible but didnt elaborate on this. I dont think this was 
particularly satisfactory. But  in its final response letter sent 5 days later NS&I gave 
the  option of  a warrant. I think this was  a reasonable alternative to a cheque. I 
understand the funds have now been withdrawn . And, NS&I has told us the bond 
continued to receive interest, so Miss B hasnt lost out financially 
Mr K has asked for compensation for the time and stress of dealing with this issue. It 
can be time consuming for both parties when issues arise but that doesnt always 
mean compensation is appropriate. I dont believe it is appropriate here for two 
reasons. Firstly, whilst I think NS&I could have addressed the warrant issue in the 
phone call I dont think that unduly delayed the payment. But secondly this complaint 
is  Miss Bs , and she hasnt lost out because of NS&Is actions. Its Mr K who has 
had the inconvenience of dealing with this, but we dont make compensation awards 
to representative.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman