DRN-3637445
The complaint
Mr S complains Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) have miscalculated the interest 
charged to his credit card account.  
What happened
Mr S says he felt the amount of interest he was charged on his Nationwide credit card 
account for January and February 2022 was incorrect and by his own calculations he had 
been charged about three times more than he should have. Mr S says Nationwide were 
unable to explain to him why his calculations were incorrect, nor how it had come to its own 
interest calculations when he questioned them. 
Mr S says while the amount involved isnt substantial it may affect other customers with 
Nationwide and he cant trust any future interest charges to his credit card account, until the 
calculations are fully explained to him. 
Nationwide says the explanation of how interest is calculated and charged is detailed in its 
terms and conditions. Nationwide says it cant provide a breakdown of the interest charged 
to Mr Ss credit card account due to the variable factors of calculating interest, as this is 
done automatically by its systems. Nationwide didnt feel it had made an error. 
Mr S wasnt happy with Nationwides response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt the terms and conditions of Mr Ss credit card account explained how 
interest was calculated and charged and based on this information he had calculated the 
interest charged to be correct. 
The investigator felt Nationwide hadnt made an error. 
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would be frustrating for Mr S to have come to a different calculation for 
the interest charged to his credit card account and not to have received an in-depth 
explanation why that was from Nationwide. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Nationwide adequately explained to Mr S 
how the interest was charged to his credit card account in January and February 2022. 
The first thing to say is Mr S feels Nationwide must provide him with a detailed breakdown of 
how its computer systems calculated the interest charged to his credit card account and that 
it must inform him why his own calculations are incorrect. While I can understand Mr S feels 
strongly about this point, although he may not agree, there is no obligation for Nationwide to 
do this. 
That said, what I would expect is for Nationwide to provide a reasonable explanation of how 
interest is calculated and applied to its customers credit card accounts more widely, and 
from the information I have seen it has done that. I say this because Nationwide did provide 
Mr S with the terms and conditions relating to his credit card account which he agreed to. 
Under those terms and conditions, under section C (i) (ii) & (iii) it provides an explanation of 
how interest is calculated on its customers credit card accounts, taking into consideration 
variable factors such as whether the previous monthly balance is repaid in full, any cash 
advances, any promotional interest rates and the timing of transactions. 
In addition to this Nationwide provide a monthly statement to Mr S which also details the 
interest rates applicable, interest free periods and general guidelines on how interest 
charges are applied. 
Nationwide also directed Mr S to its website https://www.nationwide.co.uk/credit-
cards/help/interest-rates/ and this gives further guidance on the application of interest for 
customers individual accounts.
While I understand Mr S doesnt accept this as detailed enough information for his purposes, 
its not for me to tell Nationwide it must provide him with any further complex interest 
calculations. My role here is to decide whats fair and reasonable in the individual 
circumstances of a complaint and, having done so here, Im satisfied that Nationwide has 
provided a fair response to Mr Ss request and complaint in providing the information it has. 
That clearly doesnt go as far as Mr S wants or line up with his own interpretation of the 
calculations here. But, viewed impartially  I cant say that Nationwide need do any more 
here. 
While the investigator looking at this case tried to provide his own calculations to help Mr S, 
its worth saying this service isnt qualified to provide a professional assessment of interest 
calculations, thats something for a qualified investigative / forensic accountancy professional 
to consider and that remains an option for Mr S to explore if he so wishes. 
So, taking this all into account, I am satisfied Nationwide have provided Mr S with a 
reasonable explanation of how it calculated the interest charged to his credit card account. 
While Mr S will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Nationwide 
here.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Barry WhiteOmbudsman