DRN-1649621
The complaint
In 2019, Mr G complained to Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) that it had mis-sold him a packaged 
bank account called a Silver account. Lloyds accepted his that it had mis-sold the account 
and paid Mr G some compensation. However, Mr G does not think the compensation was 
sufficient and wants Lloyds to pay him a further amount.
What happened
Mr G has banked with Lloyds for quite a long time. Lloyds has sent us information from its 
records, which it says shows that it sold him the Silver account in December 2011 and that 
he kept it until Lloyds replied to his complaint in late 2019, when it says it switched him to a 
fee-free account. I think Lloyds records about this are probably reliable and I have taken 
them to be accurate.
Lloyds charged Mr G a monthly fee for the Silver account and provided several potential 
benefits in return. Lloyds has said that when it worked out how much compensation to pay 
Mr G, it refunded these monthly fees to him and added 8% simple interest from the date Mr 
G paid the fee until the date it made the refund. It has also said that it refunded some 
additional overdraft fees and charges it applied which were a direct result of the monthly 
fees for the Silver account. 
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr Gs complaint and thought that the 
compensation Lloyds had paid him was fair. Mr G disagreed with the adjudicators findings 
and asked for an ombudsman to review his case, so it has come to me to make a final 
decision.
(For some of the time Mr G held the packaged account, he also had an extra package of 
benefits  for which there was no charge  and Lloyds called the account with the extra 
package a Silver Vantage account. However, for simplicity, I have used the single term 
Silver throughout this decision).  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about Mr Gs complaint. Ive
looked into everything that Mr G and Lloyds have told us or sent us about the case and
Ive decided not to uphold it. Ive explained why below.
In this case, there is no dispute that Lloyds mis-sold the Silver account to Mr G. The only 
disagreement is whether Lloyds paid Mr G fair compensation. 
When we uphold a complaint that a bank mis-sold a packaged account to a consumer, we 
expect the bank to return the consumer to the financial position s/he would have been in if 
the bank had not sold the account to him or her. This usually means that we tell the bank to 
repay the monthly fees and add simple interest to each fee from the date the consumer paid 
the fee until the bank makes the refund. For cases where the sale took place after April 
1993, we set the interest rate at 8% per year. (HMRC usually requires the bank to take 
income tax off this interest). 
If a particular consumer incurred extra charges which stemmed directly from the monthly 
packaged account fees, then we would also expect the bank to return these fees and add 
interest in a similar way. Conversely, some packaged banks accounts (including Lloyds 
Silver account) offered banking benefits, such as better interest rates on overdrafts or 
savings or credit balances, than were available to customers with fee-free accounts; and if a 
consumer gained from these benefits, then we usually allow the bank to deduct the gains 
from the compensation. 
The calculation which Lloyds has described to us seems to be in line with our approach. I 
have also seen an outline of its working out, which it has also sent to Mr G, and it seems to 
have done things correctly.
In some of the early correspondence with us about this complaint, Mr G mentioned that he 
only ended up with £200 compensation. This is much less than the figure Lloyds worked 
out in its calculation. I dont know how Mr G arrived at the figure of £200. He may be 
referring to a separate payment Lloyds made for goodwill or any distress or inconvenience it 
caused (although Lloyds has not mentioned any such payment to us), or he may be referring 
to the final amount he received after he had paid fees to solicitors and a claims management 
company, both of which he has mentioned; or he may be referring to something else. 
However, as Im satisfied that Lloyds worked out the compensation fairly and has already 
paid it to Mr G, I do not think it needs to pay any more. 
In more recent correspondence with us, Mr G has said that Lloyds continued to charge him 
monthly fees after it said they would cease. We werent able to check this at the time and 
suggested that Mr G could contact Lloyds directly. We havent heard anything further, and I 
dont know what happened. So, I havent considered this point within this decision. This 
means that Mr G is free to pursue it further with Lloyds if he so wishes. But I cant give him 
any advice about this or speculate on what Lloyds may say. Nor do I know if any case Mr G 
may wish to bring to us about this would fall inside or outside the time limits and other rules 
which determine which complaints we can investigate. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr Gs complaint that Lloyds Bank 
PLC should pay a further amount for mis-selling him the Silver account. I am not going to tell 
it to give him any more money back.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2021.  
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman