DRN-3350239
The complaint
Mrs E, through her representative, has complained that she was wrongly advised to contract
out of the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS) by Century Life, now part of
Phoenix Life Limited.
What happened
Ive considered Mrs Es complaint before. I issued a provisional decision on 17 February 
2022. I set out the background to the complaint and what Id provisionally decided and why. 
For the reasons I set out I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Ive repeated here the 
background and my provisional findings. 
Mrs E contracted out of SERPS from April 1993 via an Appropriate Personal Pension (APP)
with Century Life. The application form she completed with Century Lifes representative on
4 April 1993 recorded that she was aged 37, employed (part time) earning £3,159 pa and not
a member of an employers pension scheme. I understand that Mrs E took benefits in 2012 
she received tax free cash of £928.86 and an annuity of £6.73 pm.
Through her representative, Mrs E complained to Phoenix Life in November 2019 that she
shouldnt have been advised to contract out of SERPS. The main complaint points were:
Mrs E had little experience or knowledge of investments. She was advised shed be
better off in retirement by contracting out of SERPS and she accepted the advice as
being in her best interests.
She now receives just £6.73 gross pm from her Phoenix Life annuity. As the amount
doesnt increase, its purchasing power is reduced each year by inflation.
The relevant Personal Investment Authority (PIA) rule at the time was F29.5, which
was set out.
The adviser had a common law duty to act with reasonable skill and care. That
implied a requirement not to expose a client to unnecessary risks, costs, complexity
or taxation. The law also required disclosure by professionals of risks and
alternatives to allow informed consent. That was confirmed in the 2015 Supreme
Court case of Montgomery v Lanarkshire Health Board.
A client shouldnt be exposed to unnecessary fund costs. And should be made fully
aware of low cost funds and warned of the risks of choosing higher cost alternatives.
A higher cost actively managed fund is unlikely to deliver sufficient over performance
to make up for the costs. The client should be informed of all the costs theyll be
paying. Mrs E had been exposed to substantial unnecessary fund costs.
She hadnt been properly informed as to the inherent risks in the product
recommended. She shouldnt have been exposed to the risk of a significantly lower
retirement income as a result of contracting out of SERPS. Had she been warned of
the risk, she wouldnt have accepted the advice to contract out. She shouldnt have
been advised to give up valuable guaranteed income in favour of a pension linked to
the stock market. And she shouldnt have been exposed to the risks involved in
giving up inflation protected benefits.
Phoenix Life issued its final response letter on 30 December 2019. It didnt agree the
personal pension had been mis sold. It said once the policy had been set up, Mrs E wouldve
received a Your Right To Change Your Mind document. It enclosed a copy of the product
particulars. Amongst other things, it confirmed the risks and charges associated with that
type of unit linked policy. When the policy was sold, Mrs E wouldve been given illustrations
showing the possible pension she could receive at retirement and taking into account her
actual earnings. Mrs E was 37 when the policy commenced. At the time, contracting out was
considered more beneficial for females aged under 50.
Mrs Es representative referred the complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it
but she didnt uphold it. In summary she said.
Mrs Es age at the time of the advice  she was going to be 37 on her next birthday 
was important. The level of fund growth that might be achieved was affected by the
length of time until she retired. The longer she was invested, the better the chance
shed be better off by contracting out of SERPS.
Providers set their own pivotal ages  the maximum age below which someone could
expect to benefit from contracting out of SERPS. The pivotal age (set by Century Life
at the time) wasnt clear, but with some 23 or 24 years until Mrs E was due to retire,
there was a reasonable amount of time for the fund to grow and so more chance that
the personal pension would perform better than SERPS.
Some providers also set a minimum earnings level. If someone earned above that,
they could expect to benefit from contracting out. Mrs E was earning more than the
lower earnings limit when she contracted out. She wasnt eligible to join her
employers pension scheme. A personal pension was the only way she couldve
contracted out.
On the application form Mrs E indicated that her attitude to investment risk was
balanced. Century Life had written to Mrs E on 26 April 1993 informing her of her
right to cancel. Amongst other things, the letter said Mrs E was invested in the
providers managed fund which aims to provide capital growth with a lower risk
through a wide portfolio. The fund choice wasnt unreasonable.
Mrs Es representative didnt agree and said the key issue was that Mrs E wasnt warned of
the risk that the advice could lead to a substantially lower retirement income. If she had
been, she wouldnt have been willing to take that risk. Her age was, at best, a secondary
consideration. It wasnt the case that everyone under a certain age is willing to take a certain
risk. The representative requested an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive first set out some background to contracting-out of SERPS. Until 1988, individuals could
only contract-out of SERPS if they were members of a defined benefit (final salary)
occupational pension scheme. In 1988, the government extended this to defined
contribution (money purchase) occupational schemes and personal pensions. If an individual
contracted out of SERPS using an appropriate personal pension, instead of a proportion of
their National Insurance contributions being used to top up their SERPS entitlement, they
received rebates that were invested in a fund with their pension provider. It was hoped the 
fund would outperform the SERPS mechanism for growth, based on the National Earnings
Index.
The government also wanted to give individuals more choice about how their pension wasprovided and to shift pension provision from the state to the private sector. The level of
rebate to be applied had to be decided. If the rebates were set too low then the SERPS
pension given up would likely be worth more than the investment in the personal pension. If
set too high, the government would be paying more than it needed to offset the cost of its
SERPS liabilities.
The level of rebate for contracted out individuals was set by the government after taking
advice from the Government Actuarys Department (GAD). The government set rates at a
level so as to encourage contracting-out. The rebate % level was set as standard for all.
That meant it was less beneficial for older people to contract-out, as they had less time
before retirement to benefit from investment growth on their rebates. So, for older people,
the comparative benefit given up in SERPS would likely outweigh that received by
contracting-out.
The government didnt give advice as to who should be advised to remain in SERPS and for
whom it was expected that contracting-out would be beneficial. But it was clear that age was
the key factor. Pension providers actuaries carried out comparisons of the projected benefits
from SERPS (based on the National Earnings Index) against their alternative personal
pension arrangement (based on LAUTRO set assumptions of likely future investment
returns) to decide who would likely benefit.
The ages where the providers advice as to whether to contract-out or not changed, were
called pivotal ages. There was also a lower earnings limit which was used to determine
whether an applicants earnings would be enough to benefit from contracting-out. LAUTRO
didnt determine the pivotal ages. Product providers established their own pivotal ages
based on their own product terms and charges. Some providers also set minimum earnings
levels.
LAUTRO also had specific requirements in connection with contracting-out of SERPS. It
required its members to present illustrations for customers considering contracting-out in a
specified way. Firms were required to use a premium for illustration purposes of the
minimum rebate payable for that year. And the projections were set at two specified rates 
what LAUTRO termed real rates of return (taking into account the effects of inflation). The
rates of return were set as 0.5% and 2.5% above the National Average Earnings Index. The
projections were to include charges. If real rates of return werent used, the corresponding
nominal rate of return could be used of 8.5% and 13% inclusive of charges.
LAUTRO also required the annuity illustrated to be on a comparable basis to that the
SERPS pension paid. So the annuity bases had to take into account indexation and would
increase at 3% per annum to mirror the inflation protection offered by SERPS. The annuity
projected would also include a 50% spouses pension, again in line with SERPS.
Turning now to Mrs Es complaint, Im required under DISP (Dispute Resolution) 3.6.4R, in
considering whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, to take into
account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of
practice; and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. Im
considering the complaint on the basis of what the circumstances, including the advisers
obligations, were at the time.
Mrs E was advised to contract-out in 1993. Mrs Es representative has referred to the PIA
rules. But the PIA wasnt set up until 1994 so, at the time, the regulatory body was LAUTRO
(Life Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation). Century Life was a member of
LAUTRO at the time and bound by LAUTROs rules and its code of conduct.
While I agree that the adviser also had responsibilities under common law (including notmaking negligent mis statements; to disclose all material information; and to advise with
reasonable skill and care), the LAUTRO code encompassed the common law duties and
imposed higher requirements. So, in the main, Ive concentrated on the code.
The overriding principle was that company representatives were required to exercise due
skill, care and diligence and deal fairly with investors. The code also required best advice to
be given. That included giving the investor all relevant information and using best
endeavours to enable the investor to understand the nature of any risks involved. Company
representatives, in advising an investor as to the suitability for that investor of any
investment contract, had to have regard, in particular, to the investors financial position
generally, to any rights he may have under an occupational pension scheme or SERPS and
to use best endeavours to ensure that only those contracts which were suited to that investor
were recommended.
I dont disagree with what the investigator has said about the main considerations, in
advising someone whether to contract out of SERPS, were age and earnings. Mrs E met
both criteria at the time. She was under the pivotal age and her earnings were above the
lower earnings limit  I think that was £2,912 for the £1993/1994 tax year. The application
form also records that she wasnt a member of an employers pension scheme. So she met
the criteria set at the time by Century Life  and I dont think Century Lifes approach was out
of line with the industry generally. It seemed that shed likely be better off by contracting-out
of SERPS. On the face of it, the advice wasnt unsuitable.
But Id agree that whether Mrs E was prepared to take any risk is also relevant too.
Contracting out exposed the consumer to the risk of poor investment growth and poor
annuity rates. Someone didnt want to take any risks might have been better remaining in
SERPS to keep what were essentially guaranteed benefits.
Given that the advice was given getting on for thirty years ago (and before there was any
requirement to issue a suitability letter) I dont think its going to be possible to say now
exactly what was discussed and what, if anything, the adviser said about the risks. In that
sort of situation, where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I reach my decision on
the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have
happened in light of all the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ive looked at the documentation Mrs E was given. Theres an illustration which says it
should be read in conjunction with the APP scheme leaflet. The illustration says it provides
an indication of the possible benefits that might be paid, so what Mrs E might get from
the personal pension isnt guaranteed. The illustration says that its been prepared on the
basis set down by LAUTRO, which Ive referred to above, and which is aimed at enabling a
comparison between the personal pension with the SERPS benefit given up. It goes on to
say that the higher and lower illustrated figures dont represent the upper and lower limits
of the possible amount of the benefits and the actual comparison with the SERPS benefit
given up will be affected by the factors set out.
The leaflet said that, depending on investment performance, the total rebate should
provide a pension considerably greater than SERPS for younger people but may be
insufficient to match the SERPS pension for older people. It added that the benefits
provided by SERPS were guaranteed.
All in all, I think Mrs E wouldve known there was no guarantee shed be better off and there
was a risk she could be worse off. And I dont think its the case that its just been assumed
that, because of her age, shed have been willing to take a risk. As the investigator noted,
Mrs E indicated, on the application form for the APP, that her attitude to investment risk was
balanced (out of a choice of speculative, balanced or cautious). I dont see any reason to saythat wasnt an accurate reflection of her position at the time. So I dont think the advice was
unsuitable because Mrs E didnt want to take any risk and wasnt warned she might end up
getting less from the APP than SERPS wouldve provided.
Costs and the fund choice have also been mentioned. I think the Managed Fund was
suitable for a balanced investor such as Mrs E. The Your Right to Change Your Mind notice
that she was sent on 26 April 1993 said that Fund aims to provide capital growth with a
lower risk through a wide portfolio spread by investing in the shares of UK and overseas
quoted companies, unit trusts, fixed interest securities and cash at the discretion of the
Managers. It added that, to achieve the spread, the Fund usually invested in other Century
Life funds. Direct investment was also permitted. I think the Managed Fund was sufficiently
diverse. The notice also set out the charges and their effect.
From what Ive seen there was no breach of the LAUTRO code or the advisers common law
duties. I dont think the court case that Mrs Ls representative has mentioned is relevant. As
Ive said, Im considering what happened in 1993 against the prevailing circumstances,
including the then legal and regulatory position. Im not sure that a case decided much later,
in 2015, is relevant.
For the reasons I gave I didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mrs E didnt accept my provisional decision. Her representative said my reasoning was 
flawed and not fair or reasonable. Just because a certain type of wrongdoing was 
commonplace didnt make it acceptable. Risk capacity and informed consent are far more 
important considerations when making investment decisions than age and income. The case 
of Montgomery v Lanarkshire Health Board  a precedent setting decision  was relevant 
and applied not only to wrongdoing after that case was decided but also to wrongdoing 
before.          
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive set out in full my provisional findings and they form part of this decision. 
Ive also thought about the points made by Mrs Es representative in response to my 
provisional decision. 
I accept theres a difference between common industry practice and good industry practice.  
But Ive explained why, at the time, it wasnt unreasonable to think Mrs E would likely be 
better off by contracting out of SERPS and so the advice to do that wasnt unsuitable. 
I also dont disagree about the importance of capacity for risk and informed consent. But age 
and earnings will usually feature in looking at if someone has capacity for loss and if the 
investment horizon is such that theres time for any losses to be recovered before theres a 
need to access the fund. 
In Mrs Es case, I didnt just take into account her age and earnings in looking at if shed 
have been prepared to take any degree of risk. Shed indicated on her application form for 
the APP that her attitude to investment risk was balanced. I didnt think there was anything to 
suggest that didnt accurately reflect her position at the time. I dont think her circumstances 
were such that she shouldve been advised against taking any risk. As to informed consent, my view remains that Mrs E knew there was no guarantee shed be 
better off by contracting out of SERPS. I cant say she didnt understand there was a risk and 
so didnt give informed consent. 
Im not judging the advice with the benefit of hindsight. I maintain a case decided many 
years after the event (2015) isnt directly relevant in looking at if an adviser met their 
obligations at the time the advice was given (1993). I considered that and I concluded there 
was no breach of the LAUTRO code or the advisers common law duties. That remains my 
view. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and Im not making any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman