DRN-3278186
The complaint
Mrs A complains about BUPA Insurance Limiteds handling of her private medical 
insurance claim.
What happened
In July 2020, Mrs A found a lump in her breast. She contacted BUPA and explained she 
was being fast-tracked through the NHS, but wanted to know if BUPA could arrange for 
her to be seen sooner. BUPA confirmed it would email Mrs A some nearby consultants.
BUPA then sent Mrs A details of three consultants, all of whom worked out of private 
hospitals around 17 miles drive from her home. Mrs A didnt want to go to any of those 
hospitals, because she says they were in Covid-19 hotspots. She says she instead 
wanted to go to her closest private hospital (Ill call this Hospital Z), which was around 
11 miles drive from her home. Mrs A therefore continued with her investigations under 
the NHS.
BUPA later accepted that it shouldve directed Mrs A to Hospital Z. BUPA apologised 
for this, and paid Mrs A £250 compensation.
Unhappy with BUPAs handling of the matter, Mrs A brought a complaint to this service.
I issued a provisional decision on 10 January 2022. Heres what I said:
Ive listened to the initial call that took place between Mrs A and BUPA on 2 July 2020.
Mrs A explained that she was being fast-tracked on the NHS for investigations after 
discovering a lump in her breast. She wanted to know if she could be seen sooner privately. 
BUPA explained that it could cover a consultation, but couldnt guarantee that this would be 
quicker than the NHS fast-track, given the Covid-19 pandemic. Nevertheless, BUPA 
authorised a consultation. Mrs A didnt ask if she could be seen at Hospital Z.
BUPA then sent Mrs A details of three consultants, all of whom worked out of hospitals 
around five or six miles further away than Hospital Z. Mrs A chose to have her 
consultation under the NHS.
Its not in dispute that BUPA ought to have told Mrs A that she couldve seen a consultant 
working out of Hospital Z. BUPA says it didnt do so because Hospital Z wasnt accepting 
new patients for non-urgent treatment at the time. However, BUPA now accepts that Mrs 
As symptom would be considered urgent, and therefore its likely she couldve been seen 
at Hospital Z.
Though given that Mrs A was already being fast-tracked for investigations under the 
NHS when she called BUPA in July 2020, we dont know for certain that Mrs A 
wouldve been seen sooner even if she had been given the option of seeing a 
consultant at Hospital Z.
BUPA has paid Mrs A £250 compensation for failing to let her know she couldve been 
seen at Hospital Z. I think that was reasonable. Whilst it was Mrs As decision not to see 
the consultants put forward by BUPA, Im satisfied that she was still given the option to 
have private treatment within a reasonable distance from her home if shed wanted.
Mrs A then needed surgery. Whilst awaiting the surgery under the NHS, Mrs A found out 
that she could be seen in Hospital Z. She contacted BUPA and BUPA accepted that Mrs A 
couldve seen someone at Hospital Z. BUPA therefore arranged for her to see a 
consultant at Hospital Z to find out if she could have the treatment there sooner. I think 
that was appropriate. Though in the end, Mrs As surgery could take place sooner on the 
NHS, so she decided not to have this done privately. Again, that was Mrs As choice.
Taking into account all the circumstances, I dont intend to require BUPA to do 
anything further here, as Im satisfied the compensation it has paid was fair.
I asked both parties for any further comments they wished to make before I reached 
my final decision. 
BUPA didnt make any further comments.
Mrs A responded with the following main points:
She doesnt accept my provisional decision.
She says she requested in July 2020 to go to Hospital Z, and told BUPA there were 
breast consultants working there.
The other private hospitals she was offered by BUPA would have involved her 
needing to travel there on her own.
Shes unhappy that I didnt include all of the information that she considers relevant 
to her case in my provisional decision.
When she saw the consultant in Hospital Z on 25 September 2020, she was told the 
operation could be done on 27 October 2020. She thinks that if she had seen him in 
July 2020, the operation couldve been arranged for mid-August 2020 at the latest.
She thinks the £250 compensation offered by BUPA is an insult, and that BUPA has 
saved thousands by denying her access to treatment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Mrs A is unhappy that I havent included all the information about her case in my decision. Id 
like to reassure that Ive considered all the information, but Ive only provided a summary of 
what happened within my decision. Ive also only summarised her response to my 
provisional decision (though Ive carefully considered all the points she has made). This 
reflects the fact that our service, wherever possible, aims to be informal.
Im aware that two weeks after the initial call took place on 2 July 2020, Mrs A wrote to 
BUPA with several concerns, and made it clear that she was unhappy with the consultants 
theyd suggested. Though she again didnt specifically request to see someone at 
Hospital Z.
In August 2020, Mrs A told BUPA of breast consultants working out of Hospital Z. BUPA 
then accepted she couldve seen a consultant in Hospital Z. However, by this time, Mrs A 
had already been seen on the NHS for her initial investigations. So I remain of the view that 
BUPAs error in not making her aware she could be seen in Hospital Z initially didnt delay 
her investigations. Its also still the case that BUPA did give Mrs A the option to see a private 
consultant for her initial investigations, even though this wasnt at Hospital Z. Though BUPA 
did say it couldnt guarantee that shed be seen quicker than on the NHS given the impact of 
the Covid-19 pandemic at the time.
Mrs A says she learnt at the end of August 2020 that she needed an operation. This was 
arranged under the NHS for 16 September 2020. Although BUPA had accepted by this point 
that she could be seen at Hospital Z, Mrs A decided to go ahead with the operation through 
the NHS. That was Mrs As decision  she couldve asked BUPA to cover the treatment 
privately if shed wanted. Though I can appreciate that she chose not to do so because she 
thought the operation would soon take place under the NHS.
Unfortunately, Mrs As treatment on the NHS was delayed. BUPA therefore agreed for her to 
see a consultant in Hospital Z (the following day) in order to see if she could have the 
treatment there sooner. I remain satisfied that this was appropriate. 
Im afraid I dont agree with Mrs A that BUPA has denied her access to private treatment. 
Mrs A has explained her reasons for not wanting to go to the private hospitals initially put 
forward by BUPA. That of course was up to her, but I remain satisfied that those hospitals 
were within a reasonable distance of her home.
Overall, I remain satisfied that BUPAs offer of £250 was appropriate compensation for its 
failure to put forward a consultant working out of Hospital Z when Mrs A initially contacted it.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint as BUPA Insurance Limited has paid 
reasonable compensation for its error.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman