DRN-4237225
The complaint
Ms H complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (hereafter Legal and 
General) unfairly ceased her income protection claim. 
What happened
Both parties are familiar with the background of this complaint, so Ill only summarise what 
happened in brief.
Ms H has access to a group income protection policy through her employer. The policy is 
underwritten by Legal and General and in 2019 it accepted a claim for her. An immediate 
review into Ms Hs multiple medical conditions commenced following that and the claim 
remained in payment until 2022, when Legal and General made the decision to cease it. 
Legal and General said the medical evidence available to it no longer suggested that Ms H 
continued to satisfy the policys definition of incapacity. Ms H complained about that stance 
and provided more evidence. But Legal and General said her evidence largely covered the 
period 2020 to 2021  so wasnt up to date or a reflection of her ability to perform her own 
occupation in 2022  and maintained its decision. 
Ms H brought her complaint to this service, but our investigator said the claim hadnt been 
ceased unreasonably. They said Legal and General had sought up to date medical evidence 
(which included a functional capacity assessment and an independent medical examination), 
had taken into consideration the opinions of medically trained professionals, and had made a 
reasonable decision based on both the available evidence and the terms of the policy. 
Ms H disagreed at length and said the medical evidence relied on was weak, 
pseudoscientific, and inconsistent. She said Legal and Generals approach to it was 
irrational, it hadnt had regard to up-to-date evidence, and shed undergone more recent 
testing/assessment which explained some of the findings in the evidence relied on. Ms H felt 
an award of compensation might now want to be considered given the totality of Legal and 
Generals behaviour, and as no agreement was reached the matter was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms H has set out her position at length and I thank her for taking the time to do so; its clear 
she feels very strongly about what has happened. Within this decision Ill only be addressing 
those matters I consider central to the outcome of this complaint. I may not respond to every 
point or argument raised and for the reasons Ill now explain Im not upholding it. 
Legal and General had a responsibility to handle Ms Hs claim both promptly and fairly and 
to not reject it unreasonably. 
Its not disputed that Ms H was considered incapacitated from 2019 onwards when her claim 
was first accepted. Much of the medical evidence made available in this complaint reflects 
that and while I wont recite it all, I can see that in 2021 Legal and Generals chief medical 
officer noted the complex mix of Ms Hs reported psychological and physical barriers to work 
would have indeed precluded her from resuming work at that point. 
Since then however, Legal and Generals position has changed. So because it originally 
accepted the claim it now has to demonstrate that Ms H no longer satisfies the relevant 
policy terms. 
Looking at the income protection cover available in this complaint I note: 
The policy was designed to provide benefit to those that became a disabled member. 
A disabled member was an insured member that met the relevant incapacity 
definition. For Ms H that was the own occupation definition: 
 the insured member is incapacitated by illness or injury which prevents him from 
performing the essential duties of his occupation immediately before the start of the 
deferred period.
The insured members capacity to perform the essential duties of his own occupation 
will be determined whether or not that occupation remains available to him.
If an insured member ceased to be a disabled member, payment of benefit would 
end immediately.
Legal and Generals current position is that more up-to-date medical evidence on Ms Hs 
reported psychological and physical barriers to work no longer shows that she continues to 
meet the definition of incapacity. 
It isnt for me to reach a medical finding on Ms Hs ability or inability to work. But I have 
considered all of the medical evidence that was made available to Legal and General, and 
having taken that into account alongside the terms of this policy I dont think the conclusions 
it reached were unreasonable. For example, without referring to everything I note:
An independent medical examination (IME) took place with Ms H in March 2022. 
Legal and General concluded that no specific psychiatric illness was identified as a 
result of the IME and said it indicated Ms Hs anxiety was centered on her pain. 
The IME was conducted by a consultant psychiatrist who said he couldnt identify any 
specific work-related stresses or concerns. He gave two differential diagnoses, 
chronic pain syndrome and persistent somatoform pain disorder, but said there was 
no specific psychiatric illness apart from those. 
The IME reported on there being a non-specific anxiety that maybe contributing to 
the perception of pain. And it also said in terms of motivation, (Ms H) has a focus on 
pain, basic functioning, and worry about lack of function. This seems to be a barrier 
to extending her thoughts specifically to returning to work. So, I dont think Legal and 
Generals position here was unreasonable.
A functional capacity evaluation (FCE) also took place with Ms H in August 2022. 
Legal and General said this indicated Ms H had attempted to stimulate weakness 
and hadnt performed to her true functional capabilities  so the FCEs results 
couldnt be used to support her reported functional restrictions. The FCE was designed to establish Ms Hs current safe working capabilities and 
determine her fitness to undertake her own occupation. It determined that the results 
couldnt be viewed as barriers preventing Ms H from returning to work, because the 
functional abilities demonstrated by her at the time couldnt have represented her 
overall true capabilities. And it said that Ms Hs actual abilities are far greater than 
she was willing to perform during the assessment.. 
In its summary the FCE also reported that, Based on the above inconsistencies and 
discrepancies, it is concluded that (Ms H) attempted to stimulate disability during 
FCE testing, and therefore her reported levels of disability, pain, and exertion, and 
demonstrated restricted and limited physical workday tolerances during formal testing 
cannot be viewed as barriers preventing her from returning to her normal 
occupation. 
So again, based on the content of the FCE I dont think Legal and Generals position 
was unreasonable here either. 
Ms H has raised much concern about the findings of the FCE, for example that it was 
conducted with no common sense in mind and was weak and pseudoscientific. While I 
appreciate the many concerns and disagreements raised, the FCE was a detailed 
assessment of functional ability carried out by an independent third party. I dont think it was 
unreasonable of Legal and General to rely on it as part of its overall review into Ms Hs 
current incapacity, and I dont think the conclusions Legal and General reached because of it 
were unreasonable either.
Ms H has also raised concerns about Legal and Generals approach to the available medical 
evidence. Im satisfied Legal and General has reviewed all of the evidence made available to 
it and reached a reasonable conclusion about Ms H being no longer incapacitated. It wasnt 
unreasonable of Legal and General to say the medical evidence Ms H provided which 
covered periods prior to its 2022 cessation decision didnt negate its current position either. 
However, I do appreciate Ms Hs frustration with Legal and General relying on evidence from 
that same period to support its own 2022 position. As the investigator before me explained, if 
Legal and General wasnt prepared to accept some evidence in support of Ms Hs position 
because it wasnt up-to-date, I dont think it was fair of it then rely on some of the same 
evidence in support of its own up-to-date position either. 
That being said, I remain satisfied that Legal and General took account of all of the medical 
evidence made available to it and sought up-to-date independent assessments on Ms Hs 
reported psychological and physical barriers to work.
Given the available evidence and the terms of the policy, I am of the opinion that Legal and 
General acted both fairly and reasonably when ceasing this claim and did so in line with the 
policy terms. 
I am sorry to hear of the impact Ms H says her health continues to have on her. But for all of 
the reasons given above Ill not be interfering with Legal and Generals position and for the 
avoidance of doubt Im not persuaded an award of compensation is warranted here either. 
Separate to the above I am mindful that Ms H has provided this service with what Ill call 
new medical evidence. This was in response to our investigators opinion and concerned 
more recent testing and diagnosis. The new evidence didnt form part of Ms Hs complaint to 
Legal and General and as far as I understand matters it isnt something thats been shared 
with it. So given Legal and General hasnt yet had the opportunity to consider the new 
evidence Im not persuaded it would be fair of me to consider it here. Ms H may want to consider sharing that new evidence with Legal and General, but its not 
something I am going to take into account for this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman