DRN-3861184
The complaint
Ms M complains that Independent Mortgage Solutions (Hampshire) Limited (IMS) arranged 
a second charge loan against her property, without her involvement. She says that she has 
suffered a loss of £91,000 as a direct result of the mis sold loan. 
What happened
In 2014, a second charge loan was taken out against a property in Ms Ms name. 
She complains that the adviser failed in his duty to her by dealing solely with her ex-husband 
and not advising her as to whether the second charge loan would be suitable for her needs 
or requirements. Ms M has raised several concerns in relation to the advisers conduct. At its 
heart, this complaint is about the alleged mis-sale of the loan and the advisers breach of 
duty towards Ms M. 
IMS didnt uphold the complaint and Ms M referred the matter to this service. IMS didnt 
consent to us investigating the complaint as it said it had been brought too late. I decided 
that the complaint had been made in time and the case was passed back to the investigator. 
Our investigator considered this information and didnt uphold the complaint. I issued a 
provisional decision setting out my thoughts on the case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision. In this I said, in part: 
At its heart, this is a complaint that the loan was mis sold. Ms M has provided several
reasons why she complains about the failings of IMS and Ive considered them all carefully,
even if I dont specifically refer to each point in what follows.
IMS has said that it believed - due to Ms Ms health - her ex-husband was acting on her
behalf in this financial transaction. The solicitors previously acting for Ms M have also
confirmed that her ex-husband controlled and managed all of Ms Ms financial affairs from
2011 to June 2019.
I can understand why Ms M feels so strongly about this matter and the obvious upset this
has caused. But what I need to decide is whether, in these circumstances, I consider that
IMS treated her unfairly. IMS has admitted that it is unusual not to have met or discussed
this matter with the applicant directly. It has explained that it thought the documents were
going home with Ms Ms ex-husband to be explained to her and signed.
This is unusual. And in Ms Ms financial settlement, the judge does pass comment as to the
advisers conduct  it is an extraordinary feature of the arrangement that the financial
adviser saw fit to advise on and proceed through this transaction without at any stage
meeting the wife.
Ive thought about this very carefully. Given the context of Ms Ms medical condition and the
specific circumstances here I dont consider it unreasonable. Ms M and her solicitors have
said that she would not have been able to understand the advice given if she had attended
the meetings.
I think that IMS took at face value that Ms Ms ex-husband was acting on her behalf when it
decided to provide the advice - they were married at the time and he was managing their
finances. Ive also kept in mind the ex-husbands profession as a solicitor who IMS has
confirmed they relied upon for other dealings. Ms Ms specific medical condition impaired her
cognitive function. And so I dont consider it unreasonable for IMS to have trusted that her
husband at the time was acting on her behalf, in her best interests, and communicating the
relevant information.
Ms M has said that she was told by her ex-husband that she got the family into debt due to
her medical expenses and that this was the only reason she agreed to further borrowing. If
she has later discovered this not to be the case, then that is a matter for her and her ex-
husband and I dont think IMS can be held directly responsible.
Ms M has raised several concerns about the accuracy of the information provided and
alleged the adviser colluded with her ex-husband to falsify the documents. Ive considered 
the contemporaneous documents and can see the debts Ms M has
mentioned recorded. There are also comments as to the need for borrowing due to the
familys finances at the time  specifically debts that needed to be paid and education fees.
Ms M disputes this and argues that there was no need for this at the time. But I think this is
with the benefit of hindsight. At the time, her ex-husband was controlling the family finances 
and she has said that she would not have been able to understand the financial implications
of the loan and I dont consider, from the information provided  she would have been in a
position to dispute the need for the loan at the time due to her medical condition. IMS relied
upon the information provided by her ex-husband and it was reasonable for it to do so.
And so, considering the information available at the time  I dont think that this was wholly
inappropriate advice. The adviser established that there was a need for the loan to support
the familys finances and they could not borrow further from their existing lender without
incurring a large early repayment charge (ERC). The adviser also recorded that Ms M and
her ex-husband wished to access some of the equity without affecting the existing mortgage
or incurring any additional monthly payments. This loan fulfilled those requirements.
If Ms M had concerns at the time, she could have asked her ex-husband about this or further
looked into the borrowing. Whilst I appreciate that she was unwell over the time period and
reliant on her husband  her comments suggest that she was aware of the loan and was led
to believe there was a need for the borrowing. Ive also noted that the judge in her financial
settlement concluded that threw was a need for the loan too. Considering all of this, I dont
think that the advice to take out the loan was unreasonable.
Im not making a finding here that this was the best loan or financial product for their
circumstances at the time. But I do think it fulfilled the requirements at the time  other
options were explored but were found not to be suitable and there was a need for the loan.
I understand that this matter must have been very distressing for Ms M, but having
considered everything, I dont think IMS has treated her unfairly here. And so Im currently
minded not to uphold this complaint.Responses to my provisional decision
Ms M responded to my provisional decision. In summary, she expressed her dissatisfaction 
with my findings and requested that I reassess my provisional decision. Ms M said that I 
should reach the only proper, fair and reasonable conclusion in the circumstances which is 
to uphold the complaint and order IMS to pay for her losses. 
Ms M specifically disputed my comment that she may not have been able to understand the 
conversations about the loan due to her medical condition at the time and that she has had 
legal capacity to manage her own affairs throughout.
She also says that the property was in her sole name and that her ex-husband and the 
adviser were long standing acquaintances and that the adviser fraudulently marked 
documents to say that he had discussed Ms Ms attitude to risk with her  when they had not 
actually met. And that the information given to support the need for the loan was inaccurate. 
Ms M maintains that if the adviser had met with her  this would have been established  but 
he didnt and so he failed in his duty of care when he sold the loan. 
IMS did not respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought very carefully about the further submissions provided and have reconsidered my 
decision in light of the comments. Ive read and considered everything that Ms M has 
provided and although my decision may differ in length to Ms Ms submission, this is not 
meant as a discourtesy  rather this reflects the informal nature of our service. 
At its heart  this complaint is that Ms M has said that she was misled by her ex-husband 
and that he, working with a financial adviser who was already known to him, arranged a loan 
on her property without her involvement. 
I previously considered the matter of jurisdiction and in my decision (which concluded that 
we could look at the complaint) I was persuaded, based on Ms M and her former 
representatives submissions, that she was unable to raise a complaint about the loan at an 
earlier point due to her medical condition. I was also persuaded that she was only able to do 
so recently once she reduced her medication and regained control of her finances.
And as I set out in my provisional decision, although this is unusual  I dont consider it 
unreasonable given the context of Ms Ms medical condition and her ex-husbands profession 
as a solicitor who IMS had relied upon for other dealings. 
Ms M has said that she had legal capacity to manage her financial and legal affairs from 
2011 to the present but was not involved in the discussions about the loan. And so was 
denied the opportunity to meet or speak with the adviser and that as a result could not 
explain her financial situation or need for any borrowing. For example, she says she could 
have explained that there was no need for the loan to fund school or university fees as these 
could have been paid for out of their combined income. 
But Ive noted that the account that was previously given to this service from her former 
representative stated that when the loan was arranged, Ms M was very unwell and heavily 
medicated. In the complaint form to this service  Ms Ms previous adviser stated that her ex-husband controlled and manged all of their clients (Ms M) financial affairs from 2011 to 
around June 2019. 
And so, I dont think that it was unreasonable for the adviser to take at face value that 
Ms Ms ex-husband was looking after the family finances and acting on both his and his 
wifes behalf when he met with him. 
I accept that this is unusual  especially as the property was in her sole name - and that she 
was not able to explain her financial situation or need for any borrowing. But as Ive 
explained, given Ms Ms medical condition at the time, I dont think that this was 
unreasonable. IMS has said that they believed that the documents were going home with her 
ex-husband to explain to her and to be signed. 
I can appreciate that, from what she has told this service, her ex-husband may have misled 
her to believe that they needed to repay debts incurred due to her medical bills and that she 
agreed to the loan on this basis. But I dont think I can fairly hold IMS responsible for this.
As I outlined in my previous provisional decision - Im not making a finding as to whether this 
was the best financial decision. . Im also not considering whether the lender should have 
lent or whether the loan or charge over the property is enforceable. All Im considering is 
whether, based on what it knew or could have known at the time, IMS acted fairly and 
reasonably in advising on and arranging this loan on behalf of Ms M and her former 
husband. And I do think, given the information (although I accept that Ms M disputes this) 
there was a need for the borrowing, there were limited alternatives available, and that IMS 
reasonably believed it was acting for both of them in arranging the loan. 
Ms M also disputes what I have said about the judge establishing that there was a need for 
the loan. Instead  she states that the judge found that the loan was one way of dealing with 
the debts of £27,000. 
I consider that this is essentially the same thing. And whilst Ive taken account of Ms Ms 
comments and arguments in regard to this  I still find that there was a need for some 
borrowing for the overall family finances at the time and that other options were limited. And 
so on this basis  I dont consider that the advice to take this out was wholly inappropriate.
Considering everything, I think that there was a need for borrowing and IMS trusted that 
Ms Ms ex-husband was acting on their behalf. As a result, I dont think that it treated Ms M 
unfairly and so I dont think I can fairly uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Camilla FinniganOmbudsman