DRN-2714695
The complaint
Ms S complains that Santander UK plc acted unfairly when it didnt permit a third party to 
make a cash payment into her credit card account.
What happened
Ms S had a credit card account with Santander. She says she asked a third party to make a 
payment into her account in December 2019. This payment was the monthly repayment due 
on the card. When the third party tried to make the payment, he was told that Santander no 
longer accepted cash payments from a third party who was not a named account holder.
Ms S complained about this. She said Santander had accepted a payment from the third 
party in November 2019. She was concerned that this meant shed have to go to the branch 
herself to make the payment. She says that she has various health issues and needs to use 
walking aids. She was also concerned that the payment might be late, and this would affect 
her credit rating.
Santander looked into her complaint. It said that for security purposes it no longer accepted 
cash deposits from third parties. It acknowledged that it had permitted a payment to be made 
by a third party in November 2019. But it said that that was an error on its part. Ms S hadnt 
been negatively impacted as a result. It didnt uphold her complaint.
Ms S wasnt satisfied with this response. She complained to our service. Our investigator 
looked into her complaint. He said that although Santander had made an error in November 
when it had accepted the payment from the third party, Ms S hadnt suffered any loss at that 
time. And although this had caused a misunderstanding, there were other ways that Ms S 
could make the payment. He thought Santander had been complying with regulations. He 
didnt uphold the complaint.
Ms S didnt agree. She said the investigator hadnt properly considered how this had 
impacted her health. She said shed been told the only option open to her was to go to the 
branch to make the payment herself.
Our investigator didnt change his view. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander says it changed its procedures about third party payments into its accounts in 
April 2018. Since Ms S opened her account after that date, it says theres been no change to 
the position regarding accepting third party payments, insofar as shes concerned. It says a 
third party would not have been able to make cash payments into her account at any time.
Ive looked at the procedures Santander says it introduced in April 2018. These state that 
third parties cannot make cash deposits into an account. But the procedures do say that 
credit cards are unaffected by this change.  It appears that since that date the procedures 
were changed again and extended to payments into credit card accounts. Santander refused 
to accept a payment being made by a third party into Ms Ss credit card account in 
December 2019. Santander is entitled to change its procedures and to determine how 
payments can be made into its accounts. When doing so, we would expect it to act fairly and 
reasonably.
Santander did speak to Ms S by telephone on 23 January 2020. Ms S explained how 
inconvenient it was for her. She also said she had health issues which made it difficult for 
her to go to the branch. Santander said it didnt accept third party deposits in its branches. It 
did ask Ms S if she would consider setting up a bill payment from her current account or 
make the payment over the phone. Ms S said she didnt want to do this. She said shed have 
to go to the branch herself and make the payment in cash. Santander told her that if she 
made the payment on the date she suggested, it couldnt give a 100% assurance it would be 
on time but subsequently during the call Santander said the payment on that date should be 
fine.  
The payment was made on time and no late payment or other charges were applied.
Having listened to the call and considered Santanders response to the complaint, Im not 
persuaded it did enough, at the time, to take Ms Ss health issues into account. The 
procedures its referred to included a provision which allowed branch staff to exercise 
discretion where a customer said he or she had issues which meant that a third party might 
be making payments into the account. And, although Santanders adviser did discuss 
alternative ways that Ms S could make the payment to her account, she didnt discuss 
Ms Ss health issues with her or try to understand whether this was an occasion when 
discretion should be exercised. 
In the period after December 2019, I can see that Ms S did make further payments to the 
account. It is the case that payments werent required every month, but when they were 
required, Ms S wouldve had to make arrangements to personally attend the branch to pay 
cash into the account. Its not clear why she wasnt able or willing to make payments from 
her current account. That option had been discussed with her in December 2019.
Since the date when our investigator looked at this complaint Ms S has progressed the 
complaint again with Santander. Santander subsequently agreed (in October 2020) to review 
the complaint. At this stage, our service had decided to close the case. Ms S will be aware of 
the reasons why that happened. Our service subsequently agreed to re-open the complaint.
Santander agreed, when it reviewed the complaint, to issue the third party with a letter which 
he could provide to branch staff when making payments into Ms Ss account. It also agreed 
in its letter to Ms S dated 13 November 2020, to pay her S £75 by way of compensation 
because it hadnt sought this exception earlier. So, Santander acknowledged it shouldve 
sought to grant an exception, in Ms Ss case, to its procedure about not accepting payments 
from third parties. But, it said that it wouldnt change the outcome of the complaint which
Ms S had made in November 2019.
Having considered everything that happened here, Im satisfied on balance that Santander 
has now granted Ms S an exception to its procedures and a third party can make payments 
into her credit card account. There was a delay before Santander took that action. I think it 
shouldve considered that when she first complained in November 2019. Its paid Ms S £75 
by way of compensation for that delay. I think thats fair and reasonable. So, I dont require it 
to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about Santander UK plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman