DRN-4040505
The complaint
Mr P isnt happy with the repairs that have been carried out by QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) 
following a claim under his home insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2022 Mr P made a claim on his home insurance following accidental damage to
his garage door. QIC accepted the claim and instructed its contractors to carry out repairs.
The contractors made temporary repairs and arranged to come back to fit a new door. Mr P
made a number of calls to QIC expressing his concern about security to his house which
could be accessed through the garage. A new garage door was fitted in May 2022.
The new garage door was not the correct size and Mr P reported this to QIC. There were
gaps around the door and Mr P was concerned that it would be easy to break the lock as the
mechanism was visible at the top. The contractors agreed to try to source a new door.
Mr P complained to QIC saying that the garage door was too small and didnt fit. QIC said
that its contractors were unable to source a door of the exact size required. It referred to its
terms and conditions and offered to attach a timber beam or weather strip to the door, or to
pay a cash settlement based on a quote Mr P had obtained for a new door. QIC offered
£2,180 plus VAT but Mr P rejected this offer and brought his complaint to this service.
Mr P would like QIC to arrange for a new door to be fitted and to pay compensation as he
says that the problems with the garage door left his house insecure and has had a significant
impact on his mental health.
Our investigator didnt think that QIC had properly fitted the new door but that it had offered
Mr P suitable options to put the situation right and that these were in line with its terms and
conditions. He acknowledged the distress and inconvenience Mr P had been caused and
thought that an award of £100 compensation was fair. Mr P didnt agree and asked for an
ombudsmans decision.
My provisional decision
On 6 March 2023 I made a provisional decision. I said: 
Buildings insurance policies are generally policies of indemnity. This means they aim to put
the policyholder back in the position they were in just before the loss or damage occurred.
The insurer should usually try to do this - but sometimes its simply not possible.
QIC initially attempted to deal with the claim by replacing Mr Ps garage door. However,
once the door was fitted it was obvious there were significant gaps between the top of the
garage door and the frame. This can be seen from the photos taken by Mr P. I dont think
theres any dispute now that the door doesnt fit well. QIC have said their contractors are
unable to source a door of the correct size and so offered to pay a cash settlement. QIC say
this is in line with its terms and conditions.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Ps policy to see how QIC say they will settle
claims. Under the relevant section, it says that If we cannot offer rebuilding work, repairs or
replacements (as defined by us) through our preferred contractor, we will pay you: a. fair and
reasonable costs to have the work carried out by your chosen supplier; or b. the amount by
which the buildings have gone down in value as a result of the damage; whichever is lower.
So, the policy allows QIC to choose how it wants to settle a claim. If its unable to offer a
suitable replacement I would expect it to offer alternatives and I think the settlement offered
to Mr P is in line with its policy. Whilst this may not be what Mr P wants, I think the offer is
fair.
Mr P says that he was told by QIC that the door would be removed and a new one of the
correct size fitted. He wants QIC to do what it said it would. Whilst I have sympathy with Mr
Ps position, I cant ask QIC to do something it says its unable to do. I also dont think there
is any obligation on QIC to fit a new door if it doesnt think it can. The policy allows for this
situation  and QIC have offered a cash settlement so that Mr P can have the work carried
out himself.
Mr P says that if QIC cant source a suitable replacement then its unlikely that he will be
able to either. However, QIC only use certain contractors, so its supply base is limited. Mr P
has already approached a company who have said they can replace the door and provided a
quote. Im also aware that several of Mr Ps neighbours have had their garage doors suitably
replaced and are the same size as Mr Ps. I therefore think its likely that a suitably sized
door can be sourced and fitted.
QIC have turned down an alternative option provided by Mr P for a side fitting door as this
would provide betterment. I dont think this was unreasonable as I wouldnt expect QIC to
pay for a more expensive option which would put Mr P into a better position than before the
damage. I therefore think QICs offer to pay a cash settlement for a new up and over door is
fair.
Whilst I think the offer to settle is fair, I think QIC could have handled things better and
resolved things more quickly. The new garage door was fitted on 18 May 2022 after some
delay caused by suppliers, which I dont consider to be QICs fault. However, Mr P was left
with a garage door that didnt fit. I think QICs contractor should have realised this
immediately and tried to put it right. It didnt, and it was left to Mr P to make contact with QIC
to raise the issue. The contractors then didnt re-attend to inspect the door until June 2022
and failed to get back to Mr P within a day or so as advised.
There was also poor communication from QIC about progress and Mr P had to chase this
repeatedly. A final offer to settle the matter wasnt made until the 21 July 2022  some two
months after the door was fitted. Mr P told QIC about the impact the ongoing problems were
having on his mental health and that this had led to him visiting his GP and taking increased
medication.
Mr P also told QIC that he was particularly concerned that a poorly fitting garage door was a
security risk. Ive seen the photos and can see that there was a substantial gap at the top of
the door. This made the lock mechanism visible. Whilst I cant say how easy it wouldve
been to cut through the lock mechanism, Im satisfied that the garage wouldve been less
secure with a door which didnt fit properly.
I also accept that Mr P was very concerned about this and considered cancelling a holiday
with his daughter as a result. Mr Ps house can be accessed through the garage and whilst
there is a suitable lock fitted to his internal door, the garage would normally offer an extra
level of security. I understand that QIC did carry out temporary repairs before Mr Ps holiday,
but I dont think this issue was dealt with quickly enough. The prospect of having to cancelhis holiday was distressing for Mr P.
Im therefore satisfied that QIC could have handled things better and that delay caused Mr P
additional distress and inconvenience. I think an award of £350 compensation would be fair.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr P doesnt accept that QICs contractor is unable to source a suitable door and he doesnt 
think it fair that he has to accept a cash settlement. He says that the contractor he contacted 
for a quote wasnt his preferred supplier and that the quote is now out of date.
Mr P says there is no guarantee that a new standard sized door would fit due to 
manufacturing variations, and he wants QIC to fit a made to measure door which he said its 
contractor had initially offered. Alternatively, he says he will get an up-to-date quote for a 
made to measure door from his own contractor.
Mr P accepts the £350 compensation for inconvenience but says this doesnt reflect the 
distress QIC has caused him or the effect that their behaviour has had on his mental health. 
He suggested a sum of £5,000 would be more appropriate.
QIC says it agreed with my provisional decision regarding the settlement. It says that the 
offer to Mr P was for a standard door and not made to measure. It thinks that the 
compensation I awarded was too high but increased its original offer to £250. It says that the 
security issues were minimal and that delays were caused mainly by the supplier.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure both parties that Ive read carefully all the additional comments made 
 but I havent seen anything new that makes me change my provisional decision  except 
that I think Mr Ps original quote needs to be updated.
As Ive said previously, I think it likely that a standard door of the correct size can be sourced 
and fitted. QIC say that it doesnt believe Mr P was offered a made to measure door and the 
quote it received from its contractors, which Ive seen, would seem to confirm this. I therefore 
dont think it would be reasonable to expect QIC to pay for a made to measure door.
Mr P doesnt accept that QIC are unable to source a suitable door but as Ive said above, I 
cant ask QIC to do something that it says it cant do. The policy allows QIC to make a cash 
settlement and when it does so it will pay Mr P the cash and he can use this to instruct a 
contractor of his choice. He doesnt have to use the contractor he obtained the quote from if 
he doesnt wish to. 
I agree that Mr Ps original quote dated 14 July 2022 for £2,180 plus VAT will need to be 
updated due to rising costs  as stated in the quote. The quote was also issued some 10 
months ago. QIC was asked to comment on this but hasnt done so. As QIC agreed the 
original quote from Mr Ps contractor, and I think this was fair, I think it reasonable for it to 
pay a cash settlement upon receipt of an updated quote for the same up and over garage 
door from Mr Ps contractor. 
I appreciate the impact Mr P says this case has had on him. However, I dont think the 
request for £5,000 compensation is reasonable. I also dont think that QICs increased offer 
of £250 compensation is enough. I havent seen anything new which makes me change my mind from what I said in my provisional decision, and so I think £350 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience is fair. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require QIC Europe Ltd to:
pay a cash settlement to Mr P upon production of an updated quote from his 
contractor; and
pay Mr P £350 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman