DRN-2906290
complaint
Ms T says Nationwide Building Society (NBS) mis-sold her two payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policies. 
background and summary to complaint
Ms T bought the first policy in 2002 at the same time as taking out a loan. The second policy 
was taken with a loan in 2003. Ms Ts recollection is that she applied for both of the loans 
and PPI over the internet. But NBS has told us that the sales were made over the phone. 
And from the records its given us I think this was the most likely method of sale for both of 
the loans and PPI, but I can understand why Ms T may not remember this clearly bearing in 
mind how long ago the sales were made. 
 
The first policys one-off upfront premium of £592.31 was paid in advance by being added to 
the loan (a single premium) where it attracted interest over the term of the loan. The loan 
was repayable over a 48-month term and the policy term matched that of the loan. The 
monthly loan repayment was £98.70 with the PPI costing an additional £14.61 making the 
total monthly repayment £113.31.
 
The second policy was also of the single premium type  this time the premium was 
£1,209.74. The second loan was repayable over an 84-month term and the policy term 
matched that of the loan. The monthly loan repayment was £95.49 with the PPI costing an 
additional £18.63 making a total monthly repayment of £114.12. 
Both policies provided cover for accident, sickness, unemployment and life  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Ms Ts respective monthly loan repayments for 
the remaining term in the event of a successful disability claim and 12 months in the event of 
unemployment. 
My understanding is that Ms Ts circumstances were broadly the same at the time of both 
sales. Ms T was employed as a senior domiciliary care assistant. She has told us she was 
entitled to between six- and 12-months employee sick pay if she was too unwell to work and 
redundancy pay if she lost her job. She told us she had savings of around £6,000 but these 
were ring fenced for home improvements. Ms T didnt have any other financial means she 
could have relied upon, such as further savings, to have made the loan repayments in the 
event she wasnt working. Ms T was in good health at the time of the sales.
 
NBS has sent us evidence to show that the first loan account ended when the second top-
up loan was taken in 2003. The second loan ended in 2004.
 
For the sake of completeness, Ms T took out another loan in 2004. But Ms T didnt take PPI 
with this loan  so it doesnt form part of this complaint. 
Ms Ts representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have read and considered them all carefully. In 
summary, Ms Ts representative says:
NBS failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying the regulators rules and guidance for businesses on 
handling PPI complaints under DISP APP 3, it should be presumed Ms T wouldnt 
have taken out the policies and the complaint should be upheld. Ms Ts 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policies excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of 
the most common reasons people are off work. This significantly reduced the value 
of cover;
The true costs including interest and the fact it was unlikely you could make a 
successful claim meant the policies were of inherently poor value as shown by the 
low claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good faith means NBS should have 
told Ms T about the poor value; 
The cancellation terms were unfair;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means NBS should have explained 
the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Ms T and the impact they 
would have had on her chances of making a claim; and
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Ms T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Ms Ts. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ts complaint.
These sales took place respectively in 2002 and 2003 before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became regulated in January 2005. So, the FSAs (and FCAs) overarching 
Principles for Businesses and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable 
to this complaint, nor is the FCAs Perimeter guidance (PERG). 
The last credit agreement itself concluded in 2004. That means the unfair relationship 
provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin 
judgment, arent applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular, The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private customers  the GISC Code. 
These sales were made during a period of industry self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC). It published the GISC code, which set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
NBS, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries 
 
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected of 
intermediaries like NBS at the time. So, Im satisfied I should take the ABI code and these 
other publications into account when deciding, what is in my opinion, fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Ms Ts case. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including: the law relating to 
negligence, contract (including the express and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the sales 
of PPI. These sales took place before insurance mediation became a regulated activity, so 
NBS was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when considering Ms Ts complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account, it seems to me that the key questions I need 
to consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
- If NBS gave advice, whether it advised Ms T with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policies were appropriate or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances. - Whether NBS gave Ms T sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable her 
to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policies, including drawing 
to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policies and significant limitations and exclusions. 
- If, having considered these questions, I determine the complaint in favour of Ms T, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Ms T suffered loss or 
damage and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
-
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Ms T and NBS, 
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ts complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Ms T know she had a choice?
NBS had to make it clear that each PPI policy was optional. 
As Ive found above, I think it most likely that both sales were carried out over the phone. 
NBS no longer has a copy of the call recording for either sale which I dont find surprising 
given the passage of time and businesses arent obliged to keep records indefinitely. But it 
has provided a copy of each of the loan agreements sent to Ms T after each of the phone 
calls. And looking at the these (the format is identical) I can see the cost of the PPI was set 
out in a separate column headed Optional Credit Insurance  separate from the loan itself. 
Upon receiving of these, and before signing to accept the loans, I would have expected Ms T 
to have queried things before she went ahead if the way the PPI was described was at odds 
with how it was described to her during the phone calls. 
So, taking everything into account, I think its more likely that Ms T knew the policies were 
optional and she agreed to take them out without undue pressure. 
did NBS provide advice?
NBS says it didnt provide advice during either of the sales. Ms T hasnt said either way. 
Based on what we know about how sales like Ms Ts were carried out, advice was not 
provided. And because, Ive not seen anything to persuade me something different 
happened in Ms Ts case  and without any alternative testimony from Ms T for me to 
consider  I dont think NBS provided advice on either occasion when it sold her PPI. 
This means NBS didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Ms T. Instead, it had to give 
her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable Ms T to make an informed choice 
about whether to take out the policies, including drawing to her attention and highlighting  in 
a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main provisions of the policies and significant 
limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Ms T was given a broad description of what the 
policies were intended to cover (that is that the policies would protect her payments if Ms T 
was unable to work through accident, sickness and unemployment.) I have reached this 
conclusion because I think at the very least this would have been discussed during each 
phone call  I think its unlikely Ms T would have taken out the policies without any sense of 
what the policies were and what the approximate costs were. But in either case the evidence from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether NBS gave 
sufficient information about the actual monthly benefit, sufficient information about the cost  
or about the exclusions or limitations before Ms T agreed to take out the policies. Im mindful 
that the loan agreements sent to Ms T after the phone calls set out the cost clearly, but there 
isnt enough evidence in each case to show that Ms T was given this same clear information 
before she agreed to take them out during the calls. 
So, I dont think NBS gave Ms T sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable her 
to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policies, including drawing her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main provisions of 
the policies and significant limitations and exclusions.
 
Ive considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling PPI complaints set out at DISP App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings Ive highlighted above, Ms Ts representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards to the requirements on a business when providing information in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Ms Ts. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them as:
- The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Ms Ts representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather than the 
insurer. 
- The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business shouldnt have just 
told Ms T about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
-
Im not persuaded by Ms Ts representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Ms T has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint, I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that NBS ought to have done either. 
What effect did NBSs shortcomings have on Ms T? To what extent did Ms T suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that NBS didnt do all it should have done when it sold these policies to Ms T. So, 
Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Ms T suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or not Ms T would have 
still taken out the policies, had NBS done things properly. 
Ms T says she would not have taken them out and believes I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As these were non-advised sales, Ms T had to weigh up in her own mind the cost of the 
policies against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure 
against the risk of being unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Ms T chose to take these policies out. So, I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude she had some interest in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But she made this decision based on incomplete information. So, what Ms T thought she was getting is not exactly what she got. The extent to which this differed is a 
relevant consideration when determining if Ms T has suffered any loss or detriment. 
Although I think its likely Ms T understood from what was discussed during the phone calls 
that she was borrowing the money to pay for each policy and that it would cost extra each 
month, I cant be certain Ms T was given all of the cost information during the phone calls. 
Having said that, Ms T was sent a loan agreement each time, which as I have said above set 
out the cost of the PPI clearly separating out the PPI premium, the interest on the premium, 
the total cost and the resulting monthly cost. So before signing the agreements I think Ms T 
was given sufficient information to understand the cost. And she could have queried things 
before signing if it wasnt acceptable to her. 
Im not persuaded NBS made clear exactly what Ms T would get back in return in the event 
she made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Ms Ts expectations about what the 
policies would pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet her loan payments) 
were significantly different to what the policies actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Ms T thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policies excluded claims relating to any medical condition or disease which Ms T 
knew of or should reasonably have known of on the start date or for which she 
received treatment, advice or was referred for investigation during the 12 months 
before the start date and which recurred again within 12 months of the start date;
The policies limited, and in some situations, excluded unemployment cover if Ms T 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Ms T would have to 
be unable to do any work as certified by a doctor. 
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions above might well have 
caused Ms T pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude that the policies 
werent as good as she thought, and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in these sales, might have 
dissuaded some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Ms T from taking out the 
policies. 
But, the evidence about Ms Ts circumstances at the time of sales show that the policies 
werent fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for their benefits and 
they provided cover that, despite their limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to 
her should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to 
suggest she wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Ms T didnt have 
any pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think she 
had some good reasons to take the policies out.
The policies didnt exclude back or mental health conditions or place any additional 
restrictions or more onerous evidential requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other disability claim. And I think its unlikely Ms T 
would have expected to make a disability claim on the policies without first providing some 
evidence to support that claim.
To make a disability claim, Ms T needed to be totally unable to do any work as certified by a 
doctor. I dont think this is likely to be too different to what she would have expected in order 
to make a claim. So, it seems unlikely Ms T would have thought she would have been able 
to make a successful claim if she was still working. Both the policies did provide a pro-rata refund if they were cancelled early, so the policies 
provided flexibility if Ms T decided to repay the loan early and cancel the policies.
Having considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Ms T would still have taken out the policies. The policies were sufficiently close to 
what its likely she thought she was getting and provided benefits that would help her 
manage the consequences were Ms T made redundant, or unable to work through accident 
or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Ms T would have 
taken out the policies in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Ms Ts representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear that, where a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have taken out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms, but it is a relevant consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things when I decide what is in my opinion fair and reasonable. Considering 
the purpose of the guidance, I dont think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken. 
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales processes. In those circumstances, DISP App 3 says it should 
be presumed Ms T would not have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Ms Ts 
circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude the position Ms T 
found herself in as result of the sales was the same position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Ms T believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments that she would not have taken 
out the policies. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance for firms set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Ms T in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policies. 
That is because, while I accept its possible she wouldnt have taken out the policies, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she would still have taken 
out the PPI had she been given clear, fair and not misleading information about the policies 
she was buying.
So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those circumstances, to conclude 
NBS should pay Ms T compensation, as that would put her in a better position than she 
would have been in if everything had happened as it should have done. 
Ive also thought about the approach Ms Ts representative says a court might take if it were 
to find NBS had been in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. But this doesnt persuade me 
to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the circumstances of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to put Ms T in a 
better position than if everything had happened as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman