DRN-2273026
The complaint
Miss L has complained about Paragon Finance PLC (trading as Idem Servicing) not 
accepting her settlement offer; and she says they harassed her.
What happened
This complaint relates to a personal loan debt that Idem purchased in 2011.
In 2016, Idem set up affordable repayments with Miss L. In August 2017, Miss Ls payments 
stopped. In December 2017, she explained shed lost her job. Miss L discussed setting up 
new payments once she found new work, but her and Idem didnt manage to arrange 
anything, and after that Idem werent able to get through to her at all. The balance remained 
at around £3,300.
Miss L also let Idem know she was suffering from mental health issues. Idem transferred her 
account to a support team that dealt with sensitive issues.
In January 2019, Miss L received a lump sum from family. She made a full and final offer, 
offering to repay half the debt if Idem wrote off the other half. Idem went through Miss Ls 
income and expenditure in detail and found she had over £900 of disposable income a 
month. So they turned down her offer, as they felt she could afford to pay off the full debt in a 
reasonable time.
Idem tried to get in touch with Miss L after this but couldnt get an answer. So in January 
2020, Idem explained that if they didnt hear from her, they might need to pass the debt to a 
collector, visit her at home, or take court action.
Miss L complained. She was unhappy Idem hadnt accepted her full and final settlement 
offer. She felt theyd harassed her, particularly by suggesting a home visit, and especially 
during a phone call that she explained had been very distressing.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt 
think Idems contact had been excessive or improper. He couldnt find any record of the call 
Miss L had described. He noted theyd passed her to a support team, set out her options 
clearly, tried to work out what she could reasonably afford, and signposted her to 
organisations that could help. He didnt think Idem had got everything right, but he felt theyd 
dealt with her fairly overall.
Miss L asked for an ombudsman to review things afresh, so the complaints been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Miss L would be disappointed that her full and final settlement offer didnt 
get accepted, not least if other creditors accepted similar offers. But Idem werent obliged to 
accept her offer  it was up to them whether they agreed or not.
Ive looked at the contact between Idem and Miss L, and have not found that Idem 
communicated excessively or unreasonably. I understand Miss L felt particularly concerned 
about a phone call, but I can only see one call where she and Idem spoke at any length  
the one in January 2019 where she made her full and final offer. And having listened to that 
call, I thought the Idem staff member conducted themselves well, coming across as friendly 
and empathetic to me. They went through a comprehensive budget with Miss L, covering all 
her reasonable living costs to make sure that any debt payments were affordable and that 
she could repay the full debt in a reasonable time.
Similarly, Idems letters seemed broadly appropriate. For example, they acknowledged 
Miss L was going through a tough time, explained that she had options and that Idem were 
open to discussing things, said she could get a representative to deal with Idem for her if she 
felt uncomfortable, and so on.
I also understand that Miss L felt distressed by Idems suggestion that they might try visiting 
her at home. I dont think its unreasonable that Idem suggested visiting her home, since 
theyd been having trouble getting in touch with Miss L  and hadnt received any payments 
from her  in over two years. And a home visit doesnt necessarily constitute harassment, its 
often just another way of speaking to a customer if other methods arent working.
After Miss L asked for Idem not to phone her anymore, they did try calling her twice. But it 
looks like they were calling to discuss her complaint rather than to chase her for the debt. 
And they didnt manage to get through in any case. So I dont think any significant harm was 
done there. Idem have now stopped calling Miss L, as she requested. 
We would expect Idem to make reasonable adjustments once they became aware of 
Miss Ls health issues, and it seems here that they did. They transferred her to a specialised 
support team, made her aware of the options she had, and signposted her to free charities 
that could help. There was a brief period where Idem took the account away from the 
support team, which theyve acknowledged they shouldnt have done. But they returned the 
account to the team shortly afterwards, and thankfully it doesnt look like anything went 
wrong in the meantime. Of course, I will remind Idem not to make the same mistake again.
As things stand, though, I think Idem have dealt with things fairly on the whole, and I dont 
think they got anything so wrong that I need to intervene. I can see that Idem and Miss L 
have now arranged affordable repayments, so I hope things go more smoothly from here.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Ls complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman