DRN-2796279
The complaint
Ms H complains that Santander UK Plc hasnt treated her fairly while shes experienced 
financial difficulty on her mortgage.
What happened
Ms H has a mortgage with Santander.
Unfortunately Ms H became unwell some years ago and had to give up work. She has a 
range of physical and mental health conditions which have a substantial impact on her.
As a result of her health, she has experienced significant financial difficulty and the arrears 
on her mortgage reached around £15,000.
However, in recent years Ms H has mostly been making her mortgage payments, and 
making some payments towards the arrears, but not enough to clear the mortgage by the 
end of the term.
As a result, in 2019 Santander decided to take legal action. It issued court proceedings. Its 
solicitors wrote to Ms H setting out the position. Ms H, with help from Citizens Advice, wrote 
to Santander and its solicitors offering to make her monthly payments together with an 
amount they believed sufficient to clear the arrears by the end of the term.
Ms Hs representative also sent her medical records to Santanders solicitors in November 
2019.
Santander didnt accept the offer, even though it was for an amount that it had said in the 
claim was enough to clear the arrears. It said that amount hadnt included interest, and so 
wasnt enough. It went ahead with proceedings and the case was listed for a possession 
hearing in court. Ms H and her representative complained to us directly. We got in touch with 
Santander and told it of the complaint, and it agreed to try to adjourn the court case for us to 
look at her complaint.
But Santander wasnt able to adjourn it in time. The court hearing went ahead. The judge 
made a suspended possession order, on condition that Ms H pay her contractual monthly 
payment plus £102.50 per month  the amount Ms H had offered and the amount Santander 
had initially asked for, even though it later rejected Ms Hs offer to pay that.
Santander then began to consider Ms Hs complaint, and responded to it. It sent more than 
one final response  offering compensation totalling £250. Ms H wasnt happy with the 
responses and asked us to look into how she had been treated.
While the complaint was with us, in May 2020, Santander offered to move Ms H from its 
standard variable rate (SVR) to its assist rate (a variable rate which it uses to assist 
vulnerable customers in financial difficulty). This reduced Ms Hs interest rate to 2.49%. 
However, Santander said that this was for one year only and would be reviewed in May 
2021.
My provisional decision
I thought there was more that Santander ought fairly to have done to assist Ms H, so I issued 
a provisional decision setting out my thinking. I said:
First of all, Im very sorry to hear of Ms Hs circumstances. Im sure things have been very 
difficult for her.
Ms H doesnt think that the full amount of the arrears Santander is asking her to pay is fair. 
She doesnt think it should charge interest on the arrears. But I dont think thats 
unreasonable. Arrears do incur interest  since if payments arent made, they remain part of 
the mortgage balance on which interest is charged. And other than that, Ive not seen 
evidence of any fees being applied to the mortgage in recent years.
Santander has accepted that the court hearing shouldnt have gone ahead as it had agreed 
to adjourn it once Ms H complained to us. Its offered compensation for that and I think thats 
fair.
But while I dont doubt the court hearing was very distressing and worrying for Ms H, I do 
think it had one benefit. The court made an order for Ms H to pay her contractual monthly 
payment plus £102.50 per month.
This gives Ms H some certainty. As long as she keeps up with this payment, shell not be in 
danger of losing her property as shes complying with the court order. And it seems that 
Ms H is able to keep up with this payment, especially now shes on the assist rate. She gets 
support for mortgage interest and disability related benefits. And as long as they continue, 
hopefully Ms H will be able to keep to what the court ordered.
Its been suggested that the figure the court was asked to order was incorrect, and thats 
why Santander rejected Ms Hs offer to pay it before the hearing. When it responds to this 
provisional decision, Santander should explain if that is the case  and if so, why it included 
the wrong figure in the claim and what it proposes to do to put that right now.
However, I do think that theres more that Santander should do here.
Its been clear for some time that Ms H is very unwell and very vulnerable, and finds it 
difficult to deal with Santander. To take just one example, she harmed herself during a call 
with Santander she found particularly distressing in early 2020, leading to Santanders call 
handler having to call an ambulance. And Santander has been aware of her vulnerability in 
general terms for some time  with more specific information about her medical history 
having been provided in late 2019.
I therefore think that Santander ought to have put Ms H on the lower assist rate not in May 
2020, but in October 2019. It should backdate the rate to then, re-calculating the mortgage 
and using the additional payments that result to reduce the arrears.
It seems clear to me that theres little prospect of Ms Hs vulnerability alleviating soon. And 
its clear she finds communication with and from Santander very distressing.
I think its in Ms Hs best interests to minimise that communication as much as possible. 
There have been times when Santander has caused unnecessary worry to Ms H. For 
example it wrote to her in August 2020 to say she needed to contact it about her arrears 
because no arrangement was in place. But that wasnt true. The suspended possession order was in place. So there was no need for Santander to write to Ms H asking her to set up 
a new arrangement.
There will be communications that Santander is required to send  such as annual 
statements, and notifications that her payments change.
But other than those, I think that moving forward Santander should minimise unnecessary 
contact with Ms H. To that end, and because as I say theres little prospect of her condition 
altering in the near future, I think Santander should allow Ms Hs mortgage to continue on 
the assist rate. I see no need for it to contact Ms H to review the rate in May 2021 when the 
rate should fairly continue.
Now that the court has determined what Ms H has to pay, and her interest rate has been 
reduced to a level that assists her in her vulnerability, Santander should not contact Ms H  
other than where it is a regulatory requirement that it does so  as long as she continues to 
stick to the payment set out in the court order of the contractual monthly payment plus 
£102.50 per month. This will allow Ms H the time and space to focus on her recovery 
knowing that her home is not at risk and without the worry of having to deal with her 
mortgage.
The responses to my provisional decision
Ms H explained again how difficult events had been, and how confusing she had found it 
when Santander changed what it was asking her to pay. And she said that Santander had 
written to her again since my provisional decision asking to discuss her arrears  which she 
had found very upsetting.
Santander said it agreed to backdate the assist rate to 1 October 2019. But it said it could 
only offer it for a maximum term of five years  though it would review things again at the 
end of five years and if Ms Hs situation hadnt changed but she was keeping to the 
arrangement, it would agree another five years at that point.
Santander also agreed not to contact Ms H as long as she continues to pay the monthly 
payment plus £102.50  other than for letters it was obliged to send, such as annual 
statements and notifications of changes to the monthly payment. But if for any reason Ms H 
couldnt keep to the arrangement, it would need to contact her then. 
Santander explained that its litigation department failed to include the interest on arrears in 
its court claim, which is why the wrong figures were given to the court. It said that because of 
this, and because as a result the interest wasnt included in the court order, this would mean 
that in fact Ms H wont be charged interest on the arrears. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im pleased that Santander accepted what I said it should do to assist Ms H. Its 
disappointing that even though it did so, and even though the court order was in place, it 
again wrote to Ms H about the arrears after my provisional decision was issued. Its likely 
that was an automated letter. It will need to put steps in place urgently to make sure that 
doesnt happen again. 
Santander has confirmed that it was its error that led to the arrears interest not being 
included in its court claim, and therefore not forming part of the court order. This mistake caused Ms H further distress when Santander told her it would expect her to pay the interest 
on top of the court order. Its confirmed it wont now charge Ms H this interest even though  
as I explained in my provisional decision  it was entitled to do so. Im satisfied thats a fair 
way of putting this part of Ms Hs complaint right. 
Santander has also agreed to backdate the assist rate to October 2019. Its explained that it 
generally offers this rate for a maximum of five years. Its said that it can review things after 
five years  in late 2024 and if Ms H is still in need of additional support, it can offer a further 
five years then. I think thats fair; it strikes a reasonable balance between giving Ms H 
certainty and stability, and allowing Santander to keep things under review. It will need to 
give careful thought to discussing matters sensitively with Ms H in 2024. And in the 
meantime it should not contact her while she maintains the arrangement, except for letters 
and statements required by regulation. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
Santander UK Plc to:
Re-work the mortgage to ensure that the interest on arrears not included in the court 
order is not added to Ms Hs mortgage balance;
Apply the assist rate to Ms Hs mortgage for five years, backdated to 1 October 2019, 
using any resulting overpayment to reduce the arrears;
Allow the mortgage to continue on the assist rate until 1 October 2024. In the run up 
to its expiry, Santander UK Plc may contact Ms H to determine whether an extension 
of the assist rate is appropriate, but should do so carefully and sensitively. If Ms Hs 
circumstances have not changed by then, it should extend the assist rate.
Provided Ms H continues to comply with the suspended possession order by paying 
her contractual monthly payment plus £102.50, not contact Ms H except to send 
statements and letters required by mortgage regulation, and except to discuss an 
extension of the assist rate in 2024. Where it does need to contact her, it should think 
carefully about how to do so and clearly and sensitively explain what it needs and 
why  not just send automated letters.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman