DRN-3495160
The complaint
Mr S complains HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) reviewed and placed a block on his accounts. 
And this led to him suffering financial loss as he couldnt complete a property transaction 
overseas. 
What happened
In December 2020, HSBC reviewed Mr S accounts and placed blocks on them. Eleven days 
later, HSBC completed its review and removed any blocks. 
Unhappy with HSBCs actions, Mr S complained. In short, HSBC responded that it had 
placed a block on the accounts due to its legal and regulatory requirements, and it cant be 
held responsible if things go wrong when doing so. 
Mr S referred his complaint to this service. 
Later in March 2021, HSBC sent Mr S a notice of closure letter for his accounts. Mr S was 
given at least sixty-days notice his accounts would be closed. 
One of our Investigators then looked into Mr S complaint.  In summary they found: 
- HSBC had reviewed the account in line with obligations placed upon it, and the terms 
of the account. It wasnt obliged to provide any notice nor explanation when it did this
- The review was carried out promptly and without undue delay. The blocks were 
removed in reasonable time
- HSBC was entitled to close the accounts and did so in line with the terms of the 
account.  HSBC is under no obligation to explain why it decided to close the 
accounts. 
- HSBC gave Mr S a reasonable amount of time to make other arrangements 
Mr S did not agree with what our Investigator said. He says it wasnt his fault he was 
prevented from making a payment to secure a property; and HSBC had closed his accounts 
due to regulatory procedures unrelated to him. He adds HSBC unilaterally decided to close 
his accounts. 
As Mr S remains unhappy, his complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to not uphold Mr S complaint.  I know this will disappoint him, 
so Ill explain why. 
Banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of an 
existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to restrict, or in some 
cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Having looked at HSBCs reasons to review and block Mr S accounts, Im satisfied it acted 
in line with any legal and regulatory obligations placed on it. Im also satisfied it has acted 
fairly in doing so. Im not aware of any obligation which means I must disclose HSBCs 
reasons. 
A bank is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with a bank. 
But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms 
and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account, which HSBC and Mr S had to comply with, say that 
it could close the account by giving at least two months notice. And in certain circumstances 
it can close an account immediately or with less notice. Im satisfied HSBC gave Mr S at 
least sixty days notice. Its worth noting Mr S could have closed his accounts with HSBC in 
the same way.  
Im also satisfied, from the information Ive been given, that HSBC acted fairly in deciding to 
end its customer relationship with Mr S and thereby close his accounts. 
Mr S says this matter has caused him financial loss. I dont undervalue this matter wouldve 
caused Mr S loss and no doubt some difficulty. But having looked at whats happened in this 
particular case, I can see no basis on which I might make an award against HSBC given I 
dont think it failed to properly follow its own procedures when it closed Mr S account. 
So Im not going to ask HSBC to compensate Mr S for his financial loss nor for any trouble 
and upset HSBCs actions may have caused.
In the interest of completeness, and for clarity, Id emphasise HSBC carried out its actions 
given legal obligations placed on it based on Mr S accounts  not anything unrelated as he 
asserts.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman