DRN-2957607
Complaint
Mr F is unhappy with what Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) has agreed to do to put things right 
as a result of unfairly adding interest, fees and charges to his overdraft when it ought to have 
been apparent he couldnt pay them.
  
Background
Mr F had two Lloyds current accounts both of which had agreed overdrafts on them. When it 
investigated Mr Fs complaint, Lloyds agreed to write off the outstanding balance on account 
ending 668 and also remove any adverse information from Mr Fs credit file. But as Lloyds 
didnt think it had done anything wrong in relation to account ending 568 it didnt take any 
action in relation to this account, other than refunding an overpayment on account 668 which 
had already been closed to this account. Mr F remained dissatisfied at Lloyds response to 
his complaint about account ending in 568 and referred his complaint to our service. 
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Fs complaint about account ending in 568 and thought 
that Lloyds should rework Mr Fs account to remove the effect of all the interest fees and 
charges added to his overdraft from May 2016. This because she thought that Lloyds ought 
to have taken corrective action on the facility at this point. 
Lloyds accepted our adjudicators view and worked out that Mr Fs outstanding balance 
would reduce. But Mr F disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
As the parties have reached a mutually acceptable outcome on the complaint about account 
ending in 668, this decision is only looking at the complaint about the account ending in 568.    
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Lloyds has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr F is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have.
So where a business continued to allow a consumer to use a credit facility which it should 
have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position 
theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that credit. This 
means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any credit 
from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. And if those interest 
and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year.
In this case, the amount Mr F has been left with an outstanding balance even though the 
credits hes made to the account have been factored in and hes been refunded all of the 
interest, fees and charges applied. So while Mr F has been left with a balance on his 
overdraft and he might be unhappy with this, Lloyds has done what Id normally expect it to 
do here.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
continued to provided credit it shouldnt have (such as here), we can and will tell it to do 
something different and/or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what 
would be fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case.
Mr F says Lloyds should do something different here. And he wants Lloyds to take the same 
action it did on his other account.  
Ive thought about what Mr F has said. I dont know why Lloyds decided to write off the debt 
on his other account. But, in this case, all the interest, fees and charges Lloyds shouldnt 
have added have been removed from the overdraft. Ive thought about what Mr F has said 
about his income and what some of the funds he borrowed were used for. But these are 
amongst the reasons why Mr Fs complaint about his overdraft was upheld in the first place. 
And what it doesnt change is that what Mr F has been left with to repay are the funds which 
he used. I think its perfectly fair and reasonable to expect Mr F to repay them. 
Ive also thought about what Mr F has said about his credit file. But I think that it would be 
unfair to Lloyds and Mr F, unreasonable its logic and also inaccurate if I asked Lloyds to 
amend Mr Fs credit file in this way  as that doesnt reflect what actually happened, or will 
happen here.
In making my decision, Ive considered that Lloyds removed all adverse information relating 
to the overdraft Mr Fs other account. But that is a matter for Lloyds. And my role here is 
limited to determining whether what Lloyds has agreed to do for Mr F, in relation to this 
account, is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this particular complaint. 
By asking Lloyds to remove any adverse information here, Id be asking it to record 
inaccurate information and telling it to record that Mr F doesnt have an outstanding balance. 
Ive thought about what Mr F has said about the adverse information recorded hampering his 
ability to access further finance. But I think that recording that this overdraft was settled in full 
when an outstanding balance will remain, will result in wholly inaccurate information being 
recorded, as it would make it look like he owes less than he actually does. It would also 
increase the possibility of him obtaining further funds. 
I think that reaching such findings in this case would be counterproductive and arguably not 
in Mr Fs best interests, or those of any potential future lender. So having carefully thought 
about everything, including everything Mr F has told us, Im not going to ask Lloyds to 
amend Mr Fs credit file in the way he wants. This means that Lloyds can and should record 
that an outstanding balance remains on Mr Fs overdraft on account ending in 568.
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what Lloyds has already agreed to do to put 
things right for Mr F is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his case and Im not 
requiring it to do anything more. As this is the case, its up to Mr F to decide whether he 
wishes to accept Lloyds offer.
  
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Lloyds Bank PLC has already agreed 
to do to put things right for Mr F is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of his case. So 
Im not requiring it to do anything more.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman