DRN-3689406
The complaint
Mr B complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) unnecessarily blocked a faster 
payment and failed to reasonably explain why. 
What happened
In April 2022 Mr B tried to make a faster payment to a business account. Mr Bs told us the 
business he was seeking to pay is run by a family member and that he is a director. 
RBS says its fraud prevention systems picked up the payment for further checks. RBS says 
it attempted to contact Mr B who later called back. Mr B was asked to attend branch with 
evidence verifying the faster payment he wanted to make. The payment wasnt made and Mr 
B complained.
RBS sent Mr B a final response but didnt agree it had made mistakes by placing restrictions 
on his account. RBS also said a call had been disconnected during one of its conversations 
with Mr B and apologised.
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Bs complaint. They thought RBS had dealt with 
Mr Bs case fairly and didnt ask it to take further action. In response, Mr B asked to appeal 
and said RBS had failed to adequately explain why it blocked his payment. Mr B also said 
the funds were being paid to a business account of which he is a director. Mr B also said 
RBS shouldve tried to contact him after it blocked the payment. As Mr B asked to appeal, 
his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs told us the faster payment was initiated for entirely genuine reasons and I dont doubt 
that to be the case. I understand why Mr B is upset his faster payment didnt go through as 
planned and can see the issues raised caused him some inconvenience. But we can all 
experience some inconvenience in our day to day lives from time to time and I need to 
consider whether RBS actions were unnecessary or unreasonable. 
Mr Bs response to the investigator explained RBS had failed to adequately explain why the 
payment didnt go through. But RBS final response provides the basis on which the payment 
was held. It says all payments are risk scored by RBS systems to help reduce fraud. RBS 
has confirmed theres a changing criteria for these checks which are regularly updated. And 
RBS has confirmed the faster payment was picked up by its fraud preventions systems for 
verification before approval. 
I understand Mr B may want a more comprehensive answer. But fraud prevention is a matter 
of commercial sensitivity and Im not persuaded RBS decision not to limit the detail given is 
unreasonable. Im satisfied RBS fraud prevention systems picked up the payment in 
question for further checks as claimed. Im sorry to disappoint Mr B but Im satisfied RBS 
had a legitimate reason to block the payment and carry out further checks. 
Ive listened to the calls Mr B had with RBS and heard the agent asking detailed questions 
about the circumstances of the faster payment. Its clear Mr B became frustrated with the 
questions asked, but as Im satisfied there was a legitimate reason to carry out further 
verification checks Im not persuaded RBS acted unreasonably. 
Mr Bs told us the funds were intended for a business account that he is the director for. But, 
thats not something RBS was aware of when Mr B instructed the faster payment. And, as 
Ive noted above, the payment was legitimately selected by RBS fraud systems for further 
checks. 
The initial call between Mr B and RBS was cut off but later continued. RBS has confirmed it 
didnt cut off the call and Im satisfied thats the case. Mr B was able to call RBS back later 
and discuss the faster payment. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B as I accept the blocked payment and online banking facility did 
cause some inconvenience to him. But Im satisfied RBS acted in line with its terms in order 
to try and protect Mr Bs account. I appreciate the payment in question was genuine, but I 
havent been persuaded RBS actions were unfair or caused an unreasonably level of 
inconvenience for Mr B. As Im satisfied RBS dealt with Mr Bs complaint fairly Im not telling 
it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman