DRN-4037981
The complaint
Mr L complains that Lloyds Bank PLC lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr L complains about a loan for £15,000 advanced by Lloyds in September 2019. The loan 
was repayable by 59 monthly repayments of £406.09.
Mr L complained that the lending was irresponsible. He said he didnt think Lloyds had 
carried out enough checks to make sure the loan repayments were affordable for him.
Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks before lending to Mr L and that the information it obtained showed that the lending 
was affordable.
Mr L wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt think Lloyds had acted unfairly. He said that although he thought 
Lloyds shouldve carried out further checks, the information Lloyds wouldve gathered from 
further checks didnt suggest that the loan was unaffordable for Mr L.
Mr L didnt agree. He said his income and outgoings at the time didnt leave him with enough 
to repay the loan. He said he had a lot of other debt at the time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set out on our 
website, including the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. Ive had this 
approach in mind when considering Mr Ls complaint.
Lloyds needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to ensure it didnt lend to Mr L 
irresponsibly. This meant it shouldve  carried out proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr L could afford to repay the loan in a  sustainable way. These checks could take into 
account a number of things, such as the loan amount, the repayment amount and Mr Ls 
income and expenditure.
Lloyds carried out some checks before lending to Mr L, but given the size of the loan and the 
term, I dont think these checks were detailed enough.
I think it wouldve been proportionate for Lloyds to have carried out further checks to verify 
Mr Ls income and assess his essential expenditure.
This service asked Mr L to provide  his credit report and bank statements for the time when 
the loan application was made in order to see what proportionate checks wouldve shown, 
had they been completed.
Ive reviewed this information. The credit report shows that Mr L had three credit cards at the 
time of the loan application, a mail order account and an unsecured loan. The credit report 
sows that all accounts were up to date with no history of missed or late payments. Theres 
nothing to suggest that Mr L was under any financial pressure or struggling to make 
repayments.
Mr L used the Lloyds loan to refinance his debts, which included settling his loan and 
relaying one of the credit cards. So any affordability assessment wouldve taken this into 
account. The bank statements show that following the debt consolidation, Mr L wouldve 
been repaying £76 towards his credit cards and £17 towards his mail order account.
Ive also looked at Mr Ls bank statements to assess his essential expenditure. Essential 
expenditure includes things like rent/housing costs, utility bills, food and travel costs. Mr L 
has said that he wasnt left with enough income each month to afford the loan repayments. 
However, Mr Ls calculations are based on an expenditure figure which I think is larger than 
his essential expenditure, because hes included non-essential expenditure. Based on my 
assessment of Mr Ls income and expenditure, I dont think theres anything to suggest that 
the loan wasnt affordable for Mr KL.
If Lloyds had carried out proportionate checks, I still think it wouldve approved the loan on 
the basis that it was affordable for Mr L and there was no evidence to suggest that he 
wouldnt be able to sustainably make repayments. Because of this, Im unable to say that 
Lloyds lent irresponsibly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman