DRN-2214537
The complaint
Mr M complains about Revolut Ltd (Revolut) regarding it accepting his funds before 
verifying his identity, and the delay he subsequently experienced in having his funds 
returned. 
What happened
In January 2020, Mr M decided to open a Revolut account to use as a birthdays fund. 
He applied and deposited £10 into the account as part of the account opening process.
After he had deposited £10, he was asked to complete ID verification, requiring a driving 
licence or passport. He did not have access to these so decided not to proceed with the 
account opening. 
Mr M wanted to recover his funds. He used Revoluts chat function and initially spoke with 
an automated robot. Mr M attempted a number of commands to try to recover his funds and 
repeatedly received the same message which contained advice about closing his account. 
Mr M stated that he wanted to complain, and the robot then transferred him to an agent. 
The agent explained to Mr M that they were having some difficulties responding, but then 
went on to discuss Mr Ms request for his funds to be returned. 
The agent actioned the return of funds, around 22 minutes after Mr M began using the chat 
function. 
The agent explained that the funds would take up to 5 working days to be returned. 
Mr M was not happy that the funds had been debited from him immediately but would take 5 
days to be returned. He was also unhappy with the customer service because it had taken 
some time for him to reach a live agent, and he then felt that the responses were rude and 
unhelpful. 
Mr M contacted us. 
One of our investigators has looked into this matter and set out his view to the parties. This 
was that he did not think that Revolut had treated Mr M unfairly and he did not ask Revolut to 
do anything more. 
Mr M did not accept this view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have, in particular, looked at the text of the chat, and Mr Ms comments about his 
frustration. 
I understand Mr Ms frustration at encountering inconvenience when trying to open the 
account. He has explained that he had not anticipated that it would take additional 
information to open the account, and when he decided not proceed with the account I can 
appreciate that it would have been annoying to have to take further time to try to recover his 
funds. 
I do, however, have to consider whether Revolut has acted fairly and reasonably. 
As the investigator explained, Revolut is required to undertake checks on the identity of their 
customers as part of their regulatory obligations. These can sometimes seem onerous but 
are necessary for both the consumer and the business. 
I understand why Mr M found it frustrating that he was able to deposit funds before 
completing this, but I cannot say that Revolut was wrong to require a commitment to opening 
an account before commencing the process of validation. Revolut explained in one of the 
automated messages that it did not recommend closing an account as the process to open 
could be lengthy. Accordingly, whilst I understand why Mr M was frustrated, I cannot say that 
Revolut did anything wrong in taking the deposit before completing validation. 
Mr M also felt that it took too long to have his funds returned and that he experienced poor 
customer service when contacting Revolut. 
I again appreciate that he felt frustration at communicating with an automated response at 
first, but I have considered that transcript of his conversation and see that he was promptly 
passed to a live agent when he said he wanted to complain. He was connected to a live 
agent within 10 minutes of the beginning of the chat, and his funds return was put into action 
a little over 10 minutes later. I do not consider that this is an unreasonable delay. I 
understand why Mr M found it inconsistent that his funds were taken immediately but that it 
could take 5 days for the return to be completed but this is quite standard and I cannot say 
Mr M was treated unfairly. 
I also agree with my colleagues view that the communications from Revolut were polite and 
courteous and so I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint. I appreciate that this will be 
disappointing to Mr M, but I hope it clearly explains my reasons. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint and do not ask Revolut Ltd 
to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2020.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman