DRN-3245387
The complaint
Mr M complains about Ageas Insurance Limiteds handling of the matter when he reported a
breakdown on his roadside assistance policy.
Several other companies have been involved in this complaint, but as Ageas are responsible
for it, Ive just referred to Ageas in my decision.
What happened
Mr M says he bought a policy in March 2021 that included breakdown recovery for his
campervan. In May the campervan suffered a breakdown on the motorway. Mr M contacted
Ageas and was told there was no record of his policy. After some discussion he says it
agreed to assist with the recovery and take him to a destination of his choice at no additional
cost. When the recovery driver arrived, he was told a charge of £150 would apply.
Mr M refused to pay as he already had a policy to cover this scenario. He was taken to a
service station on the motorway, from where he arranged for a different breakdown recovery
service to take his campervan to be repaired and him and his partner home. When he
complained he was told a Gesture of trust had been agreed to take him to the service
station. He says he knew nothing about this. But later discovered this is the process Ageas
follows to recover a vehicle and passengers to a point of safety when a policy cant be
validated.
Mr M says he wasnt sent a copy of the complaint handling procedure when he asked for
this. In addition, he says there was a lot of confusion when he tried to complain, because of
the number of different companies involved. He feels the company should have a clearer
system for handling complaints. Mr M also thinks Ageas disclosed confidential information to
the recovery driver.
Ageas says its recovery team was unable to locate Mr Ms policy when he called. It says it
has procedures its staff must follow in these circumstances. This meant it could assist with
the recovery to a safe location, but payment in advance was required to recover the vehicle
to his chosen location. In these circumstances it says a refund will be provided when the
policy is verified, which it subsequently did. It has since paid £176 to Mr M for the cost of the
recovery he arranged.
The company says no confidential information was disclosed. It believes the outstanding
payment the recovery driver mentioned, was the advance payment required because the
policy couldnt be validated.
Mr M wasnt happy with Ageass response to his complaint and referred to our service. Our
investigator decided not to uphold his complaint. He felt the company took reasonable steps
to validate Mr Ms policy. Unfortunately, this was limited as it was a Sunday when the head
office was closed. As the policy couldnt be validated, our investigator thought Ageas had
acted in line with the policy terms in providing the assistance it did.
Mr M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
I issued a provisional decision in December 2021 explaining that I was intending to uphold 
Mr Ms complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I note from the policy schedule that Mr Ms cover started in March 2021.
This means his policy was in force for approximately two months prior to the breakdown,
which occurred in May. I understand Ageass recovery team was unable to locate the details
of Mr Ms policy when he called. It hasnt provided an explanation why this was the case.
The policy terms under the General Conditions section say:
Details of your cover may not reach us by the time assistance is required. In this unlikely
event, we will assist you however before assistance can be provided we will ask to take a
pre-authorisation on a credit or debit card for the estimated cost of the assistance. If we
receive confirmation that you have adequate cover the reserved funds will be released. If we
receive confirmation that you do not have adequate cover we will take payment for any
uninsured costs.
I acknowledge Ageass comments that the breakdown occurred on a Sunday and its
recovery team couldnt contact its head office, which was closed. This prevented it from
validating whether Mr M had cover in place.
I have thought about whether it was reasonable for the recovery team not to have access to
Mr Ms policy details.
The policy had been in place for around two months at the time of the breakdown. Its
reasonable to expect Mr Ms policy information to have been updated on Ageass system by
this time. I acknowledge what the terms say, but this doesnt appear to fit with these
circumstances where the policy had already been in place for around two months. I can
possibly understand an initial period, maybe in the first few days after a policy is agreed,
where records may need updating. But not after this length of time.
Mr M explains how he found the information he received from Ageass recovery team
confusing, and inaccurate. He says the call handler agreed he would be recovered to the
destination of his choice. But the recovery driver said this wasnt possible. He says it wasnt
explained to him what a Gesture of trust meant. And that he had no confidence in Ageas by
the time he was told an upfront payment was required to recover his vehicle. Particularly as
he already had cover in place to provide this service.
I can appreciate that breaking down on a motorway is stressful. Because Ageas didnt
update its records with Mr Ms policy details in a timely manner this meant it couldnt provide
the service it had promised, making the situation worse.
It appears Ageass communication of what Mr M should expect caused confusion. Based on
what Ive read I dont think confidential information was released to the recovery driver. I
think its likely his outstanding payment comment relates to the £150 recovery payment,
which was required because Ageas couldnt verify Mr Ms policy. I dont have recordings of
the calls to listen to. But on balance I think its reasonable to accept the companys
explanation of its procedures wasnt made clear to Mr M.Because of this its understandable why Mr M didnt want to pay Ageas more money at the
time of the breakdown.
The policy terms say:
If, in the opinion of the recovery operator, they are unable to repair the vehicle within 60
minutes at the roadside we will assist in the following way:
Either:  Arrange and pay for your vehicle and the passengers to be recovered to the nearest
suitable garage which is able to undertake the repair.
Or:  If the above is not possible at the time or the repair cannot be made within the same
working day, we will arrange for your vehicle and the passengers to be recovered to your
home address or original destination if preferred.
Mr M arranged for another company to recover his vehicle along with him and his partner.
Ageas has paid the invoice for this. I think this is fair, albeit based on the policy terms Ageas
should have arranged for the recovery at the time of the breakdown.
I note Mr M says he and his partner waited a further two hours at the service station once
they had contacted the alternative recovery company. I can understand that this caused
further frustration and inconvenience.
Mr M says he asked for a copy of Ageass complaints procedure on the day of the
breakdown. This wasnt provided. The company acknowledges this failure and says
feedback has been provided to the individual involved. I appreciate this was also frustrating
but I think its response to this point is fair.
In considering all of this, I dont think Ageas treated Mr M fairly. Because of its failure to
update its records in a timely manner, this created confusion during a stressful time,
resulting in distress, frustration and inconvenience. To acknowledge this Ageas should pay
£150 in compensation to Mr M.
Finally, Mr M talks about the confusing and poor handling of his complaint. Complaint
handling isnt a regulated activity in itself. While Im sorry to hear about the difficulty Mr M
had with Ageass complaints process, I cant consider this point
I said I was intending to uphold this complaint against Ageas Insurance Limited and require it 
to:
- pay Mr M £150 in compensation for the distress, frustration and inconvenience
caused.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Ageas didnt respond in the timeframe provided. 
Mr M responded to say he accepts my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Mr M accepted my findings and Ageas didnt provide any further comments, so my final 
decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
In summary I didnt think Ageas behaved fairly in not having a record of Mr Ms policy, and 
for the inconvenience, frustration and distress this caused him to arrange an alternative 
recovery service to attend.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Ms 
complaint. Ageas Insurance Limited must now:
- pay Mr M £150 compensation for the distress, frustration and inconvenience
caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman