DRN-4167289
The complaint
Mr S complains Zurich Assurance Limited (Zurich) unreasonably delayed the process and 
wasnt helpful when he wanted to cash in his pension, which led to a financial loss as the 
value fell. He says it failed to acknowledge his vulnerabilities and financial difficulty causing 
him additional stress. 
What happened
Mr S held a personal pension policy with Zurich, which was invested in its managed fund. He 
started it back in January 1976 with Hambro Life which is now part of Zurich. Mr S assumed 
it would pay out automatically on his 65th birthday in August 2022. Instead of an annuity, he 
wanted to take the plan as an Uncrystallised Funds Pension Lump Sum (UFPLS) in the 
2022/23 tax year, as he was due to start receiving benefits from an occupational and his 
state pension in 2023, so he wanted to minimise his tax liability. 
Zurich sent Mr S a wake-up pack in February 2020 to remind him his selected retirement 
date was two years away. It set out the process and his options and explained he could take 
benefits at any time up to age 75. 
In January 2022 Zurich wrote to Mr S to ask if he wished to take benefits from the policy, 
which was valued at the time at around £60,250. To do so, Mr S was required to complete 
the relevant claim forms and go through the retirement journey process on the telephone or 
complete a risk questionnaire. Mr S wanted Zurich to send him all the paperwork in one go, 
as he knew what he wanted to do. Mr S felt he understood pensions as hed sold them 
earlier in his career. Zurich told Mr S that taking his pension benefits was an important 
decision, so recommended he seek financial advice, and that going through the claim 
process was a regulatory requirement and couldnt be avoided. Zurich sent Mr S a 
retirement pack in March 2022 at which point his policy value was around £56,602. And it 
sent him another pack in June 2022 (value £54,942), reminding him of his approaching 
retirement date. Mr S didnt complete the paperwork sent with those packs. In November 
2022 Mr S decided he wanted to take the plan as an UFPLS rather than income. So in 
December 2022 Zurich sent him another retirement pack, with a plan value of around 
£56,240, including the relevant risk questionnaire which had to be completed before the 
claim form could be sent out, but Mr S didnt return this.  
In January 2023 Zurich wrote to Mr S again, with a plan value of £55,296. Mr S wrote back 
complaining about the service, and that Zurich hadnt sent him the forms together. He felt it 
was causing unnecessary delays by insisting he go through its rigid process when hed 
made his intentions clear. 
Zurichs final response letter in February 2023 mentioned it had responded in December 
2022 to Mr Ss complaint point that the policy didnt automatically pay out on his 65th 
birthday. It said funds werent automatically released at retirement age and a claim form 
must be completed. It explained the fund value could fall in line with market volatility, but 
Mr S could switch funds if he wished. 
Mr S wrote back to Zurich saying he didnt want to discuss things in a phone call as he found 
them stressful. In a further response in April 2023, Zurich explained that as Mr S hadnt 
claimed benefits, his planned retirement age had automatically increased to 75. He could 
take benefits when he wanted, if he completed the forms it had previously sent. Mr S asked 
why they hadnt been sent to him in time for his 65th birthday, and thought Zurich was being 
uncooperative, as hed written a number of times explaining what he wanted to do. 
 
In March 2023 Mr S complained to this service, and disclosed he was a disabled, vulnerable 
person due to financial difficulties and mental health issues. He said the money was needed 
to satisfy some debts he was increasingly worried about. As Mr S hadnt returned the risk 
questionnaire and claim form to Zurich in time he didnt receive the funds within the 2022/23 
tax year. 
In May 2023 Zurich sent a further claim form to Mr S by recorded delivery, which he did 
complete and return. Payment was made to him on 11 May 2023, based on a policy value of 
just over £56,964. Mr S received a net payment of just over £39,360 after income tax of 
£17,604 was deducted, as the rules allow 25% of any lump sum to be tax-free. Mr S wasnt 
happy with the amount he received, as the policy value had been higher in 2022, and he 
paid more tax than expected.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. He sympathised with Mr Ss 
situation but didnt think Zurich had done anything wrong. Hed seen no evidence Mr S had 
submitted the completed questionnaire and claim form in time to receive the funds around 
his 65th birthday. And Zurich had a responsibility to ensure Mr S understood the risks and 
implications of his choice to take his pension in full as a lump sum. 
Mr S said the investigator had issued his view too quickly without taking full account of his 
lengthy correspondence, nor his poor mental health and financial difficulties. He felt the 
investigator had simply sided with Zurich, so the case has come to me to issue a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I realise this will be disappointing for Mr S, so let 
me explain why.
Im sorry this has been a frustrating experience for Mr S. He told us he retired in 2012 on ill 
health grounds, and about some distressing events during his life, not described here to 
protect his privacy, but which have clearly impacted his health, wellbeing and personal 
relationships. I acknowledge he is a vulnerable customer in financial difficulty, who for 
various reasons finds dealing with important matters on the telephone and in writing quite 
stressful. Its clear he feels very strongly that Zurich hasnt helped him, and hes tried to bring 
his concerns to the attention of several unconnected public figures. Hes also engaged in 
frequent and lengthy correspondence with Zurich. 
I think Mr Ss complaint concerns a number of issues:
He expected the policy to pay out automatically when he turned 65
the process was lengthy and complicated, and Zurich wouldnt simply accept his 
instructions
Zurich didnt factor in Mr S being elderly, disabled and in financial difficulties
the length of time meant the policy fell in value and was also paid in the wrong tax-
year so Mr S paid additional taxSo Ill address these points in turn. Id also like to clarify that the investigator issued his view 
promptly as we try not to keep vulnerable consumers waiting for answers unnecessarily. But 
he had read and considered all the evidence provided by Mr S and Zurich, in light of 
regulatory requirements and industry best practice. 
The policy didnt automatically pay out on Mr Ss 65th birthday
Zurich says this point was addressed in a previous complaint Mr S made, but for 
completeness Ill include it here. Unlike a workplace pension which is payable from a 
particular age, most defined contribution pensions need to be claimed, usually up to age 75 
when the tax rules change. Zurich couldnt simply put Mr Ss plan into payment automatically 
on his 65th birthday. Everyones circumstances are different, some may still be working and 
contributing to the plan and so not yet be ready to retire. While Mr S was eligible to take 
benefits, Zurich couldnt know what he wanted to do until he responded to the wake-up pack.
The plan Mr S started as a young man in 1976 was set up to pay him a modest income for 
life by way of an annuity. But even if Zurich could automatically have established an annuity 
for Mr S, that isnt the option he wanted.
So Zurich needed to give Mr S clear information about his options to enable him to make the 
right choice. The wake-up pack reminded Mr S his selected retirement date was 
approaching, but he wasnt obliged to take his pension then if he didnt want to. And it 
explained what he needed to do to claim his benefits. This is what Id expect a pension 
provider to do, so I dont think Mr S was treated unfairly. 
The process took too long, the policy value fell, and payment was received in the wrong tax 
year
Ive explained why Zurich couldnt simply make an assumption about how and when Mr S 
wanted to access his pension. Once he decided to take benefits from his plan, he needed to 
consider his options, and decide on the most appropriate one for his circumstances (usually 
having taken advice from PensionWise or a financial adviser). Hed then need to go 
through the retirement journey questions, usually during a phone call, or complete the 
questionnaire to acknowledge he understood the risks involved, and finally complete the 
application for the option he wanted. And he might need to provide further information to 
enable Zurich to make the payment, for example to confirm his identity and his national 
insurance number. 
The wake-up pack dated February 2020 briefly explained Mr Ss options and said that it 
would contact him again six months prior to his chosen retirement date, at which point he 
could start the claims process. As promised in March 2022 Zurich wrote to Mr S with a 
reminder (headed Your retirement, your choice) that if he still intended to take his pension 
at 65 to give them a call to start the process. The letter gave Mr S five options including 
leaving his plan where it was, an annuity, drawdown (which Zurich doesnt offer) or taking 
the plan as a lump sum. It recommended taking advice or speaking to the free PensionWise 
service. It offered a phone number for queries and explained if Mr S didnt make his choice 
prior to his birthday Zurich would assume he wanted to delay taking his pension. A similar 
pack was sent out in June 2022.So I think Mr S was put on notice about what would happen 
if he didnt complete the claims process. 
Zurich has subsequently explained that Mr S had been told in 2018 in response to a 
separate complaint that he couldnt withdraw 25% of the plan value every year for four years. 
As Zurich didnt offer a drawdown option, so hed have had to seek advice and arrange to 
transfer the plan to another provider. It doesnt look like Mr S did seek advice. I think the packs Zurich sent Mr S were reasonably clear, and had he done as suggested 
and called Zurich to start the claims process it would have been completed far more quickly 
than it was. Mr S told Zurich in March 2023 he finds telephone calls stressful, in which case 
he needed to complete the risk questionnaire to ensure he understood the risks involved in 
the choice he wanted to make. 
Mr S didnt think that was necessary as hed previously held a pension selling licence so fully 
understood how pensions work. But the process applies to everyone, even people with a 
financial background, as firms must comply with strict regulatory responsibilities. And the 
rules have changed substantially since Mr S started his plan with Hambro Life over forty 
years ago, when at the end of the term hed have received an annuity, to pay him a fixed 
income for life. At that time it wasnt possible to move into a drawdown plan or take the funds 
as a lump sum (UFPLS), as the law didnt allow it.  
The introduction of the Pension Schemes Act commonly known as pension freedoms in 
2015, gave people more choice and flexibility over how they accessed their pensions, 
recognising an annuity doesnt suit everyone. But options other than an annuity run the risk 
of running out of money too soon. As taking pension benefits is an important, irrevocable 
decision, the regulator has insisted that providers like Zurich make their customers aware of 
the risks and pitfalls of the various options. Which is why Zurich recommended Mr S seek 
financial advice and offered to book an appointment with PensionWise (a government free 
advice service), which he chose not to accept. 
I think it was possible for Mr S to receive the funds in the 2022/23 tax year close to his 
birthday. But unfortunately I think the delay was caused by him failing to comply with the 
process as he didnt agree with it. But the risk questionnaire explained Zurich would send 
him further information based on his answers to the questions. I think this is reasonable, as 
each option may have different requirements. Mr S made Zurich aware of his vulnerabilities 
and in March 2023 said that he found phone calls stressful. But it offered the option of 
completing the forms and recommended he seek assistance from a free impartial service 
which I think was reasonable. Im not persuaded Zurich could have done more to assist Mr 
S, as it was legally required to ensure he understood the implications of his decision. 
I can see Mr S did complete and sign Zurichs risk warning questionnaire on 21 December 
2022. But he answered No when asked whether hed sought advice from PensionWise or 
a regulated adviser. He said he had other means to provide an income in retirement, so 
wanted to use this money to buy and restore a classic car, and to enjoy life. He didnt 
disclose at this point that he needed the money to urgently repay debts. I think Zurich would 
have been concerned that Mr S was at risk of losing his pension if his classic car project 
didnt succeed. It was obliged to ensure Mr S understood the risks of using his pension 
money for what appeared to be a non-essential purchase. 
So Zurich sent Mr S a document headed Risks and implications of taking a lump sum 
which set out a number of risks specific to this option. These included considerations such 
as making his income last, that he might pay additional tax, and the impact on his debts or 
means-tested benefits. It repeated that taking pension benefits was an important decision 
that Mr S needed to think carefully about. Mr S completed the lump sum risk warning 
questionnaire on 7 March 2023. On this form Mr S ticked Yes to say he had received 
regulated financial advice, including the comment that he has a pension selling licence 
following 25 years working for another provider. While it might have been the case in the 
past, according to the FCA register he isnt regulated to give financial advice now, and I think 
its likely he hasnt been since pension freedoms were introduced. So I see why Zurich 
needed to ensure Mr S understood the choice he was making. In this form Mr S admitted he needed the funds to clear his debts, and around this time he 
sent Zurich copies of chasing letters from his creditors, but I cant see Zurich would have 
been aware of his financial difficulty prior to this. Mr S also explained in February 2023 that 
he didnt feel comfortable to go online or use computers. But I think he still had time to 
complete the process in the 2022/23 tax year, had he followed the steps and completed the 
forms, rather than writing back to Zurich complaining at the delay. 
At the end of March 2023 Zurich told Mr S that 17 March was its cut-off date for ensuring 
payments were received in the 2022/23 tax year (which ended on 5 April) so any claims 
received after that would be processed on a best endeavours basis. It also sent a copy of 
the correspondence to the financial adviser firm named on Mr Ss policy, although I 
understand they no longer work for Mr S. 
In April 2023 Zurich wrote to Mr S acknowledging receipt of his questionnaire but it hadnt 
received a signed claim form.  Point 5.2 of the letter explained Mr S could take the policy as 
a lump sum (UFPLS) and point 5.3 explained that only 25% will be tax-free and Zurich will 
deduct income tax from the remainder. Zurich told Mr S it needed his National Insurance 
Number and bank details. I can see Mr S found this frustrating as he believed hed provided 
this information previously, but I think it was reasonable for Zurich to require a fully 
completed claim form. And as all the requirements hadnt been met before the deadline it 
wasnt possible for the money to be received within the 2022/23 tax year. I realise this was 
disappointing for Mr S, but I cant fairly say Zurich caused the delay here. 
Each time a pack was sent out it contained an indicative plan valuation which wasnt 
guaranteed, and the value fluctuated over time. Zurich explained Mr S could switch to less 
risky funds if he wished, but he didnt take this option. I can see the value fell substantially in 
June 2022 but then recovered slightly by the time Zurich received the relevant forms. I think 
had Mr S completed the process in full in a timely manner he could have received the funds 
in the 2022/23 tax year, but its not certain hed have received a higher policy value. I cant 
hold Zurich responsible for the delay or for any additional tax Mr S paid by receiving it after 
the end of the tax year.
In summary, I realise the process has been frustrating and distressing for Mr S and he didnt 
understand why he had to follow such a rigid procedure. But the checks and steps involved 
are to ensure Mr S was making an informed choice. While I appreciate it might not have felt 
like it to Mr S, Im satisfied Zurich wasnt deliberately preventing him accessing his pension 
or behaving in a fraudulent or corrupt manner. Instead they were acting in his best interests, 
and in line with their regulatory obligations. So Im not going to ask Zurich to do anything to 
put things right. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman