DRN-2936957
The complaint
Mr S complains that he was given unsuitable advice by Portal Financial Services LLP (PF) 
to transfer his Defined Benefit (DB) pension into a Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP) 
and to invest in high risk funds. He says he has lost out financially as a result.
What happened
Mr S contacted his DB pension provider because he wanted to take free cash (TFC) from 
his pension as he was in debt and wanted to buy a car. His DB scheme said he couldnt do 
this, so he contacted PF. 
In November 2011, PF carried out a fact find interview, recording the following information 
about Mr S:
He was in his mid-fifties and at the time unemployed. He was receiving benefits.
Most of his rent was covered by his benefits.
He had taken out a loan of £2,000 and was paying monthly repayments towards that.
His DB transfer value was around £110,000. This was his only pension.
PF noted that the critical yield required to match his DB scheme benefits following 
transfer was 7.7%.
He had a cautious attitude to risk (ATR).
He had a life insurance policy and no other assets or savings. 
PF sent Mr S a letter saying that because he would be giving up guaranteed benefits in the 
DB scheme, and given the critical yield needed to match the DB pension benefits, it didnt 
recommend that he transfer his pension. But, it also said that if Mr S completed some 
enclosed forms, it could provide him with advice on the basis that he was an insistent client.  
In December 2011, PF sent Mr S a recommendations report making the following 
recommendations:
 He transfer his DB scheme into a SIPP.
 He crystallise £60,000 of his pension fund so he could take £15,000 in TFC.
 He leave around £49,000 uncrystallised. At a later date he would then be able to 
release 25% of that part of his fund as TFC. 
 He invest his fund so he could take an income from it.  
PF went on to recommend that Mr S invest 85% and put 15% in cash deposit. It 
recommended the following investments:
 57.5% Raithwaites Hypa Fund 
 17.5% Venture Oil International 
 10% EOS Solar Energy 
 15% Cash Deposit
In December 2012, Mr S accepted PFs advice and signed the paperwork to set up the 
SIPP, take TFC and invest as recommended. 
In 2012, PF carried out a further fact find. This showed that Mr S wanted to take the 
remainder of his TFC entitlement.
In September 2015, Mr S spoke to PF and withdrew £4,000 from his SIPP.
In mid-September 2015, PF wrote to Mr S explaining that there had been problems with the 
investments held in his SIPP. It re-assured him these issues would be resolved shortly.
A few months later, Mr Ss adviser wrote saying that some of his investments were now 
illiquid and had been given a notional value of £1. He was sent valuations showing this.
Mr S called PF a number of times. He raised a formal complaint with PF. PF said Mr S 
complaint had been raised too late, given when he first became aware of issues with his 
investments. Mr S complained to this service. PF said that this service didnt have power to 
investigate Mr S complaint. One of our ombudsmen issued a decision on jurisdiction and 
concluded that as Mr S brought his complaint within three years of him becoming aware that 
he had cause to complain, his case was one that this service could investigate.
Our investigator then went on to investigate the merits of the complaint, concluding that it 
should be upheld because the recommendation to invest in high risk investments was not 
suitable for Mr S needs. 
PF didnt agree with our investigators view and so this complaint comes to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am going to uphold Mr S complaint, I will explain why.
PF said in its November 2011 letter it would not recommend Mr S transferring, but that Mr S 
could be treated as an insistent client if he still wanted to release money from his pension. 
It said it would be prepared to assist him as an insistent client.
Insistent client
There are clear rules to be followed when treating a customer as an insistent client. Thats 
because generally a person acting as an insistent client is doing something their adviser 
has recommended they dont do as its not generally considered to be in their best interests. 
Although PF sent forms to Mr S to complete to say he was an insistent client, signed copies 
of these have not been provided to this service. So, its not clear to me that Mr S did sign 
them and fully agree to be treated as an insistent client. In those circumstances, I cant fairly 
conclude that Mr S was an insistent client and/or understood what that meant.
Suitability of the transfer 
The investigator highlighted, the Financial Conduct Authoritys guidance on transfers out of 
DB schemes, pointing out that the starting point was that a transfer, will not be suitable. 
Further that a firm should only then consider a transfer if it can clearly show that it is in the 
best interests of the client.Mr S only had this pension (other than his state pension). He had a low ATR and a limited 
time to retirement. His capacity for loss was low, having no other assets or savings.  
Investment returns in lower risk products matching his ATR were likely to generate lower 
returns. The critical yield just to match Mr S guaranteed existing benefits at 65, was 7.7%. If 
he transferred, he was giving up guaranteed benefits and his income in retirement was 
dependent on the investment performance of his pension investments.
As explained by our investigator, at the time of advice, this service was publishing discount 
rates on our website to assist with loss calculations in upheld DB transfer cases. 
Businesses werent required to use these rates when giving transfer advice, but they 
wouldve provided a useful indication of the growth rates considered reasonably achievable. 
The investment return (critical yield) required to match the DB pension at retirement at age 
65 was around 6.3% per year. When the advice was given, the relevant discount rate was 
5.5% per year for someone in Mr S situation with the same length of time to go to 
retirement. The FCAs upper projection rate at the time was 9%, the middle projection rate 
7%, and the lower projection rate 5% per year.
Mr S main objective was to take his TFC in order to pay off his debts and buy a new car. He 
had tried to take TFC from his DB scheme, but this wasnt possible. He clearly 
acknowledged he wanted to access his pension.
Mr S also took the remaining TFC less than a year later, and a further amount from his fund 
in 2015. It certainly seems that Mr S had a clear need and wish to access the cash from his 
pension. He could only access the money in his pension fund, at that point, by transferring 
his pension. 
Transfer from DB scheme to SIPP
I cant see that PF provided Mr S with unsuitable advice in relation to the transfer of his 
pension scheme. I think he was given enough clear and fair information about what he was 
giving up to make an informed choice about whether he wanted to go ahead. So, I cant see 
that PF has done anything wrong in relation to this part of the advice.
High risk and unregulated Investments
PF also provided Mr S with advice on the investments it recommended he make following 
transfer. It recommended investing in high risk funds, and Unregulated Collective Investment 
Schemes (UCIS). 
PF had a duty to ensure its recommendation was consistent with Mr S cautious ATR and 
that it was suitable for his needs.
As our investigator pointed out, the fact-find interview referred to Mr S as a cautious investor 
and one: 
 With low to moderate levels of knowledge about financial matters and limited interest 
in keeping up to date with financial issues. 
 Uncomfortable with taking risk with their investments but may be willing to do so to a 
limited extent.
 Who preferred certain outcomes to gambles.In relation to unregulated investments our investigator highlighted the regulators good and 
poor practice report of 2010. It recommended restricting unregulated investments to 
between 3% and 5% of a portfolio with ongoing monitoring. PF recommended that Mr S 
invested 57.5% of his overall fund into a UCIS. 
Mr S had a disability and his income came from benefits. His capacity for loss was very low 
given his other means. The regulator said unregulated investments may only be suitable for 
a very select group of individuals, for example, certified high net worth investors or even 
sophisticated investors. Mr S clearly didnt fit into either of these categories. Unregulated 
investments are considered high risk. By recommending these funds, Mr S was exposed to 
a level of risk beyond his ATR. 
PF had to provide Mr S with suitable advice about the investments, taking into account his 
circumstances and his ATR. I cant see that it provided suitable advice when it 
recommended that he invest a large proportion of his fund in unregulated investments.
I think Mr S has lost out financially as a result of what PF did wrong.
Distress and inconvenience
I think the unsuitable advice PF gave Mr S has caused him trouble and upset at a time when 
due to his personal circumstances he couldnt afford to take risks with his pension 
investments and he had limited time left until retirement to be able to try and make up any 
financial loss. I therefore consider that an award of £500 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused is appropriate in Mr S circumstances. This is in line with other awards made by this 
service.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr S as close as possible to 
the position he would probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
Mr S appears to have chosen to transfer away from the DB scheme, even though PF made it 
clear that he may not be acting in his own best interests. So, I cant fairly hold PF 
responsible for that decision to transfer. Had Mr S been given more suitable advice about 
how to invest in a way consistent with his ATR, I think he would have invested differently in 
the SIPP, following transfer. It is not possible to say precisely what he would have done, but 
I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr S 
circumstances and objectives when he invested.
To compensate Mr S fairly PF should:
Compare the performance of Mr S' investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
PF should also pay any interest set out below.
If there is a loss, PF should pay into Mr S' pension plan, to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. PF shouldnt pay the compensation into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.If PF are unable to pay the compensation into Mr S' pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr S' actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
For example, if Mr S is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr S would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
In addition, PF should pay Mr S £500 for due to the stress and inconvenience caused 
by the impact this has had on his pension fund so close to his retirement age.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr S in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If PF consider that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much 
its taken off. It should also give Mr S a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus Benchmarkfrom 
(start date)to 
(end date)additional 
interest
Mr S SIPP mixedaverage rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate of 
settlementnot applicable
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If, at the end date, the investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value 
should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. PF should take ownership of the 
illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This 
amount should be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as above.
If PF is unable to purchase the investment the actual value should be assumed to be nil for 
the purpose of calculation. PF may wish to require that Mr S provides an undertaking to pay 
PF any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must 
allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension 
plan. PF will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, PF should use 
the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Apply those 
rates to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if PF total all those payments and deduct that figure at the 
end instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr S wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mr S' 
circumstances and objectives. It doesnt mean that Mr S would have invested only in 
a fixed rate bond. Its the sort of investment return a consumer could have obtained 
with little risk to the capital. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr S complaint and order Portal Financial Services LLP to put things right as set 
out above..
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman