DRN-4111946
The complaint
Miss S complains that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited cancelled her motor insurance 
policy and didnt tell her that she would need to disclose this to future insurers. She wants 
the cancellation marker removed. 
What happened
Miss S took out a policy with Skyfire and it twice asked her for documents to validate her 
policy, but Miss S didnt provide these. Skyfire then cancelled the policy and notified Miss S 
of this. But Miss S thought the policy had been cancelled by mutual agreement. She said 
she didnt realise she would need to report this to future insurers. When she did, she was 
unhappy that her premiums increased. Skyfire offered Miss S £75 compensation for not 
telling her that she would need to declare the cancellation. 
our investigators view
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought the 
cancellation had been unfair because Skyfire hadnt warned Miss S that the policy would be 
cancelled unless she sent in her documents. And she thought Skyfire hadnt notified Miss S 
about the cancellation. 
She thought Skyfire should remove records of the cancellation, and charge Miss S the fee it 
would have charged if she had cancelled the policy herself, refunding any difference and 
paying interest accordingly. She thought its offer of £75 compensation for not telling her she 
would need to notify future insurers about the cancellation was fair and reasonable. 
Skyfire replied that it had cancelled the policy correctly as Miss S hadnt complied with its 
validation checks and then it had charged the correct fee. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss S 
and to Skyfire on 12 April 2023. I summarise my findings:
I could understand Miss S felt frustrated that her premiums had increased significantly 
because of the need to disclose the cancellation of her policy to her insurers. 
The Investigator had explained that this service believes that insurers should take 
reasonable steps to ensure that policy holders are told that their policy has been cancelled 
as this will have serious consequences for them and expose them to possible court action. 
So I looked to see whether Skyfire cancelled Miss Ss policy fairly and reasonably and in 
keeping with her policys terms and conditions. 
I thought it was fair and reasonable, and in keeping with the policys terms and conditions, 
for Skyfire to request documents to validate Miss Ss policy. Skyfire said it asked Miss S 
twice for her validation documents, but she didnt provide these. I looked at the letters 
Skyfire sent to Miss S on 29 July 2019 and 5 August 2019. They included a list of the 
validation documents it required and details about how to obtain and provide them. Both 
letters also stated:
If we dont receive the above documents by 19 August 2019, your policy will be cancelled 
and, in accordance with the policy terms and conditions, an administration fee of £75 will be 
charged. Your insurance is based upon the information given when you bought the policy.
So I thought Skyfire notified Miss S that unless the documents were provided, her policy 
would be cancelled, and it gave her ample warning of this. But Miss S didnt then provide the 
documents. 
On 12 August 2019, Skyfire emailed and wrote to Miss S again stating:
We are therefore writing to let you know that your car insurance will be cancelled with effect 
from 19th August 2019, at which time all policy benefits end. In accordance with the terms 
and conditions a cancellation fee of £75 will be charged. This will be taken from any refund 
you are owed.
You can still avoid this action by providing the documents we asked for by 19th August 
2019.
So I thought Skyfire gave Miss S seven days notice of the cancellation of her policy as 
required by the policys terms and conditions. 
Miss S said Skyfire rang her on that day to tell her that the policy would be cancelled unless 
she provided her documentation. And she said the policy was cancelled by mutual 
agreement. 
But I looked at Skyfires file and I couldnt find any confirmation of this. Skyfire said it 
wouldnt retain phone records from 2019, which I thought wasnt unreasonable. So I couldnt 
ask it to check for a call on its system. And Skyfire confirmed that it wouldnt call customers 
to tell them that their policy would be cancelled as its an online company. Skyfire then 
cancelled the policy and applied a £75 administration charge.
On 6 September 2019, Skyfire wrote to and emailed Miss S again to tell her that the policy 
had been cancelled on the date it had previously notified her, 19 August 2019. So I was 
satisfied that Skyfire cancelled the policy correctly and provided Miss S with fair and 
reasonable notice of this. 
Miss S evidently received Skyfires letters as she hasnt raised this as a concern. And I 
couldnt see that she provided Skyfire with the requested documents. Skyfire said Miss S 
had later paid the outstanding balance for her cover and there was no evidence that she had 
asked for the policy to be cancelled. So I was satisfied that Skyfire cancelled the policy fairly 
and reasonably and in keeping with the policys terms and conditions and that it charged her 
the appropriate cancellation fee. 
But Skyfire did agree that its notices hadnt told Miss S that she would need to disclose the 
cancellation to future insurers, and it paid her £75 compensation for this. I thought that was 
fair and reasonable as it was in keeping with our published guidance for the level of impact 
this error caused. 
Subject to any further representations from Miss S and Skyfire, my provisional decision was 
that I intended to not uphold this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Miss S nor Skyfire replied to my provisional decision. So, as Ive not received any 
further representations to consider, I can see no reason to change my provisional decision.
 My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman