DRN-3210338
The complaint
Mr K complained about the administration of his motorcycle policy and the service provided 
by Atlanta1 Insurance Services Limited (Atlanta) after he had an accident. Atlanta were Mr 
Ks broker for his motorcycle policy.  
What happened
Atlanta arranged Mr Ks motorcycle policy, which included additional cover for his helmet 
and leathers. The policy was paid for on a finance agreement using monthly instalments.
Mr K said he was given misleading advice when he first reported the accident to Atlanta. Mr 
K said he asked if hed need to cancel the policy and he said he was told it would be 
cancelled for him. Mr K said direct debit payments were taken by Atlanta for three further 
months, so he then cancelled his direct debit mandate.
Mr K said Atlanta made it impossible to make a claim under the helmet and leathers part of 
the policy. Mr K said he sent them several emails about making a claim and he said he 
questioned having to continue to pay monthly. Mr K said Atlanta always told him he had to 
claim by telephone. Mr K said he tried to make a claim over the phone numerous times, but 
the phone was never answered. Mr K was unhappy when Atlanta claimed hed only made 
two attempts to make a call to claim. Mr K was also unhappy Atlanta didnt pass on 
information to the insurer efficiently in order to allow his claim to progress.
Mr K said he received multiple letters, emails and text messages about an outstanding 
balance on his policy. However, Mr K said he spoke to the finance company who arranged 
the finance agreement, and the finance company told him there was no balance to pay.
Mr K said he raised a complaint on 4 January 2021, and he was told it would be resolved 
within 21 working days, but during that time he was charged the outstanding balance which 
he said was still under dispute. Mr K said this was charged automatically to his bank card 
and he said it caused him financial difficulties. 
Atlanta said on 5 November, it was informed Mr K had cancelled his direct debit for his 
monthly instalments. Atlanta said, when making a claim on your insurance policy for a fault 
accident, the full premium is due. Atlanta made several attempts to contact Mr K, but as no 
payment had been received it cancelled the policy on 17 December 2020, resulting in an 
outstanding balance of £136 after a £50 cancellation fee was added.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She thought the compensation paid by 
Atlanta was fair for the delays it caused in the separate claim for helmet and leathers. She 
thought Atlanta had made reasonable efforts to discuss the outstanding premium that was 
owed. She didnt identify any other areas of poor service. Mr K disagreed, so the case has 
been referred to an ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 10 November 2021. I said:
Before I set out my decision, its important to note this complaint is against Atlanta who 
acted as a broker for this policy. Therefore, my decision will only focus on activities that 
Atlanta would be responsible for. A broker would normally be responsible for the 
administrative and payment aspects of the policy.
There were other parties involved in this claim, including the insurer who handled the claim 
and decided whether the claim was accepted. There was also a finance company who 
provided a finance agreement. As neither of these roles were fulfilled by Atlanta, these 
activities will not be considered in my decision here.
I have considered this decision in two parts.
Collection of the outstanding balance
Mr K said Atlanta offered misleading advice  he said he was told his policy would be 
cancelled. I havent seen any evidence to support this and I think its unlikely this would 
happen, as it would be very unusual. So, whilst Im not saying it didnt happen, Im not 
persuaded it did, so Im not going to consider this any further.
Atlanta said it collected the outstanding balance in line with the policy terms. As Mr K had 
stopped his direct debit payments, it cancelled his policy. As this is allowed under his policy, 
I think this is fair. The policy allows Atlanta to add a £50 administration fee for this, as it was 
cancelled outside of the 14-day cooling-off period. So, I think its reasonable Atlanta have 
done this.
Atlanta set out that when a fault accident occurs the full premium is due. This is normal in 
the insurance industry and Atlanta have administered the policy in line with the insurers 
terms. So, I dont think it has been unreasonable in charging Mr K for this cost.
Whilst I think Atlanta has been correct in charging the £136, I have also looked at some of 
the communications that took place to see if I think it was reasonable in communicating this 
outcome to Mr K.
Mr K said hed spoken to the company that arranged the finance agreement and it had said 
no monies were owed to them. Atlanta has explained that once the policy is cancelled, the 
debt is passed to a debt collection agency. So, at that point the finance company would no 
longer show a debt against Mr K, so I dont think thats unusual.
Mr K said he wrote several letters to Atlanta asking about the monthly payments. I have 
seen some of these, but these were addressed to a few different parties, so Atlanta would 
probably only have seen one or two of these communications from Mr K. Its unclear whether 
Atlanta responded directly to Mr K on these communications. However, Atlanta said it 
communicated heavily with Mr K to try and contact him about the outstanding debt, which it 
has evidenced. I appreciate with the different parties involved in this relationship, it may have 
been confusing for Mr K. However, I think Atlanta have been reasonable in trying to make 
him aware of the impact of him cancelling his direct debit and in updating him on the 
outstanding payment due, so I dont think it has been unfair in charging Mr K the outstanding 
balance.
Mr K said the outstanding balance was taken directly from his card before his complaint had 
been resolved. Mr K said the complaint would be resolved within 21 days, but it appears that 
Atlanta took the payment ahead of this time. I dont think this was fair. Whilst I have 
explained the amount was justified, I do think Atlanta should have properly dealt with the 
complaint first before taking a payment automatically from Mr Ks bank card. Mr K has said 
this left him in some financial difficulty as he wasnt expecting the payment. Therefore, I do uphold this part of the complaint.
Customer service 
Mr K said it was impossible for him to make a claim on his helmet and leathers part of the 
policy. Unfortunately, in this decision, I cant consider anything to do with the claim with the 
insurer. Mr K would need to make a separate complaint against his insurer.
Mr K said he struggled to get through to the claim number provided by Atlanta. Mr K said he 
had tried to make many calls through to the claim lines. He was disappointed Atlanta 
challenged the number of times he tried to call. I can understand that, but I dont think it 
impacted on the outcome of what happened, so Im not going to consider that specific point 
any further. Atlanta did say the insurer were experiencing difficulties with their phone lines 
and it also said it provided input to the insurer of Mr Ks difficulty in getting through. So, I 
dont think Atlanta has done anything wrong here.
However, I do think Atlanta shouldve tried to help Mr K more with his claim. I dont think the 
literature issued by Atlanta was clear. The welcome letter sent to Mr K said there was only 
one number he needed to call after experiencing an accident. This was written in very large 
font as if to represent a special quality about the policy sold. Unfortunately, that wasnt true, 
as Atlanta then told Mr K had to ring a different number to his insurer for helmet and 
leathers. 
Atlanta has already apologised for not contacting the insurer for starting Mr Ks claim for 
helmet and leathers and for not passing the correct information on. It has paid Mr K £50 
compensation for this.
However, I dont think this offer has gone far enough in compensating Mr K. He has bought a 
policy to provide him with cover when he needed it and he wouldve expected his broker to 
have supported him in his claim, not to have hindered it. Therefore, I also, uphold this part of 
the complaint.
In summary, I think Atlanta has failed Mr K. I dont think it should have taken the money from 
him automatically. He seemed confused who the different parties were who were involved in 
the claim and I think Atlanta ought to have been aware of this from the communications Mr K 
sent. I think Atlanta shouldve waited until it had concluded on his complaint before taking Mr 
Ks payment. I also think it has fallen short in providing the support he shouldve expected 
when he was having difficulty making his claim. Therefore, I award compensation of £100 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused in the delay to his claim and the financial difficulty 
hes suffered by having a payment taken when he wasnt expecting it.
Responses to my provisional decision
Atlanta accepted my findings and didnt have anything to add.
Mr K didnt reply to my provisional decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision.
 My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Atlanta 1 Insurance Services 
Limited to pay Mr K:
£100  compensation for distress and inconvenience caused by the claim delay and 
financial difficulty (in addition to the £50 Atlanta has already paid).
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman