DRN-4021805
The complaint
Mrs M has complained about the poor workmanship of contractors supplied by her insurer 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited trading as More Than (RSA). 
What happened
Mrs M reported a crack in a window pane of her conservatory to her insurer RSA. RSA said 
it would consider the claim under the Accidental Damage section of the policy. RSA 
appointed a contractor to visit Mrs Ms home and they carried out replacement works to a 
pane of glass in the conservatory. 
Mrs M noticed a crack in another pane of glass after the works were completed, so she 
contacted RSA. She reported that the replaced pane of glass was a different colour to the 
rest as she had a protective film on all of the glass panels. 
RSA agreed that the replaced pane of glass had a colour mismatch and said it would 
arrange for the contractor to put this right. RSA said the contractor described the damage as 
being caused by thermal expansion. It didnt agree that damage to a second pane of glass 
had been caused by the contractor as it was in a different area. It said repairs to the second 
pane of glass would be treated as a second claim.
In June 2022 contractors returned to carry out interim safety repairs to the second pane of 
glass.
In July 2022 the contractor carried out further works. The following day Mrs M complained to 
RSA. She said the contractors had caused further damage to her conservatory roof. 
Mrs M asked us to look at her complaints. RSA gave consent for this service to look at both 
of Mrs Ms complaints although it hadnt issued a final response to the second complaint. 
Our Investigator thought the damage to the second pane of glass was more likely to have 
been caused by the contractors - in light of the roof cap damage caused by poor 
workmanship. 
So she recommended RSA arrange for the second pane of glass - and the roof repairs - to 
be rectified as part of the first claim. And she recommended RSA pay Mrs M £150 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mrs M accepted the Investigators findings. RSA didnt reply so the case was passed to me 
to decide. 
I asked RSA to provide photos of both damaged window panes and their location to support 
its view that the second window pane wasnt near to the area where repairs were carried out, 
which it did. 
I issued a provisional decision on 27 February 2023. I intended to uphold the complaint in 
part. I didnt think there was evidence to show the damage to the second pane of glass was 
caused by contractors working to replace the first pane of glass - due to the distance 
between them. I thought RSA should arrange for the damage to the conservatory end cap to 
be repaired and to pay Mrs M £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
RSA didnt reply to my provisional decision. Mrs M provided a response with further photos 
which have been very helpful. Mrs M disagrees with my provisional decision. In summary 
she says the order of which pane of glass was damaged first is incorrect. She was told by 
another contractor that the second pane of glass cracked because the first pane was forced 
in and added stress to the frame. They advised the crack could have happened on any of 
the panes of glass. 
When the contractors came to remove the second damaged pane, they were under the 
impression it was works included under the first claim. 
Mrs M is happy RSA accepts that the contractors caused damage to the end cap of the 
conservatory while removing the second damaged pane. And she accepts that the damage 
to the first damaged pane was caused by thermal expansion. 
But she said she hasnt been able to find a company that will provide a report to say what 
the cause of damage to the second pane was. The second damaged pane has been 
removed so they would be unable to comment on it. 
Mrs M says RSA hasnt been in touch with the company that applied the film to the 
conservatory windows, despite saying it had. Shes unhappy RSA hasnt sent a contractor to 
inspect the damage to the end cap roof of the conservatory - or to verify the cause of 
damage to the second window pane. 
So the case has been passed back to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the photos of where the damaged window pane under the first claim is - and 
where the damage to the second window pane is, which Mrs M says was caused by poor 
workmanship. 
In my provisional decision I said the first window pane is to the front of the conservatory. The 
second window pane is at the rear adjoining the wall of Mrs Ms home. I said Id consider any 
new representations Mrs M may wish to make, but based on this evidence, I couldnt safely 
conclude that its more likely the contractors caused damage to the second window pane as 
it isnt near to the first damaged window pane. 
In response, Mrs M says the first damage was to a pane at the rear adjoining wall and the 
second pane was at the front of the conservatory. Im sorry for any confusion caused here by 
the order I set out. But this doesnt change the fact that the two panes arent near each 
other. 
RSA says the contractors have advised the cause of damage to both windows is due to  
thermal expansion. RSA said it will therefore treat the damage being claimed to the second 
window pane as a second claim. And it said if Mrs M provides independent evidence by way 
of a report to show the cause of damage to the second pane is due to poor workmanship, it 
will reconsider the matter. I think this is reasonable. But I appreciate that it hasnt been 
possible for Mrs M to obtain an independent report. RSA wouldnt offer for its contractor to 
provide a report as they dont agree the damage was caused by their repairs. 
Mrs M says a contractor told her how the damage occurred to the second pane. But this isnt 
enough for me to be able to conclude that the cause of damage to the second pane was 
caused by RSAs appointed contractors carrying out repairs to the first pane. 
I understand Mrs Ms disappointment and frustration. But from the information available to 
me, I dont think RSA has acted unreasonably. So if Mrs M wishes to claim for damage to a second window pane, I think RSA is entitled to record and treat this as a second claim under 
the terms of the policy. This is a decision for RSA to take rather than the contractor. 
RSA accepts the contractors caused damage to the end cap of the conservatory. So I think 
RSA should arrange with Mrs M for these repairs to be done. 
The Investigator recommended RSA pay Mrs M £150 compensation for the inconvenience 
caused by the end cap damage and unfairly recording a second claim. In line with my 
provisional view, as I think RSAs approach to a second claim was reasonable, I think a fair 
compensation award for the inconvenience caused in having to report the damage and deal 
with the repairs to the end cap of the conservatory should be £100. 
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Ms complaint in part and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited 
trading as More Than (RSA) to arrange for the damage to the end cap of the conservatory to 
be repaired. 
For the distress and inconvenience caused by RSAs contractors workmanship, RSA should 
pay Mrs M £100 compensation. 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited trading as More Than must pay the compensation 
within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mrs M accepts my final decision. If it pays later 
than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to 
the date of payment at a simple rate of 8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman