DRN-1668152
The complaint
Miss G has complained about Cigna Insurance Services (Europe) Limiteds decision to stop 
offering its personal accident insurance policy.
What happened
In 2012, Miss G took out a personal accident insurance policy underwritten by Cigna. The 
policy would pay a lump sum benefit if Miss G were to suffer an accident which resulted in a 
fracture, dislocation, burns or death. The policy renewed in January each year.
In June 2019, Cigna wrote to Miss G stating that it had decided to stop offering the policy. It 
said that Miss G therefore would be unable to renew her policy when the current period of 
cover ended in January 2020.
Miss G complained to Cigna about its decision. She asked for a refund of all the premiums 
shed paid.
Cigna didnt uphold Miss Gs complaint. It explained that the decision to stop offering the 
policy was a commercial one which affected all policyholders. It was satisfied it had given 
Miss G sufficient notice to enable her to arrange future cover with an alternative provider if 
she wished. It saw no reason why it should provide a refund of Miss Gs premiums.
Miss G was unhappy with Cignas response. She referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. He was satisfied 
that Cigna had done nothing wrong.
Miss G didnt accept the investigators findings. She said the policy was a mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy for which her bank was responsible. She considered she 
should receive a refund of her premiums.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should first explain to Miss G that PPI policies are sold alongside a credit agreement and 
are designed to protect the repayments under that agreement. Miss Gs policy is not a PPI 
policy; it is a standalone personal accident insurance policy.
I should also explain that although the policy may have been offered through Miss Gs bank, 
it is underwritten by Cigna. Im satisfied that the correspondence concerning the policy which 
has been sent to Miss G makes that clear. And since it was Cignas decision to stop offering 
the policy, this complaint has correctly been set up against Cigna rather than her bank.
The policy is renewable each year. The terms of the policy explain that Cigna will provide
cover as described for the twelve month period of the policy. There is no promise that the
policy will continue to renew indefinitely. The policy does have a clause which states that 
renewal will not be offered to a policyholder who has reached the age of 85. However, I 
would not take this to mean that Cigna had promised to continue to provide Miss G with 
cover until she reached this age.
Cigna made the commercial decision to withdraw from the personal accident insurance
market. I am satisfied that it was entitled to do this. It was a decision which affected all its
policyholders. It was not specific to Miss G and Cigna is not obliged to continue to offer 
cover to Miss G.
Cigna wrote to Miss G more than six months before the policy was due to end. It explained
that it was doing this so she had sufficient time to find cover from an alternative provider 
should she wish. It also offered advice on how to find an alternative provider. I consider this
was reasonable. I see no reason why Miss G shouldnt have been able to take out cover with 
an alternative provider.
It is unfortunate for Miss G that Cigna has taken the decision to withdraw from the personal 
accident insurance market. However, I cant reasonably conclude that Cigna has done 
anything wrong. Im satisfied that if Miss G had needed to make an eligible claim during the 
time she was under cover, the policy would have paid benefit. This being the case, I see no 
grounds for saying that Miss G should be awarded a refund of any premiums.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 December 2020. 
David Poley
Ombudsman