DRN-3867916
The complaint
Mr P complains that Bapchild Motoring World (Kent) Limited trading as Big Motoring World 
(Bapchild) declined a claim he made on his motor warranty.
Reference to Bapchild includes its agents.
What happened
Mr P holds a motor warranty with Bapchild. When the oil warning light came on his car, he 
called Bapchild and was advised not to drive the car further. The car was taken to one of 
Bapchilds approved repairers and the fault was diagnosed.
Mr Ps car needed a new engine. So, he submitted a claim to Bapchild. But Bapchild 
declined it. It said the fault wasnt covered by the warranty.
Mr P complained but Bapchild didnt change its stance. So, he brought his complaint to us.
One of our investigators recommended Mr Ps complaint be upheld. They thought the failure 
was sudden and unexpected and so they thought it was covered by the terms and conditions 
of Mr Ps warranty. They recommended Bapchild pay Mr Ps claim and pay compensation for 
the distress caused by declining it unfairly.
Bapchild didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. So, the case has come to 
me.
I issued a provisional decision on the case which said I was minded to not uphold it. The 
reasons I gave were:
Mr Ps warranty with Bapchild covers him for sudden and unexpected mechanical or 
electrical breakdowns.
The engineers report says this fault was likely the cause of a progressive issue. It 
says the timing belt likely deteriorated and that this is a progressive concern not 
uncommon with Mr Ps model of vehicle.
The engineer also said they didnt consider the failure to be sudden. So while I 
appreciate to Mr P the failure was sudden and he took his car to be diagnosed as 
soon as a warning light came on, Im minded to say the failure was more likely than 
not, not sudden based on the findings of the engineer.
At the time of the failure, Mr Ps car had travelled 58,609 miles. The timing belt is 
recommended to be changed at 50,000 miles on Mr Ps car. The manufacturer says 
the timing belt needs to be changed at 100,000 miles, but that its highly 
recommended its changed at 50,000 miles. Therefore, Im minded to say the failure 
of the timing belt at 58,609 miles is not unexpected either.
Therefore, as the failure was neither sudden nor unexpected, its not covered by Mr 
Ps warranty.
I appreciate Mr P bought the car with it having travelled 52,047 miles, and the engine 
failed after just nine months of ownership, so its unlikely hed have needed to service 
the car in that time or had the opportunity to change the timing belt himself. And I 
also understand he purchased the car and the warranty from Bapchild. But, 
unfortunately for Mr P, that doesnt mean his claim is covered by the terms and 
conditions of this warranty.
Bapchild didnt respond. Mr P did and put forward a number of points. In summary, he said:
He never received an explanation of why the claim was declined from Bapchild and 
only found out from us.
He wasnt told about the policy exclusions or conditions at point of sale.
He was told numerous times he would be covered and that the engine was covered.
The car cant have had a thorough 200-point check prior to sale as described.
He questions whether the car was fit for sale in the first place.
He thought the only option he had was to pay for the repair. And that had he been 
told why the claim was not being paid he might have taken another course of action 
such as part exchange it or source repair elsewhere.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not departing from my provisional decision. Im not upholding this 
complaint. I understand this will be disappointing for Mr P. Ill explain my reasoning.
In this complaint Im looking at the actions of Bapchild in relation to his warranty. Im 
aware Bapchild sold the car  but Im not looking into whether the car was fit for 
purpose or what checks were completed before its sale. If Mr P remains unhappy 
about this aspect, he can raise this with Bapchild directly, or if the car was purchased 
on finance, with the finance provider.
I take Mr Ps points about not being informed about the policy terms on point of sale. 
I cant be certain what was discussed at point of sale, but only providing cover for 
sudden and unforeseen breakdowns is a common term in most policies. Im not 
persuaded that had it been more clearly explained to him, hed have taken any other 
course of action other than purchase the policy as he did.
I understand Mr Ps point about being told hed be covered and that the engine is 
covered. But I dont know the context of those conversations. The engine as a part is 
covered. But not for everything that goes wrong with it. And even if Mr P were told 
this particular claim would be covered, it doesnt mean that needs to be honoured. 
What carries most weight is the terms of the policy.
Mr P should have been told earlier the reason for the decline of his claim. But Im not 
persuaded that if he were, hed have acted differently. Hes said he might have, and 
he may well have. But I needed to be satisfied that on the balance of probabilities he would have. Ultimately all the options Mr P has set out  part exchanging the car, 
taking it to another garage  were available to him. I understand Bapchilds actions 
contributed to the choice he ultimately made  paying for the repair at the repairer 
who repaired it. Mr P knew his claim was declined; Im not persuaded that knowing 
why it was declined would have caused him to take a different action.
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision outlined above  this claim is not 
covered by Mr Ps warranty.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman