DRN-3975599
The complaint
Mrs B complains that she was mis-sold membership of a long-term holiday programme. 
Because she paid for the membership in part with her credit card, issued by National 
Westminster Bank Plc, she says that she has a claim against it in the same way as against 
the seller.
What happened
In December 2012 Mrs B was on holiday with her husband in Jamaica. In the course of that 
holiday, they agreed to buy membership of the Bahia Principe Privilege Club (the Club) for 
US$14,995. Mrs B used her NatWest credit card to pay US$3,874 of that  just under £2,500 
when converted. The balance was paid by way of a loan from the seller, which Mrs B 
refinanced soon afterwards.
Ill discuss the relevant terms of the sale agreement later in this decision, but the 
membership entitled Mr and Mrs B to a junior suite in the Clubs hotels for one week a year 
for 30 years.
Mr and Mrs B used their membership on several occasions, but their experience was not 
generally what they had expected. In or about December 2018 they engaged the services of 
a business, which Ill call W, to seek refunds of the sums they had paid for the membership 
and associated costs and to arrange for their membership to be relinquished. W contacted 
NatWest, saying that Mrs B had a claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974. NatWests response was to say that it did not believe there was sufficient evidence 
of misrepresentation and so the claim should not succeed.
It appears that W did not keep Mrs B informed of what it had done, so she referred the 
matter to NatWest herself. In doing so, she provided quite a lot more detail than W had 
done, but NatWest was still not persuaded that she had a valid claim for misrepresentation 
or breach of contract. Mrs B referred the matter to this service.
In doing so, she said:
She and Mr B had been subjected to a pressured sale.
Accommodation had not been of the standard which was promised.
It had not been possible to book the accommodation she and Mr B had wanted 
through RCI, an exchange programme.
The same accommodation can now be booked for less than the price offered to 
members.
She and Mr B were not always given the best rooms available.
Rooms were not equipped as they should have been, and they were not offered 
free airport transfers as they had been promised.
They were promised early check-in and late check-out times.
On more than one occasion building works were ongoing at the hotel  once 
when she had been reassured they had been completed.
It had not been possible to move club weeks into the RCI programme until she 
and Mr B had been members for six months.
Our investigator took a similar view to that which NatWest had taken. She did not think there 
was sufficient evidence of misrepresentation and that the banks response to the claim had 
been fair. She did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mrs B didnt accept the 
investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the case.
In February 2019, the Club offered to release Mr and Mrs B from their membership, if they 
agreed not to pursue their claim against it.
One of our investigators considered what had happened but did not recommend that the 
complaint be upheld. Mrs B did not accept the investigators assessment and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case. I did that and issued a provisional decision, in which I said:
 Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
One effect of section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act is that a customer who has a claim 
for breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain 
conditions, bring that claim against a credit provider. Those conditions include:
that the credit financed the contract giving rise to the claim, either in whole or in part; 
and 
that the credit was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the credit provider and the supplier. 
Credit includes the use of a credit card account, and the arrangements under which 
suppliers are able to take credit card payments are, through membership of card schemes 
(in this case, Mastercard), sufficient to constitute pre-existing arrangements. 
The supplier in this case was a Panamanian company, White Bay Trading Corp (White 
Bay). The card payments appear to have been taken by Bahia Principe. It is not clear 
whether that is merely a trading style of the Panamanian company, a different company 
altogether, or a company linked to White Bay. Because of that, there is some doubt as to 
whether Mrs Bs card payment was made under pre-existing arrangements between 
NatWest and White Bay and, therefore, whether section 75 applies at all. The bank may be 
able to provide further information on the point. 
Section 75 can however apply where the supplier and the business which takes payment are 
associates of each other (defined in section 184 of the Consumer Credit Act). A company 
is an associate of another if one controls the other or if they are both controlled by the same 
people or by associates of those people. 
The information available about companies registered in Panama is very limited. I have not 
identified any clear link between White Bay and Grupo Piero (the group which runs Bahia 
Principe) and which would lead me to conclude that they are associates. Given the 
uncertainty over the identity of the recipient of the credit card payment, however, I have 
nevertheless considered what Mrs B has said about the sale and subsequent events. 
The membership agreement
The December 2012 agreement was described as a Membership Acquisition Agreement 
and was made between Mr and Mrs B on the one hand and White Bay on the other. It was made up of three parts: the agreement itself; a Confirmation Document for the Vacation 
Club Program; and a promissory note. 
The promissory note is not in my view directly relevant to any of the issues in this complaint, 
so I wont comment further on it. 
The Acquisition Agreement included the following:
Mr and Mrs Bs membership included  the use of 30 weeks, Gold season, in Unit 
Type Junior Suite which may be utilized at a rate of 1 week(s) each year, during thirty 
(30) consecutive years (clause 1). 
Mr and Mrs B could only cancel the agreement if they could prove that White Bay had 
not fulfilled its obligations under it (clause 10).
The Acquisition Agreement, Confirmation Document and Promissory Notes were the 
only valid agreements between the parties. The Club would not recognise any other 
agreement, written or oral (clause 11).
The agreement would be subject to the laws of Panama (clause 12).  
I should note at this point that I have been provided with pages 1 and 3 of the agreement; 
page 2 (clauses 3 to 8) is missing. 
The Confirmation Document included these provisions which are relevant to the complaint:
An annual service fee would be payable (paragraph 1). 
The Club could modify products, services or hotels forming part of the vacation 
programme (paragraph 2).
The first use of the programme would be 6 months after the acquisition date (paragraph 
3).
The decision to join the Club was not made as a result of coercion (paragraph 4).
The Club may offer land transportation at a preferential rate (paragraph 6). 
The Club would pay affiliation fees to RCI for two years (clause 7).
The Member understood the term Buyers Remorse (clause 10).
All questions had been answered to the Members satisfaction (clause 12).
Copies of the Acquisition Agreement, the Confirmation Document and the Promissory 
Note had been provided (clause 13).
The Club would not recognise the validity of any document signed without the authority 
of the Club (clause 14).   
Gold Season membership entitled the member to use weeks in May, June, September, 
October, November and up to 20 December (Paragraph 22). 
A master suite comprised two adjoining rooms, with two beds in one and one bed in the 
other; a junior suite comprised one room with one or two beds and a sitting area. 
Other documents
Mrs B has also provided extracts from the Club brochure and her own notes from the time of 
sale. I am satisfied that her own notes were made in the course of the sales presentation 
and record what she believes she was told. They include references to: a club area and 
resort buggy for members; inclusive transfers; items in the rooms, including PlayStation and iPod dock; a choice of how the room is set up; a best room guarantee; no ongoing fees, but 
must pay all-inclusive fee; RCI hotels in every country; cheaper than buying a package 
holiday.
The brochure included a page headed Key Terms  meaning definitions used. They 
included:
Club Suite: A club Suite is available when using a Membership Week. Members have the 
right to use Junior Suites or Master Suites , as outlined in the contract. Check-in time is 
3:00pm and check-out time is noon, however, the Privilege Club will do its best to 
accommodate early check-ins and late check-outs.
RCI: Resort Condominiums International (RCI) is the worldwide leader in vacation 
exchange, as well as providing other leisure travel services to its members. The first two 
calendar years of RCI are complimentary to Bahia Principe Privilege Club members. After 
that time period, it is up to our members to choose if they would like to continue with their 
RCI membership.     
The brochure also included a description of a Master Suite and a Junior Suite. A Junior Suite 
would have: a TV; minibar; terrace; bathroom; safety deposit box; a radio alarm with iPod 
docking; and a PlayStation 3.
Another page of the brochure was headed Member Benefits. As well as various discounts, 
the list of benefits included: early check-in and late check-out, subject to availability; access 
to beaches reserved for members only; private airport transfers, subject to a fee; and 
complimentary internet and long-distance phone calls. 
Misrepresentation claim
Mrs Bs primary case is that she has a claim for misrepresentation against the seller of the 
Club membership, White Bay, and that she therefore has a like claim against the bank 
under section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act. As I have indicated, the contract with White 
Bay was governed by the laws of Panama. Whether Mrs B has a claim against White Bay 
would therefore fall to be determined under Panamanian law. For the purposes of this 
decision, however, I have assumed that Panama recognises claims akin to those for 
misrepresentation.   
In English law, a misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, 
made by one party to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other 
party into the contract. 
In considering whether Mrs B is likely to have a claim in misrepresentation, I must consider 
not only what she says she was told about the Club Membership but also the contract itself 
and other evidence of what happened at the time of sale. 
I have no doubt that the Club was marketed as a luxury brand and that Mr and Mrs B were 
led to believe that their holiday experiences would reflect that. I accept that their 
expectations have not been met. It does not follow however that a claim in misrepresentation 
is likely to succeed. 
Some of the representations which Mrs B says were made are directly contradicted by the 
contractual documents themselves. For example, airport transfers  whilst available  were 
not free of charge to members. Others were inconsistent with what was in the accompanying 
written information  such as the requirement to maintain RCI membership. And when Mrs B 
says she expected two rooms booked at the same time to be next to each other or adjoining, I think she may be recalling the description of a master suite. 
Be that as it may, I think that the contract itself makes it very difficult for customers such as 
Mrs B to bring a claim for misrepresentation. Clause 11 of the Acquisition Agreement is, in 
my view, an attempt to ensure that anything agreed is included in the written contract itself. 
That does not include oral statements or information included in the brochure. Clause 14 of 
the Confirmation Document is a similar attempt to avoid such claims. 
In addition, by paragraph 2 of the Confirmation Document, White Bay gave itself a wide 
discretion to change the services provided. Assuming that provision is valid, I think it would 
allow White Bay to modify the facilities provided. That is likely to include how the suites were 
equipped and, for example, offers and excursions at resorts. 
It is likely that Mr and Mrs B would have had greater protection if they had signed up to 
similar arrangements in the European Union or if the contract had been subject to, say, 
English or Spanish law. For instance, they would have had the benefit of a cooling-off period, 
and a provision entitling a supplier to make changes to the services offered might not be 
enforceable. 
In the circumstances, however, I do not think it was unreasonable of NatWest to turn down 
Mrs Bs claim under section 75.
Cancellation of the Club membership                  
As I have indicated, Mr and Mrs B cancelled their membership of the Club in February 2019. 
In doing so, they signed a form of waiver. That waiver said that they would release White 
Bay (and other companies involved in providing the services associated with Club 
membership) from any claims, demands or causes of action. The Acquisition Agreement 
did not allow members to cancel their membership unless White Bay was in breach. 
In agreeing to accept the cancellation, therefore, White Bay was giving Mr and Mrs B a 
concession, in order to resolve its dispute with them. And they were giving a concession too, 
by agreeing not to pursue any claims  which Mrs B has valued at over £15,000. 
So, even if I were to take the view that Mr and Mrs B did have a valid claim against White 
Bay when they first raised the matter with NatWest at the end of 2018, they have agreed to 
settle that claim. They no longer have a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation. It 
follows for that reason as well that it would not be fair to uphold this complaint.   
In conclusion, I said that I was not minded  for the reasons set out above  to uphold Mrs 
Bs complaint. 
Mrs B responded to say that her and Mr Bs membership had not been cancelled. She 
provided evidence that they continue to pay annual fees. Mrs B also provided me with a 
complete copy of the Acquisition Agreement, including the missing clauses 3 to 8. She also 
repeated some of her earlier submissions, stressing that the misrepresentations she relied 
on had been made orally, not in writing.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I am grateful for Mrs Bs clarification that She and Mr B have not in fact settled their dispute 
with the Club. The Club offered to accept their cancellation, but only on terms that were not 
acceptable to Mr and Mrs B. I am satisfied that they remain members and remain in dispute 
with the Club. 
I am grateful too to Mrs B for providing a full copy of the Acquisition Agreement, including the 
missing page. I am not persuaded however that this makes any difference to my overall 
conclusions about the complaint. 
I accept of course that an actionable misrepresentation does not have to be put into writing  
and indeed a successful claim in misrepresentation is very often based on what has been 
said before a contract is signed. However, the written agreement with White Bay included 
provisions  most notably clause 11 and the statements in the Confirmation Document  
designed to ensure that, if any dispute should arise, it could be resolved on the basis of 
clearly identified documents. Such provisions are not uncommon in commercial agreements. 
In addition, the Club could modify products and services (paragraph 2 of the Confirmation 
Documents); given that the contract was to run for 30 years, that is perhaps unsurprising. 
As the investigator noted and as I said in my provisional decision, I have no doubt that White 
Bay and the Club emphasised the benefits of club membership and sought to sell a lifestyle 
to Mr and Mrs B. In the circumstances, however, I think the bank was entitled to take the 
view that a claim against White Bay for misrepresentation or breach of contract was unlikely 
to succeed and that it was not therefore liable to Mrs B under section 75. 
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Bs complaint and I do not 
require National Westminster Bank Plc to do anything more to resolve it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman