DRN-2717926
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a decreasing term assurance 
policy for their mortgage. Theyve said that the policy didnt provide them with enough cover 
for their borrowing, and they were told it was a condition of the mortgage.
What happened
In early 2005, Mr and Mrs L applied for a repayment mortgage with Santander (then Abbey). 
This was for £97,000 over a term of 18 years. Santander also recommended that Mr and 
Mrs L should start a decreasing term assurance policy to match the details of this mortgage. 
The policy had a monthly premium of £21.78.
However, in March 2005, Mr and Mrs L asked for their mortgage offer to be reissued with a 
term of 25 years. 
In 2006, Mr and Mrs L took out a further advance on their mortgage of £5,000. This was over 
a term of 34 years and 5 months. And in 2007, Mr and Mrs L changed their mortgage 
product. Their mortgage was then over a term of 33 years and 11 months.
In 2020, Mr and Mrs L queried the cover provided by their policy and found that it wasnt 
enough to have repaid their remaining mortgage should either of them have passed away. 
Mr and Mrs L complained. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said that Santanders recommendation in 2005 was made at a time when it 
matched the details of the mortgage Mr and Mrs L were taking out. They later asked to 
change the term to 25 years, and a quotation for life cover over the 25-year term was 
provided with a monthly premium of £27.63 but this wasnt taken up. The investigator didnt 
think Santander was at fault for this.
The investigator said that Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage had since been repaid and, if they had 
taken out the 25-year policy to match the changes they made to their mortgage, they would 
have spent more each month on the higher premium. 
The investigator said that he thought Santander had confirmed that the life cover wasnt 
compulsory for Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage borrowing in 2005, and they had increased their 
mortgage in 2006 without taking out additional cover. He didnt think Santander had led Mr 
and Mrs L into thinking that they had to take out life cover and this needed to be through 
Santander.
Mr and Mrs L didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for their complaint to be 
reviewed. They said that the policy had been mis-sold as it didnt provide sufficient cover, 
and so wasnt fit for purpose.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also listened to Mr Ls call with our investigator where he explained his points.
I can fully appreciate that it will have been worrying for Mr and Mrs L to learn that their policy 
wouldnt have been enough to repay the balance on their mortgage if they had passed away 
while it was in place.
 
Mr and Mrs Ls policy was on a decreasing basis, which means the amount of cover it 
provided would gradually reduce in line with the capital owed on a repayment mortgage. This 
is something that is set from the outset and the level of the reduction in cover reflects the 
term of the mortgage, and that in the early years it is more of the interest that is repaid, with 
more of the capital being repaid towards the later years. 
Mr and Mrs L initially applied for their mortgage to be over a term of 18 years, and the 
recommendation was for them to protect this borrowing with a joint decreasing policy to 
match. And I think this was a suitable recommendation for their particular circumstances at 
the time. 
Before they completed on their property purchase, I can see that Mr and Mrs L requested 
that their mortgage offer be revised to have a 25-year term instead of 18 years. The records 
show that a quotation for the decreasing term assurance policy over a 25-year term was 
provided to them at that time. However, whilst the mortgage went ahead over the 25-year 
term, the term assurance policy started with an 18-year term. Santander has said that this 
was because the revised term assurance quote wasnt taken up by Mr and Mrs L.
So, although I appreciate that from that time Mr and Mrs Ls cover wouldnt have matched 
their mortgage as it would have been reducing at a different rate to their mortgage, I dont 
think Santander was at fault for this when the details of a policy that matched the changes 
they wanted to make to their mortgage arrangements had been provided to them. This is 
because the original advice was based upon their requirements at that time.
 
Over the next few years, Mr and Mrs L increased their mortgage borrowing and lengthened 
the term of the mortgage. This wouldve meant it would taken them longer to repay and so 
the amount of capital they owed would not have reduced as quickly as with the shorter 
mortgage term. And, as they didnt make any changes to their term assurance policy, this 
still would have been reducing in line with an 18-year term mortgage.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs L may feel that Santander should have ensured that they had 
sufficient cover in place to protect all of the mortgage throughout the time that they had it. 
However, Santander has told us that it didnt provide Mr and Mrs L with advice or a 
recommendation about their further advance or their product conversion and term extension. 
So I dont think it was for Santander to proactively review Mr and Mrs Ls protection 
requirements unless this was something they asked for or wanted. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs L have since repaid their Santander mortgage, and are no 
longer paying the premiums for their term assurance policy. So, under these circumstances, 
even if I was to conclude that Santander should have ensured Mr and Mrs L had a 25-year 
policy for their mortgage in 2005, the premiums they would have paid for this would have 
been more. So I cant say this has caused Mr and Mrs L to suffer a financial loss. 
Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage offer from 2005 had a section that related to insurance with the 
mortgage, and this explained that they were not required to take out any insurance through 
Abbey. And Mr and Mrs L didnt take out any additional cover when they increased the 
amount of the borrowing the following year. So I think this indicates that Mr and Mrs L would have been aware that having such cover wasnt a requirement of their mortgage and they 
didnt need to take this out through Santander (Abbey).
Taking everything into account, I dont think Mr and Mrs Ls term assurance policy was mis-
sold to them. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman