DRN-3609166
The complaint
A representative (Mrs T) for the estate of Mr K has complained that UK Protected Limited 
(UKP) sold her an unsuitable insurance policy taken out for the benefit of Mr K.
What happened
This complaint has been brought on behalf of the estate of Mr K by Mrs T. For ease of 
reading Ill refer to Mrs T from now on.
Mrs T bought an accidental death policy on behalf of her son. Amongst the benefits provided 
by the policy was a contribution towards funeral costs should Mr K die. The amount 
increased depending upon how many years the policy had been held for. At the time that Mr 
K died, it would pay £1,000 towards these costs.
When Mrs T made a claim, UKP said it wouldnt meet the claim because Mr K died as a 
result of drinking alcohol, and the policy excluded cover for alcohol related deaths. Mrs T 
complained, saying that shed been told the underwriters of the policy provided cover 
regardless of Mr Ks medical history.
UKP agreed that it could have explained the exclusions more clearly when it sold the policy 
to Mrs T, and said it would refund all the premiums that had been paid by Mrs T to her. That 
came to £104. It also sent Mrs T a shopping voucher to make up for the way it had handled 
her complaint.
Mrs T doesnt think thats fair. She wants UKP to pay the funeral benefit - £1,000  to Mr Ks 
estate.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and didnt think he needed to ask UKP to do more 
than it already had. He thought the refund of premium was a fair way to compensate Mrs T. 
He thought that, as alcohol related deaths were commonly excluded from policies like this, it 
was unlikely Mrs T could have easily bought a policy that covered the cause of Mr Ks death 
for a similar price. He said he couldnt comment on the voucher as that related to the way 
UKP had handled Mrs Ts complaint, which isnt something this service can look into.
Mrs T remains unhappy, so Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly may I say how sorry I am that Mrs T has suffered such a loss, and has had the extra 
worry of funeral costs at such a difficult time.
However, having looked at all the information sent to us by both parties I cannot uphold this 
complaint.
UKP has acknowledged that it should have done more when selling the policy to Mrs T. And 
I agree with our investigator when he says that  if Mrs T had known about the alcohol 
related exclusions  she likely wouldnt have bought the policy. I also agree that shed have 
been unlikely find a similarly priced policy that did cover such situations. I say that because 
similar policies routinely exclude accidents and injuries, or death, when alcohol is a 
contributory factor. 
UKP has refunded to Mrs T all the premiums she paid for the policy. That effectively puts her 
back in the position she was in before buying the policy, and is fair. And its more than I 
could have instructed UKP to do. Thats because the policy is in Mr Ks name but he didnt 
actually pay for it, so I couldnt tell UKP to refund any money to his estate. 
Im afraid I cant comment on the way UKP handled the complaint Mrs T made on behalf of 
the estate of Mr K. As our investigator said, complaints handling isnt something this service 
can always consider, and it isnt appropriate for me to do so here.
Taking everything into account I cant ask UKP to do more than it already has.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr K 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman