DRN-1471413
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that interest has been added to his buy now, pay later (BNPL) agreement 
with Shop Direct Finance Company.
What happened
Mr B bought an iPad from Shop Direct in March 2019 on a BNPL deal. He feels it wasnt 
made clear that interest would be added if he didnt pay the whole amount due before the 
end of the BNPL period. Mr B has paid around £500 of the £600 owed. But interest of £101 
has been added to his account, which he feels is unfair. Mr B did try to make a payment. But 
the webpage timed out and the payment was left pending.  For this reason, Shop Direct 
refunded the £12 late fee applied. They also paid Mr B £20 compensation as he didnt 
receive a call back from a manager, as hed requested. But the interest was still added to the 
balance. To resolve his complaint Mr B would like the interest to be removed and only pay 
the amount outstanding for the iPad.
Mr B complained to Shop Direct who werent prepared to change their opinion.
Mr B remained unhappy and complained to our service. Our investigator considered his 
complaint and felt that the credit agreement and the statement Shop Direct sent Mr B made 
it clear when he needed to make a payment to avoid interest being applied. So he didnt feel 
that Shop Direct should remove the interest that had been applied to his account.
Mr B didnt agree with our investigators findings. In summary, he said the following:
He didnt sign the credit agreement; it was a print of his name. 
He still doesnt feel that Shop Direct explained to him what would happen if he didnt 
make the full payment by the required date.
Hed tried to make a payment to Shop Direct but this wasnt taken. 
 
The case has now come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the credit agreement dated 21 March 2019. Shop Direct have told us that Mr B 
applied for this account online. I can see he ticked the box to confirm he accepted the terms 
and conditions of the agreement. So he electronically signed the agreement.
Two days after opening the account, Mr B used it to purchase an iPad on BNPL terms for six 
months. And to avoid paying interest Mr B needed to clear any remaining balance by 27 
September 2019.Shop Direct have also told us that their accounts arent interest free. They offer an opt-out 
payment facility. So to avoid interest being applied, the full cash price must be paid before 
this facility ends.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say:
If you don't want to pay interest on either offer, you must pay the full price of the relevant 
transaction and notify us that you are making payment specifically on your BNPL 
transaction...The payment must clear the BNPL transaction in full by the due date shown on 
your statement."
So the terms and conditions clearly set out what Mr B needed to do to avoid interest being 
applied.
Ive also considered what the relevant rules say about when an interest free period is due to 
end. Section 6.7.16A of the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) says the following:
Where a customer has the benefit of a zero-percentage or low interest, introductory or 
promotional offer that depends on the customer meeting certain conditions, a firm must 
provide notice to the customer reminding them of any action they need to take to meet the 
conditions of the offer and the date by which this action must be taken, within a reasonable 
period before that date, taking account of the time at which the information may be most 
useful to the customer. This notice must be provided in an appropriate medium (taking into 
account any preferences expressed by the customer about the medium of communication 
between the firm and the customer), in plain language and sufficiently prominent, so that it is 
likely to be seen and understood by the customer.
Mr Bs statements issued on 10 August 2019 and 7 September 2019 stated that the delayed 
payment period was coming to an end soon. Both statements set out the interest to be 
applied and the payment he needed to make, and by what date to avoid this. So Im satisfied 
Shop Direct have met their obligations under CONC.
Mr B needed to make a payment of £100 by 27 September 2019 to avoid interest of £101.83 
being applied to his account. Because he didnt do this, the interest was added to his 
account balance. Having read Mr Bs statements, I think it was clearly explained what would 
happen if he didnt make the required payment. The electronic records Shop Direct have 
provided confirm that Mr B last viewed his account online on 26 April 2019. So he may not 
have seen the notices on his August and September 2019 statements. But, Im satisfied 
Shop Direct provided Mr B with the information he needed to avoid interest being charged on 
his account. 
I can see that Mr B attempted to make a payment of £100 on 1 October 2019 which was 
returned. But even if this had been successful, it would have been made after the BNPL 
period expired. So it doesnt change my opinion.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint 
against Shop Direct Finance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2020.
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman