DRN-4232833
The complaint
Miss S complains Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as Very irresponsibly 
provided her with a store card account and credit limit increases.
What happened
Miss S was provided with the following credit limits on her store card account with Shop 
Direct:
Lending decision Date Limit
Original limit December 2018 £750
1st limit increase June 2019 £1,250
2nd limit increase October 2019 £2,250
3rd limit increase June 2020 £2,750
4th limit increase November 2020 £3,000
5th limit increase February 2021 £3,100
6th limit increase August 2021 £3,400
Miss S complained to Shop Direct in May 2022. She said it had irresponsibly provided her 
with this credit account because reasonable and proportionate checks at the time of each 
lending event would have identified the credit was unaffordable for her. 
Shop Direct upheld Miss Ss complaint in part. It concluded that its lending decisions from 
December 2018 to October 2019 were fair; but that it hadnt made fair lending decisions from 
June 2020 onwards. It provided redress to refund interest accrued on balances above the 
limit increase from June 2020 of £2,750, refund charges from this point and it also refunded 
deferred interest charged as part of a Buy Now Pay Later agreement. It paid this redress 
directly to Miss Ss account to reduce the outstanding balance. Miss S didnt accept Shop 
Directs outcome and brought her complaint to our service for consideration. 
Our investigator reviewed Miss Ss complaint and upheld it in full. She said Shop Direct 
hadnt made a fair lending decision when initially providing Miss S with this credit account; 
and therefore recommended it refund all interest and charges incurred by Miss S from the 
beginning of the account, together with removing any adverse recorded on her credit file 
once any outstanding balance had been repaid. 
Miss S accepted this outcome; Shop Direct didnt. It said the checks it completed for the first 
three lending decisions were proportionate to the terms of credit being provided and the 
information it obtained about Miss Ss financial circumstances. It therefore maintained its 
argument that it made fair lending decisions at each of these three lending events. 
Shop Direct asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
Shop Direct has already upheld Miss Ss complaint in line with our approach from its fourth 
lending event; so, my decision here focuses on the first three lending events.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator, for broadly the same 
reasons. 
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website; both Miss S and Shop Direct are aware of this.
Shop Direct needed to take reasonable steps to ensure the lending it provided was 
responsibly lent to Miss S. The relevant rules, regulations, and guidance at the time of each 
of Shop Directs lending decisions required it to carry out reasonable and proportionate 
checks. These checks needed to assess Miss Ss ability to afford the credit limit being 
approved and repay it sustainably, without causing her financial difficulties or harm.
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they should be proportionate, 
considering things like the type, amount, duration, and total cost of the credit, as well as the 
borrowers individual circumstances.
And it isnt sufficient for Shop Direct to just complete proportionate checks  it must also 
consider the information it obtained from these checks to make fair lending decisions. This 
includes not lending to someone in financial hardship; and ensuring repayments can be 
made sustainably without the need to borrow further.
Shop Direct says its checks at the point of the initial limit request included it obtaining 
Miss Ss declared income and completing a review of her credit file. It says its checks at the 
two subsequent limit increases included it completing a new credit check and reviewing how 
Miss S was maintaining her Shop Direct account. Its checks for the following two limit 
increases didnt include it obtaining updated income details. 
Having carefully considered Shop Directs arguments Im not persuaded its checks were 
reasonable and proportionate at the point of these three lending events; or that it went on to 
make fair lending decisions in each of these instances.
I say this because while I acknowledge Shop Directs argument that the initial limit agreed 
was relatively modest, Shop Direct was aware that Miss Ss income was also relatively 
modest at this time; declared as £10,000 per year, equating to around £820 per month. The 
credit check Shop Direct completed at the point of the initial limit identified Miss S had just 
under £8,000 of existing debt. And Shop Direct was also aware from the application that 
Miss S lived in a mortgaged property and had two dependents; responsibilities that generally 
incur higher costs on an ongoing basis. 
Based on the information Shop Direct obtained at the original application and the 
subsequent two limit increases; and the terms of lending being provided at each event, I 
consider reasonable and proportionate checks ought to have led Shop Direct to fully 
understand Miss Ss financial situation to assess whether she would be able to sustainably 
afford this credit. So, I consider it should have verified Miss Ss income and expenditure, as 
well as look to understand her exiting credit commitments as it did. 
As Shop Direct didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks Ive gone on to 
consider what these would likely have shown it. Miss S has provided us with two bank account statements covering the months leading up to 
the original lending decision. Shop Direct could have looked to verify Miss Ss income and 
expenditure by any way it saw fit. But in the absence of any other contradictory information, I 
consider these statements allow me to obtain an understanding of Miss Ss financial 
circumstances around this time. 
Miss Ss statements support her testimony that she wasnt working at the time of this 
application. She has told us that she was a student and received student loan payments and 
was in receipt of monthly Child Benefit payments; both of which are evidenced within the 
statements. Miss Ss partner transfers money into her account to cover some expenses, but 
this is sporadic with no structure or consistency. Miss S was able to cover the payments 
debiting her account based on these transfers, but she didnt receive a paid income. 
I acknowledge Shop Directs argument that Miss S had declared she was self-employed 
earning £10,000 per year. But as Ive found above, I consider proportionate checks ought 
reasonably to have led to Shop Direct conducting further checks. Had it completed further 
checks it would have identified Miss S wasnt earning a salary and her income wasnt 
sufficient to sustainably afford repayments to this lending; and therefore it ought to have 
reasonably concluded Miss S wasnt a suitable candidate to lend to. 
Shop Direct has argued that the credit check it completed showed Miss S held three current 
accounts at the time of this lending decision; and as such Miss S could receive a paid 
income into an account we dont have sight of. As part of our investigators review she 
obtained a full copy of Miss Ss credit report. On review of this report its clear Miss S holds 
two current accounts; and that there is no third active or settled current account detailed on 
her full credit report. On that basis I consider it more likely, on balance, that Miss S held two 
current accounts at the time of the original lending event; both of which shes provided us 
with statements. So, Im satisfied Miss S wasnt receiving a paid income in the lead up to the 
original lending decision.
It therefore follows that had Shop Direct completed reasonable and proportionate checks it 
would have identified Miss S had no paid income, and it ought reasonably to have identified 
this lending wasnt sustainably affordable for Miss S and that she wasnt a suitable candidate 
to lend to. As such, Im satisfied Shop Direct didnt make a fair lending decision when 
approving the original credit limit. 
As Ive found Shop Direct shouldnt have provided Miss S with the initial credit limit, it follows 
that I dont consider it made fair lending decisions when approving the 1st and 2nd limit 
increases. Therefore, it needs to take further action in resolution of this complaint.
Putting things right
Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as Very approved Miss S with a store card 
that I dont consider should have been provided. I think Miss S should pay back the amount 
shes borrowed because shes had use of the funds. But I dont consider it fair for Shop 
Direct Finance Company Limited trading as Very to be able to charge any interest or 
charges. Therefore, in order to put things right Shop Direct Finance Company Limited 
trading as Very should:
Rework the account removing all interest, fees, charges and insurances (not already 
refunded) that have been applied
a) If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Miss S along 
with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment 
to the date of settlementb) Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, Shop Direct Finance 
Company Limited trading as Very should arrange an affordable repayment plan 
with Miss S for the remaining amount
Once any outstanding balance has been repaid Shop Direct Finance Company Limited 
trading as Very should remove any adverse information in relation to this account from 
Miss Ss credit file 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as Very to 
deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Miss S a certificate showing how much 
tax has been taken off if she asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce an 
outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
My final decision
Im upholding Miss Ss complaint about Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as 
Very and direct it to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman