DRN-2864862
The complaint
Mr H complains that Vanquis Bank Limited gave him incorrect information which resulted in 
his credit score dropping.
What happened
Mr H says he spoke to Vanquis and it advised him that to improve his credit score he should 
spent 90% of his credit limit. He says he did that, but his credit score dropped. Mr H says 
Vanquis accepts it gave him incorrect information, but he would like it to sort out the damage 
to his credit file.
Vanquis accepts it made a mistake and gave Mr H incorrect information. Its offered £75 
compensation but says it cant make any changes to his credit file.
Mr H brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought the compensation offer of £75 was fair and reasonable and couldnt consider any 
impact that may have happened but didnt. The investigator didnt think Vanquis could report 
any other information to the Credit Reference Agencys (CRAs) or that it could make any 
changes to Mr Hs credit file.
Mr H doesnt accept that view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Vanquis has made a fair and 
reasonable compensation offer and I dont require it to increase that offer or do anything 
further in the circumstances of this complaint. I appreciate Mr H will be disappointed by my 
decision.
There is no question here that Vanquis made a mistake by giving Mr H incorrect information. 
I have listened to the telephone calls between the parties and Im satisfied that Vanquis 
accepted during one of those calls that it accepted making a mistake and offered Mr H £75 
compensation. Im satisfied that compensation offer is fair and reasonable and I have not 
seen any evidence that the mistake caused any financial loss to Mr H. I accept Mr H was 
caused inconvenience and that he was given incorrect information. But I cant consider any 
potential impact that may have taken place.
I appreciate Mr H would like Vanquis to rectify the damage to his credit file. I cant fairly order 
Vanquis to take such steps and cant see what it could do to sort that issue out. Im satisfied 
Vanquis must report accurate information to the CRAs and that is what took place here. I 
also think that Mr H hasnt provided a copy of his credit file and I cant be certain how 
Vanquiss advice impacted on the credit file or if there were other matters that affected the 
score.
Overall, Im satisfied Vanquis has acted fairly by offering what I think is a fair and reasonable 
amount of compensation. I have looked at Vanquiss records and I think it likely that the £75 
has been paid. If that is not the case, then no doubt Vanquis will arrange for that payment to 
be made if Mr H wishes to accept it.
My final decision
My final decision is that Vanquis Bank Limited has made a fair and reasonable 
compensation offer.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman