DRN-3906897
The complaint
Ms O has complained that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) avoided her 
home insurance policy and declined to pay a claim.
What happened
Ms O took out a policy with Lloyds through a broker. Ms O had a burglary at her home, so 
she made a claim under the policy. When Lloyds investigated the claim, it found a county 
court judgment (CCJ) in Ms Os name and evidence that the property was being used for 
business purposes. So, Lloyds said Ms O had provided incorrect information when she took 
out the policy and that it wouldnt have offered the policy if it had known this. Lloyds 
considered this to be a careless/deliberate or reckless qualifying misrepresentation, which 
entitled it to void the policy and not to pay the claim. It also returned the premiums.
When Ms O brought her complaint to this service, our investigator didnt uphold it. She said it 
was reasonable for Lloyds to decide Ms O had made a qualifying misrepresentation and to 
treat it as careless. She said Lloyds voiding the policy, not paying the claim and it returning 
the premiums was fair.
Ms O didnt agree. She said she wasnt aware of the CCJ and the items stored at her home 
wasnt business stock, but was for a particular celebration to give to people as gifts. So, the 
complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Lloyds thinks Ms O failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when she 
took out the policy because she said she didnt have any CCJs and that she didnt use her 
property for business purposes.
Ive looked at the CCJ. Ms Os policy documents showed that in response to Ever had a 
CCJ, the answer was No. During the claim, Lloyds found evidence of a CCJ in Ms Os 
name and at her address through a search of publicly available records. Im aware Ms O has 
said she had no knowledge of the CCJ. However, when Lloyds interviewed Ms O about her 
claim, she said the CCJ might have related to a piece of land she owned where she didnt 
receive an invoice. So, I think this indicated she was likely to have some awareness of it.
Ive also looked at the use of the property. Ms Os policy documents showed the answer as 
No to whether she used the property for clerical business, business with regular visitors to 
the property or for other business use. While an assessor from Lloyds was at Ms Os 
property, a number of pallets arrived, which were placed in the garage. Lloyds also took 
photos of the delivery, which showed a large number of boxes in Ms Os garage. Im aware 
Ms O has said the items were gifts for friends for a specific celebration. However, I note that 
in Ms Os signed statement that Lloyds took while it investigated the claim, she said I keep 
the stock for my business in the garage after it is imported. It then either gets collected or I 
deliver it.
So, based on what Ive seen, I dont think Ms O took reasonable care when she took out the 
policy. Lloyds had provided its underwriting information. This showed that had it known Ms O 
had a CCJ or that the property was used for business purposes, Lloyds wouldnt have 
offered a policy. This means Im satisfied that Ms Os misrepresentation was a qualifying 
one.
Lloyds has said that Ms Os misrepresentation was a careless one. Having looked at what 
happened, I think that is fair in the circumstances. As Im satisfied that Ms Os 
misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked at the actions Lloyds can take 
in accordance with CIDRA. Lloyds has said it wouldnt have offered any cover. As a result, 
CIDRA allowed Lloyds to avoid the policy from the point of misrepresentation, which in this 
instance was when the policy was first taken out, and return any unused premiums, which 
Lloyds confirmed to Ms O it would do. It also didnt need to deal with the claim.
In light of this, I think that Lloyds fairly dealt with the misrepresentation and the claim. As a 
result, I dont uphold this complaint or require Lloyds to do anything further.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman