DRN-4213703
The complaint
Ms C has complained about her home insurer esure Insurance Limited (Esure) regarding a 
claim she made when there was a fire at her home.
Esure has used various agents during the course of this claim. Including loss adjusters. 
Esure is responsible for the agents. I may refer to Esure when it was its agent completing 
the relevant activity or correspondence.
What happened
Ms C was at home during the day on 21 January 2022 when a smoke alarm went off in her 
property and Ms C noticed smoke coming from a ground floor bedroom. The fire brigade 
were called, Ms C and her dog went to stay with family. She later moved into a hotel and 
Esure agreed to pay £30.00 a day as a disturbance allowance (for extra costs of living away 
from home). Ms C did not move back home until October 2022.
The claim progressed following notification to Esure, and then its loss adjuster, in 
January 2022, with contents items being cleared out and listed. But Ms C said she wanted to 
appoint her own contractors for the building reinstatement work. Esure compiled a scope 
and told Ms C on 4 May 2022 that the cost for reinstatement would be £49,633.64 plus VAT 
with VAT being paid upon receipt of a VAT invoice. Ms C challenged the price and extent of 
work. The scope and price were amended, on 27 May 2022 Esure told Ms C the total it 
would pay for work was £53,050.66 (plus VAT). In June 2022 Esure said it would make an 
interim payment to Ms C of £34,000 which was the cost associated with dirty work in the fire 
damaged bedroom and electrical repairs  where once this work was done Ms C would be 
able to move home. Several items remained in dispute and its not clear whether any further 
payment was made against the buildings claim.
In the meantime the contents claim continued, with Esure trying to get full details from Ms C 
as to the likely replacement cost of damaged items. Some interim payments were made. On 
7 September 2022 Esure said validation was near complete and it should be able to make 
final payments soon. 
When Ms C moved home she had no heating or hot water. Esure had looked at her boiler in 
around June 2022. Engineers got it to work and then left, it worked for about half an hour 
then stopped. Ms C appointed a plumber when she returned home, he found a pipe had 
been damaged during the fire. This was fixed on 2 November 2022. Esure subsequently 
paid the cost of the necessary repair. 
Esure addressed some of Ms Cs concerns whilst the claim was progressing but, unhappy 
with the extent of its replies, Ms C complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. And 
she updated us as time went on about what had happened  such as the heating issues 
when she returned home. Esure said it was happy for us to look at all Ms Cs concerns as 
part of this complaint rather than requiring a further complaint to be raised.  
Our Investigator felt Esure needed to agree to pay a number of things and review others. 
She felt £350 compensation should be paid. Esure said most of the payments and reviews 
recommended had already been agreed by it, but it was mostly waiting on information from 
Ms C. It said that it had gone to quite a lot of expense during the claim to appease 
Ms C  such as by paying £30 per day as a disturbance allowance, so it didnt think it was 
fair to ask it to pay compensation for upset it had caused. The complaint was passed to me 
for an Ombudsmans consideration.
I felt it should be upheld. But the redress which I felt was required differed to that 
recommended by our Investigator. So I issued a provisional decision to explain my views on 
the complaint to both parties. My provisional findings were:
My background above is brief. But I can assure both parties that I am aware of everything 
which has gone on. With there being quite a number of points in dispute, where necessary 
Ill provide further explanations of relevant events within my findings. 
Building items in dispute
Upstairs fitted wardrobes  Esure has refused to cover the cost of these but Ms C feels 
these were damaged by smoke. Whilst I understand Ms Cs concern, Esure has had expert 
advice from its surveyor that the staining is age/wear related, not due to the fire. Its decline 
of these items, in my view, is fair and reasonable.
Cracks in hallway  Esure has refused to include the cost for repairing the hallway wall and 
coving, Ms C says Esures restoration company told her soot had made the cracks worse. 
I see from Esures file that the restoration company did note that during its three weeks 
working in the property, the cracks had got worse. But Esures surveyor doesnt agree these 
have been caused or affected by the fire. Its not unreasonable for Esure to rely on its 
surveyors view  it carries greater weight than the restoration companys. Its decline of 
liability for the cost of reinstating this area under the fire claim, in my view, is fair and 
reasonable.
Groundfloor bathroom tiling  Esure says that tiling does not need replacing. Ms C says 
there will likely be some damage when the sink is replaced. My view is that any contractor 
completing work will have to try not to cause damage but if they suspect it will be 
unavoidable or if some does occur then Esure can be asked to review to see whether it can 
settle for damaged tiling. 
Broken window  This was still broken when Ms C returned home, Esure sent a repair 
contractor out. Ms C reports that the contractor insisted she stay with him at the property into 
the early hours to complete the job. Im not persuaded I can blame Esure for any upset Ms C 
was caused here. It seems unusual to me for a contractor to insist on something like this and 
I wasnt party to the conversation which took place. So I cant be sure an unreasonable 
request was made by Esures contractor.    
Lounge redecoration  Esure has agreed that this was missed from its scope. It should 
consider its cost for that work without delay and make a payment to Ms C.Blinds  Esure said these were contents, it received quotes for them and added them to the 
contents spreadsheet, but it then agreed they could be dealt with as buildings items. The 
loss adjuster dealing with matters changed and seemingly the agreement to deal on the 
basis of a buildings item was overlooked by the replacement. Between October 2022 and 
January 2023 Ms C sent proof of the agreement to the new adjuster and the new adjuster 
then disputed the detail on the quote for the blinds, suggesting they were not like for like. 
Ms C told us that Esure had declined to cover the cost of the blinds and Esure said that 
wasnt the case  it was waiting on further detail from Ms C to agree a price. My view is that 
its too late now for Esure to challenge Ms C on the detail and price of the blind quote  it 
was accepted at the time Esure agreed to settle the blinds as part of the buildings items. It 
should now just pay the quoted sum initially added to the contents spreadsheet, adding 
interest* from the date of the quote until settlement is made.
Glass sink  Esure said it would pay Ms C £246 for this. It later said this was just for the sink 
itself including taps and accessories, not cost of fitting. It said it hadnt a specific replacement 
in mind, Ms C could just see what she liked. Ms C though said she couldnt find anything for 
that price. I note that Esure has since agreed it will consider evidence from Ms C as to her 
cost to replace this item. Im pleased that has been agreed, but I can understand Ms Cs 
frustration that she was being expected to replace an item at a cost which Esure had not 
evidenced was reasonable. I havent seen proof from Ms C, either to us or Esure, as to the 
likely cost. She should provide this so it can be considered. And the scope Ive seen showing 
this cost does not suggest a price has been included within the overall settlement for fitting 
the sink. Unless Esure can satisfy me this has been paid, Ill make an award directing it to 
pay fitting costs too (what it would have cost it to fit the sink).  
Conservatory floor tiles  Esure allowed £25 per square metre for these, Mrs C says a sum 
of £49 per square meter would be fairer. Esure has said that if Ms C can provide it a quote, it 
will consider it. I think thats fair and reasonable.
Wallpaper downstairs bedroom  Esure allowed £22 per roll. Ms C said a named, quality 
brand of wallpaper had been in place before, which would cost £125 per roll to replace. 
Esure said if Ms C can provide it a quote, it will consider it. I think thats fair and reasonable.
Rest of missing items  Ms C told Esure on 12 September 2022 of items, mostly with related 
costs, missing from its scope (wallpaper and hallway lights dealt with above). I think Esure 
should consider its liability for these items and costs. Ive list them here: 
Floorboards removed by fire brigade  no price given
A ten-foot curtain pelmet track  £58.99
Two fitted/plumbed plinth heaters  total £1,593.80
Seven light fixtures (ground floor bedroom)  total £485.00
Bespoke door  no price given
Window seat  estimate required
Two fans in conservatory  no price given
Boiler/heating and hot water  seemingly this repair has been done and reimbursed by 
Esure. But Esure says that it isnt responsible for Ms C having returned home to a house 
without heating and hot water. It says it made sure the boiler was running and it wasnt up to 
its engineers to stick around to make sure it continued to work and it was then up to Ms C if 
she wanted to show there was a problem on account of the fire. I dont think that is in any 
way reasonable. Certainly not when its since become clear that the cause of the problem 
was a pipe damaged by the fire. Esure should have arranged to return and reassess before 
Ms C moved home  that would have reasonably avoided her living in her home for around a 
month in late autumn with no heating or hot water. Ill take that into account when awarding 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.Buildings settlement
In my view, given Ms C asked to use her own contractors, it was reasonable for Esure to 
look at making a cash settlement to her based on its cost to do the work. But its also my 
view that it unreasonably delayed settling this claim. It knew quite early on that Ms C wanted 
to use her own contractor. It told her on 4 May 2022 what it thought its limit of loss would be. 
But it made no payment to Ms C for the work until late June 2022. By that time/then it had 
revised its initial costs upwards from £49,633.64 to £53,050.66 (both excluding VAT), and 
yet still only a partial settlement was made. My view is that once Esure established its limit of 
loss, knowing Ms C wanted to use her own contractor (and there was never any question 
about that  this was not a situation where the policyholder was considering cash versus the 
insurer doing the work), that sum should have been paid to her. With VAT, as Esure 
reasonably said, to be paid later. Esure should now make additional payments to Ms C of 
interest* to account for the delayed payment  Ive set that out in my section below Putting 
things right.
Contents items in dispute 
Outstanding contents  There is a fair amount of history to the dispute over these items. 
However, I think its fair to say that further restoration of carpets at least is required. And 
Esure has agreed to consider that. But its noted that the sum insured for contents  £43,900 
 has nearly been exhausted. It says theres only £2,156.14 left. Its proposed paying that in 
final settlement of the contents claim. I think that is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
But I think its known the limit was likely to be breached since early July 2022, with the cost 
of high-risk items then confirmed in late August  all whilst knowing the carpets needed 
reviewing. So I propose it pays that sum plus interest * from 31 August 2022 until settlement 
is made.   
Hallway light fixtures  Esure has agreed to consider these, but it told us that would be part 
of the contents claim and so subject to the contents sum insured being reached. Im not 
persuaded that is fair and reasonable. A lamp shade or similar might well be viewed as a 
contents item, But I understand these were wall mounted light and a light fixture in the hall. 
They are more reasonably viewed as buildings items. And I see that Esure even 
acknowledges that in its file. Esure should look to cover the cost of replacing light fixtures in 
the hallway under the buildings claim, if it needs detail of costs from Ms C, she should 
provide those. 
Claim handling and delay
Its clear to me the claim did take quite a while to reach a point where Ms C moved home. 
Ive also been critical of Esure not paying the full buildings settlement at an earlier point. But 
I bear in mind that even once its substantial interim payment was made in June, Ms C was 
still not ready to return home, with the work that sum was paid for having just been done, 
until October 2022. So whilst I think its partial payment was likely a cause for frustration for 
Ms C, I dont think it really affected the course of the claim. 
I do see though that the loss adjuster did not always reply to Ms C very quickly  and I think 
some of his contact, at times, was a little unfair. For example, after the limit of loss for 
buildings had been initially set by Esure but not paid to Ms C, the adjuster said he would not 
extend Ms Cs accommodation arrangements unless she told him how she wanted the claim 
to progress. I think Esure did need to try and manage the accommodation arrangements. 
But I dont think this was a reasonable way to do it. And other issues of frustration occurred 
too, such as with the blinds as Ive described above.
I bear in mind, as I said above, that Ms C returned home to a house with no heating and hot 
water. On this occasion I do think £350 compensation is fairly and reasonably due. In saying that 
I bear in mind that whilst Ms C did remain in a hotel throughout, which is usually only 
suitable for short term accommodation needs, it was her choice to stay there and one which 
Esure mostly did not really challenge her on.
I see that Esure thinks that it letting Ms C stay in the hotel (as it suited her needs), along with 
paying her £30 a day disturbance allowance and settling the blinds as buildings items  
should all be taken into account as it going the extra mile to settle things, such that upset 
caused by any of its failures should be offset. Im not persuaded that is fair. The good 
deeds detailed were not offered to Ms C as compensation for wrong-doing. Rather they 
were claim negotiations which Esure felt were reasonable and agreed to. Id add that, in this 
case, the blinds (and light fixtures) are reasonably considered to be buildings items anyway.
Esure said it didnt agree with the decision. It noted that Ms C still hasnt quantified some 
items  that it wont pay interest on items that have not been quantified. Esure said that, by 
and large though, it wouldnt respond in detail to what Id said  with the exception of the 
boiler issue. It feels Ive been harsh in this respect, expecting a fix on the first occasion 
whereas other decisions issued by this service acknowledge that finding a fault with a boiler 
is often a process of elimination. Esure also felt Id expected its engineer to wait for an 
unreasonable period to make sure the boiler stayed fixed  which Esure felt was 
unreasonable. Esure said it doesnt think its heating engineer was wrong.
Ms C indicated she was generally happy with the provisional decision. But she said there 
were a couple of repairs issues not covered (which were part of the items overlooked by 
Esure and missed off its schedule of works). Ms C said that shes confirmed with Esures 
loss adjuster that all necessary information has been provided. She said she wanted a time 
limit to be given which Esure would have to comply by.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Esure does not agree with my decision. Regarding quantification and interest Esure 
will see from my bulleted list of awards that where I am directing it to consider payments for 
items, I have not included a requirement for it to pay interest. Where I have required interest 
to be paid, if Ms C accepts my decision within the deadline set, my findings will become 
binding on Esure. I wont set a deadline by which Esure will have to execute the redress  
thats not a reasonable thing to do when Ive noted that Esure may feel Ms C needs to 
provide further detail. I note Ms C says she has confirmed with Esure that she has provided 
everything  but Ive seen no confirmation or acceptance of that from Esure. 
Ive reviewed what I said about the boiler. I did not say this fault should have been found on 
the first occasion or that the engineer should have waited at the property. Rather I found that 
Esure had time before Ms C moved home to respond reasonably to her concerns that the 
boiler wasnt working but it didnt do that causing her to return to an uninhabitable home.
Regarding items missing from Esures schedule; Ms C had told Esure she felt things were 
missing and Esure asked her to tell it specifically which items. Ms C did so in an email dated 
12 September 2022. It is the content of that email on which I based my provisional findings 
entitled rest of missing items. Ms C has now detailed four items which she says constitute 
the items missing from Esures schedule, that it has overlooked. But only one of those was 
included in the 12 September 2022 email and listed by me in my relevant provisional findings 
 the missing fan, one of two, in the conservatory. The other three werent listed by Ms C in 
September 2022 as having been overlooked by Esure  and in considering what Ms C has said about these three items it seems to me she is debating the extent of the work detailed in 
the schedule in respect of them, rather than saying items are missing/havent been 
considered at all. I havent seen that she has addressed these items with Esure  and so 
I cant comment on them to conclude, for example, whether Esure should replace all of the 
skirting board in the room, or if one metre only is reasonable. So for the three items listed 
here, Im not making any finding in this decision as to whether or not Esure reasonably 
needs to revise its schedule. The three items are (numbering provided by Ms C, advised as 
relating to Esures schedule):
13) the window needs painting internally and externally, theres no labour costs showing.
21) one metre of skirting board is shown, but it needs replacing around the whole room.
40) stained glass on internal door, this needs sympathetic, matching, expert restoration.
Having reviewed the complaint, in light of the parties responses, I find Im satisfied by my 
provisional findings  in my view theyre fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. As such my provisional findings, along with my other comments above here, are 
the findings on this my final decision.
Putting things right
I require Esure to:
Consider its cost for redecorating the lounge (missed off the scope) and make a payment 
to Ms C.
Under the buildings claim, pay the quoted sum for blinds, agreed when it was entered on 
to the contents spreadsheet, plus interest* applied from the date of the quote until 
settlement is made.
Consider Ms Cs evidence, once provided, for the cost to replace the glass sink, if its 
accepted this cost is more than the £246.00 allowed as part of the larger buildings 
settlement, pay the difference outstanding. 
Unless already accounted for in the larger buildings settlement, consider its cost for 
fitting the sink and pay Ms C.
Consider any evidence provided by Ms C regarding replacement floor tiles in the 
conservatory, making an additional payment if appropriate. 
Consider any evidence provided by Ms C regarding replacement wallpaper, making an 
additional payment if appropriate. 
Consider its liability for the missing items listed above, Ms C may need to provide 
further evidence, making an additional payment if appropriate.
Pay Ms C a sum equivalent to interest* applied to the sum of £43,663.64 from 
4 May 2022 until the date in June when £34,000 was paid to Ms C.
Pay Ms C a sum equivalent to interest* applied to the sum of £19,050.66 (being the 
increased settlement sum of £53,050.66 less the interim settlement of £34,000) from the 
date in June when £34,000 was paid to Ms C until the remaining part of the settlement 
sum of £53,050.66 is/was settled.
Pay Ms C £2,156.14, plus interest* applied from 31 August 2022 until settlement is 
made.
Consider the cost of replacing the hallway light fixtures, under the buildings claim, 
making any further payment due to Ms C.
Pay £350 compensation for upset.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs may require Esure to take off tax from this 
interest. If asked, it must give Ms C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require esure Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out 
above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman