DRN-3253630
The complaint
Mr S complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) took over three weeks to repair his car 
windows after he made a claim for it, which caused him inconvenience. 
What happened
The facts of this complaint are well-known to all parties, so I dont intend to repeat everything 
in this decision. But Ill instead give an overview of the relevant points, and then Ill give my 
decision and the reasons for it. 
In August 2021 Mr S made a claim on his car insurance policy for a broken drivers window 
and a broken rear windscreen. The drivers window was fixed with a few days, but Mr S 
complained that the rear windscreen took three weeks to fix. 
Mr S also complained that AXA sent him a letter intended for another of its customers. So he 
was concerned that his data had similarly been disclosed to another third party.
AXA reviewed Mr Ss complaint and apologised for the delays. It offered him £30 
compensation, which Mr S didnt accept. 
As he remained unhappy, Mr S referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator 
considered it but didnt recommend that it should be upheld. 
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators opinion, so he asked for an ombudsman to review it 
and make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know its likely to come as a disappointment to Mr S but having reviewed everything, I 
agree with the outcome the investigator reached. Ill explain why.
- From what I can see the claim was logged on 16 August 2021 and the drivers door 
window was fixed on 19 August 2021. At the same time, a temporary fix was put in place 
to make the back windscreen secure and weatherproof, and the car driveable. The glass 
for the rear screen was ordered as AXA has explained that its glazing contractor isnt able 
to hold all varieties of glass in stock  given the amount of different variations in 
existence. An appointment was booked for 27 August 2021 to fit the rear windscreen, as 
Mr S was on holiday until then. AXA has also explained that it wasnt able to complete the 
job as planned on 27 August 2021 as it received the wrong glass from the manufacturer  
as it had the wrong colour tint. So this was reordered, and the job was completed on 6 
September 2021. I do understand that from the point of the claim being logged until 
completion almost three weeks passed. But I dont think AXA is responsible for all of that 
time. Mr S was on holiday for around nine days, and I think its reasonable that AXA had 
to order the glass which wouldve taken at least a few days to arrive in any case.
- I do acknowledge that AXA may have initially ordered the wrong glass, which delayed 
things by around a week, but as AXA had made Mr Ss car safe using a temporary fix I 
dont think the impact of this extended to any more than inconvenience on Mr Ss part. I 
know Mr S has said he had to borrow cars in order to continue about his business, but I 
dont think he had to do that. He mayve preferred to do so, rather than driving his own 
car, but I havent seen anything to suggest he was told or led to believe that he couldnt 
use his car after the temporary fix had been put in place.
- Theres always some sort of inconvenience when dealing with motor insurance claims 
and insurance companies. So what I need to think about is the level of inconvenience that 
Mr S experienced over and above what Id usually expect. And whilst I do acknowledge 
that the process was lengthened slightly by the wrong glass being ordered, I think AXAs 
offer of £30 compensation to recognise this fairly reflects the level of inconvenience it 
caused. 
- Turning to the letter that Mr S received containing another customers details, I do 
understand why this mightve initially concerned him. AXA explained this was a simple 
human error whereby the wrong details were entered into the letter, and it said it 
contacted the other party to explain what had happened. It has also confirmed that Mr Ss 
details werent sent to anyone else, and Mr S hasnt provided any evidence, other than 
his suspicion, to contradict that. So on balance Im satisfied that Mr Ss details werent 
sent to any other parties in error, so I dont require AXA to put anything right in relation to 
this. 
Although I might not have individually commented on every point Mr S has raised, Id like to 
reassure him that Ive thought carefully about everything hes said. But having done so, I 
think AXAs offer of £30 compensation goes far enough to acknowledge the inconvenience 
the delay in this claim caused him. So Im d=sorry to disappoint Mr S but Im not asking AXA 
to do anything else. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint against AXA Insurance UK 
Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Sam Wade
Ombudsman