DRN-3410139
The complaint
Mr M is complaining about Wealthwise Corporate Financial Management Ltd (WCFM) an 
appointed representative (AR) of ValidPath Limited (ValidPath) because he says he received 
unsuitable advice to invest money held within his self-invested personal pension (SIPP) into 
an unregulated investment Stirling Mortimer 6 Morocco (Stirling Mortimer). He says the 
investment was unsuitable because it involved a greater degree of risk than he was willing to 
accept.
What happened
In 2008, Mr M transferred benefits worth around £73,000 from various pension schemes into 
a SIPP with Sanlam (previously Merchant Investors). Around £25,000 of this money was 
used to fund an unregulated investment in the Stirling Mortimer No. 6 Morocco Fund. 
A SIPP application form was signed on 4 February 2008, this listed Mr D of WCFM as the 
financial adviser. And, included ValidPaths FCA (then FSA) number.
A note of understanding that Mr M appears to have signed for Sanlam on 9 May 2008, 
includes a declaration that says:
Neither Merchant Investors nor Merchant Investors (Trustee Services) Limited, or 
any other company within the Merchant Investors Group, has given me any 
investment advice or exercised its judgement on the merits, suitability or otherwise of 
the investment.
Mr M signed an Investment Management Agreement on 9 May 2008, this records his 
attitude to risk as medium/high on a three-point scale of low/medium/high.
On 12 May 2008, WCFM issued a cover letter addressed to the SIPP provider. This referred 
to several enclosures including the Stirling Mortimer application form. This was on WCFM 
stationary and the footer said it was an AR of ValidPath. 
On the same date Mr D of WCFM sent the SIPP provider a letter, which said:
Re: Stirling Mortimer Global Property Fund PCC limited
No. 6 Fund MOROCCO
We understand that under Guernsey legislation you are required to have terms of 
business in place with ourselves that confirm the following:-
That we have completed verification for all investors we have introduced to Heritage 
International Fund Managers Limited as administrators of Stirling Mortimer Global 
Property Fund PCC Limited No. 6 Fund Morocco.
That we will inform you of any unsatisfactory conclusion in respect of the verification 
of our customer.
That we will keep records in accordance with the relevant anti money laundering 
legislation operating in our jurisdiction.
That we will provide copies of such verification records to Heritage International Fund 
Managers Limited including, where applicable, certification that an investor is a 
qualified investor.
That, in accordance with the statements made on Page 3 of the Cell Particulars, the 
Investor/s is/are Qualified Investors or within the meaning of the Financial Service 
and Markets Act 2000 or they is/are Investor/s who have received appropriate 
professional advice as outlined in paragraph two of Page 3 of the Cell Particulars.
We hereby confirm our agreement of the above terms of business.
Mr Ms Sanlam SIPP application was dated 16 May 2008. This records Mr D of WCFM as 
the financial adviser and he appears to have witnessed Mr Ms signature.
WCFM sent further enclosures to the SIPP provider on 19 May 2008 this was also on WCFM 
stationary, confirming it was an AR of ValidPath.
On the same date a WCFM administrator sent a fax from Mr D of WCFM to the SIPP 
provider, this said:
Further to our telephone conversation today. I enclose the OneSIPP Application 
form which has been completed and signed as necessary. Please let me know if you 
require anything further.
A transaction history for Mr Ms SIPP shows an investment of £25,050 was made on 
24 June 2008.
Mr Ms application for his Stirling Mortimer investment dated 25 June 2008. This records his 
financial adviser as Mr D of WCFM and includes WCFMs, as an AR of ValidPath, FCA (then 
FSA) number.
Background to the complaint
Sadly, the investment failed and Mr M appears to have lost his money. He says he was 
advised by Mr D of WCFM. Because WCFM was an appointed representative of ValidPath, 
he thinks its responsible for his losses.
In his complaint to ValidPath Mr M said: 
I write regarding the Stirling Mortimer Morocco fund. In 2008 on advice endorsed by 
yourselves I invested £25,000 into the fund and in subsequent years received 
statements detailing the value of my holding, however my latest statements show the 
value as zero.
Given that my investor profile indicated my preference was not high risk, I am 
surprised that this fund was recommended to me at all since it was clearly a higher 
risk than my preference as evidenced by its failure.
As such I would ask how you plan to compensate me for my loss given that my loss 
has resulted from poor advice from yourselves. ValidPath didnt accept Mr Ms complaint. It said it had no record of his investment or that he 
was a client of one of its appointed representatives. It also said it never endorsed 
investments into the Stirling Mortimer fund and that its use wouldve been contrary to the 
guidance it published to its appointed representatives at the time.
When Mr M referred his complaint to us, ValidPath told us:
This is one of a deluge of almost identical cases relating to advice allegedly given 
by WCFM. It then pointed out that WCFM ceased to be its appointed representative 
in 2010. 
Not only has ValidPath not received any disclosures in relation to the transaction, Mr 
M isnt listed on its shared practice-management database that all appointed 
representatives were required to use. This means WCFM acted off-piste so 
ValidPath were removed from the process. Based upon logic, ValidPath cant be held 
responsible for the claim. 
If WCFM did advise Mr M, this breached the clear compliance guidance issued by 
ValidPath. The outcome he has experienced wouldnt have been possible if that 
guidance had been followed.
As part of our investigations we asked the SIPP provider for information, amongst other 
things, it said:
I cannot locate on our records that any specific correspondence was sent out to the 
client regarding the Stirling Mortimer No.6 Morocco fund. I can confirm that broker 
information has previously been sent out to Wealthwise, this would have included 
valuations. Also the client has been receiving annual valuations each February as 
part of the disclosure process.
. . . .
I have received confirmation from our Investment Cash team that we priced the 
Stirling Mortimer No.6 Morocco fund at zero on 21 July 2017, as it was evident from 
news coverage that that there were serious issues involving the Fraud Squad.
Our investigator concluded this complaint is one we can consider and that it should be 
upheld. She felt the evidence shows Mr D carried out regulated activities in connection with 
Mr Ms SIPP and investment and that these were activities ValidPath had accepted 
responsibility for. She also felt the unregulated investment was unsuitable for Mr M and that 
he should be compensated accordingly.
ValidPath didnt accept the investigators assessment. In addition to the points it had made 
previously, it raised the following issues:
The documentation from the time of sale doesnt show WCFM was acting as an 
appointed representative of ValidPath in connection with Mr Ms SIPP and 
investment. 
ValidPath had no agency relationship with Heritage International Fund Managers and 
it never received commission from it. The relationships WCFM constructed with Mr M 
and Stirling Mortimer were designed to exclude ValidPath.The Note of Understanding doesnt mention ValidPath at all and contains key 
disclaimers signed by Mr M that he was responsible for the investment decisions in 
the SIPP and would continuously monitor the investment. This shows he was making 
his own investment decisions.
It also believes Mr M complained about the advice he received too late as he should 
have known the Stirling Mortimer fund was in trouble as early as 2012. It provided a 
chronological list of events to support this view and says the history of media 
coverage on this issue is so extensive, and goes back such a long time, that its not 
possible Mr M wasnt aware of the fundamental issue until 2018.
The SIPP provider told it that annual reports, in which the problems relating to the 
fund dating back to 2010 were clearly reported, were sent to WCFM. Theres no 
possibility this critical information wasnt available to Mr M through his relationship 
with WCFM, which continued after it left ValidPath in 2010.
Because agreement couldnt be reached the complaint was escalated to an ombudsman for 
review. He issued a provisional decision explaining why he thought this complaint is one we 
can consider and should be upheld. 
Mr M told us he accepted the provisional decision. ValidPath didnt accept it and raised the 
following key points:
Section 39 of FSMA says ValidPath can only be responsible for activities of WCFM 
that it accepted responsibility for in writing. The view that ValidPath accepted 
responsibility for unregulated investments like the Stirling Mortimer fund is based on 
a misunderstanding of the Scope of Permission section of the appointed 
representative agreement. This is merely a reproduction of the actual wording on the 
FCA website for information purposes. It didnt in practice allow ValidPaths ARs to 
access every conceivable investment. If that were the case, it wouldnt have been 
able to exercise any supervisory or governing function whatsoever.
An artificial distinction was established between how ValidPath accepted 
responsibility for its appointed representatives activities, and what it accepted 
responsibility for. Actually, its impossible to disentangle the how from the what, 
because both are integral to ValidPaths financial intermediation model and to do so 
would in practice severely impair its operation.
All requests for new agencies had to be channelled through ValidPaths dedicated 
agency department, which meant it was able to conduct due diligence on both 
providers and products. Because ValidPath is a regulated company, dealing with 
regulated products, a request for an unregulated product wouldve required particular 
scrutiny. Requests from other ARs for agencies with Stirling Mortimer, Quadris, 
Harlequin and other providers had been referred to ValidPath for a decision and all 
were turned down. So not only did it not accept responsibility in writing for the Stirling 
Mortimer investment, its impossible that it would ever have done so.
WCFM knew the correct procedures but took every effort to circumvent them and 
dealt direct with Stirling Mortimer without ValidPaths knowledge. There was little to 
be gained by inventing procedures and advisory standards that dont function as a 
direct proxy for the regulations. Everything ValidPath had designed, and that WCFM 
was subject to, was put together to apply FSA regulations and requirements as 
consistently as possible. That WCFM chose not to comply with any of ValidPaths 
requirements is almost beside the point  it was the FSA regulations that were being flouted invisibly, and out of sight from ValidPath. This matter ought to be a burden for 
the regulatory bodies and my decision should reflect this critical principle.
The provisional decision didnt refer to ValidPaths Terms of Business agreement that 
must have been provided if WCFM was providing advice as its appointed 
representative. This says:
OUR SERVICES
Wealthwise Corporate Financial Management Ltd is permitted to arrange 
(bring about) deals in investments and advice on investments. The particular 
investment types relate to life assurance, pensions, investments in authorised 
collective investment schemes Unit Trust PEPs and lSAs.
The wording is clear that WCFM was permitted by ValidPath to conduct business in 
relation to authorised (or regulated) collective investment schemes. It would be 
impractical to include a form of words that specifically excluded every other possible 
scheme and the term authorised collective investment schemes was a perfectly 
adequate catch-all descriptor. This description certainly wouldnt have applied to the 
Stirling Mortimer investment.
The ombudsman seems to have dismissed this on the basis that the investment was 
made within Mr Ms SIPP, but thats an unsustainable line of approach. The 
complaint is about the investment not the SIPP, and the detriment being complained 
about relates to the investment not the SIPP. These points, which were 
acknowledged in the provisional decision, render the SIPPness' of the investment as 
irrelevant in this context, other than the fact that it introduced a statutory 
responsibility on WCFM in terms of ongoing service.
 
WCFM set out to violate the constraints written into ValidPaths terms of business 
and deliberately hid the evidence of this. This should be seen as the substantive 
source of Mr Ms detriment and its not appropriate to lay the blame at ValidPaths 
door.
Notwithstanding the above, Mr M complained more than three years after he should 
have become aware he had cause for complaint. Stirling Mortimer funds had been 
collapsing for many years and the ombudsman service was making awards as early 
as 2012. He was a retired investor who didnt have years to wait out spells of bad 
news and the most normal behaviour in that situation would have been to keep a 
reasonably close eye on things. 
Mr Ms account of what he knew about what was happening to the fund and when he 
knew this have been accepted without criticism. This shouldnt be the case given his 
original complaint letter dated 21 July 2018 contains a number of falsehoods.
There was a statutory triennial review of the income drawdown plan due in 2014 and 
this would have highlighted matters sufficiently that Mr M shouldve known he had 
reason to complain. The FCAs definition of a complaint sets the bar low and Mr M 
didnt need to fully understand the technical issues with the fund, he simply needed 
to be dissatisfied.
If its the case that WCFM didnt forward updates about the fund it received from 
Sanlam to Mr M, why is ValidPath being held responsible for this? WCFM ceased to be an appointed representative of ValidPath in 2010, after which it operated as a 
directly authorised firm.
On the merits of the case, ValidPath said it concurs that its likely that the Stirling 
Mortimer fund was unsuitable but emphasised again that its advisory framework 
would have prohibited its use.
After receiving ValidPaths additional comments, the ombudsman contacted Sanlam to see if 
he could obtain further information that might help determine when Mr M shouldve been 
aware he had reason to complain. It provided copies of annual valuation statements for his 
SIPP since 2009. He also asked for information about statutory triennial reviews of Mr M's 
income drawdown plan and Sanlam said: 
With regards to your drawdown query, I can confirm that Mr M has not entered into 
Capital or Flexi-Access drawdown on his sub-accounts. 
This information was forwarded to ValidPath to give it the opportunity to comment before the 
ombudsman finalised his decision.
ValidPaths submissions: 
ValidPaths made numerous further submissions, after its initial response to the previous 
provisional decision issued. Ive considered these in their entirety. For the sake of clarity and 
simplicity Ive amalgamated my summary of these submissions. And, condensed the 
summary to what I consider to be the key material arguments. Broadly speaking, ValidPath 
has raised two key objections a) the complaint has been brought too late and, b) its not 
responsible for the activities that are the subject of this complaint. In relation to each 
ValidPaths raised a number of points Ive summarised the crux of these in turn below. 
The complaint has been brought too late: 
The issues that plagued Stirling Mortimer were well known, documented and 
publicised more than three years before the complaint was raised;
Due to WCFMs ongoing relationship with Mr M, its implausible that he wasnt 
reasonably made aware of the problems with the Stirling Mortimer investment more 
than three years before the complaint was raised;
Based on the annual statements sent to him by the SIPP provider, it was clear that 
the Stirling Mortimer investment had consistently gone down in value; and
A benchmark property index had outperformed the investment by around 140% by 
July 2015; so 
Mr M ought reasonably to have become aware that he had cause for complaint more 
than three years before this complaint was raised. 
ValidPaths not responsible for the activities complained about: 
WCFM wasnt acting as its agent in relation to the activities complained about and Mr 
M wasnt ValidPaths client. 
WCFM wasnt permitted to undertake this type of business. 
All product provider agencies are administered at network level, ValidPath didnt 
have an agency with Stirling Mortimer  WCFM took steps to circumvent this 
process. 
Schedule 3 of the AR agreement simply lists all of the investments listed in the 
relevant definition, this doesnt mean that ARs were permitted to advise on any of 
these investments. WCFM was limited to providing services in line with the bespoke terms of business 
provided to it by ValidPath, this excluded unregulated investments. 
None of the processes put in place were followed and WCFM actively hid these 
activities from ValidPath.
It didnt rule out the possibility of advising on unregulated investments, but separate 
terms applied to these and WCFM never obtained these. 
This case has since been passed to me for a decision. We shared further information with 
ValidPath. It remained of the view that the complaint had been brought too late. Briefly, it 
said: 
Based on the statements provided, the Stirling Mortimer investment only ever 
dropped in value.
By February 2015 it had dropped by 9% as compared to a benchmark property index 
which went up by 130% between June 2008 and February 2015. 
Stirling Mortimer wasnt named separately but is was the only asset held within the 
TB Assets sub-account which was named and, in any case, the entire pension, the 
sub-account and the TB Assets element within the sub-account all declined in value 
every year. 
So, its inconceivable that Mr M didnt have cause for concern before July 2015. And, 
he would reasonably have been able to express dissatisfaction long before that. 
The pension had continuously lost money and was almost 140% down against the 
market. 
Two similar complainants, who invested in Stirling Mortimer around the same time, 
confirmed they became concerned about their investment in 2014 on receiving 
statements from Sanlam. 
Its clear Mr M ought reasonably to have become aware he had cause for complaint 
more than three years before he made the complaint in July 2018. 
The complaint had therefore been brought too late. 
It provided copies of the information sheets completed by complainants which support the 
above statements. The sheets have been anonymised. These do confirm that they both 
became aware of problems with the fund in early 2014. I would note that the forms are 
almost identical not only in circumstances but also in the precise wording used to describe 
what happened and when. 
I sent my provisional decision to Mr M and ValidPath explaining that I thought this complaint 
is one we can consider and that it should be upheld. I invited both parties to make any 
further submissions they would like me to consider. Mr M accepted my decision. ValidPath 
confirmed that it didnt have anything further to add, beyond the submissions it had already 
made. 
This case has now been passed back to me for a decision. Neither party had anything to add 
in response to my provisional decision. I took into account all of the submissions made 
previously and my findings remain as set out within my provisional decision. Ive reiterated 
these below. 
What Ive decided  and why
I must decide whether we can consider a complaint on the basis of the jurisdiction rules that 
apply. Having done so, I have concluded the complaint is one we can consider. 
The parties to this complaint have provided detailed submissions to support their position 
and I am grateful to them for taking the time to do so. I have considered these submissions in their entirety. However, I trust that they will not take the fact that my decision focuses on 
what I consider to be the central issues as a discourtesy. The purpose of this decision is not 
to address every point raised in detail, but to set out my findings, on what I consider to be 
the main points, and reasons for reaching them.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
When we receive a complaint about the acts or omissions of an appointed representative, 
the usual jurisdiction tests apply:
Did the actions being complained about take place when the representative was an 
appointed representative of the principal?
Does the complaint relate to an activity we cover?
Do we have territorial jurisdiction?
Is the complainant eligible?
Was the complaint made in time?
In this case, Im satisfied these tests are met. Mr M is an eligible complainant, we have 
territorial jurisdiction and WCFM was an appointed representative of ValidPath at the time of 
the acts complained about. Ill now turn to the issues of jurisdiction that are in dispute, 
namely whether Mr M complained in time and whether ValidPath can be held responsible for 
the actions of its appointed representative.
Has the complaint been brought in time?
Our jurisdiction is set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. These rules are 
referred to as DISP.
DISP 2.8.2:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service:

(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or 
ought reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for 
complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the 
Ombudsman within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some other 
record of the complaint having been received;
unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in 
DISP 2.8.2 R or DISP 2.8.7 R was as a result of exceptional circumstances; 
In line with the above, we cannot consider a complaint where it has been brought:
More than six years after the event took place; or, if later,
More than three years after the complainant became aware, or ought reasonably to 
have become aware, that they had cause for complaint; unless
The business consents to us looking into the complaint despite it having been 
brought out of time; or
Exceptional circumstances apply, for example, where the complainant has been 
incapacitated  and, as a result of this, was unable to bring the complaint to this 
service within the applicable time limits.
It isnt in dispute that the event happened more than six years before the complaint was 
raised. So, Ive focused on whether or not Mr M became  or ought reasonably to have 
become  aware of his cause for complaint more than three years before he referred the 
complaint. 
ValidPath say that the press coverage, drop in value of the investments and the meetings 
that Mr M ought to have been having with WCFM ought reasonably to have led to Mr M 
becoming aware that he had cause for complaint more than three years before he raised the 
complaint. 
The press coverage ValidPath referenced are predominantly articles in the financial press. I 
wouldnt necessarily expect a retail client to be aware of these. There wasnt a national press 
campaign or prolific coverage to the point that it would be reasonable to conclude 
Mr M ought reasonably to have become aware of the problems faced by the investment  or 
that the investment wasnt suitable for him  via media coverage. 
ValidPaths arguments as to why the complaint should be time-barred focus heavily on what 
WCFM ought to have known and relayed to Mr M and what shouldve been discussed in 
meetings WCFM ought to have had with Mr M. The test is what Mr M knew or ought 
reasonably to have known  this is based on information available to him. I cant decide what 
Mr M knew  or ought to have known  based on what WCFM ought to have done, in the 
absence of evidence that it actually did this. I havent been provided with any evidence that 
Mr M had meetings with WCFM within which he was told about any problems with the 
investment more than three years before the complaint was raised. 
In making the above findings, I acknowledge there was an ongoing relationship with WCFM. 
However, I havent seen any evidence that WCFM actually held regular reviews with Mr M or 
that it discussed the problems with Stirling Mortimer during any such meetings. To be clear, I 
dont disagree with ValidPath that under the circumstances WCFM shouldve held meetings 
with Mr M and that it shouldve at least informed him about the issues with Stirling Mortimer. 
But, thats not evidence that this happened  or, in turn, that Mr M knew or ought reasonably 
to have known that he had cause for complaint. 
We have copies of the annual statements Mr M received in respect of his SIPP. Based on 
these, the SIPP provider didnt drop the value of the investment on the annual statements 
provided to Mr M until 2017. In the absence of evidence that Mr M was otherwise made 
aware of the issues with the Stirling Mortimer investment, I think these wouldve reassured 
him that the investment retained significant value. Mr M complained to ValidPath within a 
reasonable timeframe of receiving the 2017 annual statement. 
Most recently ValidPath submitted that based on the statements provided, the Stirling 
Mortimer investment only ever dropped in value. By February 2015 it had dropped by 9% as compared to a benchmark property index which went up by 130% between June 2008 and 
February 2015. So, its not feasible that Mr M reasonably didnt become aware that he had 
cause for complaint.
It also provided copies of the information sheets completed by complainants in support of the 
above statements. The sheets have been anonymised. These do both confirm that the 
complainants who completed the sheets both became aware of problems with the fund in 
early 2014. As noted in the background to this complaint, the forms are almost identical not 
only in circumstances but also in the precise wording used to describe what happened and 
when. 
I wouldnt necessarily expect a retail client, like Mr M, to actively check a benchmark or 
compare one investment to others that may be a reasonable comparison to assess its 
performance. It hasnt been suggested that Mr M wasnt willing to accept any risk or that he 
was led to believe the investment was capital protected, such that any drop in the investment 
shouldve led him to become aware that he had cause for complaint on the basis that the 
investment was unsuitable or mis-sold. I dont think the fact that it may have been clear that 
the investment wasnt performing as hoped is sufficient. 
Whilst its possible that some investors may have become aware earlier that they had cause 
for complaint, I dont think this means that Mr M should necessarily have become aware at 
that stage. There are numerous reasons why different individuals may reasonably become 
aware of a problem/their cause for complaint at different times, such as their:
experience/knowledge
expectations of the investment 
reasons for having concerns 
receipt of different information about the investment 
Im not persuaded that Mr M ought reasonably to have become aware that he had cause for 
complaint more than three years before he complained in this instance. 
Taking everything into account, I think the complaint has been brought in time.
Other jurisdiction considerations
The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) Section 22 (Regulated Activities) 
provides that: 
(1) An activity is a regulated activity for the purposes of this Act if it is an activity of a 
specified kind which is carried on by way of business and 
(a) relates to an investment of a specified kind; or
(b) in the case of an activity of a kind which is also specified for the purposes of this 
paragraph, is carried on in relation to property of any kind.
DISP 2.3.1R says:
The Ombudsman can consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it 
relates to an act or omission by a firm in carrying on one or more of the following 
activities:
(1) regulated activities (other than auction regulation bidding); or any ancillary activities, including advice, carried on by the firm in connection with 
them.
And
DISP 2.3.3G, which is guidance for the interpretation of our compulsory jurisdiction, says:
Complaints about acts or omissions include those in respect of activities for which 
the firm
is responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for which 
the firm has accepted responsibility).
Under section 39(3) of FSMA:
The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if 
he had expressly permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative in 
carrying on the business for which he has accepted responsibility.
Exemption of ARs
FSMA says under Article 19, The general prohibition, that:
(1) No person may carry on a regulated activity in the United Kingdom, or purport to do 
so, unless he is   
(a) an authorised person; or
(b) an exempt person.
(2) The prohibition is referred to in this Act as the general prohibition.
Article 39 of FSMA sets out the exemption of ARs to the above, in so far as relevant, it says:
(1) If a person (other than an authorised person)  
(a) is a party to a contract with an authorised person (his principal) which  
(i) permits or requires him to carry on business of a prescribed description, and
(ii) complies with such requirements as may be prescribed, and
(b) is someone for whose activities in carrying on the whole or part of that business 
his principal has accepted responsibility in writing,
he is exempt from the general prohibition in relation to any regulated activity 
comprised in the carrying on of that business for which his principal has accepted 
responsibility.
The business for which an AR can be exempt is set out in FSMA 2000 (Appointed
Representatives) Regulations 2001 (2001 No. 1217) this includes advising on investments 
and arranging deals in investments. 
So, for me to conclude that this is a complaint that we can consider I need to consider three 
questions:1. What are the acts that are the subject of this complaint?
2. Were the acts about which Mr M complains done in the carrying on of a regulated 
activity, or an ancillary activity carried on in connection with a regulated activity?
3. Were those acts the acts of the principal firm, ValidPath?
What are the acts that are the subject of this complaint?
Mr M complains that, given whats happened in respect of the Stirling Mortimer investment, 
the investment wasnt suitable for him. He says he was looking to consolidate a few 
pensions and WCFM recommended the SIPP he transferred into and the subsequent 
investments. 
In his original complaint to ValidPath he said: 
In 2008 on advice endorsed by yourselves I invested £25,000 into the fund and in 
subsequent years received statements detailing the value of my holding, however my 
latest statements show the value as zero. 
Given that my investor profile indicated my preference was not high risk, I am 
surprised that this fund was recommended to me at all since it was clearly a higher 
risk than my preference as evidenced by its failure.
In his submissions to us he said: 
I was prepared to accept a small degree of risk  I was concerned about 
investments with a high potential to decline and preferred safer (possibly slower 
growth) investments.
And that it was his objective:
To generate capital growth as I was 50 and with only 15 years to retirement and this 
being my only provision it was imperative to take action.
Based on his submissions, I think his complaint is focused on the advice to invest in Stirling 
Mortimer not the wider transaction. In particular, that the fund was higher risk than was 
suitable for him and shouldnt have been recommended to him. 
Were the acts about which Mr M complains done in the carrying on of a regulated 
activity, or an ancillary activity carried on in connection with a regulated activity?
Regulated activities are set out in Part II of FSMA (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (RAO). 
They include:
Advising on investments where the advice relates to buying, selling, subscribing for 
or underwriting a particular investment which is a security or a contractually based 
investment (article 53 RAO).
Arranging deals in investments for another personto buy, sell, subscribe for or 
underwrite a particular investment which is a security or relevant investment (article 
25 RAO).Theres limited evidence from the point of sale. I think its clear that WCFM was acting as Mr 
Ms adviser in respect of the initial transfer and subsequent investment in Stirling Mortimer. 
WCFM and Mr M had an ongoing advisory relationship. The application and investment 
manager forms were submitted by WCFM and listed it as Mr Ms adviser in respect of the 
transactions. Theres no evidence that Mr M was an experienced investor or that he came 
across the Stirling Mortimer investments himself or through the involvement of another party. 
Based on Mr Ms circumstances and what hes told us. I think its more likely than not that Mr 
Ms investment in the Stirling Mortimer fund came about as a result of advice given to him by 
WCFM to invest in that fund.  
I also note that WCFM submitted the application forms for the investments including Stirling 
Mortimer to the SIPP provider, thereby making arrangements.
Taking all of this into account, I think that it is more likely than not that WCFM did advise 
Mr M to invest in Stirling Mortimer and made arrangements for Mr M to make this 
investment. 
Further, its my view that these activities qualify as the regulated activities of advising on 
investments and arranging deals in investments, as defined in the RAO. 
It isnt contested that the Stirling Mortimer investment was a specified investment. There is, 
unfortunately, very little information available now regarding the details of the fund and how it 
operated. Im aware that the fund was part of the Stirling Mortimer Global Property Fund 
PCC Ltd (SMGPF), a protected cell company with limited liability based in Guernsey. My 
understanding is that the fund had at least some of the features of a collective investment 
scheme (funds were pooled together and investors did not have day to day control over their 
management) but it was neither authorised nor recognised by the FSA or FCA (in other 
words, if it was a collective investment scheme, it wouldve been a UCIS). Im also aware 
that investors like Mr M were effectively purchasing shares in the fund and Ive seen Mr Ms 
subscription contract which showed the subscription on his behalf of preference shares in 
the Stirling Mortimer fund. I accept that theres, in turn, likely to be more than one possible 
basis on which the activity was regulated under the RAO.  
Overall, I am satisfied that Mr Ms complaint relates to activities done in the carrying on of 
the regulated activities of advising on investments and arranging deals in investments. 
The next question is whether that business was business for which ValidPath had accepted 
responsibility. To the extent that it was merely the purchase of shares, I can see no effective 
restriction on the carrying on of that activity in the AR Agreement. ValidPath originally said 
that the Stirling Mortimer investment was a UCIS and that such business was expressly 
restricted by operation of the Terms of Business that wouldve been applicable between Mr 
M and WCFM. 
More recently ValidPaths said that Stirling Mortimer wasnt a collective investment, but it 
maintains that the Terms of Business restricted WCFM from advising on such investments. 
And, overall, that this wasnt business that WCFM was permitted to undertake or for which it, 
in turn, had accepted responsibility. Ive given careful thought to what ValidPaths said in this 
regard in the following section of this decision. 
Were those acts the acts of the principal firm, ValidPath?
As set out above, DISP 2.3.3G says:Complaints about acts or omissions include those in respect of activities for which 
the firmis responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent 
for which the firmhas accepted responsibility).
It follows that the question then is: were the advising and arranging activities conducted by 
WCFM for Mr M activities for which ValidPath is responsible?  
When Im considering responsibility by way of s39 FSMA, the test is: were those activities 
done in the carrying on of business for which ValidPath has accepted responsibility?  
ValidPaths adamant that it isnt responsible for the sale of the Stirling Mortimer investment 
and any advice given in respect of this. Its assertions are based on a number of arguments, 
in particular:
WCFM wasnt acting as its agent in relation to the sale of the Stirling Mortimer 
investment complained about. 
It didnt authorise WCFM to undertake the type of business thats the subject of this 
complaint. 
The way in which WCFM went about undertaking the business is in breach of the 
compliance and procedural requirements in place.
WCFM actively hid its activities.
At the time of the advice WCFM was an AR of ValidPath. This is confirmed by the FCAs 
register and Ive not seen any evidence that would lead me to conclude that WCFM was 
acting in any capacity other than as AR of ValidPath at the time of the activities in question. 
Its clear from the available paperwork that WCFM was and had been acting as Mr Ms 
investment adviser in respect of his pension. 
Its documented that WCFM, as AR of ValidPath, was acting as Mr Ms adviser in respect of 
the switch that made the investment in Stirling Mortimer possible and the investment itself. 
Theres no suitability report that weve seen but WCFM is listed as the adviser on all of the 
relevant documentation this includes reference to ValidPaths FCA (then FSA) number, and 
footers on letters referring to WCFMs status as an AR of ValidPath. As a result, Ive found 
that it is more likely than not that the advice to invest in Stirling Mortimer was given by 
WCFM.
The available paperwork from WCFM includes the cover letter submitting the application for 
Stirling Mortimer  along with other documents  to the SIPP provider; these included a 
footer stating that WCFM was an AR of ValidPath. In light of the documentation referenced 
and other circumstances of the complaint, Im satisfied that WCFM was acting as AR of 
ValidPath when undertaking the acts complained about.
So, Ive gone on to consider if the acts that are the subject of this complaint comprise 
business for which ValidPath had accepted responsibility.
To answer this, Ive carefully considered the scope of the authority provided by ValidPath to 
WCFM by means of the appointed representative agreement.  
ValidPath says it sent WCFM an agreement for it to execute, but WCFM didnt return this 
and in turn it doesnt have a copy of a signed agreement. Instead, ValidPath has provided a copy of an agreement which another of its ARs was 
subject to and said that the same terms applied to WCFM. Ive seen nothing to indicate that 
might not be the case. I therefore consider it reasonable to accept this standard agreement 
as indicative of the appointed representative contract agreed between ValidPath and WCFM.  
That contract set out the business for which ValidPath accepted responsibility. Ive reviewed 
the agreement carefully. In short, my view is that ValidPath had accepted responsibility for 
the activities of WCFM that are the subject of Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain my view below.  
In so far as is relevant, the agreement provided that:
2. The Company accepts responsibility for the activities of the Member carrying on 
investment business of the kind and for the purposes for which the Member is hereby 
appointed.
3. The Member hereby agrees to act as an agent on behalf of the Company in respect 
of the  Products (as defined herein) pursuant to the written Terms and Conditions 
and hereby confirms he/she has read and fully understood to the same Terms and 
Conditions.
The functions of the member are defined as:
2.1 The member is appointed for the purpose of procuring or endeavouring to 
procure clients and prospective Clients to enter into Contracts and (for that 
purpose) giving advice to clients and prospective clients about entering into such 
Contracts.
The relevant terms of the clause are defined as:
Contracts are defined as contract(s) for the Products entered into or to be entered 
into by the client with the Institutions. 
Products are defined as policies of assurance, annuity contracts, pensions plans or 
policies and such other products and services (including but without limitation critical 
illness and permanent health insurance policies) and term assurance policies as shall 
from time to time be dealt in by the Company subject (in the case of investment 
business) to the provisions of Schedule 3.
Institutions are defined as any insurance or assurance company, life office, broker, 
unit trust manager, stockbroker, building society, bank, finance house or other 
financial institution.
The members duties are set out under clause 4:
The Member and the Controller(s) shall have the following obligations to the 
Company and shall abide by and procure that Registered Individuals abide by the 
following rules and regulations:
the Member and the Controller(s) agree and covenant to carry on investment 
business activities strictly in accordance with paragraph 10, and Schedule 3 (see 
also FSA Scope of Permission).
Clause 10.2 limits the ARs activities: The Member shall limit its activities in relation to investment business and conduct 
and transact only those classes of investment in relation to which the Company has 
authorisation, as detailed in Schedule 3
Schedule 3 sets out that: 
In accordance with paragraphs 4.1 and 10 above, the Member, its Controller(s), 
Officers and Registered Individuals agree to partake in the following investment 
business activity only, for which the Company is authorised to transact by the FSA 
under its scope of permissions notice
Schedule 3 states that the relevant Regulated Activity is Advising on investments and the 
Investment Types are as follows:
Certificates representing certain security
Debenture
Government and public security
Life Policy
Rights to or interests in investments (Contractually Based Investments)
Rights to or interests in investments (Security)
Share
Stakeholder pension scheme
Unit
Warrant
It follows that in order for ValidPath to accept responsibility, the relevant activity by WCFM 
must be of a kind for which WFCM was appointed and for a purpose for which WCFM was 
appointed. Clause 2.1 explains the purpose of the appointment, namely procuring clients to 
enter into Contracts and (for that purpose) giving advice to clients and prospective clients 
about entering into such Contracts. It follows that any advice to actual or prospective clients 
about entering into a Contract thats directed towards procuring the client to enter into a 
Contract is within the AR agreements purpose. Its therefore important to establish what 
are, and arent, Contracts under the AR agreement and this turns on the definitions of 
contracts, institutions and products (above). 
Contracts are defined within the AR agreement, as set out above, as contract(s) for the 
Products entered into or to be entered into by the client with the Institutions [my 
emphasis].
Its clear from Schedule 3 that permitted investment types included a unit. A unit is defined 
in the regulators Handbook Glossary as units in a collective investment scheme (art 81 
RAO), which, if it met the definition of a UCIS, would squarely cover the Stirling Mortimer 
investment. However, even if it doesnt meet the definition of a UCIS permitted investment 
types also include shares. As Ive said above, Mr M purchased preference shares in the 
Stirling Mortimer fund. 
An institution is defined as including a financial institution. This is further defined in the AR 
agreement, but its given a broad definition generally and its meaning will depend on the 
context in which it is used. In this case, it seems fairly clear that a financial institution was 
intended to cover the range of institutions that might provide the type of investment contract 
permitted by Schedule 3. From this, it seems reasonable to say that either Heritage 
International Fund Managers Limited, as administrators of Stirling Mortimer Global Property 
Fund PCC Limited, or Stirling Mortimer itself would qualify as an institution as required.   In its submissions to this service, ValidPaths referred to its product provider agencies. It 
says it didnt have an agency with Stirling Mortimer and that it was for ValidPath as the 
authorised firm to enter into agency agreements. ValidPath says that because it had no 
agency agreement with Stirling Mortimer  because WCFM hadnt followed the established 
process  this wasnt business for which it had accepted responsibility. The AR agreement 
didnt limit the institutions WCFM could deal with to those with which ValidPath had an 
agency agreement. Ive carefully considered what ValidPaths said but Im not persuaded 
that the terms of the AR agreement preclude WCFM from advising Mr M to invest in Stirling 
Mortimer or that this wasnt business for which it accepted responsibility. 
All in all, in my view, advice to Mr M to invest in Stirling Mortimer is advice on investments in 
line with ValidPaths permissions as set out in Schedule 3 and theres nothing within the 
definitions of contracts, products or institutions respectively which would preclude this advice 
from being in line with the purpose and scope of WCFMs appointment.  
Taking all of this into account, I think that by way of the AR agreement, ValidPath permitted 
WCFM to advise Mr M on its behalf on the merits of utilising a portion of his pension to invest 
in Stirling Mortimer. 
The next question is whether there are any other provisions which may restrict the scope of 
that permission.  
The Terms of Business 
I note that the Terms of Business submitted by ValidPath as applicable between WCFM and 
Mr M provided that:
Wealthwise Corporate Financial Management Ltd is permitted to arrange (bring 
about) deals in investments and advice on investments. The particular investment 
types relate to life assurance, pensions, investments in authorised collective 
investment schemes, Unit Trust PEPs and ISAs [my emphasis].
ValidPath originally said this meant that bringing about deals in unauthorised collective 
schemes was prohibited under the relevant terms of business. And, that even if Stirling 
Mortimer wasnt a collective investment, it maintains that, unregulated/unauthorised 
investments  such as Stirling Mortimer  werent permitted under its Terms of Business 
provided to WCFM. 
At the outset, I note of course that the Terms of Business were distinct from the appointed 
representative agreement. When signed they were agreed between WCFM and its client and 
were designed to set out the services and obligations offered by WCFM to its client. They 
were directed at the relationship between WCFM and its client. The appointed representative 
agreement on the other hand, was a contract that spoke to the obligations and duties in the 
relationship between WCFM and Validpath.  
It follows that, because they were distinct agreements, the apparent restriction on the scope 
of the permissions (outlined above) will only have the effect ValidPath says it has if we can 
reasonably say that the restriction was incorporated into the AR agreement (if it isnt, then 
the restrictions in the Terms of Business will merely regulate the dealings between WCFM 
and Mr M and not between ValidPath and WCFM).  
With this in mind, I note that the Terms of Business are referenced in the AR agreement, in 
that it specifies that these needed to be provided to every client in a timely manner, in the 
format prescribed by ValidPath and in compliance with the regulators rules. Clause 4.4 
reads: The Member shall conduct business with a client only on the Companys Terms of 
Business (which shall be supplied timeously to every client) in the format prescribed 
by the Company and in compliance with the FSA rules as amended from time to 
time. 
Ive therefore considered whether that clause might have effectively incorporated the Terms 
of Business into the AR agreement.  
Clause 4.4 appears to be directed at two matters: 
(a) It requires that the client agreements entered into between WCFM and its clients 
shall be provided in good time on ValidPaths prescribed Terms of Business. It is in 
turn aimed at the establishment of the contract in the prescribed form  i.e. WCFM is 
only to use ValidPaths Terms of Business and must provide those to the client at an 
early stage. It doesnt seem to create a duty owed by WCFM to ValidPath to comply 
with the provisions contained in that form.  
(b) It requires that in conducting business with clients, WCFM must comply with FSA 
Rules. 
Neither of those matters specifically concerns either the kinds of products that can be sold or 
the purpose for which they can be sold. Given that those matters are both the subject of very 
specific delimitation in the AR agreement and Schedule 3, it seems doubtful to me that 
Clause 4.4 is intended to impact them. If that were the case, I would expect to see clear 
language to that effect. I recognise that ValidPaths interpretation might be implied from the 
words shall conduct business with a client only on the Companys Terms of Business, but I 
consider the plain, sensible interpretation is that the clause is aimed at compliance with the 
form and timing of the Terms of Business and not with the scope of responsibility, which is 
more clearly expressed with some particularity in Schedule 3 of the AR agreement.  
In making this point, I also note that in any event, the relevant clause under our Services in 
the Terms of Business, which tells the client the particular investment types to which 
WCFMs arranging and advice will relate, appears to me to be informational, rather than 
prescriptive and binding on WCFM   i.e. it can more readily be interpreted as an informal 
summary for the client of the kinds of products identified in the AR agreement. It doesnt 
have the force of an operative contractual condition that prohibits WCFM from giving the 
customer other kinds of advice.
The Terms of Business also set out that: 
With regard to investments which we have arranged for you, these will not be kept 
under review but we will advise you upon your request. However, at our discretion, 
and unless we hear from you to the contrary, we may contact you in the future 
without your prior consent should we wish to discuss the relative merits of an 
investment or service we feel may be of interest to you. Any telephone contact will be 
between the hours of 9.00am to 9.00pm. In some circumstances, we may 
recommend an unregulated contract such as an unregulated collective investment 
scheme: separate terms apply to such business.
The terms of business do make reference to unregulated contracts but ValidPath, when 
asked about this, said that as denoted separate terms of business would apply to these and 
WCFM never requested these be provided to it. In any case, I tend to think that if there were any conflict between the AR agreement and 
Terms of Business as to the scope of the former, I would expect the AR agreements terms 
and conditions to be definitive rather than the more informational terms in the Terms of 
Business, as they are specifically and clearly aimed at establishing the permitted kinds of 
products. 
All in all, its my view that the scope of the permissions is confined to the relevant provisions 
in the AR agreement and that the meaning of those provisions isnt affected by the operation 
of the Terms of Business, which regulates the relationship between WCFM and the client 
and in doing so, merely provides information about the type of investments that may be 
recommended to them.  
Compliance breaches 
ValidPaths also argued that a number of its internal processes hadnt been followed by 
WCFM when conducting the activities in question, and that in turn the activities fell outside 
the scope of its accepted responsibility. However, I should make it clear that a failure to 
follow a requirement that regulates the manner in which an authorised activity is conducted 
doesnt necessarily put that activity outside the operation of s39 (as an activity for which the 
principal firm didnt accept responsibility).  
I accept that there are processes that WCFM didnt follow when transacting the relevant 
business for Mr M. For example, it didnt complete the appropriate paperwork and the 
business wasnt reported to ValidPath. In my view these requirements are standards to be 
met in respect of how an AR should go about undertaking business on behalf of ValidPath 
rather than effective restrictions on the type of business they can undertake.
Failure to follow such processes in this instance doesnt mean that ValidPath isnt 
responsible for the advice complained about. In Anderson v SenseNetwork [2018] EWHC 
2834, in the High Court decision that was later upheld by the Court of Appeal, the judge said 
that:
139. I  agree with the Claimants that the authorities indicate that it is appropriate 
to take a broad approach when seeking to identify the "business for which he has 
accepted responsibility". The fact that there may not be actual authority for a 
particular transaction, for example because of breach of an obligation not to 
offer an inducement (Ovcharenko), or because there was no authority to advise 
on a related transaction (TenetConnect), or because certain duties needed to 
be fulfilled before a product was offered, does not mean that the transaction in 
question falls outside the scope of the relevant "business" for which 
responsibility is taken [my emphasis]. Equally, the approach must not be so broad 
that it becomes divorced from the terms of the very AR agreement relied upon in 
support of the case that the principal has accepted responsibility for the business in 
question.
Taking everything into account, Im of the view that WCFMs failure to follow certain 
procedures doesnt alter the effect of s39 in this case and Im satisfied that we can consider 
Mr Ms complaint against ValidPath.
Ive taken into account everything ValidPath has submitted about WCFMs behaviour  and 
its clear that there have been problems in the relationship  but, Im satisfied that this 
doesnt mean that ValidPath isnt responsible for its former ARs activities which are the 
subject of this complaint. Having concluded that this is a complaint we can consider, Ive 
gone on to consider the merits of the complaint.Merits of the complaint
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive taken into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and codes of practice; and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time.
WCFM was required to follow the relevant rules set out by the regulator. These include the 
overarching Principles for Businesses  principles 1 (integrity), 2 (due skill, care and 
diligence), 6 (customers interests) and 9 (reasonable care) are of particular relevance here.
Amongst other things, to fulfil its duties WCFM had to know its client, act in his best interests 
and give suitable advice.
As Ive mentioned on a number of occasions, there isnt a lot of paperwork from the point of 
sale. Based on what I have seen Im not persuaded that WCFM gathered enough 
information about Mr Ms circumstances and knowledge to satisfy the above requirements. 
Mr M says it was his understanding that the Stirling Mortimer investment was relatively low 
risk  that wasnt the case. 
Mr M says the Stirling Mortimer investment involved a greater degree of risk than he was 
willing to accept and in his complaint form, he described his attitude to risk as balanced. 
This is broadly consistent with the Investment Management Agreement he appears to have 
signed for Sanlam in 2008 that records his attitude to risk as medium/high. 
But the Stirling Mortimer investment was an esoteric, high-risk investment. The fact it was an 
unregulated investment also meant Mr M wouldnt be covered by the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS) if it failed. While the evidence indicates Mr M was willing to 
accept some risk with the money in his SIPP, I dont believe he was a particularly 
knowledgeable or sophisticated investor who should have been advised to put funds from 
within his pension into an investment of this type.
Taking everything into account, I think the Stirling Mortimer investment was unsuitable for Mr 
M and that he shouldnt have been advised to make it. Its for this reason that I uphold his 
complaint.
It hasnt been suggested that Mr M was an insistent client or that he was otherwise likely to 
go against suitable advice from his adviser. But, for the sake of completeness, Ive 
considered this  and, I havent seen anything that would lead me to conclude that Mr M was 
likely to disregard suitable advice. I find that Mr M wouldnt have invested in Stirling Mortimer 
had suitable advice been given by WCFM. 
Under the circumstances, I find that its fair and reasonable for ValidPath to compensate 
Mr M for the financial losses hes suffered as a result of the unsuitable advice to invest in 
Stirling Mortimer. In addition to the financial loss established, I think that the loss of a 
significant amount of his pension provision caused Mr M much distress and inconvenience 
and that ValidPath should compensate him for this. 
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr M should be put as closely as possible into the position he would 
probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.I take the view that Mr M would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr M's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must ValidPath do?
To compensate Mr M fairly, ValidPath must:
Compare the performance of Mr M's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
ValidPath should add interest as set out below:
ValidPath should pay into Mr M's pension plan to increase its value by the total 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If ValidPath is unable to pay the total amount into Mr M's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr M wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr M's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
For example, if Mr M is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr M would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay to Mr M £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the loss of a 
substantial sum from his pension provision.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If ValidPath deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr M how much has been taken off. ValidPath should give Mr M a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr M asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Stirling 
Mortimer 
InvestmentStill exists 
but illiquidFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant'
s 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an 
asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case. 
ValidPath should take ownership of any illiquid assets by paying a commercial value 
acceptable to the pension provider. The amount ValidPath pays should be included in the 
actual value before compensation is calculated.
If ValidPath is unable to purchase illiquid assets, their value should be assumed to be nil for 
the purpose of calculating the actual value. ValidPath may require that Mr M provides an 
undertaking to pay ValidPath any amount he may receive from the illiquid assets in the 
future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on 
drawing the receipt from the pension plan. ValidPath will need to meet any costs in drawing 
up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the Stirling Mortimer Investment should be deducted from the fair 
value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if ValidPath totals all those payments and deducts that 
figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr M wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr M's circumstances and risk attitude.My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that ValidPath Limited should pay the amount 
calculated as set out above.
ValidPath Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr M in a clear, simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Nicola Curnow
Ombudsman