DRN-3777392
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Bank of Scotland plc has enforced a personal guarantee she signed, 
and so is pursuing her for a debt.
What happened
The background to this case is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in detail here 
and will just set out a brief summary of what has happened.
Mrs Rs husband was the director of a limited company, which Ill refer to as A.  And in 2012, 
Mrs R and her husband signed a joint personal guarantee, in which they guaranteed to pay 
any debts owed by A to Bank of Scotland.
Following a cheque that had been paid into As account being disputed, Bank of Scotland 
took the funds from the cheque back out of As account and demanded repayment of the 
resulting debt. Bank of Scotland pursued A for the debt, including through court action, 
before ultimately pursuing Mrs R and her husband for the debt by enforcing the personal 
guarantee.
Mrs R complained that Bank of Scotland had acted unreasonably in enforcing the personal 
guarantee. Bank of Scotland investigated her complaint, but said she had guaranteed any 
debt A owed it, so it was entitled to pursue her. Mrs R wasnt satisfied with Bank of 
Scotlands response, so referred her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at her complaint. They didnt think Bank of Scotland had 
acted unreasonably in enforcing the personal guarantee against her, so didnt uphold her 
complaint. Mrs R disagreed with our investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Bank of Scotland has acted unreasonably in enforcing the 
personal guarantee. Ill explain why below.
Bank of Scotland has sent us a copy of the personal guarantee Mrs R and her husband 
signed. It says that Mrs R and her husband jointly and severally guarantee to pay any money 
and liabilities owed by A to Bank of Scotland. And it was signed by Mrs R in September 
2012.
Its not in dispute that Mrs R signed the guarantee. And shes not made any argument or 
suggestion that anything about the circumstances in which the guarantee was signed should 
make it invalid, or that the guarantee has been mis-interpreted in any way.
Bank of Scotland has also sent us copies of a court order, which shows that it was found to 
be owed a debt by A. And Bank of Scotland has said the debt it is pursuing Mrs R for is the 
debt from that court order. So it appears that the debt Bank of Scotland has enforced the 
personal guarantee in relation to, is a debt owed by A.
I therefore think Bank of Scotland has enforced the personal guarantee in line with the 
agreed terms of the guarantee itself. And I havent seen any other reason why the guarantee 
cant be enforced. So I think Bank of Scotland has acted reasonably in enforcing the 
personal guarantee against Mrs R.
Mrs R has raised a number of arguments relating to the amount of the debt owed by A. But 
the amount of the debt owed by A to Bank of Scotland is a matter to be dealt with between A 
and Bank of Scotland. In this complaint, I can only consider whether Bank of Scotland acted 
reasonably in enforcing the personal guarantee against Mrs R and, for the reasons Ive 
explained above, I think it did.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman