DRN-2985705
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Haven Insurance Company Limited caused delays during a claim 
he made on his commercial motor insurance policy and about the quality of some of the 
repairs carried out.
What happened
Mr S was involved in a car accident in October 2020. He raised a claim with Haven, the 
underwriter of his commercial motor insurance policy.
Liability for the accident was disputed, which delayed the commencement of repairs. Mr S 
car was eventually taken to a garage to be repaired in January 2021. Repairs were 
completed in February 2021. 
Mr S has complained about the time taken to repair his car. He says the garage  an 
approved repairer of Havens  continually pushed back the date of completion. He has also 
complained about the quality of repairs to his car. He says one of the windows isnt working 
properly and that the windscreen wiper pipe broke shortly after the repairs. He also says the 
speaker in the car door was damaged during the accident and that Haven should have 
repaired the damage. Mr S also wants Haven to reimburse him for lost earnings as he wasnt 
able to work until his car was repaired.
Haven says the time taken to repair the car was as a result of delays to parts which were on 
back order  which were caused by the COVID pandemic. It says these delays were out of 
its or its approved repairers control. Haven has also pointed out that the expected 
completion date of repairs was always 5 February 2021  which is when they were 
completed. 
In terms of the alleged poor repairs, Haven hasnt accepted liability for these at this stage. 
But it has said it will give further consideration to the issues if Mr S can provide a diagnostic 
check, from a main dealership, which shows the issues are either accident or repair related.
One of our investigators considered Mr S complaint but she didnt think it should be upheld. 
She said Haven had evidenced that the time taken to repair Mr S car was due to a delay in 
parts. She said it wouldnt be fair to hold Haven responsible for this. She agreed that the car 
was repaired by the original estimated completion date, but she did feel the garage could 
have done a better job of keeping Mr S updated. 
Our investigator thought Havens position on the poor repairs was fair in the circumstances. 
She also didnt think Haven needed to reimburse Mr S loss of earnings because that isnt 
something his policy covers.
Mr S didnt accept our investigators opinion. So, because no agreement has been reached, 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are three main complaint points I need to consider in this case. These are the time 
taken to complete the repairs, the quality of the repairs, and whether Haven should 
reimburse Mr S for his loss of earnings. For ease of reference Ill address each separately.
Time taken
The accident took place in October 2020 and repairs didnt commence until January 2021. 
This is because the third party involved in the accident disputed liability, and so this needed 
to be investigated. Ive seen no evidence to suggest that Haven caused any delays during 
this period. 
Mr S complaint about delays is primarily focused on the time taken to repair the car after it 
was taken to the garage in January 2021. Ive seen system notes from the garage which 
confirm the estimated completion date was 5 February 2021. Ive also seen that on two 
occasions during the repairs Mr S was told that his car would hopefully be ready sooner than 
this. 
The system notes confirm the reason the repairs werent completed sooner was due to the 
required parts being delayed in arriving at the garage. I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable to hold Haven responsible for this. I also dont think the overall time taken to 
repair the car was excessive or unreasonable, taking into account the repairs required. 
Based on everything Ive seen, I dont think Haven caused any unreasonable or unavoidable 
delays during Mr S claim.
Quality of repairs
Since the complaint has been with our service, I understand the garage has agreed to carry 
out further works on Mr S car window. So, as this appears to be in hand, I wont be 
considering this issue as part of my decision.
Mr S has complained that his speaker and windscreen wiper pipe have been damaged, 
either during the accident or the subsequent repairs. 
Havens head engineer has stated that the repairer already checked Mr S speaker and 
tested a replacement, which didnt fix the issue. The engineer says this shows that any issue 
with the speaker is unlikely to be accident related. Haven has also considered the photos of 
the damage to the windscreen wiper pipe but says these arent sufficient to evidence that the 
damage was caused during the accident or subsequent repairs.
However, Haven has confirmed that it will consider the speaker and windscreen wiper pipe 
issues further, if Mr S can provide a diagnostic check, from a main dealership, which 
supports that the issues were likely caused by the accident or the repairs. If the check shows 
that they most likely were, Haven has confirmed it will cover the cost of repairs and the 
diagnostic check.
I think Havens position on this issue is fair and reasonable, so Im not directing it to do 
anything further at this stage. Should Mr S provide a diagnostic check and subsequently be 
unhappy with Havens response, we may be able to consider his concerns as part of a new 
complaint.Loss of earnings
Mr S wants Haven to reimburse him for lost earnings during the time hes been without his 
car.
Page 13 of Mr S policy booklet sets out the general exclusions for cover under section B  
which is the section that applies to this claim. The following is a stated exclusion:
The cost of alternative transport (including hire vehicle costs) or compensation for 
You being unable to use Your Taxi or any consequential losses (including loss of 
profits or hire charges), incurred by You or anyone insured under this policy.
Based on the above, Mr S is not covered for lost earnings as a result of a claim made under 
section B. 
Ive also considered whether the particular circumstances of this complaint mean that it 
would be fair and reasonable to expect Haven to cover Mr S lost earnings, despite these not 
being covered under his policy. But as Ive stated in the first section of this decision, I dont 
think Haven caused any unreasonable or unavoidable delays. So, in the circumstances, I 
dont think it would be fair or reasonable to expect Haven to cover losses which it hasnt 
directly caused, and which are specifically excluded under the terms of Mr S policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman