DRN-1822682
The complaint
Miss D is unhappy that CIGNA Life Insurance Company of Europe SA-NV declined a claim 
made on her international private medical insurance policy and retrospectively added an 
exclusion to her policy effective from the policys start date. 
What happened
Towards the end of October 2019, Miss D took out an international private medical 
insurance policy, underwritten by CIGNA (the policy).
Shortly after, Miss D sought to make a claim under the policy to cover diagnostic tests and a 
medical consultation, which took place on 18 November 2019 (the consultation).
In order to consider the claim, CIGNA asked Miss D to provide certain information. Upon 
receipt of the medical notes of the consultation, CIGNA declined her claim. CIGNA said that 
Miss D didnt accurately declare her medical history when answering the questions put to her 
when taking out the policy. 
Had she done so, CIGNA says that it wouldve applied an exclusion in respect of all claims 
for: disease or disorder of the upper gastrointestinal tract and any associated or related 
conditions and any complications arising therefrom (the exclusion). And had the exclusion 
been in place from the start of the policy, the claim wouldnt have been covered. CIGNA also 
said it would be retrospectively adding the exclusion with effect from the policy start date.
Miss D didnt think this was fair, so she complained to our Service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold her complaint. Miss D disagreed. Her complaint has now been passed to me to look 
at everything afresh and decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing so, Ive taken into account the law in the area  which sets out an insurers
remedies where a consumer has deliberately, recklessly or carelessly misrepresented the
situation about things like their existing health issues when taking out the policy.
When a consumer takes out insurance, theyll usually be asked questions about themselves 
and the risks they want to insure. The insurer then uses that information to weigh up whether 
it wishes to cover that risk, how much it will charge for doing so and whether any additional 
exclusions should be applied to the policy.
The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) places a duty
on consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when entering an
insurance contract. They must provide the insurer with accurate information to allow it to
assess the risk. If they dont, there are some circumstances where an insurer may be able to
avoid the insurance contact  but thats only if theres been a qualifying misrepresentation. In
the absence of this, and where the consumer has taken reasonable care not to make a
misrepresentation, then the insurer cant take any action at all - even if they were provided
with the wrong information.
Under CIDRA, deciding whether Miss D took reasonable care is to be done in the light
of all the relevant circumstances. That can involve several things including whether the
questions she was asked at the time of taking out the policy were sufficiently clear.
It isnt disputed that before taking out the policy, Miss D was asked several questions about 
her medical history including:
Has any applicant been diagnosed with or had treatment for any Liver, Kidney or
Lung problem: Gastric or Intestinal problem, Urinary or Gynaecological or Prostate
condition or Mental Health Condition?
I refer to this as the medical question. 
Im satisfied that the medical question was clear. And the parties agree that Miss D 
answered no to this question. 
CIGNA says Miss D answered the medical question incorrectly. Thats because a few weeks 
after taking out the policy she attended a consultation and the notes of the consultation 
dated 18 November 2019 reflect:
She has a history of gastroesophageal reflux disease and will get symptoms about 
once a month of heartburn and regurgitation. She was prescribed Prilosec but has 
not used the same consistently. She is now off of PPI [proton pump inhibitors]. She 
has a history of epiglottis edema. She has mild dysphagia with food pausing in her 
neck area. No liquid dysphagia.
The notes also reflect that she was advised to stop taking Prilosec at the consultation.
Miss D told CIGNA that the notes are inaccurate; that she didnt have a history of 
gastroesophageal reflux disease  and she hadnt received this diagnosis until after the 
policy had been taken out. 
In support Miss D has provided correspondence and medical notes from other medical 
professionals including:
the physician whod referred Miss D for the consultation which took place on 
18 November 2019. Theyve provided a letter dated February 2020. It says: I have 
been following [Miss D] for a complicated, symptomatic supraglottic swelling of 
unknown origin She denies any significant reflux symptoms. Occasionally she will 
have some reflux after spicy food or red wine, however, this is not a daily or weekly 
occurrence. As you can see, she had no noticeable reflux symptoms that would have 
prompted treatment for reflux at that time.
her GP, whod declared in a letter dated early March 2020 that Miss D had never 
been treated for reflux during her course with the ENT [ear, nose and throat] doctor. 
No relationships were found with her complaints in this regard.Ive also seen a further letter dated 27 February 2020 from the doctor who met with her on 
18 November 2019 which says Miss D:
was referred to the Esophageal Clinic for an evaluation in the setting of
supraglottic edema. During her office visits, she did not have frequent symptoms 
related to gastroesophageal reflux disease; she only had mild heartburn that was 
occasional and mostly related to intake of spicy food. She did not classify herself as 
somebody with gastroesophageal reflux disease.
However, the doctor doesnt say his initial notes of the November 2019 consultation were 
inaccurate. And Im not persuaded that this letter  or the other letters Ive referred to above 
- explain why the doctor whod met with Miss D in November 2019 had noted what he did 
about Miss D having a history of gastroesophageal reflux disease - and having been 
prescribed medication for this. 
The doctor doesnt, for example, say his notes had been written in error. Nor does he explain 
the contradictory information first given.  In the circumstances, Ive placed more weight on 
the contents of the note of his consultation with Miss D dated 18 November 2019 as those 
notes were contemporaneous.
After our investigator issued her view not upholding Miss Ds complaint, Miss D sent us a 
letter dated 29 April 2020 from the doctor supervising the doctor Miss D saw on 
18 November 2019. It reflects:
I understand that [Miss D] is being denied coverage for the evaluation given that our 
medical documentation suggested that she had an established diagnosis of reflux 
disease prior to the visit with us. This is in fact incorrect. Upon detailed review of the 
case we have now amended the medical record to reflect that this patient had 
infrequent symptoms which could represent gastroesophageal reflux, but in no way 
had formal diagnosis of gastroesophageal reflux disease prior to our evaluation. Also, 
given that it was throat symptoms that was the main driver of her evaluation, and the 
infrequent nature of her reflux symptoms I do not believe that this patient could have 
known that she in fact had underlying gastroesophageal reflux disease. She had 
been prescribed Prilosec by an [ear, nose and throat specialist] for an empiric trial, 
meaning without objective evidence of GERD [gastroesophageal reflux disease] 
which is a common clinical approach but in no way confirms that she had a diagnosis 
of GERD prior to her objective testing here which was shared with the patient on 
November 21, 2019  I hope this serves to clarify her situation and apologize for the 
unfortunate and inaccurate wording in the medical record which has now been 
corrected.
Our investigator shared this letter with CIGNA and asked for their comments. It replied that 
Miss D shouldve still declared her symptoms and the medication she was taking. And had 
she done so, CIGNA says it wouldve requested a medical report.
I accept that the medical question doesnt ask Miss D whether shed had any symptoms of a 
gastric problem, it asks whether there has been a diagnosis or whether shed had any 
treatment for a gastric problem (amongst other medical conditions). 
Even if Miss D didnt have a formal diagnosis of gastroesophageal reflux disease when she 
took out the policy, Im persuaded the medical evidence, taken together, supports that 
Miss D had previously been prescribed  and taken - medication for gastric problems before 
taking out the policy. Im satisfied she shouldve still answered yes to the medical question on the basis that 
shed had treatment for gastric problems. Shed been advised to take proton pump inhibitors 
and Prilosec by the medical professionals shed seen. And even if certain medication had 
been prescribed empirically, Im still persuaded that Miss D shouldve answered yes to the 
medical question.
I think thats further supported by a note made by Miss Ds ear, nose and throat specialist 
from 16 September 2019 - before the policy was taken out  which shes more recently 
provided to our Service. It reflects:
there is a question if this may potentially be a reflux origin and I think it would be 
very reasonable for her to also start a course of proton pump inhibitors to see if she 
responds to this.
So, all in all, at the time of taking out the policy Im satisfied Miss D answered the medical 
question incorrectly  and carelessly. By doing so she made a qualifying misrepresentation.
Based on whats been said by CIGNA, Im satisfied that had Miss D answered yes to the 
medical question, its likely that she wouldve been asked for further information. And based 
on the underwriting evidence its provided, Im satisfied CIGNA wouldve applied the 
exclusion at the outset of the policy.
Im therefore persuaded CIGNA acted fairly and reasonably by retrospectively applying the 
exclusion back to the policy start date, after it had become aware that shed made a 
qualifying misrepresentation when taking out the policy. And then by relying on the exclusion 
to decline her claim.
So, I dont uphold Miss Ds complaint. I know shell be very disappointed with my decision. 
But I hope it will help her to know that her complaint has been reviewed by someone who is 
impartial and independent.
My final decision
I dont uphold Miss Ds complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Miss D to accept or reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman