DRN-3468000
The complaint
Ms W complains that Ageas Insurance Limited has failed to treat her fairly when handling a 
claim made on her buildings insurance.
What happened
Ms W has a block insurance policy providing cover for her rental properties. In December 
2018, a claim was raised for subsidence on one of her properties. The claim was handled, 
for the most part, on her behalf by her son and broker. The complaint has been brought in 
Ms Ws name as she is the policy holder, so unless stated otherwise, Ill refer only to Ms W, 
even if actions were taken on her behalf.
Ms W has provided a great deal of information in support of her complaint and there is a 
number of issues which have been complained about since her claim was first raised. Some 
of these, as set out by our investigator are not something we can consider. Ageas sent a 
final response on issues that related primarily to faulty workmanship on 29 July 2020. Ms W 
didnt bring a complaint to this service about this response within six months of it being sent 
and as a result, we wouldnt be able to comment on these issues.
A new complaint was raised in 2021. This covered a number of things which stemmed from 
the time it had taken for the property to be habitable again and Ms W feeling shes lost out 
as a result. Ms W wanted Ageas to recognise the impact of this and raised the following:
The lack of progress meant the property is uninhabitable and rent has been lost as a 
result of this. The kitchen wiring was left incomplete which meant Ms W couldnt re-
let the property.
Ms W asked Ageas to cover the cost of the alternative accommodation for the 
tenants for June, July and August 2020, after which point they moved out.
After the tenants had left, Ms W didnt think the property was in a habitable state and 
so, when the complaint had been made, she had lost out on 56 weeks rent at a rate 
of £180 per week.
The house couldnt be made habitable because Ageas had failed to recognise the 
level of work needed which was a result of the subsidence and so its cash settlement 
offered was significantly below what Ms W felt was needed to complete the works. 
Ms W also said shes not been provided with the paperwork to confirm the 
subsidence work had been completed.
Overall, Ms W felt the service received was well below what she felt was fair to 
expect and she felt Ageas and its loss adjuster had been negligent. 
Ageas accepted that it could have had better communication throughout the claim process 
and that damage to two rooms was initially missed from the schedule of works by its loss 
adjuster. Because of this, it waived the £1000 excess fee from the claim as a gesture of 
goodwill for any inconvenience caused. But it maintained that the settlement offered for the 
remaining works was fair and that the kitchen wiring and solution offered with its proposed 
cash settlement for this was a like for like repair and it didnt agree it needed to do anything 
else in relation to this.
Our investigator looked at Ms Ws complaint and said that overall, he didnt think Ageas had 
acted unfairly.
He explained that he felt Ageas and its loss adjuster had undertaken previous site visits and 
agreed to cover the remedial work which related to the subsidence. He felt Ms Ws son had, 
on her behalf, indicated a cash settlement for the remainder of the works was preferable and 
an amount of £8500 was agreed in March 2021. This was some way short of the quotes 
provided by Ms W for the reinstatement works, but he wasnt persuaded with the information 
provided that the quoted work related solely to the remedial work required as a result of the 
subsidence. And because Ageas didnt say it couldnt complete the work, it was only fair for 
it to pay a cash settlement equivalent to what it would have cost it had the work been 
undertaken directly. 
He explained the certificate of structural adequacy had been issued on 3 August 2020 so he 
didnt think there was a failing here.
With the accommodation and lost rent costs claimed, he didnt think Ageas needed to do 
more than it already had. 
He said the policy provided cover for alternative accommodation or lost rent if it resulted 
from an insured event. When the kitchen was stripped out and replaced after the property 
was stabilised, the house wasnt habitable and so the three months this took to be 
completed met the policy definition for this loss.
He felt the property was, after a period of 12 weeks, habitable again. He didnt see anything 
to show the works exceeded this period and while there was still some damage which 
required further work after this point, it wouldnt have stopped the house from being 
habitable as the kitchen and bathroom areas were useable again. 
The only item that remained outstanding after the 12-week period within the kitchen was the 
rewire. But as he felt the offer made by Ageas to cash settle this element was fair, he didnt 
think it could have been said to cause a delay. 
Because he felt the house was habitable again after the stabilisation and kitchen works had 
been completed, he didnt think it was fair to ask Ageas to cover any lost rent after this point.
He accepted the claims handling and service issues could have been better and the work 
required for the two rooms that was missed from the loss adjusters report was indicative of 
the issues experienced throughout the claim. Although subsidence claims by their nature will 
always result in fairly significant inconvenience, he felt there was more here than could have 
been expected. But he felt the £1000 offered by way of the excess being removed was a fair 
resolution for this inconvenience and he didnt think Ageas needed to do more to reflect the 
impact of its claims handling or service issues.
Ms W disagreed, she felt factual errors had been made and this impacted the outcome. She 
explained a cash settlement was not sought by her son as the preferred option  they had 
simply asked how much the cash settlement amount would be. With the clear difference in 
the cost to them and the cost offered by Ageas, they would not have sought the cash 
settlement over Ageas completing the works. They wanted the work completed by Ageas but 
could not agree the schedule of works for this.Ms W was not present in the conference call when the cash settlement was agreed and her 
broker only accepted this without prejudice to any complaint or further action. It was taken 
simply to progress the works on the house without further delay and to mitigate further loss.
Ms W also argued that it was incorrect to say the house was habitable after the stabilisation 
and kitchen work had been completed. There were ongoing structural issues which needed 
addressing and severe damp. With this in mind the property could not have been let until the 
further work was completed. And delay was added with Ageas and its poor claim handling 
with emails often being unanswered for six to eight weeks.
Our investigator responded to say that his opinion remained the same. He felt the schedule 
of works provided by Ageas and its loss adjuster had been accepted when Ms W instructed 
a contractor to issue a revised estimate based on Ageas schedule of work. He didnt think 
the expert report provided by ABP by Ms W had any impact on this and so he saw no reason 
to change his opinion. 
He still believed the works to have been completed on the house within the 12-week 
timeframe  with the exception of the wiring. So he maintained that the house was habitable 
from this point and the lost rent claimed for was not reasonable. He also still felt the waiving 
of the excess was a fair outcome to compensate for the service failings and delays. 
Because Ms W disagreed with our investigator, the complaint has been passed to me for 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In support of her complaint, Ms W has provided a great deal of information. Some of this 
relates to issues which are not relevant to this complaint as they cannot be considered due 
to the complaint not being brought to this service sooner. But most does relate to the issues 
complained about. I dont intend to address everything provided, to do so would not be 
reasonable and is not my role. Instead Ive focused on what I believe to be material to 
reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
Having considered everything provided, Im not upholding Ms Ws complaint. I know this will 
be disappointing for her, but Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
The crux of this complaint is that Ms W feels Ageas has failed to recognise the work that is 
needed to repair her property to its pre loss condition. It has taken too long to complete the 
work that has been done resulting in her losing out on the rental income from the property 
and the cash settlement does not reflect the cost of the work needed to repair the 
outstanding issues.  
Delays to work and associate costs
The starting point with this complaint is to understand whether Ms Ws property was 
habitable sooner and if not, why.
Work to stabilise the property started in March 2020 and is shown to have been completed 
by June 2020. Due to the level of work required, the kitchen needed to be removed and 
replaced and Ageas agreed to cover the alternative accommodation costs for the tenants for 
these three months. After this point Ageas felt the property was habitable again and that the 
tenants could have returned.Ms W has focused on the electrics in the property being left unfinished and that this as a 
starting point means it wasnt habitable. 
The claim notes indicate that on 5 June 2020 it was noted by Ms W that the first fix for the 
electrics hadnt been done when the property was stripped back and instead, this needed to 
be laid in ducting on the surface of the wall. Although the property previously had surface 
mounted wiring, Ms W feels it is more common practice and cheaper to have the wires within 
the wall  with the first fix taking place ahead of any plaster boarding. I agree it is more 
commonplace for this to happen, but that is not to say that surface mounted and ducted 
wiring cannot be done. And as the property previously had surface mounted wiring, I dont 
think it is unreasonable to say that this being done again isnt a like for like replacement. If 
the wiring was set within the walls it would be classed as betterment and not something the 
policy covers.
Ageas has shown that it would have cost it £460 to have the wiring completed but it couldnt 
do this due to Ms W disputing the finish. Had this not been disputed, I think it would have 
been completed soon after the rest of the works and with this first been flagged as an issue 
on 5 June 2020, I dont think it would be fair to say Ageas caused any delay on this point as I 
think its likely this would have been completed in time if not disputed by Ms W.
Ms W also feels other work was needed to finish the property and make it habitable and this 
is within the schedule of works which was disputed with Ageas. As this hadnt been 
completed, the property couldnt be re-let and Ageas and its loss adjuster didnt include all 
the work it should have within its report.
Ageas feel the remaining work didnt have any bearing on the property being habitable. It 
accepts that some work was missed from the schedule but has added this on. And after 
stabilised with the new kitchen fitted, the house had cooking and washing facilities so could 
have been lived in. The other works could have been completed around any tenants.
Ive looked at the schedule of works and what was included within this after the work to the 
kitchen was complete. Having done so, Im in agreement with our investigator that this could 
have been done around any tenant. Although this would have caused an inconvenience, I 
dont think it would have stopped someone from being able to live in the property. 
With the above in mind, I dont think Ageas has acted unfairly by only covering the 
alternative accommodation costs from March to June 2020.  I dont think the policy provides 
cover for the alternative accommodation costs from July until the tenants moved out. Nor do 
I think that from this point onwards that it would be fair to expect Ageas to cover any claim 
for lost rent.
 The cash settlement 
Ms W says she did not ask for a cash settlement. It was only considered because there was 
a disagreement in the level of work included within the schedule of works. But with such a 
difference in the cost of the work to her and the settlement provided, she would have 
preferred that Ageas complete the works.
It is clear there has been disagreement on the level of works to Ms Ws property throughout 
the course of this claim and this has added delays. And for a number of things within the 
claim, Ms W (or one of her representatives) has spoken about taking a cash settlement as 
an alternative. It was asked for at a point with the kitchen, when the electrics were disagreed 
with and most recently when the outstanding works were disagreed with.With this in mind, and the fact that the cash settlement was agreed by Ms Ws broker for the 
outstanding works, I think it is reasonable to say this has been accepted. 
I understand there is still a difference in cost for the work quoted to Ms W and what Ageas 
has paid, but it doesnt mean Ageas has acted unfairly by paying what it would cost it to 
complete the works. If Ms W wanted it to complete the works this could have been done, but 
instead the cash settlement was taken. I see no reason to ask that Ageas do anything else 
on this point. 
Service, delays and information not provided
Weve been provided with a copy of the certificate of structural adequacy within the file for 
Ms Ws property. So I think this was sent. But if Ms W hasnt received this, she can ask 
Ageas to forward this on as it is clear it has this within its papers for the claim.
This claim has gone on for a number of months and years and there has been clear 
dissatisfaction throughout from Ms W about its progress, workmanship and overall service. 
For the most part, Ive not seen anything to demonstrate any serious failings on the part of 
Ageas. Although there has been points were responses could have been sooner it appears 
to have acted quickly on the information provided.
Its loss adjuster has accepted though that it failed to recognise all of the work outstanding on 
the property after the stabilisation had been completed. This wasnt accepted by it until the 
January of 2021 and this is a clear error. 
Although I dont think it had any bearing on the property being habitable again, I do think it 
added to the inconvenience of the claim and its process. Ageas has recognised this and said 
that the excess of £1000 has been waived as a result of this error. It will certainly have 
added to concerns Ms W had about the claim being handled fairly and I think it is right that it 
agrees to waive this fee. 
Overall though, I have not been persuaded that Ageas need to do anything else with this 
complaint in relation to Ms Ws claim. I think delays have been added with the dispute over 
the works outstanding, including the electrical works. Ageas has recognised when work was 
missed from the schedule and the impact this would have had, but this shouldnt have 
stopped the property from being repaired. Ms W and her representatives asked about cash 
settlements on a number of items in the claim and ultimately accepted the cash settlement 
for the final reinstatement works, so although they may now feel it would be better for Ageas 
to complete this work, it has met its obligations under the claim here. 
The alternative accommodation and subsequent lost rent claimed is not covered by the 
policy as the property could not be said to be uninhabitable after the kitchen was replaced. 
Although it was clear cracks remained in the bathroom, it didnt stop it being usable and the 
policy doesnt cover for lost rent when the property can be lived in, even if it may have been 
harder to find a tenant before all the work was completed.
So overall, I see no reason to ask Ageas to do anything further on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I do not uphold Ms Ws complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman