DRN-4195541
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Birmingham Midshires) treated her 
unfairly when her mortgage fell into arrears.
What happened
Mrs J took out an interest only mortgage with Birmingham Midshires in 2007, jointly with her 
ex-partner. It fell into arrears in late 2018 and there were further missed payments after this. 
The term expired in late 2022 with an unpaid balance.
Mrs J complains that:
She was upset to receive a letter regarding legal action 
She wasnt told the repayment terms before the payment deferral agreed during the 
Covid-19 pandemic
Birmingham Midshires declined her offers of additional payments 
Her monthly payments increased to an unaffordable level following interest rate rises and 
Birmingham Midshires hasnt offered help. Shed like it to extend the term on an 
affordable basis
Mrs J says Birmingham Midshires kept her on the phone for long periods. Shes 
overseas and asks that Birmingham Midshires covers the costs of her calls.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint, saying Birmingham Midshires 
had acted fairly. It was required to send arrears letters warning about possible legal action. It 
offered to put action on hold while Mrs J sought advice, which was fair. Our investigator said 
Birmingham Midshires carried out income and expenditure assessments. These showed a 
deficit, which meant Mrs J had limited options. Our investigator said Birmingham Midshires 
had explained the terms of the payment deferral.
Mrs J didnt agree and provided detailed comments, which Ive read carefully.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Arrears 
Mrs J says her arrears increased because Birmingham Midshires stopped collecting 
payments by direct debit in late 2021. Weve explained to Mrs J why we cant look into this 
part of her complaint. Mrs J disputes that she missed payments, other than during the 
agreed payment deferral. She says she wasnt told about any arrears. 
Birmingham Midshires provided records showing how the arrears came about, starting in 
2018. Birmingham Midshires also provided records of arrears letters sent on a regular basis. 
And notes of calls with Mrs J when arrears were discussed.
I think the arrears arose due to missed payments (not from the agreed payment deferral). I 
think Birmingham Midshires made Mrs J aware of the arrears. 
The payment deferral
Birmingham Midshires agreed a payment deferral in mid-2020. Birmingham Midshires says it 
wrote to Mrs J about the terms of the payment deferral. Im sorry if Mrs J didnt receive the 
letter. Mrs J says she received a letter after the payment deferral ended saying she didnt 
need to do anything and her monthly payment would be adjusted to cover the deferred 
payments. 
Mrs J says she wasnt told the missed payments would have to repaid by a certain date or 
they would be classed as arrears. I dont think Birmingham has categorised the deferred 
payments as arrears. I think the arrears that led to Birmingham Midshires writing to Mrs J 
about legal action came about due to missed payments and not the agreed payment 
deferral. 
Not taking additional payments
Mrs J would have needed to make payments in addition to her contractual monthly payment 
to clear her arrears. Mrs J proposed paying £100 in addition to her contractual monthly 
payment. Birmingham Midshires said Mrs J could make the payment, but it couldnt agree to 
a payment arrangement that it knows is unaffordable. Birmingham Midshires had carried out 
an income and expenditure with Mrs J which showed a deficit.
Mrs J said she wasnt given an opportunity to verify the information collected before it was 
reported to the credit reference agencies. I havent seen anything to suggest Birmingham 
Midshires sent the information it collected about her circumstances to the credit reference 
agencies. 
Birmingham Midshires has to report accurate and up to date information to the credit 
reference agencies. I dont think its incorrect or unfair to report that Mrs Js mortgage 
account is in arrears or that payments were missed.
Legal action
Birmingham Midshires wrote to Mrs J in July 2022 saying it was about to start legal action for 
possession. It said this was because of her arrears and being unable to put an arrangement 
in place. Ultimately, Birmingham Midshires is entitled to take possession of the security 
property if Mrs J is unable to repay the debt, or reach a suitable agreement with Birmingham 
Midshires about how the debt will be repaid. Birmingham Midshires says it can put action on 
hold while Mrs J takes independent financial advice.
Cost of calls
Mrs J was living overseas and says she had to spend long periods on the phone to 
Birmingham Midshires, which wouldnt communicate by email. While this must have been 
frustrating, I dont think its fair to require Birmingham Midshires to cover the costs of Mrs J 
calls from overseas.  
Extension of term and Interest rate Mrs Js mortgage expired with an unpaid balance. She says she cant afford the monthly 
interest payments. She says the joint account holder wants to sell the property, but she 
would like to continue to live in it. 
Mrs Js mortgage is on a variable rate and interest rates have increased. Mrs J says her 
monthly payments have increased to a level that is unaffordable. Its unfortunate that interest 
rates have increased, but this isnt due to an error by Birmingham Midshires. 
Mrs J asks that the term is extended at an affordable rate in her sole name while she re-
establishes herself or re-mortgages.
Birmingham Midshires says it told Mrs J it would need evidence of her income to consider a 
term extension, but hasnt declined a term extension or received a complaint about this. Id 
suggest Mrs J contacts Birmingham Midshires and provides the information and evidence it 
requests for it to consider a term extension. 
I dont know if Birmingham Midshires will offer a term extension. I would still urge Mrs J to 
contact it to discuss her options. She might also want to take independent financial advice to 
explore what options might be available to her. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman