DRN-1988294
The complaint
Ms K complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc agreed to lend her a further £15,000 on top of her 
existing mortgage, only to change its mind a few weeks later.
What happened
In January 2015 Ms K took out a mortgage with HSBC to buy a 25% share in a property 
under a shared ownership scheme.
In September 2019 Ms K approached HSBC as her existing fixed rate was coming to an 
end. She wanted to arrange a new fixed rate and borrow a further £15,000 to carry out some 
home improvements.
HSBC overlooked the fact this was a shared ownership property and so agreed to lend her 
the money. It was only when the application was looked at again on 4 October 2019 that it 
was picked up that this was a shared ownership property, which meant further advances 
werent allowed unless they were to buy extra shares in the property.
HSBC apologised for its mistake and offered £500 compensation. Ms K didnt accept that 
saying she wanted three times that amount.
Our investigator thought HSBCs offer was fair. Ms K didnt agree telling our investigator she 
felt £2,000 compensation was due, and so the matters been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Ms K wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed her complaint in the way that 
I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what 
I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole file 
Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its 
not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order 
to reach the right outcome. 
Whilst I acknowledge how frustrating it is when a business makes a mistake, mistakes do 
happen. In this case it was simple human error that meant Ms K was told that she could 
borrow the money she wanted. This is a mistaken statement of facts; otherwise known as a 
misrepresentation. When were looking at complaints of this type we consider the 
appropriate remedy is to place the consumer in the position they would be in if the incorrect 
information hadnt been given. We dont put them in the position they would be in if it had 
been correct. 
If the correct information had been given, Ms K would have been told the correct information 
sooner. Ms K could never have been in the position where she was eligible for a further 
advance on her mortgage (unless it was to buy further shares in the property). As the 
mistake was corrected within weeks, and Ms K has told us she hadnt spent any of the 
money she was expecting, shes already had the appropriate remedy in that she knew the 
true position before she had committed to any purchases with the funds.
Its not our role to fine or punish a business and our awards arent punitive. Clearly no 
amount of compensation can change what happened; all I can do is consider the impact of a 
businesss actions on the consumer. I also look at the awards of compensation weve made 
in other similar cases. Having done so Im satisfied that the £500 compensation already 
offered by HSBC is more than fair.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint, in the sense I consider HSBC UK Bank Plc made a fair offer in 
its response to the complaint. I leave it to Ms K to decide if  on reflection  she now wishes 
to accept that. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Monie Khan
Ombudsman