DRN-3141801
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the questions asked by HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct when 
he tried to make two transfers from his account.
What happened
Mr B has an account with first direct. His complaint regards two occasions when hes tried to 
make a transaction through telephone banking and hes been asked additional questions 
about the transaction before it has been approved. For the second call, this resulted in Mr B 
making this transfer via online banking instead, after he was then put on hold in this call.
Mr B complained to first direct and explained that he suffers from medical conditions and is 
registered as disabled. He said he found the calls very stressful and they made him unwell. 
He wanted an apology and for first direct to treat him differently going forward, so he no 
longer had to have stressful conversations like those. first direct responded to his complaint, 
but didnt uphold it. For both calls it was satisfied it had acted fairly and in Mr Bs interests, to 
make sure he wasnt being the victim of fraud. 
Mr B brought his complaint to our service and our investigator reviewed both calls. He 
agreed that first direct had asked reasonable questions and that it was entitled to do this. He 
felt the questions were necessary to protect Mr B and his account. Mr B disagreed and 
asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that for Mr B this complaint centres around his health conditions and how they 
impact him. So he doesnt agree that the process first direct has in place for checking 
transactions is fair or appropriate for him specifically. I have read all the medical information 
provided and would like to assure Mr B that from this I do appreciate the difficulties he has 
on a daily basis and so why his calls with first direct have been stressful for him. But, even 
with all this information, I cant agree that first direct has done something wrong.
Mr B has said that the call handlers lacked empathy and the tone used in the calls is poor. 
Hes said that he needs to be treated more sensitively and first direct hasnt done this. But 
Ive listened to the calls and I cant agree that either of the call handlers have provided poor 
service. I dont consider that either call handlers tone is poor or challenging. They are polite 
to Mr B and helpful during the calls. It also seems that Mr B could answer the questions 
asked, but his frustration comes from him considering them intrusive and he doesnt want to 
provide this information, rather than he cant provide it. 
Listening to the calls, when first direct asks Mr B questions about his payments, they arent 
intrusive or inappropriate. The call handlers are checking if the payments are legitimate. 
While I accept Mr B doesnt want to be asked questions about what hes doing with his 
money, this doesnt mean first direct isnt able to ask him these questions. It has a duty to 
protect its customers from fraud and to try and prevent people falling victim to scams. The 
way it can do this is to ask questions about transactions being made to satisfy itself they are 
genuine, and the customers money is safe. Both Mr B and first direct would be at risk if it 
didnt do this, as his money could be stolen, and it could be enabling fraud. And if this was 
the case and it hadnt asked reasonable questions, it could then be liable for the funds.
Mr B has explained hes a vulnerable person and so should be treated differently. But 
unfortunately vulnerable people are often targeted by fraudsters. While Mr B says he would 
never transfer money to someone he didnt know, people dont knowingly fall victim to scams 
and fraud, so this doesnt make him immune. And our service has seen numerous examples 
of scams which start with someone transferring money to an account in their own name. The 
second call was the result of Mr B wanting to transfer nearly his whole balance, several 
thousand pounds, into another account. Due to this, I fully understand why first direct wanted 
further information on this transaction  and consider the questions appropriate. While Mr B 
finds the calls very stressful when questions are asked, the alternative, being the victim of 
fraud, I think he would agree would be far more difficult and stressful.
Ultimately first direct has processes in place where, if it feels the need, it will ask additional 
questions about payments being made. This is commonplace now in the banking industry. 
And on the two times Mr B has complained about first direct doing this, I think the questions 
its asked are fair and hes been treated sensitively.
It would be irresponsible and inappropriate for our service to tell first direct to stop doing 
these checks on Mr Bs transactions, as this could then result in him being the victim of fraud 
later down the line. So while I do understand Mr B frustrations, these checks are part of how 
first direct operates and I cant agree it should stop doing these. Mr B has pointed out that he 
hasnt had the same situation with online transfers, but that doesnt mean first direct has 
acted inappropriately on the phone. And while I accept that first direct has a duty to make 
reasonable adjustments for customers to support health conditions or vulnerability, I dont 
agree what Mr B is asking for falls into this.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman