DRN-2437551
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to respond to their letters about 
the registration of a Lasting Power of Attorney (LPA) and gave them incorrect information 
about accepting certified LPA copies. 
What happened
Mr C says he wrote to Barclays asking it for information about the registration of a LPA in 
February 2020 and the letter was hand delivered to his local branch. He says he sent a 
number of follow up letters to the branch and to Barclays Chief Executive Officer and didnt 
receive a response until August 2020 and was then given incorrect information about the 
acceptance of a certified LPA.
Mr C says this has affected his health and has spent a significant amount of time on these 
issues. He would like an explanation from Barclays about why it didnt reply to his letters and 
for it to explain its procedure for the receipt of mail. He would also like compensation for 
what took place.
Barclays says it doesnt have all of Mr Cs letters and has apologised for what took place. It 
has offered £50 compensation and has clarified that it will accept a certified LPA. It also says 
Mr C used an incorrect address for it in respect of some of the letters.
Mr and Mrs C brought their complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint and 
recommended Barclays pay a total of £150 compensation. The investigator accepted Mr C 
had sent a number of unanswered letters to Barclays and thought the address Mr C used 
was shown on Barclays website. The investigator also accepted Barclays had given Mr C 
incorrect information about the LPA and thought he had been caused inconvenience as a 
result of what took place.
Barclays has agreed with the investigators recommendation, but Mr and Mrs C do not. In 
summary they say Barclays has failed to explain where the letters went and hasnt explained 
its procedure for the receipt of mail. They say Barclays hasnt explained what if any changes 
it will make, and they should receive a greater compensation award as well as personal 
letters of apology. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I uphold this complaint and intend to 
order Barclays to pay £150 compensation. I do not require it to do anything further in the 
circumstances of this complaint and realise Mr and Mrs C will be disappointed by my 
decision.
There is no question here that Barclays didnt respond to Mr Cs letters. I accept that there 
have been difficulties caused to all businesses since the end of March 2020, but Im satisfied 
that Mr C had sent a number of letters by that stage that he didnt receive a response to. I 
have no doubt Mr C was caused inconvenience by Barclays lack of a response and accept 
he would have been caused distress. So, I accept that Barclays ought to pay Mr and Mrs C 
compensation for what took place.
I dont think Mr and Mrs C suffered any financial loss save for any postage and stationery 
costs but I accept it took approximately six months for them to receive the information they 
wanted. Im satisfied that £150 compensation is fair and reasonable and fairly reflects what 
took place and that Barclays mistakes didnt have any long-term implications. I think that 
award also takes account of the additional time Mr C spent in obtaining confirmation that 
Barclays were incorrect to suggest it couldnt accept a certified LPA.
I appreciate that Mr C raises a number of other matters that he would like answers to 
including the whereabouts of the letters and an explanation about the receipt of mail and any 
changes Barclays has made to that procedure. Im sorry to disappoint Mr C but I make clear 
that we are not Barclays regulator. That means it is not our role to tell Barclays how it deals 
with the receipt of mail or order it to tell Mr and Mrs C what its procedure is and or if its 
made any changes to it. I think such matters are likely to be commercially sensitive in any 
event. 
It follows that I also cant fairly order Barclays to tell Mr and Mrs C where the letters went, 
and I think Barclays has explained it doesnt have all of them and is unlikely to be able to 
provide any more of an explanation. I have made clear that it ought to have retained and 
answered the letters and that is why I intend to order it pay compensation. But our role is not 
to investigate what exactly went wrong and recommend improvements to Barclays systems.
Putting things right
Overall, I accept Barclays has made mistakes in dealing with what I think ought to have been 
a relatively simple issue of answering Mr Cs first letter. Im satisfied Barclays should pay 
compensation of £150 which I think is fair and reasonable. Mr and Mrs Cs acceptance of my 
decision would be in full and final settlement of this complaint. I dont require Barclays to 
issue any letters of apology from either its branch or Chief Executive and can see that 
Barclays did apologise for the delay in its final response letter.
I cant see any evidence that Barclays has paid the £50 compensation it initially offered but if 
it has then it should deduct that amount from the £150.
 My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr 
and Mrs C £150 compensation in total.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 January 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman