DRN-2864030
The complaint
Mr F complains about Quickly Finance Limited trading as Fast Track Reclaim (QFL) and the 
settlement fee they are charging for a successful payment protection insurance (PPI) claim 
that Mr F doesnt feel they were authorised to pursue.
What happened
On 19 August 2019, QFL received an application for a Free PPI Check in the name of Mr 
F. This application included Mr Fs name, date of birth, address and contact details, as well 
as a signed letter of authority (LOA), authorising QFL to looking into Mr Fs accounts with 
lender N.
QFL completed this PPI check with lender N, as it was confirmed that Mr F held PPI on his 
accounts. So, QFL e-mailed Mr F and asked him to complete a PPI questionnaire on 1 
October. This was completed and returned on the same day. So, QFL submitted a full PPI 
claim to Lender N on the 28 October. During this time, lender N wrote to both QFL and Mr F 
confirming PPI had been identified, and that a full investigation into its sale would be 
completed.
On 29 November, lender N wrote to both QFL and Mr F confirming the claim had been 
received, and they were in the process of completing their investigation. In December 2019, 
lender N upheld Mr Fs first claim, offering him a total pre-tax PPI refund of £311.34. The 
offer letter was sent to both QFL and Mr F, and QFL invoiced Mr F for their settlement fee in 
March 2020.
And in July 2020, lender N upheld Mr Fs second claim, offering him a total pre-tax PPI 
refund of £19,046.91. The offer letter was sent to both QFL and Mr F, and QFL invoiced Mr 
F for their settlement fee in August 2020. But Mr F was unhappy about this, so he raised a 
complaint.
Mr F complained about the fees QFL were invoicing. Mr F explained he hadnt authorised 
QFL to pursue a claim on his behalf and it had instead been his wife who completed the 
initial application. And he didnt think she was aware QFL would continue to submit a claim, 
if PPI was identified during the free PPI check due to her mental health at the time. He didnt 
think the signature shown on the LOA was his, so he didnt think QFL were fair to charge him 
for their fees and felt they should be waived.
QFL didnt agree. They thought theyd acted in good faith, pursuing the claim based on the 
information provided to them in the initial application. So, even if it was Mr Fs wife who 
completed the form, they didnt think theyd have been able to know this. They explained 
they wouldnt expect the signature on the LOA to be identical to Mr Fs wet signature, as it 
was completed online. But as the signature had been accepted by lender N, shown by 
lender Ns decision to list them as Mr Fs representative, they thought theyd acted fairly by 
continuing to pursue the claim. 
And they thought the LOA made it reasonably clear that, by signing it, Mr F was agreeing to 
be bound by the terms and conditions of the agreement. And this agreement explained they 
would pursue a full claim if PPI was identified in the free check. And as the claim they 
submitted led to the PPI refund Mr F received, they thought they were fair to charge their 
settlement fee in line with the agreement. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything 
more. Mr F remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She recognised the impact 
this complaint had on Mr F, and the amount he was being invoiced for. But she thought QFL 
were fair to charge Mr F this amount. She explained the application and LOA included 
personal information about Mr F, which wouldve led QFL to believe it was him completing 
the application. And lender N had accepted the LOA as proof of authority. So, she thought 
QFL were fair to pursue the claim, in line with the terms and conditions of the agreement. 
And she was satisfied the claim QFL submitted led to the PPI refunds Mr F received. So, she 
thought QFL were fair to invoice Mr F, in line with the terms and conditions of the agreement.
Mr F didnt agree. He didnt think it was fair for him to pay fees for a service he didnt 
authorise himself. And he didnt think it wouldve been made clear to his wife exactly what 
she was entering into, as hed seen no evidence to show the terms and conditions of the 
agreement were available to her at the time. He acknowledged he had received 
communication from QFL during the process but had dismissed these as junk as he had no 
awareness of the QFL as hed not dealt with them himself. So, he didnt think hed had an 
opportunity to cancel the agreement, before lender N offered him a refund, which he 
wouldve done. So he maintained his view that the fees were unfair. As Mr F didnt agree, 
the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has caused Mr F. Hes explained it was 
his wife, rather than himself, that instructed QFL initially. So, I can appreciate how concerned 
and upset hed feel when he received an invoice for a substantial amount from QFL, as this 
wouldve been unexpected. And I can understand why hed dispute this invoice, as hes said 
he didnt authorise QFL himself directly, and the PPI refund he received was for accounts 
owned in his name only. But for me to say QFL have acted unfairly, and that the fees 
shouldnt be due, Id need to see one of two things. Either, that they shouldve been aware 
they didnt have authority to pursue the claim, so proceeding to submit a claim was unfair. 
Or, if I think they did have reasonable authority, that they completed no work of value on the 
successful claims. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Im aware Mr F has said it was his wife, who was suffering with her mental health at the time, 
that initially instructed QFL. So, he doesnt think they had authority from him and because of 
this, he doesnt think he should be forced to pay the outstanding invoice. And I recognise the 
sensitivity of this issue, and I dont dispute Mr Fs version of events. But my decision must be 
impartial, and fair to both sides. So, Ive thought about whether QFL ought to have been 
reasonably aware Mr F didnt instruct them himself. And I dont think there was any way they 
couldve known this.
Mr F has said the signature on the LOA was different to his own. But as this signature was 
completed electronically, I wouldnt have expected it to be the same as Mr Fs wet signature. And in any event, QFL wouldnt have had a wet signature from Mr F to compare it to. What I 
can say for certain is lender N wouldve had this signature to compare, and they accepted 
the signature on the LOAs as Mr Fs, as they listed QFL as his representative and liaised 
with them throughout the claim. To do this, they wouldve had to accept the LOA and its 
signature as genuine. 
The LOA also included Mr Fs personal details, included current address and contact details, 
which are the same as the details we hold. I think the personal information provided on the 
LOA would lead QFL to believe it was Mr F completing the form. So, I cant say they acted 
unfairly by accepting it as genuine and continuing with the claim.
And I think it was made reasonably clear that signing the LOA meant agreeing to the 
accompanying terms and conditions. And these terms explain that part of the service QFL 
provided would be Preparing and Submitting Your Claim(s) to/with the Company, in the 
event that QFL locate PPI. Ive seen lender Ns response, sent to both QFL and Mr F, which 
states PPI was located on his accounts. So, I think QFL acted within the terms of the 
agreement by proceeding to submit a full claim, sent on 28 October 2019.
Ive also seen QFL sent a PPI questionnaire to Mr F on 1 October 2019, which was 
completed and returned to them. While I appreciate Mr Fs comments that the information 
included was incorrect, I wouldnt have expected QFL to know this. And Ive seen this was 
sent as part of their claim submission to lender N, who later upheld the claim. As the PPI 
questionnaire was returned, I think it was reasonable for QFL to assume Mr F wanted them 
to continue with the claim.
Further to this, Ive seen lender N sent Mr F and QFL letters before the claims were upheld, 
explaining they were first looking into the complaint and providing an update on timescales 
after this. The letters sent to Mr F were sent to his correct address. And Mr F himself has 
admitted he received these but didnt fully read them, as he assumed they were junk letters. 
While I appreciate why Mr F may have thought this, I dont think this was the fault of QFLs. I 
think Mr F shouldve been reasonably aware QFL had submitted a claim on his behalf, either 
through the e-mails sent to his personal e-mail address, or the letters he received from 
lender N. And I wouldve expected Mr F to dispute this with QFL, if he believed he hadnt 
instructed them to complete the work. But Ive seen no evidence to show he did so. So, I 
dont think QFL couldve been aware Mr F didnt intend for or want them to work on his 
behalf and they acted on good faith by continuing to do so. Because of this, I cant say 
theyve acted unfairly.
And Ive seen lender Ns final decision letters, offering Mr F his PPI refunds, which were sent 
to both Mr F and QFL. This satisfies me that the original claim QFL submitted to lender N 
resulted in the successful refunds Mr F received, as lender N had QFL noted as the 
representative. And Mr F himself has admitted he hadnt raised these claims separately. 
So, I think its reasonable for me to assume Mr F wouldnt have received the PPI refunds if 
QFL hadnt raised the claims on Mr Fs behalf. And as Ive explained, I think they did so on 
good faith, with reasonable authority to do so based on the information I had available. 
Because of this, I dont think I can say QFL have acted unfairly by invoicing Mr F for their 
settlement fees, in line with the terms and conditions of the agreement. And so, I dont think 
they need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr F was hoping for. And I recognise he may feel this is 
unfair, considering it was his wife rather than himself that instructed QFL to pursue a claim. 
But I hope it goes some way to explaining how we consider complaints of this nature, and 
why I dont think I can say QFL acted unfairly in this situation.My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint about Quickly Finance 
Limited trading as Fast Track Reclaim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman