DRN-2092738
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) declined her claim for theft of jewellery from 
her home.
What happened
Mrs A had buildings and contents insurance with Lloyds. She reported a break-in at her 
home, which had happened while she was out for a couple of hours, and made a claim for 
damage caused and items stolen. Lloyds accepted Mrs As claim for stolen cash and 
damage to her property, but it declined her claim for the jewellery. 
Lloyds explained that because the jewellery wasnt locked in a safe in line with the terms of 
the policy, cover was excluded. It also said that the policy required Mrs A to take the safe 
keys with her when she went out, but she had left them at home. Mrs A complained to 
Lloyds because she believed the cash box and filing cabinet where she held the jewellery 
should be classed as a safe, and the location of the keys was irrelevant in the 
circumstances. 
Our investigator upheld Mrs As complaint. He thought that she had acted in the spirit of the 
policy by locking her jewellery away. He also thought that as the keys werent used to gain 
access, it didnt matter that Mrs A had left them at home. Our investigator said Lloyds 
should reconsider the claim.
Lloyds didnt agree. It thought we had made an unfair conclusion that the cash box Mrs A 
used could be classed as a safe.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold the complaint for broadly similar reasons to our investigator. However, 
my focus is on the overall security of the jewellery rather than the security the cash box 
alone offered.
Firstly, Id like to say how sorry I am to hear of how the burglary has affected Mrs A. Its clear 
that the medal which was also stolen was of greater sentimental value to her than the 
monetary value of her jewellery. The medal cant be replaced, and I cant imagine how 
upsetting that must be.
Some things arent in dispute here  there was a break-in and Mrs As jewellery, amongst 
other things, was stolen. Lloyds accepted her claim for everything except the jewellery, 
which it declined because it thought she hadnt kept it secure in line with the terms of the 
policy. So my role is to decide whether it was fair for Lloyds to decline the claim.
The certificate of insurance, under the section headed Endorsements Applicable, says,
The following Endorsements apply to Your Policy. These Endorsements are important as 
they may alter the details of the cover described in Your Policy booklet.
14: Safe Clause 
This insurance does not cover theft of jewellery from the Home unless the jewellery is kept 
in a locked safe whilst not being worn.
Its clear that Mrs A was expected to keep her jewellery in a safe when she wasnt wearing it 
and she hasnt disputed that. The disagreement is about whether she kept it in a safe. 
Unfortunately, the policy doesnt define a safe or give any minimum specifications so I must 
decide whether it was fair for Lloyds to say Mrs A didnt keep her jewellery in a safe. So far, 
the disagreement has focussed on the cash box, so Ill address that first.
Each party has given differing definitions and provided photos of what they consider to be a 
safe. I dont think this point will be agreed so Ill take the common elements of each definition 
as a starting point. I think its fair to say that the parties agree a safe is a fireproof, lockable, 
metal (steel) cabinet. In addition to this, Lloyds added complex lock and mounted securely 
to the wall or floor to its definition.
The cash box is fireproof, lockable and metal, but I dont think its reasonable to class it as a 
safe. While the policy doesnt specify the size, I think its fair to say that most people wouldnt 
consider a portable cash box with a carry handle a safe. It can be lifted as easily as a carry 
bag so the lock would be rendered pointless if the burglar can just take it away and force the 
lock elsewhere. The cash box, simply, isnt keeping the contents safely within the home.
But Mrs A kept the cash box inside a locked filing cabinet so Ive thought about whether the 
filing cabinet can be classed as a safe. The photo provided by Lloyds and the description of 
the cabinet show that it is fireproof, lockable and metal. Mrs A still has the cabinet key 
because the burglars forced the lock  they didnt find it hidden in a different room. The lock 
is a known brand and more complex than that of the cash box. Its a four-drawer cabinet, of 
around 120cm tall and 50cm wide (estimated from context in photos), so it couldnt be 
removed easily, and I dont think its fair to consider it a portable cabinet. So, Mrs A kept her 
jewellery inside a locked, fireproof, metal cabinet inside her home and I think its reasonable 
to regard that as a safe.
Lloyds doesnt agree because it isnt securely mounted to the wall or floor, nor does it have 
a complex lock. I dont dispute that. However, Lloyds has not included those requirements 
for a safe in its policy  indeed it hasnt defined a safe at all  so its unreasonable to rely on 
a specification that Mrs A couldnt have been aware of. 
Overall, I think Mrs A locked her jewellery away inside a metal cabinet which she considered 
equivalent to a safe. Lloyds didnt define or provide any minimum specifications of a safe in 
the policy, so I dont think its fair for Lloyds to decline her claim now based on a strict 
definition which she couldnt have known about.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that Society of Lloyds should:
reconsider Mrs As claim in line with the remaining terms of the policy, taking into 
account that it cant rely on exclusion clause 14 because it hasnt defined a safe 
within the policy. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman