DRN-3959263
The complaint
Miss E complains about the way Helvetia Global Solutions Ltd (Helvetia) handled a claim 
on an accidental damage and breakdown insurance policy.
Helvetias agents were involved in this matter, but for ease Ill refer to their actions as 
Helvetias own.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, I will focus on the reasons for my decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In 2020 Miss E purchased a laptop. She took out an accidental damage and breakdown 
insurance policy for it with Helvetia. In 2022 Miss E reported a fault(s) with the laptop. 
Helvetia accepted the claim. I find this was appropriate given the nature of the reported 
fault(s) and what the policy covered.
The claim was reported on 21 September 2022. I can see from Helvetias records the laptop 
was collected, assessed, parts ordered, repaired and returned, with Miss E getting it back on 
12 or 13 October 2022. While I accept Miss E considers she was without her laptop for 
longer than necessary, I find this repair time reasonable. 
On 13 October 2022 Miss E contacted Helvetia to say the laptop wasnt connecting to the 
internet and suggested it had been tampered with by Helvetias engineer. Miss E asked for 
the laptop to be reassessed by a different engineer and for a call from a senior manager. 
Helvetia agreed to this, which I find was appropriate given Miss Es concerns.
The laptop was collected, assessed, repaired, and returned to Miss E on 27 or 28 October 
2022. Again, I dont find this timeframe unreasonable. Helvetias records show the fault was 
diagnosed as a software issue which, despite not being covered by the policy, was repaired 
as a gesture of goodwill. I find this was fair and reasonable.
Miss E is dissatisfied because, in her view, the software issue was caused by the engineer 
who performed the first repair. So she considers Helvetia responsible for being without her 
laptop during the second repair. And she says as the same engineer who completed the first 
repair completed the second repair, she didnt feel safe using the laptop when it was 
returned to her the second time. She says as a result she acquired a new laptop. 
Im not persuaded Helvetias engineer tampered with the laptop. While the software issue 
may have coincided with the first repair, I have seen no compelling evidence to show this 
was because of something Helvetias engineer did. Nor have I seen compelling evidence to 
show the laptop, when returned to Miss E the second time, wasnt fully functional. It follows I 
cant fairly require Helvetia to pay Miss E the value of the laptop. 
Im persuaded Helvetia provided poor customer service. It said it would pass the laptop to a 
different engineer and didnt. And it said a senior manager would call her, which didnt 
happen. Following our involvement Helvetia has offered to pay Miss E £100 compensation  
in total - in recognition of the distress and inconvenience its poor customer service caused 
her. I consider this sum fairly reflects the impact its failings had on Miss E.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Helvetia Global Solutions Ltd to pay Miss E £100 
compensation  in total  in recognition of the distress and inconvenience it caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman