DRN-4065648
The complaint
Mr E complains he was the victim of fraud, but HSBC UK Bank Plc allowed his account to go 
overdrawn.
What happened
Mr E noticed two card transactions he hadnt made and called HSBC. HSBC refunded both 
payments to Mr Es account.
On the same day as HSBC refunded the payments, the retailer that took the payments 
refunded one of them. Mr E continued to use his account.
When HSBC realised Mr E had received three refunds for the two payments, it took one of 
its refunds back  debiting Mr Es account. This reversal of the refund put Mr Es account 
into an unauthorised overdraft, and Mr E stopped using the account.
Mr E complained to HSBC and it explained Mr E had received more refunds than the 
transactions taken. In later responses, HSBC also said it couldnt explain how the 
transactions were carried out.
HSBC contacted Mr E and asked him to repay the amount owed, then wrote to him and said 
it would default his account. Mr E didnt pay anything further to his account, so HSBC closed 
it and reported a default on Mr Es credit file.
Unhappy with this, Mr E brought his complaint to this service. An investigator looked into 
things and didnt think Mr Es complaint should be upheld. The investigator also couldnt 
explain how Mr Es card was used, but hed received a full refund.
The investigator explained HSBC took back the additional refund Mr E had received, so Mr E 
hadnt lost any money. The investigator also thought HSBC had kept Mr E updated 
throughout the process, including when his account went overdrawn.
Mr E didnt agree. Mr E wanted the calls he made to HSBC listened to as he said hed been 
told one of the payments he received was for compensation. Unable to resolve things, Mr E 
asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a service, our general approach is to try and put a consumer back in the same position 
theyd have been in, had a fraudulent payment not been made.
In Mr Es case, two payments left his card to the same retailer. HSBC refunded both these 
payments, so Mr E was back in the same position as hed been prior to the fraudulent 
transactions.
But when the retailer also refunded one of the payments, Mr E was in a better position. Mr E 
had been debited twice but refunded three times. I dont think thats a fair position for Mr E to 
be left in, and I think HSBC was reasonable in taking back one of its refunds.
So, I dont think HSBC did anything wrong in placing Mr Es account in an unauthorised 
overdraft. HSBC charged some interest but refunded this on the same day. The overdrawn 
balance on Mr Es account was solely down to the additional refund hed received.
HSBC contacted Mr E several times, to tell him about the money he owed and let him know 
he could speak to it about payment plans. 
HSBC also wrote to Mr E to explain it was intending to default his account, the potential 
effect on his credit file, and what Mr E could do to avoid this.
HSBC hasnt considered a complaint about defaulting Mr Es account, so I wont make a 
decision on whether this is fair or not.
But I think HSBC was fair in taking back one of the refunds.
Ive listened to the calls Mr E made to HSBC, and Mr Es been provided with copies, and I 
havent heard anything to suggest the extra refund was compensation of any kind.
Ive also looked at HSBCs notes, and theres nothing to suggest it was looking to 
compensate Mr E for what had happened.
Mr Es said he kept his HSBC card in a safe and never used it online, so he cant understand 
how someone was able to use his card online. Like the investigator, I also cant explain how 
this happened, and I dont need to.
Im satisfied HSBC treated Mr E fairly when he raised the two transactions as fraudulent. 
HSBC refunded both transactions promptly and put Mr E back in the position he would have 
been in but for the fraudulent transactions.
And I dont think Mr E was entitled to this additional refund, so its fair for HSBC to take it 
back. I think Mr E owed this additional refund to HSBC, so I think the debt he owed it was a 
legitimate debt.
Because of this, I dont think HSBC has done anything wrong in putting Mr Es account 
overdrawn, so I dont think it needs to do anything further to resolve Mr Es complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2023.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman