DRN-2538283
The complaint
Ms S has complained about her property insurer St Andrew's Insurance Plc (SAI) as when 
she called it to let it know of a change in her circumstances, it said it wouldnt be able to offer 
her cover going forwards. She said it never told her this might happen, so she feels she was 
mis-sold the policy.
What happened
Ms S arranged cover with SAI a number of years ago. She owns the property which had 
been converted into two flats. Ms S lived in one flat and the other was tenanted. Ms S says 
SAI was happy with that and never told her there might be an issue if she were to move out.
Ms S says that, in 2010, she lived abroad for a time, which SAI allowed on the policy. In 
2015 Ms S says she made an enquiry with SAI about her contents cover, and it didnt 
mention any concerns to her at that time.
In 2020 Ms S called SAI to say she was moving out, and wanted to cancel her contents and 
legal expenses cover. SAI said it would no longer be able to offer buildings cover once the 
flat Ms S had lived in was tenanted. But it would maintain the existing buildings cover for 
now on an unoccupied basis  it said this would be the case even though there was still a 
tenant in the other property, as the occupied status of the building depended on Ms S living 
there. It said this change would affect the terms and the premium. Ms S felt it should 
continue to offer buildings cover as it had before as shed never been told she had to live 
there. And if it couldnt do that then she must have been mis-sold the policy.  
SAI wasnt minded to change its mind. It said that its decision had been based on Ms Ss 
change in circumstances as reported at that time, against what it was prepared to offer cover 
for at that point. When Ms S complained to us, she said she was also unhappy because 
whilst SAI had told her it wouldnt cover her property without her living there, it had continued 
to take premium payments from her. She said she wanted all her premiums ever paid to it to 
be refunded.
Our investigator didnt think the policy had been mis-sold. She explained SAI wouldnt have 
had to discuss every eventuality with Ms S when covered was arranged. She said that each 
year of the policy was a new contract and SAI could only assess its ability to offer cover 
against Ms Ss needs as those were identified to it. She explained that SAI had continued to 
take payments as the policy had continued on an unoccupied basis.
Ms S said she was unhappy with the findings. She asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think SAI hasnt done anything wrong. As such, with regret for any 
disappointment this may cause Ms S, Im not going to uphold the complaint.
Theres no detail available from when Ms S arranged cover. But she says SAI didnt tell her 
at that time that it might not offer her cover in the future. I accept that SAI likely didnt tell 
Ms S when the cover was arranged that if she didnt live there it wouldnt be able to offer her 
cover. Theres no suggestion that Ms S asked it a direct question about this, and I couldnt 
reasonably expect an insurer to cover off all possible future issues that might, at some point, 
impact the cover being arranged. And theres no suggestion that the cover, as arranged at 
that time, given the prevailing circumstances, was not suitable for Ms S.
SAI has said it has no record of Ms S not living at the property in 2010. But it has also 
emphasised that if it did allow the policy to continue whilst knowing Ms S was living 
elsewhere, that was likely in line with the risk it was prepared to take at that time. As our 
investigator explained, an insurer isnt bound to offer cover in subsequent years, just 
because it has offered cover before. 
When Ms Ss cover renewed in 2019 she was living at the property. It was part way through 
that policy year, in 2020, that Ms S moved. When she told SAI it reviewed its underwriting 
criteria to see if this change in circumstance was acceptable to it. It was entitled to do that. 
SAI told Ms S that it would not be able to continue offering cover to her once the flat she had 
been living in was tenanted. Its entitled to only offer cover in line with its underwriting 
criteria. And it doing so doesnt mean that the policy as it existed previously was unsuitable 
for Ms S. She did have cover for the property in previous years, and for that SAI was entitled 
to take, and now keep, a premium.
SAI was clear with Ms S  she should let it know when the property became tenanted (there 
was a delay in this being organised due to the pandemic). SAI said until then it would offer 
cover for the property on an unoccupied basis, and new terms and a revised premium would 
apply. Documents were sent to Ms S when she made the changes, and again when the 
policy renewed in July 2020. As SAI was continuing to provide cover, it was reasonable for it 
to continue to take a premium.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against St Andrew's Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman