DRN-2757412
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy because his claim for storm-related damage to his roof under his home 
insurance policy has been declined by Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes). He also 
complains that Great Lakes wont cover the cost of him using his own contractors for the 
internal damage caused by the storm.
Mr R has a separate related complaint with another business. But I wont cover that 
complaint here.
 
What happened
Mr Rs home was damaged by adverse weather conditions on 9 February 2020. He 
submitted a claim to Great Lakes under his home insurance policy. The claim was for 
damage to his roof. And the damage caused by water ingress to an internal room. 
Mr R has health issues. He told Great Lakes about these. 
Great Lakes arranged for a contractor to visit the property and inspect the roof and the 
internal damage. Mr R had already arranged what he thought was a temporary repair to the 
roof on 9 February 2020. 
The roof was covered in snow on the day of the inspection.  But Great Lakes said that as Mr 
R had already had the affected section repaired there was no damage to see. Great Lakes 
contractor inspected the area that had been re-felted from the attic. They noted that there 
were holes in the original felt in other areas of the roof. They also felt that the roof was of an 
age where the felt will start to be perished. 
So Great Lakes accepted the claim for the internal damage but declined the claim for the 
roof. Based on their contractors inspection, they said that the felt showed signs of wear and 
tear, which wasnt covered under Mr Rs home insurance policy. 
But Mr R said that the roof damage had been caused by the storm. He didnt trust Great 
Lakes contractors after theyd reached what he felt was the wrong conclusion over the 
cause of the roof damage. So he didnt want to use Great Lakes contractors for the internal 
repair work. 
So Great Lakes offered Mr R a cash settlement for the internal works. They based their offer 
on what it would cost them to have the work done. 
But Mr R had two quotes for the required repair work and even the cheaper one was around 
£3,000 higher than the cash settlement Great Lakes offered him. 
Unhappy with Great Lakes decision to decline his roof claim and feeling that the cash 
settlement was too low, Mr R complained.
They didnt uphold his complaint. They said theyd made the correct decision to decline the 
roof claim for wear and tear. And they said that their own costs for the required internal 
repairs was the limit of liability on his claim. 
So Mr R brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator upheld his complaint. She 
said Great Lakes should cover the cost of the initial roof repair, as she felt the initial damage 
had been caused by the storm. But she didnt think they should cover the cost of the second 
roof repair as she felt all the required repairs for storm damage had been done during the 
first repair. And she didnt think Great Lakes had done anything wrong when theyd told Mr R 
they wouldnt cover the cost of his own contractor for the internal repairs.  
Great Lakes accepted her findings. But Mr R disagreed. He said Great Lakes should cover 
the cost of the second roof repair. And should cover the cost of him using his own 
contractors. So his case has come to me for a final decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. But my decision may still disappoint Mr R. Ill go 
through each aspect of his complaint in detail below.
Should Great Lakes pay the claim for the roof repairs?
Mr R says that the roof damage he had repaired on 9 February 2020 was caused by storm 
winds. He feels that those repairs were temporary. So he says he needed further work done 
in May 2020 to put the roof back to its pre-storm condition. He thinks both the initial 
temporary repair and the later repair should be covered under his policy.
Great Lakes said that the roof showed evidence of wear and tear. So they declined the claim 
for both roof repairs. Wear and tear isnt covered under Mr Rs policy. But storm damage is. 
This service considers three questions when looking at complaints about storm damage. In 
most cases, wed only ask an insurer to pay the claim if the answer to all three questions is 
yes:
1. is it agreed that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said 
to have happened?
2. is the damage claimed for consistent with what we generally see as storm damage?
3. were storm conditions the main cause of the damage or were there other factors that 
meant the damage might have happened anyway?
Considering the first roof repair, Great Lakes accepts that the answer to the first question is 
yes. 
Looking at the second question, Great Lakes werent able to inspect the damage, as initial 
roof repairs were carried out on the date the damage occurred. But I think it was reasonable 
for Mr R to get the roof repaired as soon as he could. And I think this wouldve helped to 
mitigate his claim for internal damage. The wording on Mr Rs roofers invoice supports this 
view: 
We  found that around 20/30 tiles had been blown off or dislodged from the
very high winds wed had opening large sections of the roof letting a lot of heavy rain in
as it was still raining heavy and ruining the ceiling . we stripped a 12sq
meter section of the roof off re felted with breathable membrane and new lathe and re
tiled using existing tiles all tiles replaced were needed. While I acknowledge that Great Lakes contractor couldnt inspect the initial damage as itd 
already been repaired, Im satisfied that dislodged tiles are consistent with damage caused 
by a storm such as the one on 9 February 2020. 
Moving on to the third question, I need to decide if the storm was the main cause of the initial 
damage to the roof. While Im persuaded that the tiles were dislodged by the wind, I have 
less evidence for what caused the damage to the roofing felt. As noted above, a 12 square 
metre section of the roof was re-felted on the day of the damage. 
Although Great Lakes contractor couldnt inspect the damage, they noted that other areas of 
the felt showed wear and tear. They also felt that the roof was of an age where the felt will 
start to be perished. This is why Great Lakes declined the claim for storm damage to the 
roof.
One of the photos taken during Great Lakes contractors visit does show an area of worn 
felt. But Ive also seen a photo which shows that the remaining felt is in good condition. So 
Ive not seen enough evidence to persuade me that the damage to the replaced section of 
felt was caused by wear and tear, rather than storm winds. 
So I am persuaded that I can answer yes to all three questions in respect of the initial 
damage to the roof. And I consider that Mr Rs quick action to get the damage repaired 
wouldve helped to reduce the internal damage. So Im satisfied that the initial repair should 
be covered under the storm damage claim. 
Mr R thought the initial roof repairs were temporary. So he arranged for a second set of 
repairs which were carried out in May 2020. He felt these additional repairs were needed to 
fully repair the storm damage to the roof. So he asked Great Lakes to cover the cost of the 
second roof repairs as part of his claim for storm damage. 
Mr Rs contractor provided an invoice which set out the detail of the work hed carried out 
during the second repair. But Great Lakes declined this part of Mr Rs claim as they didnt 
accept that the damage was due to storm damage.
I can see from the two invoices provided by Mr Rs contractor that the initial roof repair refers 
to an area of 12 square metres. But the second invoice refers to much bigger area of the 
roof. I also note that after both of their inspections Great Lakes contractor confirmed no 
further roof repair work was necessary. 
Considering everything both parties have provided, I dont have enough evidence to say that 
the first repair was only temporary. So Im not persuaded that the second repair was needed 
because of remaining damage from the storm. So I cant ask Great Lakes to pay for the 
second repair. 
Ill now look at whether the cash settlement Great Lakes have offered is fair.
Is the cash settlement fair?
Under the terms of Mr Rs policy, Great Lakes have the right to decide to settle his claim by 
repair, replacement or cash settlement. Here they chose to repair using their own 
contractors. 
But Mr R didnt want to use Great Lakes contractors. He didnt trust them after theyd 
inspected his roof. So he got two quotes for the required work. Even the lower quote was 
around £3,000 higher than the amount Great Lakes expected to pay their own contractors. Mr Rs policy terms state the following:
Where we agree to make a cash payment, the sum payable reflects the costs of replacing 
the lost or damaged property and reflects any discount we would have received if we had 
replaced the property. 
This term means that if Great Lakes agree to make a cash settlement payment, the amount 
theyll pay is what it wouldve cost them if their own contractors did the work. This is usually 
less than what an individual would pay, as insurers often get preferential rates. Our service 
doesnt think this is unfair or unreasonable.
I understand why Mr R didnt want to use Great Lakes contractors. He felt theyd done a bad 
job of assessing the damage to his roof. But that doesnt mean I can ask Great Lakes to 
increase their cash settlement to cover the cost of his chosen contractors. I could only ask 
them to do that if Great Lakes contractors had caused considerable distress. And Ive no 
evidence of that in this case. 
Taking everything into account, I cant ask Great Lakes to increase their cash settlement 
offer. Theyve offered to use their own contractors to repair the damage. And under the 
terms of Mr Rs policy theyre not liable to pay any more than they wouldve had to pay their 
contractors to do the repairs.
Summary
Im satisfied that the initial repairs to the roof were required due to storm damage. So Great 
Lakes should refund Mr R £520 for those repairs. They should also pay simple interest on 
this amount at the rate of 8% a year from the date of the loss until the date they pay it.
But I consider that Great Lakes acted fairly and reasonably when they declined to pay for the 
second repair to the roof. And Im also satisfied that Great Lakes acted fairly and reasonably, 
and in line with the policy terms and conditions, when they made their cash settlement offer 
for the internal damage.
I understand that this will be disappointing for Mr R as I know he feels strongly that the 
second repair was only necessary because of damage from the storm. But Im not 
persuaded that is the case. 
 
Putting things right
Great Lakes Insurance SE should cover the cost of the first roof repairs, plus interest as 
detailed below. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
I require Great Lakes Insurance SE to:
1. refund Mr R £520 for the cost of the first roof repair; and
2. Pay simple interest at the rate of 8% a year* on that refund, from the date of the loss 
until the date they pay it 
* If Great Lakes Insurance SE consider that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, they should tell Mr R how much theyve taken off. They should also give Mr R a certificate showing this if he asks for 
one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021.  
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman