DRN-3369644
The complaint
Mrs A complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint MotoNovo, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs A acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then MotoNovo, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.  
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mrs A. The car here was about 
four years old and had completed about 59,000 miles so I think a reasonable person would it 
to be showing some sign of wear and tear.
But, I dont think a reasonable person would think it fair wear and tear if, as is the case here, 
the car needed a new engine after a further 4,864 miles of driving and a few further months 
of use.
The relevant legislation explains that when we consider whether goods were of satisfactory 
quality we should consider whether they have been durable. 
The dealership have explained that this make, and model of car requires the cambelt to be 
replaced every five years or 70,000 miles. I dont think that means the belt should break at 
70,000 miles or five years; I think that means that to maintain the car properly and ensure 
there isnt a failure of the cambelt and subsequent damage, the belt will need to be changed 
at those intervals. That suggests that it is expected the belt will last at least 70,000 miles or 
at least five years, whichever comes first. 
This belt hasnt lasted that long. Ive not seen evidence that Mrs A didnt maintain the car 
properly or that she contributed to the failure in any way. I therefore think the belt is likely to 
have failed prematurely and that it, and the car, havent proven to be durable.
In those circumstances, the relevant law allows the business one opportunity to repair the 
car. That clearly wouldnt be commercially viable here as I can see estimates for the engine 
replacement work are more than the car originally cost.
So, I think MotoNovo should now allow Mrs A to reject the car.
Putting things right
MotoNovo should collect the car at no cost to Mrs A and they should end the finance 
agreement.
Theyll need to refund any deposit Mrs A has paid and, as shes been deprived of that 
money, they will need to add interest to that refund.
Mrs A has been inconvenienced by these issues. Shes had to take the car back to the 
dealership for repairs and has had to escalate her complaint to this service when I think it 
could have been resolved earlier. I can also see that Mrs A has struggled at times with 
transportation especially as she has a new-born. In those circumstances MotoNovo should 
pay her £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience shes experienced.
Mrs A has been off the road for some time and hasnt had use of the vehicle. Its not fair that 
she pays for the use of the car during that period. So, MotoNovo should liaise with her and 
the dealership and refund any finance instalments Mrs A has paid (or waive them if they 
were due and havent been paid) for the time she has been without the car.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell MotoNovo Finance Limited 
to:
Allow Mrs A to reject the car and end the finance agreement.
Collect the car at no cost to Mrs A.
Refund any deposit that has been paid and add 8% simple interest per year from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement.
Liaise with Mrs A and the dealership to establish how long the car has been off the 
road. Refund (or waive) any finance instalments that have been paid (or were due) 
during that period. Add 8% simple interest per year to the refund from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Mrs A £100 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes 
experienced.Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mrs As credit file in relation to 
this issue.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires MotoNovo to take off tax from this interest. MotoNovo 
must give Mrs A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mrs A asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman