DRN-3513308
The complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wont refund money he lost after 
he fell victim to a scam. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. But in summary and based on the submissions of both parties I understand it to be as 
follows. 
In November 2020 Mr H received an email from a company about an opportunity to invest in 
Bitcoin. Mr H had some previous experience with investing in crypto currency, receiving 
some returns from small investments. He communicated with the company for some time 
and the representative gained his trust, as Mr H said everything they claimed seemed 
plausible. Believing everything to be genuine, Mr H decided to invest, but unknown to him at 
the time he was dealing with fraudsters. 
Between 19 January 2021 and 23 September 2021, Mr H made the following payments to 
the fraudsters, totalling £107,999;
19 January 2021 £5,000
20 January 2021 £9,000
1 February 2021 £19,000
4 April 2021 £10,000
12 April 2021 £10,000
15 April 2021 £10,000
25 June 2021 £10,000
28 June 2021 £10,000
28 June 2021 £6,000
28 June 2021 £7,000
23 September 2021 £6,000
23 September 2021 £5,999
The payments were made to a crypto currency account that Mr H had held in his name for 
around 2-3 years, but from there the money went to crypto accounts controlled by the 
fraudsters. Mr H was provided with log on details for the account that the funds had 
seemingly moved to, and could see his investments making good profits.
The second payment Mr H made, on 20 January 2021, was flagged by Bank of Scotlands 
fraud detection systems. Bank of Scotland asked Mr H to attend a branch to discuss the 
payment. Bank of Scotland has said Mr H was unhappy and raised a complaint about his 
payment being blocked and that hed been asked to attend a branch. Bank of Scotland say 
Mr H said it was ridiculous as this was his money.
Mr H and Bank of Scotland have differing opinions about what was discussed in branch. 
Bank of Scotland say when Mr H visited the branch, he told it that the payment was to pay 
for building work, with the builder wanting payment through Bitcoin. The branch managers 
recollection is that he wasnt happy with the payment Mr H was asking to make and felt it 
didnt make sense why Mr H wouldnt pay his builder in pounds. Bank of Scotland say Mr H 
told it that it was his idea to pay in this way and that the builder was an old friend and client. 
Due to its concerns Bank of Scotland invoked the Banking Protocol and contacted the police 
to come and talk to Mr H. 
Mr H and his representative have said that when he attended the branch, he told the branch 
the payment was for an investment but said if it was for a loft conversion would the bank be 
making such a fuss.
Bank of Scotland say that advice was given at the time, Mr H was warned about the risks 
surrounding crypto currency and having invoked the Banking Protocol, the police attended 
and spoke to Mr H, following which he was happy to proceed with the payment. And 
following this, as detailed in the schedule of payments above, Mr H went on to make a 
number of other payments. 
When Mr H saw on the investment platform there was a balance of $4,000,000 he requested 
to withdraw his funds. But he became suspicious when the fraudsters asked for a further 
payment to complete the withdrawal request. Mr H didnt have any funds at the time to pay, 
so told the fraudsters he would pay the fee (for the withdrawal) after he had received his 
money. Following which Mr H has said he got into an argument with the fraudsters and 
refused to pay them anymore. Mr H has said that after this he could no longer see the funds 
on the platform, which made him suspect this was a scam. 
Mr H raised the matter with Bank of Scotland, who looked into things and issued its final 
response on 11 March 2022, not upholding the complaint. In summary it said that because 
the payments werent made to the fraudster directly from Mr Hs Bank of Scotland account, it 
was unable to try and recover the funds. It added that it wasnt able to review Mr Hs claim 
under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM code). It said it invoked its highest level 
of security and asked the police to visit its branch and discuss the payment with Mr H and 
that he continued with the payment knowing the risks involved with crypto currency.
 
Bank of Scotland said that while it knew Mr H was unhappy about having to speak to it about 
the bank blocking his payments. It wasnt its intention to cause inconvenience and the 
reason for questions and asking Mr H to visit the branch was to complete checks to protect 
him. Bank of Scotland said that it also checked the third payment Mr H made and he was 
happy to proceed, but where the payments that followed this were for similar amounts to his 
own account it had no further concerns. 
Unhappy with Bank of Scotlands response Mr H then brought his complaint to our service.  
One of our investigators looked into things and didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. In summary 
she thought Halifax had acted fairly and reasonably when processing the payments. She 
said that while she couldnt be certain what was discussed at branch she found Halifaxs 
testimony to be persuasive. She said Bank of Scotland had checked Mr H was sending 
funds to a genuine crypto wallet account and had invoked the Banking Protocol and provided 
Mr H with warnings. She didnt think Bank of Scotland providing further warnings wouldve 
stopped him from going ahead and making the payments. This was because Mr H was 
happy to proceed with the payment, after talking to both the bank and the police. 
Mr H didnt agree with our investigators view. In summary Mr H and his representatives 
argued that;
- The investigators view wasnt an accurate reflection of what happened. 
- Bank of Scotland should have intervened on the transactions made after the branch 
interaction.- Mr H had told the police the truth that he was investing in crypto currency. The police 
told Mr H he could do with his money what he wanted and just wanted to check Mr H 
wasnt being forced into making a payment under duress. So the police attendance 
didnt address any of the fraud risk in the payments.
- Had the bank believed Mr H was paying tens of thousands of pounds in crypto 
currency to a builder it should have triggered red flags that something was wrong.
- Had the bank talked through the most common scams involving cryptocurrency, it 
would easily have been able to expose the scam.
- The banks actions, in not refusing to process the payment, didnt meet the standards 
of a reasonable banker.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Mr Hs representatives have referred to other decisions issued by our service. But 
I would point out that, while on the surface complaints may seem quite similar, each 
complaint is determined by its own individual circumstances. Here, as Im required to do, Ive 
looked at the individual circumstances of Mr Hs complaint.
 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
 
Having considered everything, while I know it will disappoint Mr H, I can see no basis on 
which I can fairly and reasonably ask Bank of Scotland to refund Mr H the money he has 
sadly lost. I can appreciate that this outcome is not the one Mr H was hoping for. But having 
thought about Bank of Scotlands actions, I am unable to say it has responsibility for 
refunding the money Mr H sent. I will explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, 
taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider Bank of Scotland 
should fairly and reasonably: 
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
 
In this case, I need to consider whether Bank of Scotland acted fairly and reasonably in its 
dealings with Mr H when he made the transfers, or whether it could and should have done 
more before processing them.
Did Bank of Scotland act fairly and reasonably in Mr Hs case?
Mr H has accepted he authorised the payments. Because of this Bank of Scotland had an 
obligation to follow his instructions. But there are some situations in which it should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfers - as Ive 
explained, I consider that as a matter of good practice Bank of Scotland shouldve been on 
the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions.
 
I dont think the first payment Mr H made to the fraudsters, for £5,000 on 19 January 2021, 
was so out of character or unusual, when compared to the typical activity on his Bank of 
Scotland account, that I would have expected the bank to have had concerns he may have 
been at risk of financial harm, to the extent that I think it should have intervened. It follows I 
think it was fair and reasonable for Bank of Scotland to allow this payment to progress.
 
The second payment Mr H made, for £9,000 on 20 January 2021, flagged on Bank of 
Scotlands fraud detection systems and Mr H was asked to attend a branch. So I dont need 
to make a finding here as to whether I think Bank of Scotland ought to have intervened, as it 
recognised itself that this payment was not typical. Ive gone on to consider whether I think 
Bank of Scotlands intervention went far enough and having considered the evidence, I think 
it did. Ill explain why.
 
Bank of Scotland has said Mr H told it that the payment was to pay a builder, who had 
requested payment through cryptocurrency. The bank did not consider the reason Mr H gave 
for making the payment made sense and due to these concerns it invoked the Banking 
Protocol and asked the police to attend the branch and speak to Mr H, which they did. Mr H, 
on the other hand, has said he told Bank of Scotland the payment was for investment 
purposes.
Im mindful there is some contrary evidence regarding what Mr H told Bank of Scotland. 
Where there are conflicting views, such as here, I would typically make a finding based on 
the balance of probabilities. But in the specific circumstances of this case, I dont consider 
what Mr H told the branch about the purpose of the payment, impacts my overall decision. 
So I havent made a finding about this specific point. I say that as whether Mr H had said the 
payment was for an investment or for building work, sadly I dont think any intervention is 
more likely than not to have made a difference and stopped him from making the payment.
 
The police questioned Mr H about the payment. Mr H has said he told the police the 
payment was for an investment. It seems following this conversation the police didnt 
express to Bank of Scotland they were concerned he was falling victim to a scam and Mr H 
was still happy to proceed with the payment. Where the police did not voice any concerns 
about the transfer, Bank of Scotland proceeded to allow Mr H to make it. So, considering that Mr H was able to convince the police he was making a payment for a 
legitimate purpose, and was not acting under the instructions of fraudsters, I do not think its 
likely that the staff at Bank of Scotland wouldve had any better prospect of establishing Mr H 
was at continued risk of financial harm, or been able to break him from the spell of the fraud. 
Bank of Scotlands obligations in this scenario were to follow the Banking Protocol and 
involve the police, which it did. 
Im mindful that it is not typical for a builder to request payment by crypto currency, but 
alongside this Im also mindful that people do make and request payments for goods and 
services through crypto currency. I think Bank of Scotland, on balance, did enough in 
invoking the Banking Protocol, to highlight the risks to Mr H. From the evidence Ive seen, 
Im persuaded Mr H was determined to make the payment, and Im not persuaded any 
further reasonable level of intervention by Bank of Scotland would have made a difference to 
his decision to make the payment concerned. Overall, I dont think this is a case where Bank 
of Scotland had enough to continue to go against Mr Hs instructions and refuse to make the 
payments altogether.
Ive gone on to consider whether there should have been any further intervention from 
Bank of Scotland for the subsequent payments Mr H went on to make. Having thought about 
that carefully, I dont think there should have been. I say that because at this point Mr H was 
making payments to an existing payee and hed already persuaded both the bank and the 
police that he was happy to proceed with the payments and that he wasnt at risk. Im also 
mindful that the payments were to an account that Mr H held and had control of, were 
spread out across a number of months and were most typically of a similar or reducing 
value, which arent typical hallmarks of fraud. Where often, but not always, payments are 
closer together and for increasing amounts. So, while it is finely balanced, I dont think there 
was enough going on that I would fairly and reasonably have expected Bank of Scotland to 
have intervened further or to have suspected Mr H was at risk.
Even if I did consider Bank of Scotland ought to have intervened further, both on the second 
payment and the subsequent payments, and have spoken to Mr H more about other types of 
scams, which for the avoidance of doubt in the individual circumstances of this case, I dont. 
I dont think it would have made a difference and prevented Mr H from proceeding with the 
payments.
I say that because this was a sophisticated scam, where Mr Hs trust had been gained by the 
fraudsters for some time before he began to invest. Mr H thought he was dealing with a 
legitimate investment firm and trusted this was a genuine investment. Hes said everything 
the fraudsters claimed sounded plausible and he was able to see profits being made on a 
platform that he had his own sign in and PIN for. Mr H had also successfully traded, albeit in 
much smaller values previously, so trading in crypto currency wasnt new to him. I consider 
any suspicions the Bank may have had would also have been allayed, as Mr H was making 
payments to an existing payee.
 
Im also mindful that Mr H considered the banks intervention a fuss and had expressed his 
dissatisfaction when payments were blocked, when he had to attend branch and when the 
police were called. So I think it more likely than not Mr H was determined to make the 
payments. Which I think is supported given that the police were not able to get to the bottom 
of what was unfolding. 
Overall, when considering all of these factors collectively, I do not think that any further 
probing or in-depth questioning from Bank of Scotland would have raised further concern 
that Mr H may have been at risk of financial harm. I think it more likely than not Mr H had 
been persuaded by what the fraudster had told him and would have wanted to continue to 
make the payments.
 Ive thought about whether Bank of Scotland could have recovered any of the funds Mr H 
lost when it was made aware of the scam. But given Mr H had exchanged the funds into 
crypto currency and then moved this on to accounts controlled by the fraudsters, I dont think 
Bank of Scotland would have been able to recover any funds. It follows that I dont think it 
missed an opportunity to recover the money Mr H sadly lost.
I have a great deal of sympathy with Mr H being the victim of what was clearly a cruel scam 
that has had a significant impact on him. But it would only be fair for me to direct Bank of 
Scotland to refund his loss if I thought it was responsible for the failure that caused it. And for 
the reasons Ive explained, Im not persuaded that it wouldve been able to prevent Mr Hs 
loss. So, I cannot fairly and reasonably hold it liable in these circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman