DRN-1374198
 
The complaint
Miss H complains that The Co-operative Bank plc( Co-op) unfairly registered a default on her 
credit file.
What happened
Miss H says Co-op registered a default on her credit file in 2016 when she had told it about 
her financial problems and that she had approached a debt organisation. She says Co-op 
agreed to place her account recovery on hold but later found out about the default. Miss H 
says that is unfair and is causing her problems in obtaining a mortgage. She also says Co-
op was the only business to do that, and she later repaid her debt in full.
Co-op doesn't accept making a mistake and says it wrote to Miss H on numerous occasions 
about the debt. It says it sent a default notice to her in January 2016 and when Miss H made 
contact,it agreed to place the recovery of the debt on hold. Co-op says it didn't receive 
further contact and so wrote to Miss H again. And she told it in March 2016 that she had 
spoken to a debt specialist company and that details of her finances would be  provided. Co-
op says no contact was made and so in May 2016 sent Miss H a notice of default  letter and 
registered the default on 16 May 2016.
Miss H brought her complaint to us but our investigator didn't uphold it. The investigator 
thought Co-op had sent numerous letters to Miss H about the debt and had fairly agreed to 
pause the recovery in January and March 2016. But Miss H didn't provide any financial 
details to it or make any payments. The investigator thought the letters made it clear that Co-
op was restarting the recovery process and a default would be registered and so Co-op had 
acted reasonably.
Miss H didn't accept that view and says she didn't instruct the debt company as she didn't 
need to and says she called Co-op in April 2016 about the debt. She says she wasn't told 
recovery action had re-started and had she known, then she could have borrowed money.
The investigator looked into the complaint again and didn't think Co-op had a record of that 
call or that Miss H had suggested she didn't receive Co-op's letters in May 2016.
Miss H says she thinks she may have written to Co-op in April 2016 and thinks may have 
called it between receipt of the two letters in May 2016. She would like the default removed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for the same reasons. I realise Miss H will be 
disappointed by my decision and I appreciate that the default is causing her difficulties. But 
for the reasons I will explain I don't think Co-op acted unfairly or made a mistake, so I can't 
fairly order it to remove the default.Banks and building societies have a duty to accurately report the positions of their customers 
accounts to the Credit Reference Agencies(CRA's). And a default should only be registered 
where a relationship has broken down. There is no dispute here that Miss H's account had 
exceeded her overdraft limit and I can see that Co-op sent numerous letters to her about the 
debt and that if contact wasn't made that a default would be registered on her credit file.
The key issue is if Co-op acted fairly be registering the default in these circumstances. I can 
see that Co-op sent Miss H a notice of default in January 2016. I have no doubt that led to 
Miss H contacting Co-op and I can see that Co-op agreed to place the debt recovery on  
hold. I would have expected Miss H to continue updating Co-op. So I don't think Co-op made 
a mistake or acted unfairly be sending a new default notice in February 2016 and I think 
Miss H ought to have realised that the recovery process had re-started.
I can see that Miss H called Co-op again in March 2016 and told it she had made contact 
with a debt specialist company and that a financial summary was being prepared. I think Co-
op again acted fairly by pausing the recovery process. I have looked at Co-op's records and 
I can't see that Miss H made any further contact with it until after the default was registered. 
I'm satisfied Co-op acted fairly by waiting until May 2016 before sending a further default 
notice and it ought to have been clear to Miss H that Co-op could not reasonably pause the 
recovery process indefinitely.
I appreciate that Miss H says she didn't receive any notification from Co-op that it was 
restarting the recovery process. But I'm satisfied Co-op wrote to Miss H on numerous 
occasions and sent her at least three default notices. And I don't think Miss H made any 
attempt to make repayments to the debt until some time after the default was registered. If 
Miss H says she did make contact with Co-op between the dates of the default notice and 
registration that suggests she did receive the letters and so was told that the recovery 
process had re-started.
Overall I'm satisfied that Co--op acted fairly throughout this process by pausing the recovery 
on two occasions and in allowing Miss H a reasonable period of time to either make a 
repayment or agree a repayment plan. I'm also satisfied it made clear to Miss H on each 
occasion that it was restarting the recovery process and that adverse information would be 
reported to the CRA's and affect her credit file..
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 June 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman