DRN-3757914
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society placed an alert on his accounts with them 
following an incident in the branch. 
To resolve things Mr T would like Nationwide to remove the alert and apologise. 
What happened
On 21 May 2021 Mr T visited a branch of Nationwide as he was trying to add himself to one 
of his wifes accounts. As Mr Ts wife is disabled and not in good health, she was unable to 
visit the branch herself. 
Following Mr Ts branch visit the Nationwide branch staff member Mr T had dealt with in 
branch reported that while they made adjustments for Mr T because he is hard of hearing, 
he had been disrespectful. 
The branch staff said Mr T wanted to speak to the big man manager or man manager and 
he was unhappy when the female staff member explained she was the manager. The staff 
member wrote down for Mr T that he was being disrespectful, but they reported Mr T ignored 
this and continued to be disrespectful. The staff member said Mr Ts tone was aggressive 
towards her and at one stage said Mr T was pointing his finger in her face. 
Nationwide investigated what had happened and approached other branch staff for their 
recollections.
The branch staff agreed Mr T had become rude towards the female staff member trying to 
help him, had raised his voice and spoken to her disrespectfully. They also mentioned 
concern about the tone Mr T was using and that he had been positing in the staff members 
face. They said Mr T raised his voice after being told the volume was unacceptable and 
reported that Mr T refused to communicate with the female staff member and insisted she 
got the big manager. 
On 26 May 2021, Nationwide wrote to Mr T and explained that it had come to light Mr T had 
raised his voice towards a member of staff and that Nationwide did not expect their staff to 
tolerate any form of offensive behaviour  including raised voices. Because of this, they let 
Mr T know that any further reported incidents of offensive or unacceptable behaviour 
towards Nationwide staff may result in a revised course of action being considered  and if 
continued, could result in the closure of Mr Ts accounts. Nationwide explained that because 
of what had happened an alert of their outcome would be added to his member profile which 
would be visible to Nationwides member facing colleagues. 
Mr T disagreed with Nationwides conclusions and felt strongly that the alert should be 
removed from his profile. Mr T said he needed to talk loudly because of his disability, and so 
he raised a complaint.
Nationwide responded to the complaint on 12 July 2021 and explained all the branch staff 
accepted that Mr T is registered deaf and that is why they would write things down for him 
when he went to the branch. However, Nationwide said while there was an acceptance Mr T 
needed to raise his voice, they did not accept disrespectful behaviour aimed at staff, 
including pointing a finger at a member of staff and demanding to speak to the big man 
manager, whilst not accepting that the female staff member he was speaking to was the 
manager. 
As Mr T continued to not accept Nationwides position, Nationwide wrote again to Mr T on 24 
August 2021 explaining the same thing as set out in their letter of 12 July 2021. 
Mr T escalated the matter further and on 1 November 2021 Nationwide again wrote to Mr T. 
They further clarified their zero tolerance to any form of verbal or aggressive behaviour from 
members, including unnecessary shouting, bad language, physical gesturing or any other 
form of behaviour that may make staff feel threatened or unnecessarily challenged. In this 
letter Nationwide confirmed the female staff member Mr T had engaged with was the Deputy 
Branch Manager, who in the absence of the Branch Manager, held the full authority and 
mandate of the Branch Manager. 
Mr T says he has to speak more loudly because he is hard of hearing and disagrees that he 
pointed in the female staff members face. He says he was pointing upstairs to get the male 
manager. And given Nationwide accepts he needs to talk more loudly, he says they 
shouldnt put the alert on his profile. Mr T said Nationwides actions were therefore bias and 
he said he was being discriminated against. Mr T also mentioned that Nationwide had 
referenced different versions of events in their various correspondence to him. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr T. They didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint and said 
they were satisfied Nationwide had applied the alert in line with the type of behaviour it was 
reported that Mr T had exhibited. Our investigator also noted that while the branch staff 
accepted Mr Ts need to talk more loudly, the suggestion was that the level he was raising 
his voice to was more than the branch usually expected, and that the tone was aggressive 
and rude. 
The investigator also considered Mr Ts concerns about differing versions of events, and 
explained different branch staff had been approached for their recollections so the wording 
used may have differed (big man manager or big manager), although all had agreed       
Mr Ts behaviour was not acceptable. The investigator also didnt think it made a difference 
that Mr T had been speaking to the Deputy Branch Manager, as Nationwide had explained 
they had the same authority as the Branch Manager in the Branch Managers absence. 
Mr T didnt accept our investigators conclusions and maintained Nationwide should remove 
the alert as he had not acted inappropriately. 
As our investigator was unable to resolve the case, it has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided Mr Ts complaint should not be upheld for broadly the same 
reasons as our investigator. 
Ive noted Mr T has mentioned he feels discriminated against because of his hearing 
disability, I think it may therefore be helpful to first explain that while the Financial 
Ombudsman Service takes into account, amongst other things, any relevant law, the role of 
this service is to resolve individual complaints based on what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of each case. So, while Im mindful of Mr Ts comments that he has been discriminated against, and Im mindful of the Equality Act 2010, I am unable to say whether a 
law has been breached  this is because the Financial Ombudsman Service is not a court. 
However, I can consider whether Nationwide have treated Mr T fairly and reasonably as one 
of their customers (or members). 
As Im sure Mr T can appreciate, as I was not present in the branch at the time of these 
events and there is no recording or CCTV available, it makes it difficult for me to know what 
happened. Where its not possible for me to know what took place, I reach a decision on the 
balance of probability to decide what I think most likely happened based on the available 
evidence and submissions from both parties. 
From the evidence available it appears accepted that the Nationwide branch staff were 
aware Mr T was hard of hearing and that he would need to speak more loudly than other 
members. Branch staff also described how they would write things down for Mr T and how 
they had tried to help Mr T complete the necessary paperwork for what he was trying to do, 
by filling out parts of it for him  although there is a suggestion Mr T wasnt happy with this 
and was finding the process frustrating. 
I understand Mr T believes Nationwide is treating him differently, mainly because they have 
used the fact he speaks more loudly as a reason to put an alert on his member profile. 
However, Im unable to agree with Mr T. I say this because, as already described above, 
Nationwide accepted and adjusted their communications with Mr T when he visited the 
branch. And although Nationwide could have been more helpful and provided more detail in 
their initial correspondence about the reasons for placing an alert on Mr Ts profile and 
explained sooner who it was Mr T had been speaking to in the branch, it seems clear the 
alert is not solely due to Mr T raising his voice. 
Ive seen Nationwides policy to protect staff from verbal and aggressive behaviour, and 
given the behaviour described by the branch staff, I think Nationwide have fairly applied their 
policy. 
Im aware it wasnt until later that Nationwide explained the staff member was a Deputy 
Branch Manager, but I dont think this makes a difference given they were still a member of 
Nationwides staff. 
I understand Mr T feels strongly there was nothing wrong with his behaviour and Ive 
considered what he has said including about needing to raise his voice and that he says he 
was pointing up towards the ceiling, rather than pointing at the staff member. However, I 
have also considered the submissions of the different branch staff who provided their 
recollections about what happened. And on balance, I think their recollections of what 
happened are persuasive. While some language may have differed in that they may have 
said big man or big man manager, the recollections are broadly consistent in saying that 
Mr T was rude, raising his voice more than they would normally have expected when 
communicating with him, that he was disrespectful to the staff member trying to help him and 
he used body language that was aggressive. 
Nationwide are entitled to look after and support their staff members, and I think the actions 
Nationwide have taken in these circumstances are proportionate and in keeping with their 
policy to protect their staff. Mr Ts accounts are still open so he can continue to use them, 
and its been explained to him what may happen if Nationwide staff experience further 
unreasonable behaviour from Mr T. 
Having reviewed Nationwides policy on verbal and aggressive behaviour Im persuaded 
there is nothing here to suggest Mr T has been treated any differently to how another Nationwide member would have been treated if they had displayed similar behaviour. So Ive 
not seen enough here to make me think Mr T has been treated differently or unfairly. 
Because of this I dont think Nationwide need to remove the alert placed on Mr Ts member 
profile at this time. 
I understand from Nationwide that they have previously offered Mr T additional support from 
their Specialist Service Team, but Mr T has not, to date, taken this up. This may be 
something for Mr T to consider and approach Nationwide about if it is a service he would like 
to use. 
My final decision
I realise Mr T will be disappointed with my findings, but for the reasons above, my final 
decision is that Mr Ts complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman