DRN-1712201
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy HSBC UK Bank Plc is chasing him for a payment on his credit card 
account, which he believed was closed with a zero balance.
What happened
In April 2019, Mr G raised a disputed transaction claim with HSBC for a payment (£300) that 
had been made on his credit card. HSBC credited Mr Gs card with £300 to counter the debit 
while it looked into the transaction and submitted a chargeback claim. 
In May 2019, HSBC says it mistakenly posted a further credit for the same amount to Mr Gs 
card. Mr G had this credit transferred to a non-HSBC bank account and requested his credit 
card be closed. 
In late June 2019, HSBC realised it had duplicated the credits to Mr Gs card and debited a 
payment to reflect the error. This left Mr Gs credit card with an outstanding balance of £300.
In August 2019, Mr G received a statement and became aware that the credit card was still 
open and that it had an outstanding balance. He also noted hed been charged a late 
payment fee and accrued debit interest. He raised a complaint with HSBC, and it told him 
the debit had been made in error. HSBC agreed to remove this balance, debit interest, and 
fees. 
In October 2019, HSBC made a further debit to Mr Gs credit card for the disputed amount. 
Mr G brought his complaint to our service and HSBC issued him with a final response in 
November 2019. 
Our investigator looked at everything and recommended the complaint be upheld. She found 
HSBC hadnt administered Mr Gs account fairly. She said HSBC should waive the £300 
chargeback amount Mr G was now responsible for, as it had never told him the request was 
unsuccessful. She found it reasonable that Mr G returned the second credit of £300 from 
May 2019 which he had transferred to a personal account. Our investigator confirmed that 
once this was done HSBC would amend Mr Gs credit file to show the account as closed. 
HSBC accepted our investigators findings. Mr G didnt. He responded to say he was 
unaware the chargeback for the disputed transaction was unsuccessful  or that HSBC were 
also looking to retrieve the additional £300 he received in error. Mr G added this additional 
£300 had caused his account to default and impact his credit score. Mr G said it shouldnt 
have taken HSBC 11 months to work out this mistake. He said he wouldnt be repaying 
HSBC anything and that he was looking for £1,000 in recognition of the stress and hours 
wasted trying to deal with them. 
Because Mr G disagreed with our investigators assessment, the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC has already agreed to waive the amount of the disputed transaction from Mr Gs 
account and amend his credit file to reflect this. It believes this fairly compensates Mr G for 
the confusion and inconvenience caused. 
It isnt in dispute that HSBC has made some errors here in administering Mr Gs account. So 
what I need to determine is whether HSBCs actions in agreeing to our investigators 
recommendations go far enough in putting things right for Mr G. Having considered 
everything, I think they do. I will explain why below.
Based on everything Ive seen, I dont think HSBC was wrong to conclude Mr G was liable 
for the disputed transaction  the chargeback attempt was unsuccessful. But I think the way 
in which HSBC administered his credit card account throughout the process made matters 
very confusing for Mr G, and it seems HSBC staff too.
HSBCs administration and lack of clarity throughout this complaint has left Mr G needing to 
contact it on multiple occasions. And when he has, it seems hes received incorrect or 
incomplete information. This led to further confusion and a lack of clarity as to what exactly 
was happening with the disputed transaction, and the balance on his credit card.
HSBC has told us that the multiple credits and debits shouldnt have been made to Mr Gs 
credit card statement. And I dont think its representatives were fully in control of what was 
happening. This is evidenced by the contact Mr G had with HSBCs staff when he phoned 
and spoke with them  and that debits were recredited and further credits were then applied 
to the account. Mr Gs credit file was also affected by the non-payment of the outstanding 
balance, and HSBC hasnt clarified if that has now been corrected. 
I think HSBC should have given Mr G more clarity around the actions it had taken in looking 
to recover the disputed transaction via the chargeback scheme  and that ultimately it had 
failed to recover this. I think it added to the confusion through its handling of the chargeback 
in terms of keeping Mr G updated; its handling of the subsequent complaint  where it didnt 
address the outstanding issues in its final response; and the various positing of debits and 
credits to Mr Gs credit card  after he reasonably believed it had been closed. Overall, this 
added to lack of clarity around what was actually happening, and what Mr G was and wasnt 
liable for.
As such, I think our investigators recommendation for HSBC to waive the £300 for the 
disputed transaction is reasonable in the circumstances. This is an amount which Mr G is 
liable for. But I think this approach fairly compensates him for the confusion and 
inconvenience caused by HSBC. 
I appreciate Mr G is looking for significantly more compensation than this, and the matter 
has taken some time to resolve. But having reviewed everything, Im not going to require 
HSBC to pay an additional compensation amount on top of this waived amount, as I think 
this fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr G.
Ive also considered the duplicated credit of £300 in May 2019, which Mr G transferred to his 
personal account. And I think it is reasonable for HSBC to recover this. I say this as our 
services role here is to put Mr G back into the position he should have been in had the 
mistake not occurred on his account. And in this case that means Mr G would not have received the second credit of £300 to his account. So the money did not belong to him, as it 
was added to the account in error, and linked to a dispute.
If Mr G chooses not to repay the £300, then I find it reasonable, for the reasons above, for 
HSBC to continue to report and record this information accurately on his credit file.
If Mr G now chooses to repay the £300, then I require HSBC to work with him to allow a 
reasonable amount of time to repay this. It shouldnt add any interest or fees to this amount, 
and once repaid it should amend any negative information on Mr Gs credit file. This will 
allow the account to be reported as closed and with a zero balance.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
Waive £300 of the outstanding debt on Mr Gs credit card relating to the disputed 
transaction;
Remove any additional debit interest and fees that may have been posted to the 
credit card account in relation to the disputed transaction from the date Mr G first 
raised it to the date of settlement;
Update Mr Gs credit file and remove any negative information associated with the 
disputed transaction on his account;
Upon receipt of the £300 overpayment from Mr G, update his credit file to remove 
any negative information associated with the overpayment on his account, and show 
the account as settled with a zero balance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman