DRN-4326304
The complaint
Mr E complains that British Gas Insurance Limited failed to complete a leak repair in his 
bathroom which resulted in damage to his bathroom floor. 
What happened
Mr E had a home emergency policy with British Gas. 
In November 2021 he made a claim as he had a leak in his upstairs bathroom that was 
coming through the kitchen ceiling. The British Gas engineer came out and changed the 
bath waste and tested it. 
In March 2022 the bath was leaking again when it was used and so British Gas sent another 
engineer. The leak was coming from the overflow which they replaced. 
There were further call outs in April, May and June relating to the waste pipe and the 
overflow and the contractors replaced some washers on the overflow to stop the leak, finally 
resolving the issue in June. 
However, as a result of the leak taking so long to be resolved there was water damage 
caused by the escape of water to the kitchen ceiling below, the oven, and Mr E says to the 
bathroom sub floor  which is wet.  
 
British Gas have agreed to pay Mr E for the repair of the kitchen ceiling and the oven, but 
they have declined to pay for the repair of the bathroom floor tiles as they dont consider that 
the leak is responsible for the damage to them. 
Mr Es home insurance assessor came out and offered a replacement bathroom sub floor 
under his home insurance policy but Mr E declined this as he considers that it is British 
Gass responsibility to put this right. 
Mr E wants British Gas to pay £1540.46 for the bathroom floor repair and replacement tiles. 
The kitchen ceiling replacement and oven repair has already been agreed and accepted. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Es complaint and he thought that British Gas had 
acted fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms of the policy.   
 
Mr E disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case came to me to review. 
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint. My provisional findings were as follows:
Theres no dispute here that emergency plumbing repairs are covered under the terms of the 
policy. What is in dispute is whether British Gas engineers failure to remedy the leaks led to 
the damage to the bathroom tiles and the subfloor. 
British Gass contractors accept that it was likely that they caused the leak from the overflow 
when fixing the first issue and the damage was much worse as a result of this.  They have 
agreed to cover the cost of the repairs to the kitchen ceiling and the oven which were 
damaged as a result of the water coming through the floor above and bringing part of the 
ceiling down. 
However, they have said that they dont accept the damage to the bathroom floor is as a 
result of their error. Initially British Gas said that the cracks in the marble floor by the 
bathroom door couldnt have been caused by the escape of water. 
Mr E confirmed that he wasnt claiming for the cracks  as these were pre-existing - but he is 
claiming for the replacement of the wet bathroom subfloor which had been caused by the 
leak. He provided the report  from his home insurance provider which confirmed that they 
had found high moisture readings in the bathroom on the floor, indicating that the subfloor 
under the tiles was wet and the tiles need lifting in order for the floor to be dried out and the 
tiles then need replacing.  
Mr E provided this report to British Gas, who said that they didnt accept the wet subfloor 
was caused by the leak, but that the subfloor was wet because of the cracks in the tiles and 
the grouting not being properly sealed. 
I dont consider that British Gass position is logical. Marble tiles are porous, and grout is not 
completely waterproof. The evidence shows high moisture readings on the tiles under the 
bath which suggests that standing water as a result of a leak has penetrated the stone and 
wet the subfloor underneath. Given the amount of damage to the kitchen ceiling directly 
below the bath I would expect that quite a lot of water had leaked through, and so it is very 
likely that there is substantial water damage to the wooden subfloor which will need either 
drying or replacing. 
I also dont think that the evidence shows that cracks by the bathroom door are either 
caused by, or the cause of, the water penetration. Mr Es bath is a freestanding bath on legs 
which sits on top of the tiles which extend all the way under the bath. Photographs show that 
the cracked tiles by the door appear to be about 2 metres from the waste and overflow that 
were the source of the leak, and so I am satisfied they arent related. It is more likely that the 
water penetration was directly beneath the bath  which is supported by the location of the  
damage to the ceiling beneath.  
And so Im satisfied that the water damage to the wooden subfloor has been caused by the 
leak and British Gass failure to remedy that leak, which has resulted in a need to lift the 
marble tiles and dry the floor out. I note that Mr Es home insurance providers have quoted a 
figure of £1540.46 for the removal of the floor tiles, the drying out, and the replacement of 
similar quality tiles. 
In the light of these findings, I therefore intended to uphold Mr Es complaint, and I invited 
the parties to comment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both British Gas and Mr E have responded. Mr E has accepted my provisional decision, but 
British Gas have not. 
British Gas say that the cracked tiles  which Mr E has admitted were cracked prior to the 
leak - show that there was already an issue with the subfloor due to movement and the 
subfloor was already in need of replacement. They also say that if there had not been a pre-
existing fault then the water would not have damaged the sub floor. I have seen no evidence that there was a pre-existing issue with the subfloor which had 
caused the cracking of the tiles by the door, and even if that were the case I am still of the 
view expressed above that the location of the damage, directly beneath the bath, is 
unrelated to the cracked tiles some distance away, and so I am satisfied that British Gas 
should remedy the damage to the sub floor caused by the leak. 
In light of the above, Im making my final decision in line with my provisional findings. 
 
Putting things right
In order to out things right I think that British Gas should:
Pay Mr E £1540.46 to get the remedial work done to the bathroom floor. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding Mr Es complaint and direct British Gas Insurance 
Limited to put things right as outlined above.  
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman