DRN-4075487
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd recorded adverse information on his credit file.
What happened
Mr C had a standing order set up on his Monzo account to pay a loan also with Monzo. But 
there was an issue with a payment which meant that a payment to the loan wasnt made. 
When Mr C became aware of this he got in touch with Monzo to see how he could make a 
payment. But Monzo didnt respond for some time. This meant that Mr C wasnt able to 
make a payment to the loan in time and this was reported on his credit file.
Mr C complained to Monzo, as he says that the impact of this meant he was declined for a 
finance application and caused worry about his credit file. Monzo responded to say that it 
accepted that it had taken too long to respond to Mr Cs enquiries about making a payment. 
Monzo agreed to amend Mr Cs credit file and offered to pay him £50. But Mr C wasnt 
happy with this.
He brought a complaint to this service where one of our investigators looked into it. They 
said there had been a significant impact on Mr C and noted that the adverse information was 
continuing to show on his credit file. In the circumstances, they felt that £200 was fair to 
compensate Mr C for the distress and inconvenience caused. Monzo agreed, but Mr C 
didnt. He felt that the impact here was going to be long term and that £500 compensation 
would be more reasonable. Our investigator maintained that their opinion was fair and so the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its quite clear that Monzo could have dealt with this situation better. Mr C was prompt and 
proactive in his attempts to get the issue of the payment sorted. He called Monzo as soon as 
he could and it took them around 11 days to respond to him. That time meant that the loan 
payment was missed and reported on his credit file. Im satisfied that couldve been avoided 
had Monzo responded in a more timely way.
So this being the case, Monzo needs to put things right for Mr C. The way our service 
approaches this is to make sure that a customer is put in the position they would have been 
in were no error made. Here, the starting point for this would be that Monzo corrects what it 
recorded on Mr Cs credit file  which Mr C has confirmed has now been done.
I then need to think about what Mr C has said about the impact on him here. He says that 
this had an impact on his application for finance and hes also been very clear about how 
careful he is with his credit file and how much worry this caused him. So its only fair that 
Monzo compensates him for this. Our investigator recommended £200 (in total) for this and 
Monzo has accepted it. I think this is a fair amount.
I realise that Mr C disagrees with this  but I have to decide complaints fairly, looking at both 
sides of a dispute. Here, the key thing for me is that Monzo has put right its mistake and 
offered compensation. I realise that, based on how his credit report from another company is 
showing this information, he still has concerns about the impact this is having. But Im 
satisfied that Monzo has done what it can to ensure hes no longer being impacted by its 
mistake.
There are a variety of different companies that provide customers access to their credit 
information. These will all show information in different ways and apply different scores to a 
customers record, to give them an idea of how prospective lenders may view their credit-
worthiness. As our investigator has said, Monzos role here is limited to being able to amend 
the adverse information it recorded, which its now done. It cant do any more to influence 
other businesses and the scores they may apply to a customer. If a prospective lender now 
looks at Mr Cs credit file  it shouldnt see the adverse information that Monzo recorded, 
which is the correct position.
But that doesnt change the fact that Mr C has been put to some inconvenience here and 
caused a lot of worry. This could have been avoided if Monzo dealt with things in a more 
timely manner. For this I think the £200, in total, is fair and reasonable. 
I know that Mr C thinks that £500 is a more reasonable amount and Ive considered all hes 
told us. But for the reasons explained above, Im satisfied that the £200 our investigator 
recommended is fair and so its this Ill be telling Monzo to pay. Its my understanding that 
the £50 Monzo offered in its final response letter hasnt been paid, but if it has  then Monzo 
would be entitled to deduct this from this amount.
My final decision
Monzo Bank Ltd needs to pay Mr C £200 (in total) to compensate him for the distress and 
inconvenience caused here. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
James Staples
Ombudsman