DRN-3455623
The complaint
Ms I complained because HSBC UK Bank plc refused to refund her for a cash withdrawal 
where she said the money didnt come out of the machine.
What happened
At 8.30 on 25 September 2021, Ms I tried to take £250 from a cash machine.
At 20:58 the same day, she went to the cash machine again and obtained an on-screen 
balance. At 20:59 she tried to take out £250. After this, she tried to take out a further £250 
but the machine rejected the request as shed exceeded her daily withdrawal limit.
The next day, on 26 September, Ms I withdrew a further £250.
On 29 September, Ms I complained to HSBC that she hadnt received either of the two £250 
cash withdrawals on 25 September. 
HSBC investigated, and gave Ms I a temporary credit for both withdrawals while it contacted 
the owner of the cash machine. The owner of the cash machine told HSBC that there had 
been a temporary problem with its machine on the morning of 25 September. So Ms Is £250 
was refunded for that.
But the owner of the cash machine provided evidence which showed that the machine had 
been working properly by the time of Ms Is withdrawal at 20:59 on 25 September. So HSBC 
wrote to Ms I on 1 November to tell her, and it debited the temporary credit for the evening 
withdrawal, because the evidence showed it had been dispensed.
Meanwhile, Ms I had withdrawn money including the temporary credit. Her account was 
overdrawn, and when HSBC debited the temporary credit, it put her account further into 
debit. Ms I complained, and asked HSBC not to charge interest.
In its final response to Ms Is complaint, HSBC said the cash machine hadnt malfunctioned 
for the withdrawal. And it said it would continue to debit interest for her overdraft, in line with 
the terms and conditions.
Ms I wasnt satisfied and complained to this service.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Ms Is complaint. Ms I said she didnt accept this, and asked for 
an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The withdrawal thats disputed is the one at 20:59 on 25 September. The one Ms I had 
attempted at 8:30 that morning was refunded to her, because the machine owner said there 
had been a fault with it. So what Im considering is just the evening withdrawal.
Ive looked at the technical evidence which came from the owner of the cash machine. 
Evidence called a journal roll shows all transactions, so Ive looked at this. It shows Ms I 
checked the balance at 20:58, and that her 20:59 £250 withdrawal went through without 
errors. And so did transactions before hers, and after hers. 
The owner of the cash machine has also provided evidence about the balance of the 
machine. There was no cash left over in the machine. 
So the technical evidence shows there wasnt an error with the cash machine by the time Ms 
I used it in the evening of 25 September. I can also see that HSBC notified Ms I at the time it 
debited the temporary credit.
Ms I had also complained that she shouldnt have to pay interest on her overdrawn balance 
when the temporary credit was debited on 1 November. But Ms I had had the use of that 
money, as shed withdrawn it while the cash machine was being investigated. And interest 
was payable under the terms and conditions of her account. So I dont agree that Ms I 
shouldnt have to pay interest on the overdrawn balance.
As the evidence shows that the disputed withdrawal in the evening of 25 September was 
correctly dispensed, I dont uphold Ms Is complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms I to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman