DRN-3297320
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as R has complained that Covea Insurance plc unfairly turned 
down its business interruption insurance claim. 
Mr J, a director of R, has complained on Rs behalf. 
What happened
R held a business interruption insurance policy with Covea. R claimed on its policy after its 
business was impacted, in March 2020, by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the 
pandemic. In particular, it thought that the extension for loss of attraction and non-damage 
denial of access provided cover for its claim due to cases of Covid-19 within 1 kilometre of 
its business premises. 
Covea turned down the claim as they didnt think the closure of Rs business was due to an 
incident within 1 kilometre of its premises. 
Unhappy with Coveas response, R brought its complaint to our service. It said there had 
been a cluster of Covid-19 cases within the local area and some of its staff had symptoms. It 
thought that its closure should be considered to be due to an emergency in within 1 
kilometre of its premises. 
Our investigator looked into Rs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He didnt think 
Rs closure was due to an incident within 1 kilometre of its premises and also explained why 
other areas of the policy didnt provide cover. 
R asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said the policy doesnt refer to incidents happening 
outside 1 kilometre of its premises or have any exclusions for events that happen both in and 
outside of this radius. It said the focus of the policy is on events within a 1 kilometre radius 
and the Government enforced a lockdown in the area due to the cases of Covid-19 within 
that radius. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Rs business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if Covea have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Rs claim.
Our investigator explained why different parts of the policy dont provide cover for Rs claim. 
Most of these dont seem to be in dispute so I will focus my decision on the extension for 
loss of attraction and non-damage denial of access. 
Loss of attraction
This is an extension on the policy schedule that extends business interruption cover for:
Interruption of or interference with the business in consequence of damage to 
property within 1 kilometre of the premises which directly results in:
(a) a fall in the number of customers attracted to the premises; and
(b) an identifiable reduction in the gross revenue at the premises.
I havent seen anything to indicate that the interruption or interference to Rs business was 
as a result of damage to property within 1 kilometre of its premises. Therefore, this doesnt 
provide cover for its claim. 
Non-damage denial of access
This part of the extension extends business interruption cover for:
Interruption of or interference with the business in consequence of access to or 
use of the premises being prevented or hindered as a result of the actions or 
advice of the government, public or local authority due to an incident arising 
which is likely to endanger human life or property occurring within 1 kilometre of 
the premises
While Ive noted Rs points about why it thinks this extension provides cover, when reaching 
a decision, Im required to take account of relevant law. I think the High Court judgment on 
the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) test case is relevant to Rs complaint as the High 
Court considered a similar extension to the one in Rs policy and that part of the judgment 
wasnt appealed to the Supreme Court.
Paragraph 405 of the judgment says:
it is a misuse of language both generally and on the correct construction of the 
NDDA clause to describe the pandemic as an incident let alone an incident 
occurring within a one mile radius of the insured premises. 
Paragraphs 406  407 of the judgment go on to say:
We consider that this is a narrow, localised cover intended to insure events or 
incidents which occur within the one mile radius. The localised nature of the 
cover is even more marked in the case of the alternative wording requiring the 
incident to occur in the vicinity of the insured premises
It follows that there is no cover under the NDDA clause in respect of business 
interruption losses caused by the restrictions imposed by the government in 
response to the national pandemic
Im not going to depart from the judgment. I think this extension was intended to provide 
cover in the event of an incident in Rs local area. And I dont think the Governments 
response to the national pandemic was due to an incident within 1 kilometre of Rs premises as opposed to the country as a whole. Therefore, this extension doesnt provide cover for 
Rs claim.
I recognise this isnt the outcome R was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Covea to pay Rs claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman