DRN-4321525
The complaint
Mrs K is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) has prevented her from making cash 
withdrawals due to fraud concerns despite Mrs K confirming she is not a victim of fraud.
What happened
On 4 May 2023 Mrs K visited a Lloyds branch and asked to withdraw £50,000 from her 
account in cash. She was questioned by staff about the payment and the withdrawal was 
made.
On 18 May 2023 Mrs K again went into branch to withdraw £50,000 in cash. Shed been 
advised the week before that Lloyds would be questioning her further about the payment and 
the police would be called to discuss it with her. Mrs K discussed the withdrawal with staff 
and the police in branch. Based on these discussions Lloyds didnt feel Mrs K had been able 
to explain why she wanted this amount of cash. It felt the risk was too great and decided it 
was unable to allow Mrs K to take the funds in cash.
Mrs K was unhappy with this and made a complaint to Lloyds. It responded in June 2023 but 
felt it had acted reasonably and in line with its policies and responsibilities. Mrs K brought the 
complaint to our service but our investigator didnt uphold it. They didnt feel Lloyds had 
acted unreasonably.
Mrs K didnt accept this. She said back in 2013 the bank had allowed her to make large 
deposits and withdrawals to the account so the sudden refusal to allow withdrawals was 
irrational and unfair. Because Mrs K didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position is that a bank is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that 
into account when deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Lloyds should fairly and reasonably have systems in place to look out for unusual 
transactions or other signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among 
other things). This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in 
recent years, which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. And, 
where the transaction is being made in branch, I think Lloyds should reasonably be following 
Banking Protocol where appropriate.
Ive also considered the standard account terms and conditions available on Lloyds website 
which set out that it is able to refuse a cash withdrawal in certain circumstances. Including 
where it has concerns about fraud.
Taking all of this into account, overall, I dont think Lloyds has acted unreasonably in taking 
the steps it did. I think it was reasonable for branch staff to invoke the Banking Protocol. Ive 
looked at the Protocol, which has been agreed between financial sector organisations, 
Trading Standards and the police as an initiative to protect customers from being the victim 
of scams and fraud. It applies to any customer looking to make a transaction that is out of 
character and staff believe could be the victim of fraud or scams. The Protocol sets out 
factors that might indicate potential abuse, looking at them together with the circumstances 
of the visit, I think the branch staff acted reasonably in following the Protocol, including 
calling the police.
Mrs K is unhappy that Lloyds ultimately decided not to allow her to make the withdrawal 
following her discussions in branch. And whilst its not for me to make a decision about 
Lloyds security measures in general, or how it decides it best meets its obligations to its 
customers, I have considered whether I feel in this particular case it made a reasonable 
decision not to allow the withdrawal based on the information available to it at the time.
Mrs Ks account had a balance of around £250,000. Shed informed Lloyds she wished to 
withdraw all of this money in cash. And I think its reasonable that this was identified as 
unusual behaviour. Generally speaking, I dont think an average person would require so 
much money in cash without a specific purpose. I also think its reasonable that Lloyds would 
question why someone might want to access all of their savings all at once. 
From what Ive seen of Lloyds records from the time and Mrs Ks own correspondence both 
to Lloyds and our service, she did not disclose to the bank the reason she wanted all of her 
savings in cash beyond saying she just wanted it in cash. I think its reasonable that this 
response didnt satisfy Lloyds Mrs K wasnt at risk from fraud or other financial harm. Like 
Ive said above, I think someone would usually have a specific reason for wanting to access 
this amount of money in cash.
Lloyds also asked Mrs K where she would be keeping the money. Given the large amounts 
involved, again, I think this was a reasonable question. As Lloyds pointed out, Mrs K would 
have very little protection should anything happen to the cash. Mrs K didnt say where she 
intended to keep the cash. I understand shes said this was for her own security, but from 
Lloyds perspective I dont think this answer demonstrated that she had a persuasive reason 
for taking the steps she was trying to take.
Lloyds records indicate that after their discussion with Mrs K, the police were also not 
satisfied Mrs K had been able to explain why she wanted such large amounts of cash. And I 
think its reasonable it took this into account when reaching the conclusion it was unable to 
allow the withdrawal to go ahead.
Whilst I understand Mrs Ks money is her own, for the reasons Ive given above, I do think 
Lloyds was entitled to carefully consider whether it would be acting responsibly in allowing 
the withdrawal. And based on the information available to it on 18 May 2023, I think Lloyds 
decision not to allow the withdrawal was reasonable. I dont think Mrs K was able to answer 
questions about why she needed the money in cash in such a way that reasonably ought to 
have satisfied Lloyds she wasnt at risk from fraud or potential harm.Mrs K has said she has in the past  between 2013 and 2015 - been able to withdraw and 
deposit large amounts of cash to her account so Lloyds recent decision to stop her doing 
this is unfair. I dont consider it relevant to this case that Mrs K may have been allowed to 
make similar withdrawals between eight and 10 years ago. What Ive considered is Lloyds 
actions in this case in the current circumstances and in line with current rules and guidance. 
As Ive explained, I dont think Lloyds actions were unreasonable here. 
But, that said, fraud and scams are constantly evolving and becoming more sophisticated 
and prevalent. In response to this rules, regulations, laws, protocols and banks policies will 
also evolve to ensure customers are protected. So I dont think its unfair or unreasonable 
that over time Lloyds mightve changed its policies around large withdrawals.
I understand Mrs K has recently told our service that the reason she wants over £250,000 in 
cash is because shes unable to use her bank card herself and relies on her son to do this 
for her. So she wants cash available in case anything should he become unable to help her. 
Its not clear why Mrs K didnt mention this to Lloyds or the police. Its also not clear why she 
feels she would need such large amounts or whether there are other options she has 
considered or discussed with the bank around what measures could be put in place should 
her son become incapacitated. 
But, this doesnt appear to have been information she shared with the bank when it made its 
decision not to allow her cash withdrawal. She is able to contact it directly to discuss this 
further now if shed like to so it can consider whether it changes its position. It may also be 
able to consider if there are alternative options it can explore to allow her to access her 
money should her son become unable to help her.
Im sorry this situation has been upsetting for Mrs K, but as I dont think Lloyds has acted 
unfairly I dont require it to take any further action in this case.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman