DRN-2508918
The complaint
Mr M complains about a loan provided to him by 1st Stop Personal Loans Limited.
What happened
Mr M took out a loan for £10,000 with 1st Stop in October 2019. Interest on the loan was at a 
fixed rate of 16.56% per annum. The annual percentage rate (APR) was 31.85%. 
Repayment was by way of 42 monthly instalments of just over £376, bringing the total Mr M 
would pay over the course of the loan to just under £15,800.
Mr M made the first monthly payment in November 2019, but his direct debit was returned in 
December 2019 and January 2020, was late in February 2020 and returned again in March 
2020. 1st Step began collections activity after the December 2019 payment failed.
Mr M complained to 1st Stop in April 2020. He said the loan was unaffordable and that 
should have been apparent to 1st Stop, before they agreed to the loan, if theyd carried out 
proportionate checks on his financial position and credit status at the time.
In particular, Mr M says his bank statements from September and October 2019 show 
returned direct debits (four in September and seven in October) and a number of payments 
for payday loans.
Mr M says that at the time he was a problem gambler and his statements would have shown 
that. He says 1st Stop didnt ask him to provide details of his monthly expenses, didnt ask for 
proof of employment or income and didnt ask to see his bank statements.
Mr M asked 1st Stop to refund any interest or charges hed already paid on the loan, with 
statutory interest, and to delete any negative information about the loan on his credit 
reference record. He also wanted them to agree an affordable repayment plan if he still 
owed a balance on the loan after the refund with interest.
1st Stop didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. They said theyd considered a credit report on 
Mr Ms finances before agreeing the loan and there was no evidence to suggest the loan 
was unaffordable. 
Mr M wasnt happy with this outcome and brought his complaint to us. Hes also made a 
further complaint to 1st Stop in the meantime - and they agreed that we could look into it. 
Mr Ms additional complaint points were: 
hed been misled when he agreed the loan about the way the interest was calculated;
1st Stop failed to provide him with a breakdown of what each payment instalment 
covered;
1st Stop failed to provide him with early settlement terms;
the terms of the agreement were unfair;
Mr M also says 1st Step agreed a payment holiday but then tried to collect further payments 
from him.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint and didnt think 1st Stop had done anything 
wrong. 
Mr M disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill try to deal with Mr Ms complaint points in the order Ive set them about above, although 
they do overlap to some extent.
Affordability checks
Its clear from the correspondence we have on file that Mr M is well aware of the legal and 
best practice requirements placed on lenders, so I neednt labour the point here.
The crux of this complaint is whether 1st Stop carried out reasonable checks on Mr Ms 
financial position before they lent him the money.
Lenders are required to carry out proportionate checks before agreeing to lend money to 
potential customers. What checks are proportionate in any given case will depend on a 
number of factors, including: the type of credit; the size of the loan; the frequency and 
duration of the repayments; the total amount payable; and any adverse consequences for 
the customer if they fail to make the repayments.
We take the view that more detailed checks may be necessary if the potential customer has 
a relatively lower income and/or their financial situation is unstable and/or of the amount 
theyre seeking to borrow is relatively high and the repayments are over a longer period.
I should also say that potential borrowers have obligations as well as potential lenders. Its 
not unreasonable for lenders to expect that what their potential customers tell them is true.
When Mr M applied for the loan with 1st Stop, they took into account a detailed credit report 
provided by a third party at their request.
That report shows a total of around 30 accounts, including accounts with utility providers, 
bank accounts, credit card accounts and loans. Nine of the 30 accounts have been settled  
with nothing owing. Theres no adverse information relating to those closed accounts.
On the 21 currently active accounts, theres very little adverse information. The odd payment 
may have slipped by a short time  but all payments appear to be up-to-date as at the date 
of the report. 1st Stop did ask Mr M about some of the previous missed payments. He 
explained theyd been due to specific unforeseen circumstances. 
I dont think theres any dispute about whether the information included in the credit report 
was accurate. And it appears to show that whilst Mr M has a certain level of debt, hes 
perfectly able to make all repayments and keep his finances in good order. IN other words, 
his financial position appears to be stable.
Its arguable that 1st Stop might have asked for proof of income, but the credit report itself 
indicates that Mr M has a reasonable and steady level of income. And theres no dispute here either that Mr M gave 1st Stop an accurate figure for his monthly income, which was 
around £3,000.
Given the information available to 1st Stop from the credit report  and from Mr M  I dont 
think there were any warning signs which might have necessarily prompted 1st Stop to carry 
out further, more detailed checks into Mr Ms financial position.
When 1st Stop then made their calculations about whether to agree the requested loan, they 
did accept Mr Ms statement that his mortgage  with repayments at just under £800 per 
month  was equally shared with his partner, even though he told them she was pregnant 
and about to go on maternity leave.
Its arguable that when they calculated the affordability of the loan, 1st Stop should have 
assumed that Mr M might be responsible for all of the mortgage repayments at some point. 
Its also arguable that they should have carried out a more detailed assessment of his 
income and outgoings, rather than rely on data from the Office of National Statistics to 
assume his likely expenditure.
However, even if they had carried out more detailed checks on income and expenditure 
and/or assumed Mr M might have to pay the whole of the mortgage at some point, I dont 
think it would have affected their decision to lend the money. On the face of it, Mr Ms 
income was sufficient to cover the mortgage repayments, the loan payments and his other 
expenses.
Mr Ms income appears not to have been enough to cover all of those things because, as he 
says, he was problem gambler at that time. But he didnt tell 1st Stop about the money he 
spent on gambling. Thats only to be expected in the circumstances perhaps, but the 
important point is that there was nothing in Mr Ms credit report to suggest he had such a 
problem or that he was struggling with his finances.
When he set out his complaint to us, Mr M emphasised that if 1st Stop had looked at his bank 
statements in September and October 2019, they would have realised he had a problem.
That may be the case  though Octobers statement is more concerning than Septembers. 
But I have to point out that the loan was agreed  and the checks carried out - on 3 October 
2019. Mr Ms bank statement for October is dated the 9th. So, theres no conceivable way 
that 1st Stop could have considered that information when they agreed the loan.
In summary, I dont think it was unreasonable for 1st Stop to agree the loan based on the 
information in the credit report they obtained. The information provided in the report was 
comprehensive. It appeared to confirm what Mr M was telling 1st Stop about his financial 
position at the time. And there were no indications in the report that Mr M was in financial 
difficulty and/or which might have reasonably prompted 1st Stop to carry out more detailed 
checks. 
The way the interest was calculated and the fairness of the agreement
The interest was at a fixed rate over the term of the loan. Early monthly payments mainly 
covered the interest accrued in that month and took a small amount off the principal. As time 
went on, a gradually greater proportion of each monthly payment went to pay off the 
principal.
Weve got copies of the loan agreement which Mr M signed up to. The way the interest is 
calculated is absolutely clear. The interest rate and APR are absolutely clear. The amount to 
be paid in total is absolutely clear. The amount to be paid each month is absolutely clear.Mr M was sent copies of the terms and given a reasonable cooling off period, during which 
he could decide not to take the loan without penalty.
Weve listened to recordings of the relevant calls between Mr M and 1st Stop. And theres 
nothing to suggest 1st Stop misrepresented the terms of the loan or contradicted whats in 
the written agreement.
In short, I cant see any justification for the suggestion that Mr M was misled about the way 
the loan would work and/or what hed have to pay and/or why.
The interest rate is relatively high on the loan, but its not unusual for this kind of lending and 
its not inherently unfair or unreasonable. And as I say, Mr M knew what the terms were 
when he agreed to the loan.
The payment breakdown and early settlement terms
Its clear from the information we have on file that Mr M contacted 1st Stop in August 2010 to 
ask for an early settlement figure. He also asked them for a breakdown of the payments 
made so far.
It appears 1st Stop sent a statement of account, which showed the payments made, on the 
same day they received his request. 
I believe Mr M intended to ask for a breakdown to show how much of each monthly payment 
went on paying off the interest on the loan and how much went towards paying off the 
principal.
However, I dont think it was unreasonable  on the basis of the communication from Mr M - 
that 1st Stop sent him the statement of account rather than the breakdown of the 
repayments. 
There were clearly crossed wires here about what Mr M wanted but, looking at the relevant 
emails, I cant in all fairness conclude that 1st Stop intentionally deprived Mr M of information 
he was entitled to have. 
Its clear from the information and evidence we have on file that 1st Stop tried to contact 
Mr M several times in response to his request for an early settlement figure. They wanted to 
discuss his income and expenditure so that they could come to a view about the early 
settlement.
Mr M didnt respond when 1st Stop first tried to contact him. When he did, he asked them to 
communicate with him by email only. 
Mr M asked for the settlement figure in mid-August, by 10 September hed contacted 1st Stop 
again to make his own proposal about settling the debt. In between those dates, 1st Stop 
attempted to contact Mr M to discuss the matter on several occasions  by phone, text and 
email. 
So, I cant say 1st Stop acted unfairly or unreasonably in response to Mr Ms request for an 
early settlement figure. 
The payment holidayMr M says 1st Stop agreed to a complete payment holiday in April 2020. He then complained 
to them when they tried to take a direct debit payment from his account  for a reduced 
monthly amount  in the same month.
Im afraid theres no evidence to support Mr Ms claim that 1st Stop in effect agreed a 
payment holiday and then went back on that agreement.
Mr M requested a payment holiday through a web chat on 17 April 2020. He was asked to 
agree to one of three possible reduced repayment amounts or to reply none if he couldnt 
afford any of them.
When he replied none, Mr M was advised hed have to speak to 1st Stop by phone to 
discuss the situation. The records of the web chat show Mr M went around this loop several 
times  each time answering none  and getting the same answer. But eventually he 
selected the lowest repayment amount on offer. 
1st Stop then sent Mr M a letter confirming the agreement. Its clearly a standard letter and 
refers to 1st Stop granting Mr M  as a result of financial difficulties arising from the 
Coronavirus lockdown  either a repayment holiday or reduced payment plan as agreed 
with you.
Taken in context, this communication is clearly intended to confirm the reduced payment 
amount agreed by Mr M (eventually) on the web chat. And it was that amount that 1st Stop 
attempted to collect by direct debit later in April 2020.
Summary 
Im satisfied that, on the whole, the checks carried out by 1st Stop before they agreed Mr Ms 
loan were proportionate and reasonable.
Its arguable they might have gone further in checking whether Mr Ms partner was going to 
be able to continue to pay half of the mortgage, but I dont think that would have led to them 
refusing Mr M the loan  even if theyd assumed he would have to pay it all. 
Its also arguable that they might have carried out with him a more detailed analysis of 
Mr Ms income and expenditure. Theyd have found his income was what he said it was. And 
its very unlikely Mr M would have told them about his gambling expenses. So again, I cant 
reasonably say that their lending decision would have been different.
Given the credit report they obtained, I cant say 1st Stop should have necessarily requested 
Mr Ms bank statements. And even if they had, they wouldnt have seen the statement for 
October, which is when Mr Ms problems became more apparent from his transactions.
I dont think Mr M was misled about the terms of the loan and I dont think those terms were 
inherently unfair. Nor do I think 1st Steps responses to Mr Ms request for information about 
the loan were unreasonable.
And I think Ive explained above why Im satisfied 1st Stop didnt agree a payment holiday for 
Mr M. 
In his communications with us, Mr M has referred to other complaints about unaffordability 
which weve upheld. Id ask Mr M to understand that we look at each case on its own merits 
and that no two cases will be the same in terms of their specific and individual 
circumstances. I understand Mr M has been in discussions with 1st Stop about an affordable repayment 
plan, through the debt charity StepChange. I hope Mr M comes to an agreement thats 
satisfactory for both parties. 
Id also like to say that Im really sorry to hear about Mr Ms gambling issues and I wish him 
well for the future.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman