DRN-3241517
The complaint
Mr T complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc continued to send him payment reminders despite 
agreeing a payment deferral on his loan with them. He said this had a negative impact on his 
credit file and resulted in a mortgage decline.
What happened
Mr T had a personal loan through HSBC. Towards the end of April 2020, he contacted them 
to arrange a payment deferral. He was concerned his income may be impacted as a result of 
the global pandemic. HSBC agreed a payment deferral from 2 June to 3 August 2020.
Mr T later received letters from HSBC suggesting his loan repayments were in arrears. But 
the arrears related to the period when the payment deferral was in place. He also received a 
telephone call about the arrears. So, Mr T contacted HSBC to complain.
HSBC agreed they shouldnt have chased Mr T for any missed payments relating to the 
payment deferral period. They said theyd amend his loan so that no arrears were recorded. 
They also said theyd ensure that Mr Ts credit file wasnt negatively impacted. HSBC 
confirmed this in a letter to Mr T. They also paid £50 into Mr Ts account, by way of an 
apology for their mistake.
Mr T continued to receive calls from HSBC suggesting hed missed payments to his loan 
with them. So, in November 2020, he contacted HSBC again. HSBC told Mr T his complaint 
had been closed as resolved. Mr T wasnt happy as he hadnt agreed to this. So, he raised a 
new complaint. He said hed received six calls since his original complaint. Mr T asked 
HSBC to confirm that any adverse information had been removed from his credit file and 
requested a written apology.
As Mr T wasnt happy with how HSBC had responded to his complaint, he asked this service 
to investigate matters for him. HSBC wrote to Mr T in January 2021. They apologised for the 
service Mr T had received. They confirmed that their records had been corrected so that no 
arrears were showing in respect of his loan with them. They also said theyd requested that 
his credit file be amended to remove any related adverse information. HSBC paid a further 
£75 to Mr T to acknowledge any unnecessary distress caused,
One of our adjudicators agreed HSBC had made mistakes. But they didnt think they needed 
to do anything more. They thought that HSBCs responses to Mr Ts complaints were fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr T didnt agree with our adjudicators findings. He said that HSBCs mistakes had resulted 
in his mortgage application to them being declined. He also said that there was still a missed 
payment marker recorded on his credit file. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Ts complaint has been referred to me in order to 
reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to lenders on 2 April 2020 which 
explained what it expected from businesses during the exceptional circumstances arising out 
of the global pandemic. It provided guidance asking businesses to consider payment 
deferrals of up to three months under regulated credit agreements. 
The FCA said their guidance applied where consumers were already experiencing or 
reasonably expect to experience temporary payment difficulties as a result of the pandemic. 
The FCA also said that firms should ensure that there is no negative impact on the 
consumers credit file because of the payment deferral.  
HSBC confirm they agreed a payment deferral for Mr T for three months, following his 
request. But they continued to write to Mr T about the missed payments. The FCA accepted, 
in their guidance, that businesses might continue to write to consumers where a payment 
deferral has been agreed. It was accepted that it may be difficult for a business to update 
their systems quickly enough to stop this happening. But ultimately, this shouldnt have an 
adverse impact upon consumers.
HSBCs process was to amend their records manually to ensure that Mr T wasnt adversely 
impacted as a result of the payment deferral agreed. Unfortunately, they didnt include Mr Ts 
August repayment within their amendment. So, they agreed theyd made a mistake. They 
apologised, agreed to amend their records, and ensure Mr Ts credit file was corrected. And 
I think that was the right thing to do here.
Mr T wasnt happy when HSBC closed his complaint without his agreement. While I 
appreciate his frustrations, HSBC had written to him with an apology and confirmed theyd 
paid compensation. Unfortunately, it appears Mr T continued to be chased for missed 
payments. So, it appears HSBC hadnt done everything necessary to stop this happening.
When Mr T complained again, HSBC investigated matters. As a result, HSBC apologised 
again to Mr T, corrected their mistakes and paid further compensation of £75. Its 
unfortunate that Mr T had cause to complain again. Particularly as hed previously been 
assured that mistakes had been resolved. So, I think HSBC were right to reflect this with a 
further compensation payment. And the amount paid feels fair to me in these circumstances.
Mr T was further concerned when he applied to HSBC for a new mortgage. HSBC didnt 
agree his application and Mr T believes this was because of the problems hed experienced 
relating to his loan payments and the resulting information reported on his credit file. HSBC 
wrote to Mr T in January 2021. They explained why his mortgage application was declined 
and confirmed their decision hadnt been impacted by the problems with his payment 
holiday.
HSBCs decision is likely to be based on a number of factors including the mortgage loan to 
property value and the amount requested in relation to Mr Ts income. From the information 
provided, I havent seen anything that persuades me that Mr Ts mortgage decline resulted 
from anything HSBC did wrong. 
Mr T said he had to seek a mortgage with a different lender and incurred breakage costs 
from HSBC as a result. Ultimately, HSBCs decision to lend is a business one. Its not one 
this service would or could seek to overturn. So, I cant reasonably hold HSBC responsible 
for Mr Ts decision to move his mortgage to another lender. 
Mr T has since provided evidence to suggest that a missed payment on his HSBC loan still 
appears on his credit file. HSBC have provided confirmation that this has been removed. So, 
while I appreciate Mr T may be disappointed, I shant be asking them to do anything more 
here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman