DRN-2417804
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a whole-of-life plan as it wasnt 
suitable for their circumstances.
What happened
In 2006 Mr and Mrs B met with a representative of Lloyds to discuss finances in relation to 
planning for their retirement, inheritance tax planning and investments.
Regarding inheritance tax planning, Lloyds recommended that Mr and Mrs B start a 
guaranteed whole-of-life plan on a joint life, second death basis. The plan had a sum 
assured of £470,000 and guaranteed premiums of £321.04 a month, payable for 46 years.
 
In 2019, Mr and Mrs B complained that the plan had been a luxury that they could have done 
without. They said that Lloyds hadnt made it clear that the plan would have no value if they 
stopped paying the premiums. They felt that it could have been assumed that their 
circumstances would change over the years and that the plan represented a poor value for 
money for them. They didnt feel that the whole-of-life plan suited their needs at the time.
Lloyds said that it considered its adviser gave Mr and Mrs B suitable advice. It said that the 
adviser calculated that Mr and Mrs B had a potential inheritance tax liability and theyd been 
provided with the key features of the plan, along with policy illustrations. Lloyds said it was 
satisfied the whole-of-life plan was suitable to meet the recommended purpose and Mr and 
Mrs B had been provided with sufficient information to understand its features.
 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He 
looked at Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at the time and said he felt the recommendation 
was suitable for them. He said it met their need to plan for a potential inheritance tax liability. 
The investigator said that a term assurance plan would have provided cover if Mr and Mrs B 
had died during its term but may not have provided cover for the potential inheritance tax 
liability if death had occurred after that term. He also said that the whole-of-life plan could 
have been cancelled if Mr and Mrs B felt that it was no longer needed after a certain period.
 
The investigator said that the policy documentation said that the plan had no cash-in value at 
any time, so he thought this was clear about how the plan worked. Mr and Mrs B paid a 
guaranteed premium, which was documented in the fact find completed at the time of the 
sale, and he felt that a plan without a guaranteed premium may have meant Mr and Mrs B 
needed to pay more for their cover in later years. 
The investigator said that Lloyds had taken into account Mr and Mrs Bs income; pension 
arrangements; other investments and liabilities when considering whether the plan would 
carry on being affordable for Mr and Mrs B into their retirement years. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt accept the investigators findings. They said that the downsides of the 
plan hadnt been explained to them, and they werent given anything to compare it with. 
They felt there were other, more suitable, products that would have met their needs, and 
said that a term assurance policy would have achieved the same objective.
 
Mr and Mrs B said they had wanted a plan that paid out a sum to cover an assumed 
inheritance tax liability and asked Lloyds to provide independent financial advice and 
recommend what would be appropriate for them from the whole of the market. They said that 
the whole-of-life plan was significantly more expensive than a term assurance plan. Mr and 
Mrs B said that to them the wording cash-in meant surrender the plan at a particular time, 
so they believed it would still pay out on second death, even if they stopped paying the 
premiums. They compared their plan with one held by a family member, that they felt 
provided better value.
Mr and Mrs B said that, to avoid any tax through Potentially Exempt Transfers, their 
premiums had to be made from excess income. They said that it couldnt be assumed that 
they would have sufficient after-tax income for the premiums in their retirement. They 
suggested that they would accept a refund of the premiums they had paid, less the cost of a 
15-year term assurance plan. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B have told us that their objective from the advice they received from Lloyds was 
about planning for a potential inheritance tax liability. Ive considered what was recorded 
about their personal and financial circumstances at the time. This included their income, 
assets and liabilities, as well as their existing arrangements for life cover and pension 
income. It was noted that Mr Bs planned retirement age was 55.
The adviser calculated that, at that time and considering the relevant inheritance tax 
legislation, Mr and Mrs B had a potential liability of just under £460,000. For the purposes of 
the recommendation, this was rounded up to £470,000, and the adviser looked at a whole-
of-life plan that would provide this amount when the last of either Mr or Mrs B were to die, 
and the inheritance tax liability would be realised.
Lloyds has said that several illustrations for whole-of-life plans were produced for Mr and 
Mrs B at the time, for comparison, and that the chosen plan was the cheapest option. And I 
think its reasonable to suggest that the recommendation Lloyds made for Mr and Mrs B was 
part of an overall advisory service they received from Lloyds at the time. However, I 
appreciate that they have said they are happy with the other recommendations made to 
them, and it is only this whole-of-life plan that they dont consider is right for them.
Ive considered their situation at the time, along with what they were looking for from the 
advice, and overall, I dont think the recommendation of the plan was unsuitable or that it 
wasnt what they were looking for. It matched their objective, which was to provide an 
amount upon death which could be used to meet a potential inheritance tax liability. While I 
appreciate what Mr B has said about a term assurance plan meeting this need for a cheaper 
premium, I dont consider this would necessarily have been the case, as the life cover would 
only have been for the term defined at the outset. This would have left the possibility that Mr 
and Mrs B outlive that term, meaning that the term assurance plan would end without value, 
and there would be no amount payable towards an inheritance tax liability.I think the documentation for the plan is clear that it would have no cash-in value at any time, 
and what would happen if the premiums stopped being paid. The key features document 
says: If you pay premiums for the maximum term possible under the plan, there will be no 
cash-in value at any time.  Ive also not seen anything to suggest that the continuous 
payment of the premiums was optional. The document explains that a premium is treated as 
unpaid 30 days after it was due, and that the plan and its cover would end after this time.
 
Mr and Mrs Bs plan was a guaranteed whole-of-life plan which would pay out a guaranteed 
cash sum when the second of them was to die. Unlike a reviewable plan, where the premium 
is reviewed after a set period to make sure it continues to be sufficient to meet the required 
sum assured on death, the premium amount for Mr and Mrs Bs plan would stay the same.
Ive considered what Mr and Mrs B have said about not being told that premiums needed to 
be made as normal expenditure out of excess income to avoid potentially paying tax on 
them, as the premiums would still have been being paid through their retirement years. 
However, I think the recommendation for this plan was based upon their circumstances and 
retirement planning at the time. Based on what Lloyds adviser understood in 2006 about 
what Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances would likely be in the future years, the level of premiums 
payable under the policy look to have been both affordable and able to be paid out of excess 
income in the future.
Relevant tax rules can and do change, and so can an individuals circumstances. I dont 
think this necessarily means that the recommendation wasnt right for them in 2006. It is for 
an individual to ensure that their financial arrangements continue to meet their own specific 
needs.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman