DRN-2808768
The complaint
Mr R complains about an offset mortgage he has with National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest).
What happened
Mr R has an offset mortgage with NatWest. But in August 2017, NatWest wrote to Mr R to 
say it was going to close his current and savings account which meant that he wasnt able to 
use the balances in these accounts to reduce the interest due on his mortgage. 
Because of this, Mr R says hes had to pay the full amount of interest on the outstanding 
mortgage balance. 
Mr R says hes lost out because hes had to pay around £8,500 in interest each year. He 
says he wouldnt have had to pay this if hed been able to offset against his savings and 
current account balances. 
To put things right, Mr R would like NatWest to refund him the extra interest he says hes 
paid. 
Mr R complained to NatWest about this, but they didnt uphold his complaint. It said that it 
had closed his current and savings accounts in 2017 and provided him with the appropriate 
notice. It also said that it let him know at the time that it recommended he move his 
mortgage account to a different provider. Because the mortgage account remained open, 
and his other accounts had been closed, there were no balances in the accounts to offset 
the mortgage against and so it hadnt done anything wrong in charging him interest on the 
full mortgage balance. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr R but they didnt uphold the complaint. They found 
that NatWest recommended that Mr R move his mortgage account to a different provider, 
and they didnt find that Mr R would have faced any charges for moving his mortgage. The 
investigator noted the reasons Mr R says he couldnt move the mortgage. But overall, the 
investigator didnt think this was as a result of something NatWest had done wrong. 
Mr R responded to our investigator to say he didnt agree. He said that NatWest had treated 
him unfairly by not allowing him to benefit from the nature of the offset mortgage. He says 
this has allowed NatWest to increase its profits by many thousands of pounds at his 
expense. 
Because Mr R didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the 
matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all the evidence available to me, it is my decision not to uphold Mr Rs 
complaint. 
There doesnt appear to be a dispute about Mr Rs current and savings account having been 
closed. However, Mr R finds it unfair that he couldnt use the balances in these accounts to 
benefit from offsetting against his mortgage balance  which could have reduced the amount 
of interest he paid.
I can see that NatWest wrote to Mr R in August 2017  this is when it let him know if would 
be closing his accounts, and the letter also said:
With regard to your personal/business loan/mortgage we strongly recommend that you 
give serious consideration to transferring this borrowing to another lender.
So, I think NatWest made Mr R aware that he ought to think about moving his mortgage. 
And I think it likely that Mr R would have been aware that once his offset accounts had been 
closed, he would no longer benefit from being able to offset the mortgage interest with the 
balances in these accounts. There is also no guarantee that hed have maintained the same 
credit balance in the offset accounts, even if they had remained open. 
Looking at the mortgage documents, I dont think Mr R would have been charged a penalty 
for moving his mortgage, so I cant say that NatWest has made it difficult for Mr R to move 
lenders.
I can also see that other NatWest mortgages would potentially have been available to Mr R 
too if he wanted to switch, however NatWest say that it didnt hear from Mr R and he didnt 
ask about the other options available to him. 
Ive thought about Mr Rs comments, in that he wouldnt have been able to get a mortgage 
elsewhere because he didnt have an income at the time. But I dont think it would be fair of 
me to say that this is something NatWest ought to be responsible for. 
There were also other benefits of the offset mortgage, for example being able to overpay, 
underpay and take payment holidays. So, the mortgage could still have been of benefit to Mr 
R in some way.
I can understand why Mr R is disappointed that he has had to pay more in interest than he 
would have, had he been able to offset against the balances in his now closed accounts. But 
I think NatWest gave Mr R notice of this, recommended that he thought about moving 
lenders, and wouldnt charge him for moving the mortgage. I dont find the reason Mr R says 
he couldnt do this was as a result of something NatWest has done wrong. So Im not 
upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman