DRN-3845098
The complaint
Mr G has complained that U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (UKI) unfairly 
declined part of a claim under a home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G contacted UKI to make a claim when items stored in his garage were damaged by a 
flood. UKI accepted the claim and paid a cash settlement for a number of items. However, it 
declined to pay a settlement for some designer bags, clothing and shoes and some exercise 
equipment, as it said the claim for these items couldnt be fully substantiated.
When Mr G complained, UKI maintained its decision not to settle part of the claim. So, Mr G 
complained to this service. Our investigator initially didnt uphold the complaint. He said it 
was fair for UKI to decline the claim for the designer bags and the exercise equipment as Mr 
G hadnt provided sufficient evidence.
Mr G then provided evidence to support his claim for the exercise equipment. Our 
investigator then upheld that part of that complaint and said UKI should settle the claim for 
the exercise equipment.
UKI reviewed the evidence Mr G provided and didnt agree. So, the complaint was referred 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
UKI accepted the claim and paid a cash settlement for a number of items. However, it didnt 
think there was sufficient evidence to settle the claim for some designer bags, shoes and 
clothing and some exercise equipment.
For the designer items, UKI said there wasnt sufficient evidence to show they were genuine 
items. Mr G confirmed that he didnt have receipts for any of these items, for a variety of 
reasons, and wasnt able to provide proof through other routes, such as confirmation from 
the company from which they had been bought. The policy explained that as part of a claim 
it could ask for evidence, including to show the value of items, but Mr G was unable to 
provide this. In the circumstances, I think it was reasonable for UKI to decline this part of the 
claim.
Ive also looked at the claim for exercise equipment, which was a cycling machine and a 
treadmill. UKI wasnt satisfied that Mr G owned the items, as the receipts were in other 
peoples names. While the complaint was with this service, Mr G provided a statement from 
his wifes sister that said she and her partner had bought the items and, due to lack of use, 
sold them to her sister. Mr G also provided a bank statement that showed payments made to 
his sister-in-laws partner. I can see the payment named the place the deposit was made, 
rather than Mr G or his wife but, in my view, Mr G has provided sufficient information to 
explain this. UKI also said the amounts paid totalled £4,300, rather than £4,590 shown on 
the receipts. Mr G has explained that he paid the price agreed, which was less than the 
original purchase price.
UKI was also concerned that there wasnt evidence of the items being transported, such as 
paying a company to transport the items. Mr G explained that his sister-in laws partner ran a 
business and owned a van as part of this, so had delivered the items. I think this is a 
reasonable explanation and consistent with other information Mr G provided. 
So, based on the evidence Ive seen, I think Mr G has provided sufficient evidence to show 
he owned the items. As a result, I uphold this complaint and require UKI to settle the claim 
for the cycling machine and the treadmill.
Putting things right
UKI should settle the claim for the cycling machine and the treadmill.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld. I require U 
K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line to settle the claim for the cycling machine and the 
treadmill.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman