DRN-2751938
The complaint
 Mrs B complains that Oracle Consultants Ltd (Oracle) have not refunded fees following a 
complaint that she made about its service. Mrs B would like to be refunded the fees due and 
compensation paid for the trouble and upset caused.
What happened
Mrs B and her late husband held investments that were managed by an independent 
financial adviser. In 2018, these investments were transferred to Oracle who sent a letter 
introducing the firm. The transfer to Oracle was not requested by Mr and Mrs B.
Following receipt of this letter, Mr and Mrs B met with Oracle and provided instructions to 
stop the management of their investments. 
On 10 June 2020, Mrs B received a letter from another company who I will call Company B - 
this company is a trading name associated with Oracle. The letter acknowledged the passing 
of Mr B and that they had been unable to get in contact with Mrs B. Mrs B replied saying that 
she was surprised to receive such a letter as she had given clear instructions that she did 
not wish Oracle to manage their investments.
Mrs B said in this letter that she had been made aware from the provider of the late Mr Bs 
funds that Oracle had been taking fees since they were transferred in 2018. Mrs B asked 
Oracle to calculate the fees that had been deducted and to reimburse the fees.
On 16 June 2020, Company B acknowledged Mrs Bs letter. They issued a final response on 
14 August 2020 upholding Mrs Bs complaint and offered a refund of the fees totalling 
£2,193.10. Mrs B confirmed that she was happy with the offer.
Mrs B contacted the business twice to chase the refund  on 3 September and 7 October 
2020. In her email of 3 September, she said that she had been happy to accept the original 
offer, but as additional time had passed, she felt that additional compensation should be 
paid.
On 7 October 2020 having received no response, Mrs B emailed Company B again and said 
that she would be referring the matter to the service.
Mrs B referred her complaint to the service on 19 October 2020. One of our investigators 
reviewed the complaint. The investigator attempted to contact Oracle and Company B but 
despite speaking to them twice, the investigator did not receive any reply.
The investigator upheld Mrs Bs complaint on the basis that Oracle didnt send any 
information for him to carry out his investigation. The investigator upheld the complaint on 
the basis that they had not seen any evidence that Oracle had acted fairly.
The investigator asked Oracle to pay Mrs B the original amount of £2,193.10 and an 
additional payment of £250 for the trouble and upset caused by not responding.
As Oracle did not reply to the investigators view, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator and will be upholding Mrs Bs 
complaint.
Mr and Mrs Bs investments were transferred to Oracle without any consent from them. It is 
unclear what arrangements were in place with the previous adviser, but Mr and Mrs B found 
themselves with their investments being managed by a business that they had no knowledge 
of.
Mr and Mrs B contacted Oracle shortly after receiving the introductory letter and made it 
clear that they did not wish Oracle to manage their investments. It is unclear if this was ever 
confirmed to Mr and Mrs B in writing.
When Mrs B received a letter from Company B following the passing of Mr B, she 
immediately contacted them to express her surprise that they were still considered clients. 
She asked for any fees to be refunded.
Although Company B acknowledged her letter and upheld the complaint, Oracle have not 
refunded the fees that were taken. 
Company B is a trading name of Oracle and our investigator attempted to contact Oracle 
and Company B. The investigator did speak to Company B on two occasions, but the 
promised return calls were never received.
In normal circumstances, I would look at the submissions made by both parties and make 
my decision based on the evidence that I have seen. In this complaint I only have the 
evidence supplied by Mrs B as Oracle have not responded despite signing receipt of letters.
From what I have seen in the evidence supplied by Mrs B, I think that Oracle have acted 
unfairly. Oracle acknowledged that Mrs B had given a clear instruction to cancel ongoing 
commission payments and the fees should have been refunded. Oracle have not carried out 
the actions required after they upheld Mrs Bs complaint.
  
Putting things right
I require Oracle Consultants Ltd to undertake the following actions:
Refund Mrs B fees of £2,193.10 as referred to in their email of 14 August 2020
Pay £250 for the trouble and upset caused 
  
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, I uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman