DRN-3568208
The complaint
Ms S complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) is unfairly holding her liable for 
repayment of a Bounce Back Loan (BBL).
What happened
Ms S had a sole trader business account with the Co-op. In June 2020 there was a 
successful application for a £12,500 BBL, based on the business account activity, and in 
August 2020 the Co-op transferred the loan funds to that account. 
BBLs were designed to help businesses get finance more quickly if they were adversely 
affected by the coronavirus outbreak. Under a government-backed scheme, lenders could 
provide a loan with a six-year term for up to 25% of the customers turnover, subject to a 
maximum of £50,000.
In November 2020 nearly all the BBL funds were transferred from the Co-op business 
account to a joint account held by Ms S and her husband at a different bank.
In June 2021 the Co-op contacted Ms S to say that the repayments on the loan had now 
become due. 
Ms S told the Co-op that she had been a victim of domestic and economic abuse. Her 
husband had made the application for the BBL. Although she had signed the facility offer 
letter (FOL) in July 2020, she had done that under duress. She said he had also forced her 
to transfer the money to their joint account with the other bank. Later, he transferred the 
money from the joint account to an account of his own.
The Co-op said it had been unaware of Ms Ss circumstances until she contacted them in 
June 2021. It said it had made no error in accepting the loan application, as Ms S had signed 
the FOL. 
Unhappy with the banks response, Ms S referred her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator said she was sorry to hear that Ms S had been a victim of domestic and 
economic abuse. But having looked at the evidence, the investigator concluded that the 
Co-op hadnt acted unreasonably and was entitled to pursue Ms S for the outstanding debt. 
In summary, she gave the following reasons:
The FOL was a loan contract and it was signed by Ms S. The investigator could see 
no bank error in its accepting the agreement. At the time, the bank was unaware that 
anything untoward was happening.
Having signed the FOL, Ms S was aware that the loan had been applied for. It would 
be fair to say that if Ms S had contacted the bank after this point, the funds would 
have remained in the account belonging to Ms S.
The Co-op has provided evidence that Ms S transferred the funds to the joint account 
at the other bank. Ms S was a beneficiary of that account. It wouldnt be fair to say 
the whereabouts of the funds after that point were the responsibility of the Co-op.
Ms S didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. She made these points, in summary:
Although she was the Co-op business account holder, the business was her 
husbands, not hers. His use of the account wasnt a private arrangement between 
them  it was economic abuse.
Any intervention by the bank would have stopped her husband.
She is surprised at the Co-ops position in that the bank allowed her husband to 
apply for a loan in his name against her account, and still hold her accountable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I regret to tell Ms S that Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator and for largely 
the same reasons.
Its clear that Ms S has been the victim of domestic and financial abuse. I recognise that she 
has had a wretched time and she has my sympathy. My role here is to determine whether 
the Co-op has acted unfairly or unreasonably with regard to Ms Ss liability to the bank. I 
understand there are divorce proceedings which may determine matters between Ms S and 
her former husband. For the avoidance of any doubt, I should stress that my decision here 
solely concerns matters between Ms S and The Co-operative Bank Plc.
I believe Ms S when she says that her husband made the initial loan application. But she 
accepts that she later signed the FOL in July 2020, and she was therefore aware, from that 
time onwards, that the loan funds would be provided and were formally authorised by her. 
Ms S says she acted under duress, but I note that the bank didnt know this at the time. 
The Co-op didnt become aware of the abuse until the following year. I agree with the 
investigator that its likely that the bank would have been able to secure the funds for Ms S if 
it had been informed about the problem before the money was transferred from the account.
Ms S says that her husband would have been deterred by any intervention by the bank. But I 
dont think the bank had any reason to question Ms Ss authorisation of the loan in July 
2020, or at any time before June 2021. Given that Ms S signed the FOL, I dont think the 
bank did anything wrong by not intervening.
I also note that when the funds left the Co-op account, it was on Ms Ss authority and the 
money was transferred to an account which belonged to Ms S jointly with her husband. It 
was only when the funds were held by the other bank that her husband moved them to his 
own sole account. There was therefore no financial loss to Ms S while the Co-op was 
responsible for holding and transferring the funds  because throughout this time she 
remained an account holder and was entitled to access the funds herself. In other words, the 
loan funds remained in Ms Ss possession for the whole time that the Co-op was involved in 
these events. The loss occurred while the funds were with the other bank, when they were 
put beyond her reach. I agree with the investigator that it wouldnt be fair to hold the Co-op 
responsible for the loss of the funds when they were held by another bank.Im sorry to disappoint Ms S, but I dont think the Co-op has acted wrongly and I dont 
believe it would be fair or reasonable for me to require the Co-op to compensate Ms S for 
her losses.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman