DRN-2973757
The complaint
Mr R complains that Lloyds Bank PLC did not refund payments he says he did not authorise 
to a scam investment company. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below:
Mr R was looking for an investment opportunity online and came across Maxigrid. 
He spoke to a representative (the agent) who told him Maxigrid was regulated by 
the FCA. 
Mr R says the agent pressured him into loading more funds onto his Maxigrid trading 
account on the understanding that he would receive better returns. 
The agent also told him that his investment would be easy and risk free. 
Mr R says the agent told him there would be a three-week cooling off period. 
Mr R didnt sign any agreements with Maxigrid but provided a copy of the front and 
back of his debit card following the agents request  he understood this to be for tax 
purposes. 
Mr R was able to withdraw £498.91 on 15 May 2020. 
Mr R says he only authorised two payments to Maxigrid but they then debited further 
payments from his Lloyds current account Visa debit card between 5 May 2020 to 18 
May 2020 (totaling £11,700) without his consent.
He approached Lloyds for assistance in recovering his money. 
Lloyds say it attempted to obtain further evidence from Mr R on 9 September 2020 in order 
to assist him with chargeback claims. But he did not reply, so it took no further action. 
One of our investigators looked into things. She concluded that shed seen technical 
evidence from Maxigrid on a linked complaint that evidenced the disputed payments were 
made from the same location as the undisputed payments. And so, she felt he authorised 
the payments. She also didnt think that Mr R had the required technical evidence for Lloyds 
to have assisted with chargeback claims. 
During a call with our investigator on 12 August 2020, Mr R accepted that he did agree to the 
payments he disputed and his misunderstood the meaning of authorisation and agreement. 
He explains he did not believe the payments would be taken straight away. Unhappy with 
the outcome, Mr R asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He also provided some 
further information to explain the dishonest tactics used by Maxigrid to obtain further money 
from him. The complaint has been passed to me for determination.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr R has now accepted that he authorised the disputed payments, I dont now need to 
consider his claim that they were unauthorised. For the purposes of the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017, in force at the time of Mr Rs transactions, he accepts the payments were 
made using the legitimate security credentials provided to him by Lloyds. Im aware that Mr 
R told our investigator that he is not familiar with computers and the agent remotely 
accessed his laptop using software called any desk and talked him through the payments. 
This is why the technical evidence supports that the payments were made from the same 
location as they were done (with the assistance of the agent) on Mr Rs laptop and he was 
aware the payments were being made. I appreciate Mr R didnt know they would leave his 
Lloyds current account immediately and there was a cooling off period but these must be 
regarded as authorised payments. This is the case even though Mr R believes he was the 
victim of a sophisticated scam. It follows that I cannot agree the disputed payments were 
unauthorised. 
Chargeback 
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a 
dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them after two 
presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are limited 
grounds on which a chargeback can succeed or be deemed a valid claim. Our role in such 
cases is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decisions or scheme rules, but to determine 
whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. Lloyds) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting 
(or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder.
Having considered Visas rules, the possible chargeback reason codes did cover 
investment trading at the time of Mr Rs payments. Visa cover situations whereby binary 
options/investment traders prevented cardholders from withdrawing their available balances 
and this misrepresentation rule was applicable at the time of Mr Rs payments. 
However, this rule (code 13.5) required Lloyds to present dated evidence that Mr R had an 
available balance (in the form of a screenshot or confirmation from the merchant) and that 
he tried to withdraw sums equal to, or less than, his available balances on the same day. Mr 
R confirmed he was blocked from his Maxigrid trading account at the time of his complaint, 
so he was unable to obtain this evidence. 
It follows that I dont think Lloyds made a mistake by not attempting a chargeback as Mr R 
did not provide it with the information it requested from him. 
I do recognise that some of the tactics used by Maxigrid sound as though Mr R was misled 
and pressured by the agent. Whilst I dont see that Lloyds have made an error, it does not 
mean that he cannot pursue his complaint against Maxigrid. Ive noted that Maxigrid held 
passporting rights through the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and the FCA have since 
revoked their passporting rights and cancelled their registration with it. The FCA provide 
details explaining how UK customers who are not happy with any aspect of the handling of 
their trading account with Maxigrid can complain. Ive included a link to the relevant section 
on the FCAs website that explains this further should Mr R wish to pursue his complaint with 
Maxigrid:
https://www.fca.org.uk/news/statements/cyprus-cfd-firms-maxiflex-ltd-trading-europefx-
maxigrid-limited-trading-dualix-agm-markets 
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I am not persuaded that Lloyds Bank Plc acted unfairly or 
unreasonably with regard to Mr Rs disputed transactions claim, so I am unable to uphold 
this complaint or make any award against the bank.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman