DRN-3535368
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy TSB Bank plc removed Mr P from their joint account. 
What happened
Mr P visited one of the banks branches on 14 September 2021 to try to resolve an ongoing 
issue with a recent ATM transaction. Initially that disputed ATM transaction formed part of  
Mr and Mrs Ps complaint, but they confirmed to this service on 9 March 2022 that aspect of 
the complaint was since resolved. However, they remain unhappy with the reason that Mr P 
was removed from their joint account. TSB says it was because his behaviour in its branch 
was abusive. Mr P says the manager was unhelpful, created a heated argument and called 
the police. This has caused him a lot of stress and he feels the banks decision shows 
discrimination and prejudice. He wants to be put back on the account and the manager 
punished.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. He felt based on the available 
evidence TSB had acted fairly. Its terms allow it to close an account immediately if an 
accountholder is behaving improperly, however it gave 30 days notice. He said he hadnt 
been provided with other evidence to support Mr Ps testimony that the manager was 
aggressive and rude, but had more than one recollection from the branch that Mr P was not 
only aggressive that day but on two previous visits. He hadnt found any evidence the banks 
actions were driven by unfair reasons, such as prejudice or discrimination.
Mr and Mrs P disagreed with this assessment, and said it showed bias towards TSB. The 
branch manager had abused his power; and the fact the police did not arrest Mr P shows he 
was not abusive. Mr P asked to see the CCTV recording from the date to evidence his 
behaviour. 
Mr and Mrs P asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr P said the investigators assessment showed bias. I have weighed up the available 
evidence from both sides. As some of it is incomplete and contradictory, my decision is 
based on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely given 
the evidence we do have and the wider circumstances. As an independent and impartial 
organisation we dont act on behalf of either consumer or banks - theres no benefit for us to 
find in favour of one party over the other.
Under the terms and conditions of the account TSB is entitled to withdraw its services from 
accountholders, and without notice in the case of improper behaviour (for example, acting in 
a threatening or abusive manner). Here it gave Mr P 30 days notice. So what I need to 
decide here is did TSB make a fair decision based on Mr Ps behaviour. 
Unfortunately there is no CCTV footage available as TSB only stores it for around three 
months. This means I need to decide whats most likely to have happened in the branch.
The branch has provided testimony that Mr P was aggressive and abusive, making staff 
members concerned. All parties agree he refused to leave which led to the police being 
called by the manager. Having considered the branch testimony I am persuaded that some 
altercation/conflict occurred which led to the decision being made to call the police. Mr P 
argues that the fact the police did not arrest him shows he wasnt abusive, but Im not 
persuaded thats a reasonable conclusion. Such a level of escalation suggests to me his 
behaviour was more likely than not improper. 
I accept in the absence of CCTV there is not the conclusive evidence Mr P has asked for. 
But, as I have explained, in such circumstances we can rely on the balance of probabilities. 
And here, on balance, I think its most likely TSB fairly used its right to remove Mr P from the 
account so I will not be instructing it to reinstate him.
In terms of Mr Ps point about discrimination, it is for the Courts to determine if a business 
has acted unlawfully. Our role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of each particular case. In reaching that decision, we will consider various 
factors including relevant law and what we see as good industry practice from the time.
So although its for the Courts to say whether or not TSB has breached the Equality Act 
2010, Im required to take it into account, if its relevant, amongst other things when deciding 
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I did so as part of my review of this case. Mr P did not submit any specific evidence for me to 
consider in support of his claim. For the reasons Ive set out above, from what I have seen 
Im satisfied that TSBs actions were driven by Mr Ps behaviour and its subsequent right to 
remove him from the account. 
I know this isnt the answer Mr and Mrs P were hoping for, but I hope they can take some 
comfort from what Ive said and the knowledge that an independent third-party has reviewed 
TSBs actions and found no conclusive failings.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman