DRN-3497050
The complaint
The Estate of Mrs T is unhappy that BUPA Insurance Limited provided incorrect information 
about whether a successful claim could be made on Mrs Ts private medical insurance policy 
for a cash benefit. 
What happened
Mrs T had the benefit of a private medical insurance policy (the policy). She very sadly died 
towards the end of 2020. Shortly thereafter Mrs Ts husband contacted BUPA to let them 
know. 
BUPA said it would provide a refund for any overpaid premiums paid by Mrs T for the policy.
During this call, Mrs Ts husband was also told that the estate of Mrs T would be able to 
claim the cash benefit in respect of two separate periods earlier in the year when she was in 
hospital as an inpatient. Mrs Ts husband was asked to send in discharge forms for those 
two occasions. 
After sending BUPA this information, Mrs Ts husband received a further call from one of 
BUPAs representatives asking questions about the underlying condition which resulted in 
Mrs T being hospitalised and whether this was linked to something similar shed received 
treatment for before taking out the policy.
After obtaining further medical information from Mrs Ts medical team, BUPA confirmed that 
the cash benefit would be paid. But it was then declined because treatment and care for the 
underlying illness which caused Mrs T to be hospitalised was excluded under the policy. So, 
under the terms and conditions of the policy, BUPA said the cash benefit wasnt payable. 
The estate of Mrs T complained to BUPA about receiving the wrong information.
BUPA explained why it had correctly declined the claim for cash benefit. However, it 
accepted that it had provided the wrong information initially, unfairly raised expectations that 
the cash benefit would be paid and offered £200 by way of an apology.
Unhappy, the estate of Mrs T brought a complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into 
what happened. He agreed that BUPAs ultimate decision to not pay the cash benefit was 
fair and reasonable.
Our investigator also acknowledged BUPAs acceptance that wrong information had been 
given and this caused Mrs Ts husband, in particular, unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience. However, as he wasnt party to the insurance contract Mrs T had with BUPA 
our investigator explained that Mr Ts husband wasnt an eligible complainant under the rules 
that govern our service. So we didnt have the power to award him any compensation for the 
personal distress and inconvenience he experienced. He didnt recommend BUPA do 
anything more.
The estate of Mrs T requested an ombudsmans decision. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me to consider everything afresh and decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Under the section of the policy entitled: NHS cash benefits it says a cash benefit is payable 
for each night the policyholder is in an NHS hospital if:
you receive free NHS In-patient Treatment which we would have covered for private 
In-patient Treatment
The schedule of insurance reflects that the cash benefit is £50 per night up to a maximum of 
35 nights a year. 
Looking at the medical evidence, Im satisfied BUPA has acted fairly and reasonably by 
ultimately deciding that cancer was the underlying reason which led to Mrs T being 
hospitalised as an inpatient for a number of nights, on two separate occasions, in 2020. 
The schedule of insurance confirms that treatment and care for cancer is excluded under the 
policy. So as the treatment and care Mrs T received whilst in an NHS hospital isnt 
something BUPA wouldve covered under the policy, I dont think in the circumstances of this 
case its unfairly or unreasonably relied on the terms of the policy to ultimately decline the 
claim for cash benefit.
BUPA does accept it provided incorrect information to Mrs Ts husband and its apologised 
for the general service it provided him during this time. Its offered him £200 in 
compensation.
Ive listened to recordings of calls Mrs Ts husband had with BUPA. If BUPA had appreciated 
earlier that the policy excluded treatment and care for cancer and the impact this had on any 
claim for a cash benefit under the policy, it wouldve avoided the distress and inconvenience 
Mrs Ts husband experienced  including being called the day before Mrs Ts funeral to go 
through some further points. I appreciate the timing of this call wouldve been very upsetting 
for him. 
BUPA later confirmed that the claim for cash benefit would be paid only for it to renege on 
that shortly thereafter. I appreciate this wouldve caused Mrs Ts husband unnecessary 
distress and frustration at an already very difficult time. 
But, as our investigator said, Mrs Ts husband isnt an eligible complainant as he wasnt 
party to the contract of insurance Mrs T had with BUPA and he wasnt named on the 
schedule of insurance. So, our service doesnt have any power to award him personal 
compensation for this. Nor does our service award compensation for distress and 
inconvenience experienced by a deceased persons estate. 
So whilst I can see that BUPA has paid Mrs Ts husband £200 compensation to reflect what 
it did wrong here, I cant award any further compensation for distress and inconvenience in 
this case.
I dont think BUPA needs to do anything more.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs T 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman