DRN-4153107
The complaint
Ms C complains Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) unfairly settled her 
claim on her motor insurance policy.
There are several parties and representatives of Advantage involved throughout the 
complaint but for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Advantage.
What happened
In December 2022 Ms C was involved in an accident whilst in her car. Damage to the front 
bumper and grill of her car. She made a claim on her motor insurance policy. 
Advantage accepted the claim and Ms Cs car was booked in at Advantages approved 
repairer for 10 January 2023. When Ms C went to drive the car before it went to the repairer 
the in-car screen displayed a faulty headlight. The next time she started the car was to take 
it to the garage for the repairs to be completed and this time she said a number of faults 
were displayed. The garage picked up the car as Ms C was not confident about driving it due 
to the faults being displayed.
Ms C told Advantage she thought condensation had got into the car headlight and in turn 
had damaged the electrics. She said this needed repairing too.
The accident damage was repaired but not the electrics. Advantage declined to cover the 
water damage to the electrics as the main dealer had confirmed it was unrelated to Ms Cs 
claim. Ms C was advised a second claim would need to be submitted for this separate water 
damage.
Ms C disputed this and said water had got in through a headlight with a broken seal causing 
the damage. She added that a health check had been undertaken on the car by the main 
dealer in September 2022 and it did not find any issues.
As Ms C was not happy with Advantage, she brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. They looked into the case and said Advantage 
had made a fair offer based on the accident damage identified in the detailed engineers 
report.
As Ms C is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I saw Ms Cs car was taken to Advantages approved repairer on 9 January 2023. Evidence 
of progress of bodywork repairs was emailed to Ms C on a regular basis. 
In early February 2023 the approved repairer took the car to the main dealer to investigate 
the warning lights. The main dealer confirmed water contamination had damaged the 
electrics. They found corrosion at the engine control unit (ECU) connector but there was no 
visible damage around it. They said it was not part of the accident repair work as the water 
looked like it had been there a while. The main dealer said the car was not safe to drive.
I saw as Ms C disagreed the work was not accident related; Advantage arranged for a post 
repair assessment to be completed by an independent engineer on 22 February 2023. This 
confirmed the damage to the righthand headlight and the water ingress to the ECU were not 
related to the claim for collision damage.
The health check mentioned By Ms C from the main dealer in September 2022 was 
undertaken when the car went in for recall work completing on the cooler. It confirms recall 
work was completed on the EGR cooler and also that a visual health check was carried out. 
I looked at the visual health check report and it highlights immediate attention is required 
under the heading of lights/electrics and it says, all services are overdue. The report also 
advises a new tyre. The report gives a quotation to complete the work required but shows it 
was not authorised. The report is annotated with customer decided not to have the work 
completed before leaving the premises.
The health check report I reviewed did not confirm there were no issues as Ms C thought it 
did. It shows that electrical checks to Ms Cs car were overdue in September 2022. The 
recall work to the EGR cooler was not the same as work to the ECU. 
The evidence I have reviewed has been produced by a number of professional engineers  
and after consideration of everything provided, I am not persuaded the repairs declined by 
Advantage were related to the claim made by Ms C when she was involved in the collision in 
December 2022. I think Advantage have fairly declined to cover the water damage under the 
collision claim. 
Therefore, although I know Ms C will be disappointed, I do not uphold this complaint and do 
not require Advantage to do anything further in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman