DRN-2253909
The complaint
Miss G complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) declined a claim because 
it said the condition for which her dog had received treatment was pre-existing. 
What happened
Miss G had pet insurance for her dog with RSA and made a claim when the dog was 
diagnosed with a ruptured cruciate ligament on her left hind leg. 
RSA declined the claim. It said the earlier cruciate rupture the dog had experienced with the 
right leg (which had showed signs before the start of the policy) meant this was a bi-lateral 
condition that was pre-existing and therefore not covered under the policy. 
Miss G complained to RSA, but it maintained its position. It said the clinical notes dated 28 
June 2019 stated the dog has been limping, started a month ago, limping RH, has rested, 
no difference made, will improve a bit with restdiagnosis: likely CCL rupture." It explained 
that as the policy started on 5 June 2019 and the dog had started limping a month before the 
28 June 2019, the problem with the right leg was pre-existing, therefore it was unable to 
provide cover for any condition, illness or injury that developed from that condition.
It explained that, considering the problem with the right leg had begun before the start of the 
policy and the absence of a traumatic event having taken place between the two ruptures, it 
was most likely that both ligaments ruptured due to weakening caused by bilateral cruciate 
ligament disease. Therefore, as the two cruciate ruptures had the same proximate cause, 
the claim had been correctly declined.
Miss G wasnt satisfied and so she complained to this service. She explained the dog had an 
operation on her right leg on 7 August and started limping on her right leg on 12 August. She 
argued the claim for the problem with the right leg had been unfairly declined because the 
two problems werent connected.
Our investigator felt the complaint should be upheld because he didnt think it was fair for 
RSA to class the problem with the left leg as pre-existing. He explained cruciate ligament 
disease was just a possibility and was never diagnosed, and the first sign of a problem with 
the left leg was more than 14 days after the policy started. So, he recommended RSA should 
reimburse Miss Gs vet costs, plus interest.
RSAs explained that cranial cruciate ligament ruptures are either caused by a degenerative 
process, or a traumatic rupture, which is extremely rare. Its argued that, in the absence of a 
specific traumatic event, the vast majority of cruciate ruptures are due to degeneration. It 
maintained the same degenerative process, which affected the right cranial cruciate 
ligament, affected the left cranial cruciate ligament, and that degenerative process started 
before the start of the policy meaning the condition was pre-existing.
Our investigator accepted there was no sign of a sudden trauma, but he said that as there 
was no evidence that the problem with the left leg was caused by the same underlying issue 
that caused the problem with the right leg and that ,without a diagnosis of cruciate ligament 
disease, the outcome of the claim was based on speculation.
RSA has asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. It argues that as trauma 
didnt cause either cruciate rupture, ligament disease wouldnt necessarily need to be 
diagnosed to show both had the same proximate cause. Its pointed out that even though the 
treating vet said the problem with the left leg should be classed as pre-existing, he was likely 
not aware that conditions would be linked by the same proximate cause for insurance 
purposes and was is only stating the left cruciate rupture wasnt diagnosed before the policy 
start date. Its reiterated that cranial ligament degeneration is responsible for the vast 
majority of the ruptures and, in the absence of trauma, there must be cruciate ligament 
degeneration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having declined Miss Gs claim for treatment the dog received to the right leg, RSA also 
turned down the claim for the treatment to the left leg, arguing it was linked to the problem 
with the right leg, which existed before the start of the policy. Miss G didnt challenge the 
declinature of the first claim, but she doesnt accept the problem with the left leg was linked 
to the problem with the right leg and, therefore, she feels the second claim was unfairly 
declined. 
The policy doesnt provide cover for pre-existing conditions or illnesses or those which 
occurred within the first fourteen days of the policy. I accept the dog showed signs of a 
problem with its right leg before the start of the policy and therefore it was pre-existing. I also 
accept that there were no signs of a problem with the left leg before the start of the policy. 
The issue for me to consider, therefore, is whether the problem with the left leg was linked to 
the problem with the right leg, in other words, whether it had the same proximate cause. If it 
did, RSAs decision to decline the claim for treatment to the left leg would be fair.
The dog was X-rayed on 26 July 2018, when the cruciate ligament rupture to the right leg 
was confirmed. The clinical notes state LHS stifle effused, slight cranial drawer. LHL poss 
chronic CCLR or cruciate disease. The vet has since clarified that the X-ray showed mild 
swelling in the left stifle, but there was no definitive diagnosis of the cause. Its clear he did 
consider the possibility of cruciate ligament disease but his later comments to RSA, the vet 
stated arthroscopy, biopsy and histopathology of the cruciate ligament at this time would be 
the only means to prove or disprove the presence of cruciate ligament disease on 
26/07/2019, casting doubt on his initial suggestion that there might be cruciate disease. 
In any event, the left rupture wasnt identified until 12 August 2019 when the dog presented 
as lame on the left leg. And, theres no formal diagnosis as to the cause of the problem with 
the left leg. 
Having considered his evidence, I dont think the opinion of the examining vet supports 
either of the two possible causes as being the most likely. RSAs suggested that his 
conclusion that the problem with the left leg was not pre-existing might not have taken into 
account the fact that, for the purposes of the claim, it would be classed as pre-existing if it 
were linked to the problem with the right leg, not just if it had displayed signs before the start 
of the policy. I accept this might be the case, but, based on his comments, Im satisfied he 
understood the significance of whether the problem was caused by a trauma or a 
degenerative condition.RSAs argued that as there was no traumatic injury, its most likely both ligaments ruptured 
due to the same underlying process. The vet said he didnt know whether there was a 
traumatic injury, and Miss Gs said that while shes unable to confirm any specific incident 
having taken place, they had been going on extended walks and its possible the dog injured 
itself while out on a walk or at home while she wasnt in. So, while I accept theres no 
evidence of the dog having sustained an injury to its left leg, I accept its possible that it did.
In the absence of any conclusive evidence either way, I must consider the most likely cause 
of the problem with the left leg. Ive considered the timing of it relation to the problem with 
the right leg, and I acknowledge RSAs comments that the vast majority of cruciate ruptures 
are due to degeneration. However, there was no rupture in the left leg when the dog was X-
rayed on 26 July 2019 and, while I accept there was no eye witness account or physical sign 
of a traumatic event, there is no formal diagnosis of cruciate ligament disease. 
Consequently, Im not satisfied that RSA has shown its more likely than not that the dog was 
suffering from a degenerative condition that caused the cruciate ligaments in both legs to 
rupture. In those circumstances, Im not persuaded its decision to decline the claim was fair.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and I direct Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to reimburse Miss 
G for her vets costs in respect of the problem with the left leg. This is to include a payment 
of 8% simple interest from the date she incurred the cost to the date it makes the payment.
* If Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from this interest, it should tell Miss G how much its taken 
off. It should also give Miss G a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 January 2021.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman