DRN-4369241
The complaint
Mr D complains that Citibank UK Limited (Citi) wouldnt refund money he lost in an 
investment scam.
What happened
What Mr D says:
Mr D had an account with Citi. His father was in a nursing home and he needed money to 
help pay for his medical fees. In May 2022, he was contacted via social media by a trader 
who claimed he was making money by trading with a bitcoin company. Mr D did some 
research and found the trader had many followers on social media. And he saw the bitcoin 
company was regulated in the UK and US. The trader asked him to open an account with a 
crypto exchange (which I will call A). Mr D transferred money into his Citi account and then 
made payments to his crypto wallet:
Date Payment / Beneficiary Amount Balance
8 September 2022 0.76 credit
12 September 2022 Faster Payment In/Mr Ds Citi account (£1,598) £1,598 credit
14 September 2022 Faster Payment  crypto wallet A £1,590 £8.81 credit
20 September 2022 Faster Payment In/Mr Ds Citi account (£4,000) £4,008.81 credit
20 September 2022 Faster Payment  crypto wallet A £4,000 £8.81 credit
Total £5,598
Mr D made some other payments from another bank account  which is the subject of a 
separate complaint to this service.
The trader coached Mr D to make payments from his crypto wallet to the bitcoin company. 
He was shown the website of the bitcoin company and it showed he was making profits. The 
trader asked him to pay more money such as a success fees, purchase of an access key, 
and insurance. Mr D then asked for profits to be returned, but none arrived.
Mr D realised hed been the victim of a scam. The trader and the bitcoin company were fake. 
Mr D reported the scam to the police and Action Fraud. He thought he was dealing with a 
professional but was wrong. He says his mental health has suffered  and he has sleepless 
nights.
Mr D says Citi shouldve done more to protect him. Hed had an account with Citi for many 
years, and his account had been dormant for a long time before the scam. So  Citi 
shouldve realised the payments were large and unusual.
What Citi says:
Citi said theyd made the payments in accordance with Mr Ds instructions and in line with 
the Payment Service Regulations. Mr D had used the one-time password hed been sent. 
The payments were sent to Mr Ds own account in his name. They sent regular warnings to 
customers about fraud, and they warned clients they shouldnt ever act on a call out of the 
blue. Citi declined to refund any money.
Our investigation so far:
Mr D brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said the first payment was too small to 
have expected Citi to question it. But the second payment (for £4,000) shouldve been held 
by Citi and Mr D contacted about it. He said that because Mr Ds account had been dormant 
for a year, the payment was out of character. If Citi had intervened, theyd have been able to 
question Mr D, found out he had been contacted via social media and the payment was 
typical of many similar scams, and so it was likely the scam wouldve been highlighted to Mr 
D and the payment prevented.
He said Mr D acted reasonably as hed done research on the investment company, and the 
scammer had a large following on social media. Mr D had considered the website to be 
professional.
Our investigator said Citi should refund £4,000 plus interest of 8% per annum simple. 
Citi didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at the complaint. They said the 
payments were to Mr Ds own account (his crypto wallet), and he should approach A for 
reimbursement. They also evidenced a paper from UK Finance which said me to me 
payments were not the liability of the sending bank.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Mr D has lost money in a cruel scam. Its not in question that he 
authorised and consented to the payments in this case. So although Mr D didnt intend for 
the money to go to a scammer, he is presumed to be liable for the loss in the first instance. 
So, in broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And 
I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Citi should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
The CRM Code doesnt apply in this case because Citi hasnt signed up to it. But, taking into 
account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and good industry 
practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for Citi to take additional 
steps or make additional checks before processing a payment in order to help protect its 
customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
If the payments were of a sufficient size and were out of character with how Mr D normally 
used his account  then we would expect Citi to have intervened and spoken to him about 
them. I looked at Mr Ds account, and its fair to say that the payments were unusual 
compared to the way in which he used his account  it was dormant for at least 12 months 
before the payments were made in September 2022. 
First payment - £1,590  14 September 2022:
I dont consider Citi can be held liable for this payment. I say that as heres a balance to be 
struck: Citi has obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their customers best 
interests, but they cant be involved in every transaction as this would cause unnecessary 
disruption to legitimate payments. In this case, the payment was for a relatively low amount, 
and therefore I think Citi acted reasonably in processing the first payment.
Second Payment - £4,000  20 September 2022:
I consider its reasonable that Citi shouldve held this payment and contacted Mr D about it. I 
say that because:
- His account had been dormant for 12 months up to September 2022, with a balance 
of £1,606 credit. There was no account activity at all until Mr D made a payment for 
£1,600 on 7 September 2022 (not related to this complaint), reducing the balance to 
£6.76 credit.
- Then, there were two credits into the account just before the payments were made, 
one for £1,598.05, and one for £4,000 on 20 September 2022.
- The payment of £4,000 was made on the same day that the credit for £4,000 was 
received.
- The balance on the account was drained  to £8.81 credit after the second payment.
- The two payments were in relatively quick succession  within six days of each other 
 and were made after the account had been dormant for 12 months.
- The payment was going to a payment service provider which was known to provide 
crypto wallets to send money to bitcoin companies.
Im also not persuaded that the fact the payments were going to Mr Ds own account and so 
appeared to be going somewhere safe and within his control should have satisfied Citi that 
he wasnt at risk of harm. This is because by January 2019, firms like Citi had, or ought to 
have had, a good enough understanding of how these scams work  including that a 
customer often moves money to an account in their own name before moving it on again to 
the scammer - to have been able to identify the risk of harm from fraud.So, on balance Im satisfied there was enough going on here to say Citi shouldve intervened 
and contacted Mr D about the second payment.
If they had, Im persuaded that enough warnings couldve been given to Mr D for him to 
question the payment and not make it. Citi couldve reasonably asked:
- Why are you making the payment?
- Who to?
- For what purpose?
- Where did the money come from that youre investing?
- How did you hear about the investment?
- How were you contacted?
- What do you know about bitcoin investing?
- Have you made bitcoin investments before?
- How were you given the bank account details where the money was to be paid to?
Theyd have found out that Mr D knew nothing of bitcoin investments; that he was investing 
for the first time; that he had been contacted out of the blue via social media; and the 
trader had asked him to open the crypto wallet and had guided him to send money from 
there to the bitcoin company. And Citi couldve given him sufficient warnings about what he 
was doing  and it was then unlikely he wouldve made the payment.
Ive considered what Citi have said about the paper from UK Finance. I noted this was a 
consultation paper from the trade body and was dated September 2021. Its not policy. And  
here  our role is an impartial and informal dispute resolution service, reaching fair and 
reasonable decisions. And we take into account all relevant regulations and guidance in 
doing that. And were satisfied that firms should still be detecting unusual transactions to 
cryptocurrency platforms (even in a customers own name)  particularly due to the 
prevalence of these scams in recent years and after the publications from the regulatory, 
industry bodies and Action Fraud. 
Citi have also said this decision goes against other decisions by this service. But  here I 
would say that each complaint is considered in the context of its own circumstances.
Contributory Negligence:
I considered whether Mr D couldve done more to protect himself and whether he should 
therefore reasonably be responsible for some of his losses. But here, Im persuaded he had 
done enough research. He looked up the bitcoin company online and found it was 
apparently registered in the UK and US; the trader had a good following online; the website 
looked genuine and professional; and he was coached all along by the trader (who he had 
come to trust). So  I consider Mr D had done enough here.
Recovery:
We expect firms to quickly attempt to recover funds from recipient banks when a scam takes 
place. I looked at whether Citi took the necessary steps in contacting the bank that received 
the funds  in an effort to recover the lost money. I couldnt see that theyd contacted the 
provider of Mr Ds crypto wallet  but Im persuaded that had they done so, no funds 
wouldve remained  as hed moved them into the bitcoin trading platform.
Putting things right
Citi should refund the second payment of £4,000, plus 8% per annum simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Citibank UK Limited must:
Refund £4,000, plus 8% per annum simple interest from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman