DRN-3849527
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC applied an early repayment charge 
(ERC) when they redeemed their mortgage. They say that Barclays should have allowed 
them to transfer a smaller portion of their mortgage to another property which would have 
meant them paying a reduced ERC. 
What happened
In 2017, Mr and Mrs H took out a mortgage with Barclays for around £800,000 with a term of 
31 years. They took out a five-year fixed rate which was due to expire in October 2022.
Mr H said that just before the coronavirus pandemic, he was made redundant and started 
self-employment around November 2019. He said he was concerned about the impact this 
would have on his finances and how it would affect his mortgage, so he asked Barclays 
about porting the mortgage (transferring the mortgage to a new property). He said his 
intention was to downsize to a smaller property in another location and save on school fees 
which would have helped them.
Mr and Mrs H said that Barclays told them they couldnt lend them a reduced amount as Mr 
H didnt meet their lending criteria since becoming self-employed.  Barclays did however 
agree a 12-month interest only mortgage in order to help them. However, Mr and Mrs H still 
felt they were struggling to meet their contractual monthly payments and felt it would be 
better for them to downsize so they told Barclays they were going to sell their property. 
Mr and Mrs H sold their property and redeemed their mortgage in September 2020, paying 
an ERC of approximately £24,000. Mr and Mrs H said that the ERC that has been applied 
isnt a reasonable reflection of the costs they incurred, and they feel that Barclays were 
unreasonable in not allowing them to port to a smaller property. Barclays didnt think they 
had done anything wrong. 
Mr and Mrs H were unhappy with this, so they brought the complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service where it was looked at by one of our investigators. Our investigator 
upheld the complaint on the basis that Barclays should have allowed Mr and Mrs H to port 
their mortgage to a smaller property, which would have resulted in a lower ERC. The 
investigator recognised that Mr and Mrs H would have moved to a smaller property and paid 
some of the ERC so he thought that Barclays should refund 50% of the ERC Barclays 
charged Mr and Mrs H. 
Mr and Mrs H agreed with this outcome, but Barclays said that Mr and Mrs H didnt meet 
their lending criteria. Our investigator explained to Barclays again that they should have 
allowed Mr and Mrs H to port, but Barclays didnt respond at that time. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide on the matter. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 27 October 2022. I said:
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy that Barclays wouldnt allow them to port their mortgage 
to a smaller property which resulted in them incurring a significant ERC. 
Mr and Mrs H already held a mortgage with Barclays and they were not looking to 
borrow any additional money. They did however want to reduce their mortgage in 
order to downsize which they thought would have meant they still would have paid 
a portion of the ERC, but not as much as they paid.
Mr H told us he spoke to his Barclays Premier Relationship Manager (BPRM) and 
explained what he wanted to do. But Mr H said he was told by the BPRM that it 
was unlikely that an application for a smaller mortgage would be approved due to 
Mr H recently becoming self-employed. Barclays also stated in their final response 
letter that Mr and Mrs H didnt meet their lending criteria because Mr H wasnt able 
to provide the income proofs that Barclays needed at the time. 
There are rules in place that cover this type of situation and that I have to 
consider. These rules followed on from the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) 
Mortgage Market Review (MMR). The MMR led to a series of major changes, 
effective since 2014, in the way residential mortgages are regulated. MMR rules 
have brought about requirements for stricter lending assessments, aimed to 
protect consumers and encourage mortgage lenders to act more responsibly. The 
FCA recognised though that existing borrowers who wanted to make changes to 
their mortgages might have difficulties with this if they passed the tests under the 
old rules, but not under the new rules. So the FCA introduced certain rules to 
address this.
Mortgage Conduct of Business rules (MCOB) 11.6.3 says that a lender doesnt 
have to carry out an affordability assessment if a borrower wants to vary or replace 
an existing mortgage and there is no additional borrowing, (other than for product 
fees) and no changes to the terms of the mortgage that affect affordability.
As Ive already mentioned, Mr and Mrs H already held their mortgage with 
Barclays so there was no additional risk to Barclays if they let Mr and Mrs H port 
their mortgage. I appreciate that if Mr and Mrs H would have increased their loan 
to value (LTV) there would have been an increased risk to Barclays, but Mr and 
Mrs H wanted to keep this the same or reduce it. 
Mr and Mrs H found themselves in a difficult position and were trying hard to 
ensure that their mortgage wasnt affected. Although they struggled to keep up 
with their monthly payments, I can see that they didnt fall behind at any point and 
were not in arrears but were trying to mitigate any further issues that they might 
have encountered. I think that based on the rules above, Barclays should have 
allowed Mr and Mrs H to port their mortgage to a new property. 
Mr and Mrs H have provided us with detailed information showing that they were 
actively looking for smaller properties. They wanted to restructure their finances to 
reduce existing debt and school fees to ensure that the mortgage was still 
affordable for them. 
According to my understanding of Barclays lending criteria a reduction in 
borrowing of up to 25% is allowed without incurring an ERC. Where a reduction in 
borrowing is above 25%, an ERC will be payable on the amount above 25%.
At the time of redemption, Mr and Mrs H had a mortgage of £840,133 on their 
property which was sold at £1.4 million in September 2020. They purchased 
another property at £1.25 million and took out a new mortgage with another lender 
for £938,749 around September 2021. So the mortgage with Barclays was at 60% 
LTV and the mortgage with the new lender was at 75% LTV. 
Based on this, I think Barclays should have allowed Mr and Mrs H to port their 
mortgage at the same LTV that they had with Barclays at 60% LTV (on the new 
property value) which would have given them a new mortgage of £750,000. This amount would have been within the 25% reduction as stated in their lending 
criteria so Mr and Mrs H wouldnt have paid any ERC if Barclays had approved 
this mortgage. 
So Barclays should refund the entire ERC that Mr and Mrs H have paid because 
this wouldnt have applied. In addition to that, Mr and Mrs H paid a product fee 
with their new lender which should also be refunded. 
Mr and Mrs H had an interest rate with Barclays of 1.94% which was due to expire 
in October 2022. The new rate with the new lender was set at 1.24% until 
September 2023 This means there is a cost saving made on the new interest rate. 
Barclays should also deduct the difference in interest on this rate from the date the 
ERC was paid until October 2022. 
This is what I am intending on asking Barclays to do so i will welcome their 
thoughts on this before I issue my final decision.
My provisional findings
For the reasons given above, Im intending to uphold this complaint and require 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
Refund the entire ERC that Mr and Mrs H have paid along with 1.24% 
simple interest for the mortgage rate applied - from the date it was paid 
until the date of settlement
Calculate the difference in interest between Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage of 
1.94% against the new interest rate with the new lender at 1.24% from the 
date the mortgage was redeemed, until October 2022 which is when the 
interest rate with Barclays would have expired. This calculation should be 
based on a mortgage of £750,000 for both interest rates so it is like-for like. 
The resulting sum should be deducted from the ERC refund. This should 
be done before the interest is added on to the ERC refund
Refund the £1,249 product fee that Mr and Mrs H have paid with the new 
lender along with 1.24% simple interest for the mortgage rate that was 
applied
If Barclays Bank UK PLC deducts any tax from any interest it pays to Mr and 
Mrs H as above, they should provide Mr and Mrs H with a tax deduction 
certificate, so they can reclaim the tax from the tax authorities if appropriate.
Developments
Mr and Mrs H responded to the provisional decision. They said they felt it was positive 
that the entire ERC should be refunded and understood why the difference in mortgage 
interest rates were being included. 
Barclays also responded but didnt agree with the provisional decision. They made the 
following points:
Mr and Mrs H wanted to port their mortgage and Mr H had recently gone into self 
employment at the time they were looking to port. Mr and Mrs H were in 
conversations with the PRM (Premier Relationship Manager) and they were 
assessing options. The PRM discussed this with a specialist mortgage adviser 
during the time Mr and Mrs H were looking to port their mortgage
It was explained that, if Mr H had one years worth of accounts, the application 
could be considered by the underwriters  but Mr H didnt have this. So Barclays 
were unable to agree to the porting application. They said that it was imperative that an income assessment was completed  even with a porting application  to 
ensure the mortgage is affordable
Barclays standard policy for two years self employment is to be supported by two 
years worth of accounts and two years tax calculations. On this occasion, they 
agreed to consider the application on one year self employment but Mr H could not 
provide the evidence they required
Barclays said they didnt stop Mr and Mrs H from porting and they cant see an 
application was completed. They also hadnt seen any evidence to suggest that Mr 
and Mrs H had a property lined up at the time they were selling during the 90 day 
port window. They also said things could have taken longer during the pandemic
Barclays provided contact notes which shows Mr and Mrs H were told about the 
90 day porting window ( which means if they transferred the mortgage to a new 
property within 90 days of redemption  they would get the ERC refunded). 
Barclays said this shows Mr H intended to purchase another property at a later 
date. And becuase Mr and Mrs H decided to rent, they took themselves out of the 
transitional rules as this new rental agreement took them outside of the 90 day 
window
Barclays said they were aware that Mr and Mrs H wanted to move to secure 
schooling for their children and that the contact notes show that Mr and Mrs H said 
they would have the money in the bank after sellling and would raise a mortgage  
at some point. Barclays said they explained the 90 day porting window to Mr and 
Mrs H again
Barclays said Mr and Mrs H were not going to port the mortgage and would have 
taken a mortgage at a later date. And at that point Mr and Mrs H would have been 
subject to Barclays lending criteria and because Mr H just became self employed  
this could make lending problematic
To conclude, Barclays said Mr and Mrs H chose to sell and rent elsewhere and Barclays 
didnt see any evidence that Mr and Mrs H had a property lined up. Their goal was to 
move for their children which is what they did. 
Mr and Mrs H didnt provide Barclays with any properties they had lined up and didnt 
reach out to them again so they do not agree with the provisional decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays have made various comments as to why they disagree with the provisional 
decision. Having considered what they have said, I still believe that they should have 
allowed Mr and Mrs H to port their mortgage.
Mr H has told us that he changed his employment status in 2019 and became self-
employed. Mr and Mrs H were keen to reduce their monthly outgoings by moving area 
and changing schools for their children. This isnt in dispute as its what Mr and Mrs H 
wanted to do at the time.
I have seen an email that Mr H sent to the PRM dated 26 November 2019. In summary, 
Mr H explains that he is now self-employed and thinking about different factors for how 
they can set themseves up for the future. Mr H explained that they may want to downsize 
their property and he wanted to know how he could prove his income and affordablity 
instead of having to wait. Mr H then arranged a telephone call with the adviser the following week on the 23 
November 2019 to discuss this. Mr H has given us detailed information about what he 
was told by the PRM. 
Mr H said that the PRM discouraged him from making an application and said that 
Barclays is a conservative and risk-averse lender. He said he was told that the PRM 
would speak to an underwriter to double check what could be done. Mr H said the PRM 
then contacted him and explained that it would be difficult to prove Mr Hs employment 
track record as he had become self-employed. And in the PRMs view, Barclays wouldnt 
contemplate an application outside of the standard policy and if Mr H was to put in an 
application and it was declined, it would mark Mr and Mrs Hs credit file which could 
impact them later down the line. So Mr and Mrs H didnt go ahead with a porting 
application. I dont have this telephone call but the final response letter from Barclays 
does confirm that Mr and Mrs H were not able to be offered a smaller mortgage due to the 
fact that they didnt meet Barclays lending criteria. So there is no contraditon in the 
information that Mr and Mrs H were given. Im persuaded that they didnt make an 
application becuase they were disuaded from doing so. And even so, Barclays said they 
wouldnt be able to because of Mr Hs change in circumstances.
But this now brings me back to the fact that Mr and Mrs H wanted to port their mortgage 
from one property to another. They didnt want to borrow any additional funds so the 
mortgage would have been transferred on a like for like basis. Barclays were entitled to 
carry out an affordability assessment but it would be unfair to then say that Mr and Mrs H 
wouldnt be able to port because of concerns over their affordablity  which is what 
happened here because Mr H couldnt provide the income proofs that Barclays required. 
Ive seen an email from an estate agent which confirms that Mr and Mrs H had a viewing 
on a property on 23 November 2019 and after looking at this property  Mr H sent the 
email to the PRM dated 26 November 2019. I therefore dont agree that Mr and Mrs H 
were not active in looking at properties to purchase and its likely that they viewed the 
property on 23 November 2019 and then spoke to the PRM on the same day who told Mr 
H that it didnt seem likely an application would be approved. Mr H then sent another 
email on 26 November (as mentioned above) still saying that he wanted to look at options 
for downsizing. So based on what I have seen, I think that Mr and Mrs H did what they 
could based on their circumstances and becuase they were told they may not meet 
Barclays lending criteria  they had no choice but to redeem their mortgage. Mr and Mrs 
H then proceeded to move and rent a property until they were able to purchase one.
While I accept that Mr and Mrs H were told about the 90 day porting window when they 
wanted to redeem the mortgage, I dont think this would have made a difference to them. 
Its likely that becuase Barclays told Mr and Mrs H they didnt meet their lending criteria  
it didnt seem an option to apply to another brand new lender for a mortgage because Mr 
H had been self-employed for less then one year. And because Barclays, who was their 
lender at the time told them it wasnt possible, its likely that going to a new lender would 
have also been difficult. 
I think this explains why Mr and Mrs H ended up renting a property at the location they 
wanted to live in because of their children, instead of purchasing another property. As 
Barclays told Mr and Mrs H that they wouldnt agree to any lending because Mr H didnt 
meet their lending criteria, its more than likely, that Mr and Mrs H didnt think they would 
be able to borrow money from any lender which is why they decided to move and rent a 
property instead. 
Mr and Mrs H have always maintaned the fact they wanted to save money on school fees 
which is why they needed to move. Based on the information they were given by 
Barclays, Im persuaded that Mr and Mrs H felt they had no choice but to do what they 
needed to do for their family in order to move location and save on school fees.I think what this comes down to is that under the Mortgage Conduct of Business rules 
(MCOB) 11.6.3, Barclays should have allowed Mr and Mrs H to port their existing 
mortgage to a new property.  Barclays didnt allow Mr and Mrs H to do so which prevented 
them from being able to purchase another property at the time that they wanted to. Mr and 
Mrs H agreed to rent a property and entered into a tenancy agreement for 12 months in 
September 2020. It was after this that they were able to secure a mortgage with another 
lender and purchase a property. Under the rules mentioned above, Barclays should have 
allowed Mr and Mrs H to port their mortgage, so I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above and in my provisional decision, I direct Barclays Bank UK 
PLC to:
Refund the entire ERC that Mr and Mrs H have paid along with 1.24% 
simple interest for the mortgage rate applied - from the date it was paid 
until the date of settlement
Calculate the difference in interest between Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage of 
1.94% against the new interest rate with the new lender at 1.24% from the 
date the mortgage was redeemed, until October 2022 which is when the 
interest rate with Barclays would have expired. This calculation should be 
based on a mortgage of £750,000 for both interest rates so it is like-for like. 
The resulting sum should be deducted from the ERC refund. This should 
be done before the interest is added on to the ERC refund
Refund the £1,249 product fee that Mr and Mrs H have paid with the new 
lender along with 1.24% simple interest for the mortgage rate that was 
applied
If Barclays Bank UK PLC deducts any tax from any interest it pays to Mr and Mrs H as 
above, they should provide Mr and Mrs H with a tax deduction certificate, so they can 
reclaim the tax from the tax authorities if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman