DRN-3470581
The complaint
Mrs S says the advice given and arrangements made by Pi Financial Ltd (PFL), trading as PI 
Financial Dixon Sutcliffe & Co, leading to the transfer of her Occupational Pension Scheme 
(OPS) benefits into a personal pension with Scottish Life, and her opting out of her 
employers pension scheme, were unsuitable.
Mrs S is represented by Rightside Financial Services Limited (RFS).
What happened
PFL says Mrs S approached it following a meeting it had with her husband to discuss the 
possible transfer of his OPS. It says it strongly recommended against this and he accepted 
the advice.
PFL says Mr S suggested his wifes pension - which was worth less than his  should 
instead be considered for transfer. It says they "desperately" wanted to access tax-free cash 
(TFC) to cover a shortfall on their endowment policy. They had an interest only mortgage of 
around £36,000. Their policy was due to mature in March 2013 and it was expected to 
realise around £25,000. So, they needed to find another £11,000 to pay off the balance.
PFL gathered information about Mrs Ss circumstances, objectives and attitude to risk in 
January 2013. It obtained some information from her OPS provider about her existing 
pension benefits.
PFL prepared two suitability letters for Mrs S. The first was dated 22 February 2013 and 
focussed on the potential transfer of her OPS benefits. It noted her prime objective was:
to examine the merits or otherwise of moving the retirement benefits you have with your 
current employer.
PFL advised her not to proceed with the transfer, highlighting several disadvantages. But 
Mrs S wanted to proceed and she signed letters dated 25 February 2013 to say it should 
treat her as an insistent client. The transfer of her OPS benefits went ahead as such.
A subsequent suitability letter dated 4 March 2013 also covered matters related to proposed 
new pension arrangements and investments. The transfer value of her OPS was about 
£50,700.
Mrs S took TFC of around £12,400. Initial fees were then deducted, including PFLs charge 
for advice, with the balance invested in a personal pension with Scottish Life in funds said to 
be consistent with her attitude to risk, in May 2013.
RFS approached PFL on Mrs Ss behalf in January 2020. It raised several concerns about 
the advice shed been given in 2013. For example, it said the transfer of her OPS benefits 
had been expensive and unnecessary. And it questioned the validity of the insistent client 
process followed.
PFL sent Mrs Ss representative its final response to her complaint on 26 March 2020. In 
summary, it rejected her case and said:
The key reasons [for not upholding her complaint] are as follows:
-There is clear evidence [we] advised Mrs S not to transfer.
-[We] investigated alternative ways of fulfilling Mr and Mrs Ss objectives.
-Mrs S confirmed her understanding of the report produced by [us].
-The case was completed on an insistent client basis, the implications of which were 
explained to Mrs S and she confirmed her understanding.
An Investigator considered Mrs Ss case. He thought the evidence showed Mrs S was an 
insistent client. He thought that even if PFL had refused to facilitate the transfer shed have 
gone ahead anyway. He didnt uphold her complaint.
RFS, on behalf of Mrs S, disagreed. So, her complaint was passed to me to review. I issued 
provisional decisions in January and April. Both parties provided further submissions, which 
Ive considered as part of this final decision.
In addition to its arguments about the merits of this case, PFL raised a late challenge about 
whether Mrs S had brought her complaint in time. It also made serious allegations about the 
conduct her representative and the status of her case.
Why I can look at this complaint
Our service was set up by Parliament under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 
(FSMA). Its important to make clear that as a public body we dont have a general, at large, 
power to investigate any complaint. We can only investigate what FSMA and the rules made 
under it say we can  this sets the boundaries of our scheme. And we have no legal power 
to investigate complaints that are beyond our jurisdiction.
FSMA gives the FCA the power to say what complaints we can and cant consider. The FCA 
has set these out in the Dispute Resolution chapter of the FCA Handbook (also known as 
DISP or the DISP rules).
If a business doesnt consent, this Service cant consider a complaint which isnt made within 
specified time limits. Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:
-more than:
osix years after the event complained of; or (if later)
othree years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint; 
unless: in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in 
DISP 2.8.2 R or DISP 2.8.7 R was as a result of exceptional circumstances.
Mrs S is worried shes lost out because of the advice she received from PFL to transfer her 
OPS benefits in 2013.
Taking the six-year rule first, a complaint is out of time if its referred to our Service more 
than six years after the event complained about. Thats unless the complaint was referred to 
the respondent business within that period and the complainant has a written 
acknowledgement or other record of the complaint having been received.Mrs Ss complaint was raised with PFL in January 2020. It issued a final response to her in 
March 2020. As the advice complained about happened in 2013, her case is out of time on 
the six-year limb of the test.
Turning to the three-year test. When considering if Mrs S had a cause for complaint, that 
means whether she was aware of, or ought reasonably to have become aware, there was a 
problem; that she had suffered or may have suffered a loss; and that someone was 
responsible for this problem (and who that was).
I need to decide when Mrs S became aware, or ought reasonably to have become aware, 
that she had a cause to complain. And having established that date, determine whether she 
brought her complaint within three years of it.
In making its initial case to time bar Mrs Ss complaint, PFL said:
the events complained about occurred on 22nd February/4th March 2013 and the 
complaint was initiated on 30th January 2020, outside the 6 year limitation setThe 3 year 
limitationhas clearly been met following the press coverage of the British Steel Pension 
Scheme scandal et al. It is my submission therefore the case falls outside the FOSs 
jurisdiction.
Ive considered what PFL has said, but I dont find the case it makes for time-barring Mrs Ss 
complaint a strong one. What was it about the British Steel Pension Scheme scandal that 
was meant to ring alarm bells for Mrs S about what had happened to her local government 
pension? PFL hasnt done enough to demonstrate what shouldve triggered her awareness, 
when and why.
In responding to enquiries from this Service about why Mrs S complained to PFL about the 
advice she received, RSF said:
Mrs S and Mr S have been clients of Emcas since 2015 (Rightside took over the business 
of EMCAS in April 2019)we have submitted varying financial claims for both, [and] in 
subsequent discussions with Mrs S it was discovered that her pension had been transferred. 
A DSAR request was sent to Royal London for documentation in September 2019. Upon 
reviewing these documents, it was seen that Mrs S had been advised whilst still working for 
the local authority to transfer away from her OPS into a personal pension / drawdown 
arrangement. It was apparent that this transfer was not in Mrs S best interest and following 
further discussions a DSAR request was sent to PI Financial.
In responding to my provisional decision PFL said:
[Mrs S] was a client since 2015 of EMC Advisory Services (EMCAS) a claims 
management company. It is fair to deduce that in 2015 [she] believed she had cause to 
complain and sought the advice of EMCAS. Therefore under DISP 2.8.2R the complaint 
does not fall within the FOSs jurisdiction.
I dont agree with PFLs reading of the statement RSF provided on behalf of Mrs S. I dont 
think the clock starts for a consumer for all possible financial disputes that might emerge at 
the point that they engage a claims management company. As the testimony makes clear, 
Mrs S and her husband had been a client of EMCAS and then RFS since 2015, but that was 
initially in relation to other matters.
Based on the evidence available to me, I think Mrs S became aware there mightve been a 
problem with the services shed received from PFL after RSF had obtained and reviewed paperwork from her personal pension provider, towards the end of 2019. And she made her 
complaint within three years of this.
This Service can consider Mrs Ss complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information concerning the events complained about and gaps in 
what we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
PFL allegations concerning conduct of RFS
Before moving on to address the merits of this complaint - and doing so in light of 
submissions from both parties in response to my provisional decisions  I need to address 
the allegations PFL has made about the conduct of Mrs Ss representative.
PFL has told this Service it is gravely concerned about RFSs role in representing Mrs S. It 
challenges the authenticity of the claims it says were created. It suggests Mrs S has been 
coerced into bringing a complaint, which is says is fabricated. It has even called into 
question whether it was in contact with her.
PFL has provided a record of contacts it had with Mrs S after it had received the subject 
access request (SAR) from RFS on her behalf. Its adviser said:
Since the initial SAR I had spoken to both Mr & Mrs S on 12/11/19 who stated that they 
didnt know anything about a complaint and where relatively unsure as to who Rightside 
were and that it must have been a cold call and to just dis-regard the request. I had 
explained that we couldnt do this and that they would have to contact them directly which 
they confirmed they would do.
I then spoke to them on 18/11/19 where they said that they had emailed Rightside twice to 
end their agreement but had no response so they had just given up trying so I asked them 
to email me a copy of these emails but they did not materialise. Again, they stated that there 
was no issue with the advice and that the issue was with RL and the tax payable on the full 
withdrawal so I explained that I would send them a letter outlining our discussions etc. so 
that we could confirm to Rightside that there was not an issue with our advice .
Mrs S never responded to PFLs letter, which wouldve confirmed she had no complaint 
against it. Its adviser then began to question Mrs S and her husbands motives, as well as 
RFSs approach:
On 17/12/19 Rightside had sent an email to Pi to say that I had been making threatening 
phone calls which is ridiculous as per the description of calls above which were all to assist 
and explore the reasoning behind the SAR.I find it strange that they[Mrs and Mr S] have completely changed their story since speaking 
to Rightside who are obviously coaching them as to what their recollection now seems to be 
when during every contact with them they had stated that it was not an issue with the advice. 
I also feel that there are some contradictions in what they have said they have done and 
what they have actually done i.e. did they really email Rightside as they never did send over 
a copy of the email nor did they return the letter I had sent to confirm my understanding?
Also is it true that they didnt know anything about it or are they just saying this as they have 
been questioned as to their intended outcome? Unfortunately, the only ones who can 
answer this are [Mr & Mrs S] but I would suggest that they seem capable of changing their 
version of events to suit the situation to their advantage and that Rightside will be assisting 
with how to do this within the CMC world!
At this point I should make it clear; I wont be drawn into a dispute involving serious 
allegations between different business entities. Both parties will know this is not my role. 
Ultimately, such matters can be tested through the courts should either wish to go that route.
But in light of the matters raised by PFL, I needed to assure myself as far as reasonably 
possible about the conduct of RFS insofar as to any effect this mayve had on Mrs S and the 
development of her complaint.
As such Ive asked Mrs S to respond to a number of questions, including about how her 
complaint arose (which Ive already covered), her observations about PFLs interaction with 
her following RFSs involvement and whether her relationship with it remained in place.
RFS told this Service:
Mr & Mrs S were reluctant to engage with [PFLs adviser] once they established that the 
pension transfer he facilitated was unsuitable advice stating he gave me so much hassle I 
kept putting the phone down. To the extent that Mr S had to tell [the adviser] not to contact 
them anymorewhen asked had she been pressured by Rightside to complain or continue 
[Mrs S] confirmed that this was not the case.
Ive listened to the phone call RFS had with Mrs S to get answers to my questions. Mrs S did 
indicate her frustration with PFL when it started to contact her about the complaint. She 
confirmed it was still a live matter. And that she was happy with RFSs representation.
Ive found no basis to dismiss Mrs Ss complaint based on the evidence Ive been provided 
with about it or RFSs involvement in her case.
I note in its last submission, PFL continue to argue that RFS has misrepresented facts and 
has sort to confuse Mrs S and this Service. In light of such serious allegations it will no doubt 
be considering what action to take. 
PFL has requested copies of communications between Mrs S and RFS. Where Ive 
considered these are material to my decision, then I think its reasonable to share these  
although as such it will be aware of the key contents. The Investigator will make necessary 
arrangements.
PFL has again requested an oral hearing, which it says would provide this Service with an 
opportunity to hear Mrs Ss version of events without being coached by RFS. I would note 
that its her right to be represented in our process. It is also in receipt of my letter from March 
setting out the purpose and operation of hearings. And setting out why Id concluded that a 
hearing was unnecessary. My conclusion hasnt changed.
How does the regulatory framework inform the consideration of Mrs Ss case?The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by PFL for Mrs S. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, 
which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA 
Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2 - which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 6 - which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7  which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
PFL acknowledges the importance of the principles as guidance. It says the FCAs 
enforcement guide says that as such, it isnt mandatory and an authorised firm isnt required 
to adhere to every word. It doesnt go on to develop its point by telling me what elements of 
the regulatory guidance it hasnt felt necessary to follow. So, its difficult for me to respond 
specifically to it in this regard.
Suffice to say, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that 
existed at the relevant time. They must always be considered by regulated firms like PFL.
As such, I need to have regard to them in deciding Mrs Ss complaint.
In responding to my provisional decision, PFL said I had referred to pension transfer 
suitability rules from October 2020, noting that its advice had been provided in 2013. I hope 
it is helpful for me to provide it with the relevant regulation in full, which was actually 
established in 2007:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme whether to transfer or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming 
that a transfer or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer or 
opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the 
transfer or opt-out is in the client's best interests.
In responding to my provisional decision, PFL said that I was referring to later regulations 
about the preparation and provision of a transfer analysis. For the avoidance of doubt, Ive 
reproduced in full the requirements of COBS 19.1.2 at the relevant time, when it gave Mrs S 
advice in 2013. It was required to:
(1) Compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined 
benefits pension scheme with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme or 
stakeholder pension scheme , before it advises a retail client to transfer out of a defined 
benefits pension scheme;
(2) Ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to make 
an informed decision;
(3) Give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the client's attention to the factors that 
do and do not support the firm's advice, no later than when the key features document is 
provided; and
(4) Take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison and 
its advice.
In simple terms, PFL had to assess the benefits likely to be paid and options available under 
the OPS and compare this with those available under the new arrangements proposed 
before it advised Mrs S on what to do.Further, COBS 2.1.1 R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment business carried on 
for a retail client. The definition of designated investment business includes arranging 
(bringing about) deals in investments.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same things that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the advice 
was suitable. In summary, the business must obtain the necessary information regarding: 
the consumers knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice; 
their financial situation; and their investment objectives.
Did PFL adhere to the regulatory requirements placed on it?
In short, I dont think PFL met the regulatory requirements placed on it. Ill explain why. 
There are several documents relating to PFLs transaction with Mrs S that are important to 
my consideration, these include the Financial Planning Questionnaire, risk assessment, 
suitability letters and other forms and letters it used in its advice process.
At the time of PFLs advice Mrs S was 60 years old and her chosen retirement age was said 
to be 65. She was married with no financial dependants. Mrs S worked as a carer earning 
around £17,000 a year.
Although there wasnt a detailed income and expenditure analysis conducted, nor was 
information for her husband collected (who also worked for the council), the fact-find does 
record that based on Mrs Ss earnings alone, there was a net monthly disposable income of 
around £160.
Mrs and Mr S were homeowners. The value of their property was recorded as £78,000. They 
had an interest only mortgage of around £36,000. To cover this, they had an endowment 
policy, which was due to mature in March 2013. They expected this to leave a shortfall of 
around £11,000.
Mrs S was a member of the Local Government Pension Scheme in 2013. Shed accrued 
around nine years of pensionable service (it appears largely in part time roles). As at 
February 2013 the cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of her benefits were around 
£50,700. This was her only pension provision.
Mrs S was said to be happy with her OPS but wanted immediate access to as large a cash 
lump sum as was possible. This was to pay off the balance of her mortgage. Other reasons 
for Mrs S wanting to transfer her pension benefits were recorded, including flexible access, 
taking control of her funds and generally wanting to enjoy the money now rather than later.
I find these additional stated reasons in part inconsistent and unconvincing. Im not 
persuaded they added real weight to her motivation for the transaction. Its straightforward 
from what Ive seen Mrs Ss primary driver was clearing her residual mortgage.
PFL says that it advised Mrs S not to go ahead with the transfer of her pension. It told her 
shed be losing valuable benefits. It said she understood but said the reasons for transferring 
were more important to her than future benefits. Mrs S had been an insistent client. And PFL 
notes she signed letters to this effect after it had recommended she shouldnt proceed.
Ive thought carefully about what PFL has said. This isnt a clear cut case and its arguments 
arent without merit. Where a firm decides to transact with a customer on an insistent client basis, it should 
communicate with them:
- In terms that are clear, fair and not misleading.
- Having regard for the information needs of the client such that the client can 
understand.
- That it hasnt recommended the transaction and that it will not be in accordance with 
the personal recommendation.
- The reasons why it isnt in accordance with that personal recommendation.
- The risks of the transaction proposed by the client.
- The reasons why it didnt recommend the transaction.
PFL also needed to obtain Mrs Ss acknowledgement that the transaction wouldnt be in 
accordance with the personal recommendation given by it; and the transaction was being 
carried out at her request. I think this acknowledgement is better if in Mrs Ss own words.
Ive thought carefully about what PFL did and what its said about the insistent client process 
it followed. I do have some concerns about it. And, on balance, Ive concluded it was flawed. 
I say this because:
- Theres no evidence Mrs S was knowledgeable in pension or investment matters.
- While its communication with Mrs S did set out its recommendation for her not to 
proceed with the transfer, this was somewhat undermined by information in the same 
letter that should would still be able to access her benefits.
- There are significant gaps in the information Mrs S received, for example in terms of 
the benefits she was giving up and retirement planning. So how could her decision 
making be said to be fully informed?
- The shortfall on Mrs and Mr Ss mortgage was very modest. And given the health of 
their household finances its not plausible there werent better alternatives available 
to them for bridging the gap. I cant see their options were properly explored.
Ill now consider these findings in a little more detail.
In relation to Mrs Ss experience of pension and investment matters, PFL noted that she had 
an endowment policy, had witnessed a shortfall in value due to its performance and was a 
member of an OPS scheme. If its asserting anything more than a laypersons understanding 
here, its a thin foundation for doing so.
Theres no evidence Mrs S had knowledge and experience of pension and investment 
matters. I think this wouldve been clear from the information PFL gleaned. This shouldve 
put it on notice that it had to be careful if it was to take matters through the insistent client 
route. And its important context when I consider what happened to her.
Theres no doubt PFLs suitability letter advises Mrs S not to transfer. It told her:
I have recommended that you keep your benefits with the existing scheme in order to get 
the most from your pension when you reach retirement.
PFL went on to set out why she shouldnt transfer. It said her OPS would give her an 
excellent level of benefits when she retired. These came with guarantees such as automatic 
annual increases, death benefits and life cover. It said she may not be able to re-join the 
scheme.But there are other areas of the first suitability report that signpost the facilitation of the 
transfer. For example, under the same recommendation section PFL confirmed it had 
completed a full assessment of the options available to her for transferring her OPS benefits. 
It said:
As explained, I would not recommend that you transfer your benefits to a personal 
pension/stakeholder plan based on your current circumstances. However, for the reasons 
given above, you have asked me to facilitate the transfer for you regardless and recommend 
an appropriate plan based on your insistence that the transfer be made.
I have asked you to put this in writing to me to confirm that you have fully understood my 
recommendation to stay within your existing scheme and that you understand the benefits 
that you are giving up in order to move.
Furthermore, you confirm that if you still insist that I facilitate the transfer of your benefits to 
a personal pension arrangement for you, I cannot be held accountable for the loss of these 
benefits explained and highlighted to you
PFL recommended Mrs S shouldnt transfer her OPS benefits. But in the same suitability 
letter it went on to tell her this could still be done and that it had researched her options. It 
knew Mrs S had a very strong desire to transfer her OPS benefits, because she wanted to 
pay off the balance on her mortgage.
Mrs S ended up signing three insistent client letters. The first was dated 29 January 2013, 
before she received any advice. This confirmed she wanted PFL to conduct the research 
into her pension options and that she was aware that if she chose to transfer from her OPS 
her benefits could be less in retirement.
Mrs S also signed two insistent client letters on 25 February 2013, shortly after receiving 
PFLs first suitability letter. I dont know why there are two versions  perhaps one is less of 
a template and more aligned with what we know of her motivations. Taken together, the 
letters confirmed she was going against PFLs advice. That she understood shed be giving 
up significant benefits. And the reasons why she wanted to press on.
Recently Mrs S has told this Service she cant recall signing any letters stating that the 
adviser didnt recommend she should transfer her pension. I note she doesnt say she didnt 
sign such letters and she hasnt disputed receiving the suitability letters from PFL either. To 
be clear, from what Ive seen, I dont think she was duped into transferring her OPS benefits. 
It seems very clear its what she wanted at the time.
I think a more telling problem for PFL in this case are important information weaknesses. For 
example, in its first suitability report to Mrs S of 22 February 2013 PFL failed to provide her 
with a meaningful comparison of the value of her OPS benefits with the new arrangements.
At the least I wouldve expected to see a critical yield figure  the average annual investment 
return required on the transfer value from the time of advice until retirement, before the 
provider applies its charges, to deliver the same annuity income as the OPS pension would 
have done.
PFL says that this information was provided in its second suitability letter of 4 March 2013. It 
was. But there are two problems. By this time Mrs S had signed another two insistent client 
letters  and I think shed done so without being fully informed about the quantum of benefits 
she was giving up. And even the information it provided her in March wasnt as prominent 
and clear as I wouldve expected.PFL says Mrs S couldve changed her mind at any time without pressure or cost, but she 
insisted the transfer went ahead. I agree, she was motivated to press on, but I think its more 
likely than not she was doing so without being fully informed of the consequences.
I think PFL makes a fair point when it notes certain deficiencies with the information yielded 
from the transfer analysis process. These were reported on by the Regulator and it 
subsequently put in place transfer value comparison requirements which it considered more 
useful to consumers.
But this doesnt mean PFL can rely on these developments to suggest its approach in 2013 
to providing Mrs S with the necessary information for her decision making had been 
adequate  it wasnt. I cant see it effectively moved high level assertions about the 
possibility for Mrs S to be worse off after the transfer, into the realms of practical monetary 
implications for her retirement.
PFL doesnt dispute that the transfer of her OPS benefits was highly likely to significantly 
erode the value of her retirement benefits. But I cant see that Mrs S received a direct 
comparison between her OPS benefits and what would be likely from her new drawdown 
arrangement, at the appropriate time.
PFL says that the CETV was more likely than not discussed with Mrs S. But Ive not seen 
how she was given effective information to be able to weigh properly how far her retirement 
benefits were being eroded or to appreciate the medium and long-term consequences of 
such.
Linked to these weaknesses in providing Mrs S with clear, fair and not misleading 
information, was the absence of effective retirement income planning by PFL. I cant see that 
her required income in retirement is explored. In the evidence provided by PFL Ive seen no 
attempt to get to the bottom of this reasonably fundamental question.
PFL says:
She was taking the benefits immediately and leaving the income to age 65. The figures 
were provided showing her existing scheme benefits and the illustration highlighting the 
possible income at age 65 but taking the PCLS immediately. The existing benefits were 
explained but at the time, she was unable to take her pension directly whilst still working for 
the council).
However, while Mrs S was focussed on the immediate, it was PFLs role to make her 
consider matters over a longer horizon. Ive not seen evidence that PFL effectively advised 
her about the long-term nature of pension planning. The need for a pot of funds to provide 
an income for many years ahead. Ive not seen any analysis about how much her OPS 
wouldve contributed to her retirement income prospects. And Im not convinced that she 
really understood the scale and scope of the benefits she was giving up, including her death 
benefits.
So, PFL hasnt satisfied me that it treated Mrs S fairly by helping her to understand the 
significance of the decision she was about to make. She may have signed an insistent client 
form, but this doesnt absolve it from acting with due care and skill, and in her best interests.
Ill now turn to Mrs Ss financial situation. Ive reviewed the two financial planning 
questionnaires. Ive taken the one dated 29 January 2013 as my reference point since it was 
the later of the two.I note that Mr S wasnt present at the meeting Mrs S had with PFL when the financial 
planning questionnaire was completed. It was recorded that she only wanted to deal with her 
pension at the time and did not want to provide information for her husband. This was a 
significant weakness in the information collected. PFL shouldve got to the bottom of the 
household finances. Ill explain why.
Mrs S earned £17,000 a year and her net earnings after tax were said to be £1,133.
Theres a note from the adviser which says that household outgoings were fully discussed 
and that their overall joint monthly expenditure was in the region of £975.
So, there was a small disposable income based on Mrs Ss earnings alone of around £160 a 
month. And adding Mr Ss income wouldve made the overall position much healthier. I 
understand that he was still working for the council at the time.
Further, while its clear Mrs S had a strong idea about accessing her pension TFC, PFL 
hasnt satisfied me it effectively engaged with her about the range of options open to her. 
Although full information isnt available from the fact-find, it appears she and her husband 
wouldve had a healthy disposable income.
PFL says that if Mrs and Mr S had a healthy disposable income, why was it Mrs S made 
regular withdrawals from her new pension arrangement and cleared the residual funds within 
three years? It argues her actions show she was an insistent client and comfortable making 
her own decisions regarding her pension without the need for advice afterwards.
The problem for PFL here is that it didnt find out what Mrs Ss household income was. Ive 
concluded the driver for the transfer of her DB pension was the shortfall on their endowment. 
This was relatively small  recorded as £11,000 at the time (although I understand was 
actually nearer £9,000). Ive not seen evidence PFL effectively identified alternative ways of 
meeting Mrs S and her husbands immediate priority to pay off their residual mortgage.
Rather than listing possible options and her apparent dismissal of these, Id expect to have 
seen a meaningful analysis of the costs and benefits of the lead alternatives, compared 
against accessing her TFC and the impact on her pension benefits, which would be so 
important for her retirement. Again, without this information how could she make a fully 
informed decision?
PFLs adviser recorded in the fact-find that he strongly advised Mrs S against transferring 
her OPS benefits and resigning from the scheme because:
it would have a very detrimental effect on her future benefits and the security and 
guarantees that she has at present, however she is adamant that I facilitate the move for her 
as her immediate priority is the only important one to her regardless of how this would affect 
her future pension.
PFLs role was to discern what Mrs Ss wants and needs were, and why. Its role wasnt 
simply to facilitate what she wanted without any critical thinking. It had to do these things 
because it had to act in her best interests. Even though it recommended Mrs S shouldnt 
transfer her OPS benefits, I dont think its demonstrably met these obligations.
PFL was in a good position to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Mrs S about 
what was in her best interest for retirement planning. And certainly, when early access to 
benefits is contemplated, there need to be compelling reasons, that has been demonstrated 
here.PFL cant rely on its recommendation to Mrs S not to transfer to say that full advice wasnt 
required or that failings didnt matter. While PFL acknowledged the transfer of Mrs Ss OPS 
wasnt suitable, there were failings in the advice process which meant she wasnt fully 
informed about her position and I think its more likely than not the effect of fuller information 
and better analysis wouldve been significant to her decision making.
On balance, given these failings, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to conclude the 
process PFL followed meant that Mrs S can truly be regarded as an insistent client. Its 
communications werent clear or fair. It didnt act in her best interests. And it failed to act with 
due care and skill.
I note PFLs initial advice fee was linked to Mrs Ss decision about whether to transfer her 
OPS benefits - if she proceeded it would be paid. Its recorded she was charged 7.5% of the 
transfer value of her funds, or nearly £4,000 for the initial transaction. And there were 
additional fees from her new pension provider and her investment funds to consider. Im 
mindful of the scale of these fees when set against her desire to access £11,000.
These charges wouldve eroded her pension benefits even further. PFL failed to provide a 
clear comparison of the fees she would incur in the new arrangements with her former 
pension plan.
I think that if PFL had given Mrs S appropriate fully formed advice, she wouldnt have gone 
ahead with the transfer of her OPS benefits. Thats because it wouldve brought home to her 
the damage she would be doing to her retirement prospects. And shed have had access to 
better information about how to deal with the modest mortgage repayment shortfall she and 
her husband faced.
Given what it knew, PFL also had the option not to transact with Mrs S on an insistent client 
basis, which again wouldve reinforced the seriousness of the situation she was straying into.
To conclude I dont think the transfer of Mrs Ss OPS benefits could sensibly be regarded as 
fair to her. As such I think PFL failed to meet the regulatory requirements placed on it when 
providing her with advice and making the arrangements.
So, taking all the circumstances of the case into account, on balance its reasonable to 
uphold this complaint against PFL and for it to put things right.
Putting things right 
Mrs S needs to be returned to the position she wouldve been in now - or as close to that as 
reasonably possible  had it not been for the failures which I hold Pi Financial Ltd 
responsible for.
I consider Mrs S wouldve remained in her OPS. Pi Financial Ltd should therefore undertake 
a redress calculation in line with the pension review methodology, as updated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to 
calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mrs Ss acceptance of the decision.
PFL should contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mrs Ss 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mrs Ss SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible 
be paid into Mrs Ss pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs S as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% 
would have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to 
be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects 
this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mrs S within 90 days of the date 
PFL receives notification of her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes PFL to 
pay Mrs S.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mrs Ss complaint. And I require Pi 
Financial Ltd to put things right in the way Ive directed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman