DRN-3740948
The complaint
Mr T complains about the advice Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited gave in connection with 
the transfer of the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a 
financial loss.
Professional representatives have helped Mr T to bring this complaint. But, for ease of 
reading, I will refer to the representatives comments as being Mr Ts. 
What happened
Mr T was a deferred member of his former employers DB scheme. In 1996 he was working 
for the advising firm who provided the advice he is now complaining about. Aviva has since 
acquired that firm and taken responsibility for the advising firms actions. So, although it 
wasn't Aviva who gave Mr T advice, as its responsible for responding to the complaint I will 
only refer to it within this decision.
Mr T spoke with Avivas adviser in early March 1996. Aviva gathered information about his 
entitlement from his DB scheme and obtained a transfer value analysis report (TVAS). It 
also completed a fact-find with Mr T and recorded his attitude to risk as being seven out of 
ten (with one being low and ten being high). Aviva noted that Mr Ts DB scheme had a cash 
equivalent transfer value of around £8,652. It recorded that he would like to retire at age 55, 
ahead of the DB schemes earliest retirement age of 60. Mr T met with Aviva again later in 
March 1996. It told him that it couldnt recommend a transfer but that Mr T wanted to go 
ahead and transfer anyway.
In April 1996 Aviva gave Mr T a letter setting out his advice and the reasons for it. Such 
letters are usually known in the industry as suitability reports, so that's the term Ill use here. 
Aviva said that given the high growth rates (the critical yield) required to match the benefits 
from the DB scheme it couldnt recommend that Mr T should transfer his DB funds to a 
personal pension. The report said Mr T had already decided to go ahead with the transfer 
anyway. Aviva warned him that hed be giving up safeguarded benefits by doing so. Mr T 
signed the forms to transfer his DB funds to a personal pension that day. 
In 2021 Mr T complained to Aviva. In short he said the advice to transfer out of his DB 
scheme wasn't suitable for him as it wasnt in his best interests. Aviva replied. It didnt 
uphold Mr Ts complaint. It said its advice in 1996 was that Mr T should not transfer out of 
his DB scheme. But it noted that Mr T went ahead with that transfer against its advice. 
Mr T brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. He thought there 
were some flaws in Avivas advice process. But he also thought Mr T would have gone 
ahead with the transfer anyway. So the investigator recommended that Mr Ts complaint 
should not be upheld. 
Mr T disagreed with our investigators assessment. The investigator wasnt persuaded to 
change his opinion, so the complaint was referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In bringing this complaint Mr Ts made a number of detailed points. While I've considered 
everything on file, in this decision I dont intend to address each issue individually. Instead I 
will focus on what I see as being the key points at the heart of Mr Ts complaint and the 
reasons for my decision.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of all of the rules and regulations which applied at the 
time of the advice  but it provides useful context for my assessment of Aviva's actions here.
Aviva provided advice in 1996. At that time the relevant regulator was the Personal 
Investment Authority (PIA). The PIA adopted the rules of the previous regulators.
The adopted rules included a Code of Conduct. This required advisers to exercise due skill, 
care and diligence and deal fairly with investors and to give best advice. The rules said 
that advisers should not advise customers to transfer an occupational pension unless they 
genuinely believed it was in the customers best interest and providing they had clearly 
disclosed all relevant consequences and disadvantages. 
The rules also set out what firms should do when transacting business on an insistent client 
basis. That is where a person decided to go against the advice given by a financial adviser. 
The rules said that firms should confirm their advice in writing and be able to show evidence 
of the clients decision to override its advice. 
Did Aviva recommend the transfer as being financially viable for Mr T?
At the time Mr T complained to Aviva in 2021, he said its advice was that he should transfer 
his DB scheme funds because doing so could achieve much better returns for him. But that 
position isn't supported by the paperwork.
The TVAS that Aviva obtained in March 1996, and which Mr T received a copy of, showed 
that, at the DB schemes earliest retirement age of 60, it was estimated to pay him a yearly 
pension of £13,526. The critical yield (the investment return) required to match that from a 
personal pension would be 12.29%. 
At that time the regulators upper projection rate was 12%, the middle rate was 9% and the 
lower projection rate was 6%. So in order for a transfer to be financially viable a personal 
pension would have to regularly perform above the regulators upper limit for projection rates 
year on year. That was a very unlikely prospect.
Further the TVAS shows that If Mr T invested in a personal pension and it managed to grow 
at 12% (the regulators upper projection rate) a year then that would pay him a yearly 
pension of £11,500. That sum is over £2,000 a year less than the DB scheme would pay. 
Further if the personal pension performance dropped to the regulators low projection of 6% then the TVAS said Mr Ts pension entitlement could fall to £1,100 a year or over £12,400 a 
year less than he could expect from his DB scheme. And I think that paints a clear picture 
that Mr T was more likely than not to be substantially worse off by transferring out of the DB 
scheme.
Also, Aviva noted when completing a fact-find questionnaire with Mr T that, given the critical 
yield required, it couldnt recommend he should transfer his pension. Similarly, Avivas 
suitability report repeated that it couldnt recommend a transfer but that Mr T wanted to go 
ahead anyway, given his speculative risk appetite and his desire to retire early.
So I'm satisfied that Aviva did not recommend that Mr T should transfer out of his DB 
scheme. In fact the weight of evidence is that Aviva advised him to do the opposite and 
remain in his DB scheme but Mr T wanted to go ahead with that anyway.
Did Aviva go through the insistent client process fairly?
At the time the regulators rules required Aviva to confirm its advice in writing and also to be 
able to show evidence that Mr T had decided to override that advice.
There's no doubt that Aviva confirmed its advice in writing to Mr T, as this is clearly set out in 
its suitability report. Its apparent that Aviva discussed its advice with Mr T and said that it 
wasnt in his best interests to transfer out of the DB scheme at one of their earlier meetings, 
when it recorded that on the fact-find questionnaire. But, in spite of that, Mr T chose to go 
ahead with the transfer. 
Avivas record of exactly what it discussed with Mr T is brief. And, other than noting that the 
critical yield was too high, it hasnt gone into much detail about why transferring wasnt in his 
best interests. So its not possible to say how detailed an explanation it gave Mr T about the 
risks of going ahead with the DB transfer at that time. But its notable that Mr T gave his own 
hand-written and signed statement setting out why he wanted to transfer. He said that was 
because he wanted to retire at 55, but the DB scheme would only allow retirement from age 
60. He added that he knew his funds would need to perform at a certain yield, which he 
was happy with. In other words hed set out that he knew his funds would need to grow at a 
specific level in order to match the benefits hed be giving up. And I think this is evidence 
that Mr T did want to go ahead with the transfer regardless that Avivas advice was that he 
shouldnt do so. But that doesn't mean the process was flawless.
Its evident that Aviva provided Mr T with its suitability report on the same day that he applied 
to go ahead with the transfer. And in those circumstances he had no real time to digest that 
information before deciding to go against the advice. That said I've noted that Mr T gave his 
hand-written statement saying why he wanted to go ahead with the transfer against Avivas 
advice around three weeks earlier and, in the meantime, hed clearly met with Aviva again. 
So I think its likely that in the intervening period Mr T would have developed a good idea of 
what he was doing and why that was against Avivas advice. Although I think Aviva could 
have improved that understanding by giving Mr T its suitability report first and only after hed 
had time to read and digest that considered arranging the transfer.
Further, it seems that Mr Ts main driver for transferring was because his DB scheme 
wouldnt allow retirement before age 60, when Mr Ts desire was to retire at age 55. In 
response to our investigators assessment of the complaint Mr Ts said he didnt ever intend 
to retire at 55. But Im not persuaded by Mr Ts recollection here. Theres evidence from the 
questionnaire Aviva completed with Mr T that his chosen retirement age was 55. The TVAS 
refers to Mr Ts desire to retire at 55 and says that it couldnt do a comparison with his DB 
scheme because that didnt allow retirement at 55. Those things show that Mr Ts objective 
to retire at age 55 was consistent throughout. Also when Mr T provided his own hand-written statement saying why he wanted to go 
against Avivas advice, he said that was because he wanted to retire at age 55. In response 
to our investigator's assessment Mr T said that Aviva dictated what to write in his 
statement. I'm not persuaded by that. I appreciate Aviva gave its advice more than 25 years 
before Mr T complained about it. And memories naturally fade and are coloured by the 
passage of time. So it wouldnt be surprising if Mr T can't remember everything that took 
place or was going on at the time. For example, in his complaint to Aviva in 2021 Mr T said 
that, at the time of the advice, he was working in an entirely different job and industry to the 
position he was actually in back in March 1996. Further, he also said that Aviva had advised 
him to transfer for the much better returns that he would receive. But its advice was that he 
should not do so because hed likely be worse off and would lose guaranteed benefits. It 
follows that Im not persuaded Aviva did dictate to Mr T telling him to write down that he 
wanted to retire at 55 when he didnt. 
Further, the application form Mr T signed to move his DB funds to a personal pension also 
said he wanted to retire at age 55. And there's no evidence Mr T sought to challenge that 
evidence at the time. And I think that if that information  that Mr T wanted to retire at age 55 
 was incorrect he would have objected to its repeated inclusion in the paperwork at some 
point. 
That said, I think Aviva could have done more to challenge Mr T about his preference to 
retire at age 55 and to transfer his DB funds in order to do so. At the time he was still only 28 
years old. He still had 27 years until he was 55 and almost 32 years until the DB schemes 
normal retirement age of 60. So he had no urgent need to transfer his safeguarded and risk 
free pension in order to fulfil a wish to retire early when that was many years away  and 
especially when that would almost certainly see him worse off. Aviva should have made it 
clear to Mr T that early retirement  and transferring out of his DB scheme in order to allow 
that  was something he could have reconsidered when nearer to retirement age if he so 
wished. But theres no evidence Aviva pointed that out to him. And, in order to advise him 
fairly I think thats something it should have done.
What action would Mr T have taken if Avivas advice had been flawless?
At the time Mr T sought advice he was working for the advising firm (which was later 
acquired by Aviva). Mr T told us he wasnt a financial adviser but was a consultant and that 
he didn't have the relevant permissions or knowledge to give pension transfer advice. While I 
accept Mr Ts evidence that he may not have been qualified to give pension advice he was 
working as a financial services professional. Further, I note that on several of Avivas 
documents Mr T is recorded as an adviser or FA (financial adviser), and another internal 
document shows that Mr T was entitled to receive 50% of the commission for setting up the 
new personal pension policy. Given these factors, I think Mr T would have had a greater 
level of experience and knowledge than the majority of customers.
Mr T told us that he didnt recall receiving a commission payment for the transfer. But the 
evidence from Avivas file is that he was entitled to a commission payment of around £435. 
And while thats not a small sum, its not so large to be impossible to forget receiving it over 
a period of more than 25 years. So, I think its more likely than not that Mr T was entitled to a 
commission payment for setting up the policy, even if he can't remember receiving it. And 
that this also was a motivating factor in transferring out as, if he hadn't gone ahead with the 
transfer he wouldn't receive the commission.
In response to our investigator's assessment Mr T said a senior colleague advised him to 
transfer his DB funds to one of Avivas products. Mr T said his colleague told him that doing 
so would demonstrate he would fit the firms culture and show commitment to his potential clients by having one of the companys products. But I don't find this evidence persuasive. 
The evidence on file is that Aviva told him not to transfer and that hed be worse off by doing 
so. And I note that Mr T only raised this point after our investigator issued his assessment 
saying he wasnt upholding it. I think this would have been something Mr T was likely to have 
raised much earlier if it was a key driver for him transferring. And, given he was working 
within the financial services industry, I think he'd have appreciated that it wouldn't make 
sense to make himself deliberately worse off in retirement simply to fit his employers culture 
or to show he had one of the companys products. 
That said despite Mr Ts employment at the time he was still entitled to receive robust advice 
tailored to his needs and objectives. But I think his job also meant he would have attained a 
certain level of knowledge to better understand the risks inherent with any pension decisions 
he took, regardless that he wasnt a pensions specialist himself. And I think that knowledge 
would also have helped Mr T to challenge the advice at the time, if he felt it wasnt suitable. 
In fact the evidence is that he did challenge the advice and chose to go against it.
In this instance the information from the TVAS and the regulators projections, indicated that 
Mr T was likely to be considerably worse off by transferring in retirement. And I think Mr T 
should have understood that, even if he didnt fully grasp the methodology or the terminology 
in the TVAS report. But he chose to go against Avivas advice and transfer anyway. So, 
while there were gaps in Avivas advice, I think that, even if that hadn't been the case, Mr T 
most likely had enough knowledge and information to make an informed decision. It follows 
that I'm not persuaded Mr T only transferred out of his DB scheme as a result of any flaws in 
Avivas advice process. In other words I think he would have gone ahead with the transfer 
regardless of Avivas advice. It follows that I don't think hes in a worse position now because 
of Avivas actions.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman