DRN-4074332
The complaint
Mrs G complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with Marsh Finance Ltd, who Ill call Marsh.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Marsh, but I think they need to put things right for Mrs G. Ill explain 
why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs G acquired her car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Marsh, who are also the supplier 
of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if 
they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into 
account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mrs G. The car here was about 
ten years old and had already completed about 92,400 miles. So, I dont think a reasonable 
person would expect it to be fault free, as might perhaps be the case with a brand new car.
The relevant legislation gave Mrs G a short term right to reject the car within the first 30 days 
if it was of unsatisfactory quality. Mrs G took receipt of the car on 17 June 2022 and first 
complained about the issues with it on 2 July 2022, within 30 days. She told the broker that 
she would accept repairs if they were covered by the warranty but if not, she wanted to reject 
the car. The issues werent all covered by the warranty, so I think Mrs G made a request to 
reject the car within 30 days.
Ive considered whether the car was of unsatisfactory quality, and I think it was. The invoice 
Mrs G obtained from a third party garage explained that:
Aux belt perished, needs replacing, timing chain needs replacing  please check, rear discs.
Passenger wing mirror needs replacing. Bang coming from gearbox.
As Mrs G hadnt been in possession of the car for very long I think it was for Marsh to 
demonstrate those faults were wear and tear issues or that theyd developed since Mrs G 
took receipt of the car, and therefore didnt make it of unsatisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. I dont think they have. 
A couple of inspections have been arranged since the car broke down in October 2022. The 
first inspection failed to assess the gearbox issue as the car couldnt be started, and the 
second inspection was curtailed when the car went into limp mode due to a Diesel 
Particulate Filter (DPF) fault, that wasnt something Mrs G had raised within the first 30 days. 
The inspector was, however, able to provide some commentary on the gearbox issues Mrs 
G had reported. He noted that after about seven miles of driving a jolt was evident when 
changing gears and he said: 
we found that the transmission had a harsh drive take-up and was sluggish to change 
gear, which is indicative of the transmission clutches approaching end of their in- service life, 
it would appear that the vehicle has covered 8000 miles since the date of purchase, and 
noted in conjunction with the fact that having to replace transmission clutches in a vehicle at 
has covered well over a hundred thousand miles would not be classed as unusual, this is not 
the responsibility of the sales agent to rectify.
I cant see that the inspector took into account that the gearbox issue was first reported by 
Mrs G within the first 30 days, when I think its fair to suggest she wouldnt have completed 
many miles in the car. I dont think a reasonable person would think a car with transmission 
issues was of satisfactory quality if those problems were present as soon as they took 
receipt of the car. 
On that basis I dont think Marsh have been able to demonstrate the faults first reported 
within 30 days didnt make the car of unsatisfactory quality. They should therefore allow Mrs 
G to reject the car.
Putting things right
Marsh should collect the car at no cost to Mrs G and they should end the finance agreement.
Theyll need to refund any deposit Mrs G has paid and, as shes been deprived of that 
money, they will need to add interest to that refund.
Mrs G hasnt been able to use the car since it broke down on 21 October 2022. Its not fair 
for her to have been paying for a car she couldnt use, so Marsh should refund any finance 
instalments shes paid since 21 October 2022 and waive any that were due but havent been 
paid. Theyll need to add interest to the refund as Mrs G has been deprived of that money.
I think Mrs G has been inconvenienced by these issues. Shes had to take the car to a 
couple of garages for investigations and shes had to escalate her complaint to this service 
when I think it should have been resolved earlier. In the circumstances, I think Marsh should 
pay her £250 in compensation.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Marsh Finance Ltd to:
Allow Mrs G to reject the car and end the finance agreement.
Collect the car at no cost to Mrs G.
Refund any deposit that has been paid and add 8% simple interest per year from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund any finance instalments paid since 21 October 2022, waive any that were 
due but havent been paid. Add 8% simple interest per year to the refund from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Mrs G £250 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes 
experienced.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mrs Gs credit file in relation to 
this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman