DRN-3613972
The complaint
Mr Bs complained that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) didnt deal properly 
with a claim he made on his home emergency policy when his boiler stopped working.
What happened
In spring 2022 Mr Bs boiler stopped working.  His policy with Admiral included emergency 
boiler cover.  So he contacted Admiral to make a claim under the policy.
Admiral arranged for an engineer to come and inspect the boiler and make temporary 
repairs.  But the engineer concluded that it was beyond economic repair.  Mr B told Admiral 
he didnt agree with that assessment.  Admiral explained how he could challenge it.
Mr B contacted an alternative company Ill call G, who determined the boiler could be 
repaired and ordered the parts needed to do that.  But G said they didnt do one-off repairs.  
So Mr B took out a one year policy for cover with them at a cost of £366.81 to have the boiler 
repaired under its terms.
Mr B sent the details of the policy with G to Admiral and requested reimbursement of this 
amount  which he said was cheaper than having a one-off repair done.  When they 
received this, Admiral said Mr B had voided their contract by buying cover from G and they 
wouldnt continue to cover the boiler while Gs policy was in force.  And they said they 
wouldnt reimburse Mr B the costs of buying the second policy.
Mr B complained to Admiral, who didnt change their view of what had happened.  So Mr B 
brought his complaint to us.  
Our investigator considered it and concluded Admiral didnt need to do any more to resolve 
the complaint.  He noted that the policy provided cover for temporary repairs  whereas the 
parts and work Mr B had done under his policy with G were a permanent repair.  He noted 
Mr Bs policy with Admiral said that the cost of permanent repairs may be at the 
policyholders own cost  so Mr B hadnt incurred any additional costs as a result of anything 
Admiral had done.
Mr B didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.  Ill explain why.
Ive read the terms of Mr Bs boiler cover.  Its clear that he was covered for emergency work 
which was necessary to temporarily repair damage, up to a maximum of £500.
When Mr B contacted Admiral because the boiler had stopped working, Admiral arranged for 
an engineer to inspect it.  Thats in line with the terms of the policy.  The engineer assessed 
the boiler as being beyond economic repair.
I cant say that assessment was wrong.  But Mr B suspected it was, because the engineer 
contacted him later and offered to supply and fit a replacement.  So I understand why he 
expressed concerns to Admiral.
And I can see that Admiral responded to him promptly and told him what hed need to do if 
he wanted to challenge their engineers assessment.  They told Mr B hed need to:
Appoint a tradesperson  at his own expense  to attend his property and 
investigate;
Have the tradesperson prepare a report of exactly what work was needed to 
complete a temporary repair, including whether there was any faulty workmanship 
or misdiagnosis.
Admiral went on to say they may need to contact the tradesperson and they couldnt confirm 
whether Mr B would be reimbursed for the cost of doing this as, without the evidence 
mentioned, theyd have no reason to doubt what their engineer had reported to them.  
I think that makes it clear what Mr B had to do if he wanted Admiral to question their 
engineers diagnosis.  But I dont think thats what he did.  Rather, he contacted G to inspect 
the boiler.  
Mr B provided Admiral with a copy of Gs worksheet, showing that the engineer had serviced 
the boiler and ordered a replacement part.  Ive studied the worksheet.  I can infer from it that 
the boiler may not have been beyond economic repair.  Admiral have also noted this and 
have amended their record accordingly.
But theres no information in the worksheet about whether a temporary repair would have 
been possible when Admirals engineer attended.  Ive noted the policy is clear that its the 
policyholders responsibility to pay for permanent repairs.  
And I cant rely on what Gs engineer has done, because the policy Mr B bought from them 
provides much wider cover than he had with Admiral, including  for example  an annual 
service and replacement of a boiler that cant be repaired.  So its possible that G did work 
under their policy which Admiral wouldnt have covered under theirs.
But I am satisfied that Mr B didnt provide the information Admiral set out to enable them to 
reconsider their own engineers report.  Admiral made clear that, without this, theyd rely on 
that  so I think its fair they did so.  
For that reason, I dont think Admiral need to contribute towards what Mr B has paid for his 
policy with G.  Nor  as Mr B made a claim which they considered  do Admiral need to 
refund any premium he paid, or do any more to resolve Mr Bs complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint about Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Helen StaceyOmbudsman