DRN-1207033
 
Complaint
Mr S complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax provided him with poor service 
when he asked it to allow his account to remain open.
Background
Mr S has a current account with Halifax. The account had an arranged overdraft facility and 
was managed by Halifaxs Customer Priority Team (CPT). CPT assists customers who are 
experiencing financial difficulties. CPT wrote to Mr S to ask him to contact it. The letter 
explained that if he didnt contact CPT his account would no longer be managed by it and 
the usual fees would be charged.  Mr S was disappointed that he had received this letter and 
he contacted Halifax to complain about this. 
He spoke to a complaint manager. During the conversation Mr S became upset and asked 
for the account to be closed. Halifax explained that the account couldnt be closed until the 
overdrawn balance was cleared. Mr S said he wouldnt clear the balance. Halifax told him 
that, in these circumstances, the account would be referred to the Recoveries Team and a 
default would be reported on his credit file. Mr S didnt think this was fair. Halifax says he 
used inappropriate language so it terminated the call.
A few days later Mr S again approached Halifax. He said that he didnt want his account to 
be closed. Halifax said it considered his request and after further consideration agreed to 
allow his account to remain open. But, Mr S says that he spent long periods of time on 
telephone calls and that promises to return his calls were not honoured. Mr S also says that 
during one of the telephone calls a Halifax staff member suggested that he was sick.  Mr S 
complained about the service that he received.
Halifax investigated his complaints. It agreed that he had received poor service when he had 
phoned to ask for his account to remain open. It also apologised that the staff member had 
asked questions about his health. It paid him £75 as compensation for the poor service. 
Halifax didnt uphold his other complaints. It said that it was right for CPT to send Mr S a 
letter asking him to contact it about the management of his account. Halifax also says that it 
only started the process of closing Mr Ss account after he had asked it to. Halifax says that 
it couldve closed Mr Ss account because he used inappropriate language to its staff.
Mr S was unhappy with the response he received from Halifax and so he referred his 
complaint to us. Our investigator looked into it. She said that Halifax had explained the 
reasons why CPT had sent the letter to Mr S. She also said that £75 was fair and reasonable 
compensation for the poor service that Mr S had received. Mr S disagreed and so the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findingsIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I wont be upholding this 
complaint for mostly the same reasons as our investigator.
Ive listened to the telephone call between Mr S and the complaint manager. I can see that 
Mr S became upset during this call but the complaint manager explained why CPT needed 
him to contact it. During the call Mr S gave a very clear instruction that he wanted his 
account to be closed and the complaint manager explained the implications of his decision. It 
is unfortunate that Mr S used inappropriate language during the call. I appreciate that he was 
upset about what he was being told. But, given how he responded during the call I can 
understand why Halifax chose to end the call. So, I dont think it was unreasonable.
Ive also considered the actions that Halifax took when Mr S asked it to keep his account 
open. It couldve refused to do this. But, it did agree to keep the account open.
Halifax has already accepted that when Mr S contacted it to ask for his account to remain 
open the service he got was poor. It offered to pay him £75 by way of compensation and 
apologised for asking him questions about his health. Ive listened to the calls that he made 
at the time and I agree that the service was poor. The reason for this appears to be that the 
account closure process had already commenced and so it wasnt clear who was managing 
the account. As a result Mr S was kept on hold for long periods and his calls were 
transferred to several teams before he was properly dealt with. This wouldve been 
frustrating for Mr S and meant that he had to spend a long time on the phone. But, I can also 
see that at the end of this process Halifax did consider his request favourably and allowed 
his account to remain open. So, I think that £75 was fair and reasonable compensation for 
the poor service he experienced and I dont require Halifax to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2020.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman