DRN-3618549
The complaint
Mr L complains about the service he received from Ageas Insurance Limited after an 
administrative error on his buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Mr L held a buildings insurance policy taken out via, and administered by, a broker who Ill 
call B. In 2021 he was sent a letter by B on Ageass behalf asking him to contact it about a 
payment. He was then sent a renewal invite, then just two days later a letter explaining his 
policy would be cancelled.
Mr L called up to find out what was going on and was told an administrative error meant his 
payments for the current policy hadnt been taken. He says at first, he was told hed need to 
make up the missed payments in order to be insured. And he said he was offered a new 
policy to make sure he was insured going forward. But he said that policy was subsequently 
declined.
Mr L complained about this. He said the letters he received asking him to call and telling him 
the policy was going to cancel were threatening and contradictory. He said he was worried 
about not being insured for roughly 10 months. Hes unhappy he wasnt offered a new policy 
and hes worried about what effect this might have on his future policies.
Ageas said Mr L was never uninsured. It said it didnt think the letters it sent were either 
threatening or contradictory. It said he wasnt offered a new policy because the risk was no 
longer acceptable to it.
Mr L remained unhappy and brought his complaint to us. He also wasnt happy that Ageas 
didnt respond to one of his letters of complaint.
One of our investigators recommended it be upheld, in part. They too didnt find the letters 
threatening. But they did see how they could be confusing. They confirmed Mr L was insured 
during the time no payments were being taken. They thought Ageas was entitled not to offer 
Mr L a new policy too. But they thought, along with the contradictory letters, that the advice 
given to Mr L when he contacted could have been better and relieved some distress. They 
recommended Ageas pay him £50 compensation.
 Mr L didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I too am upholding it in part. I think the advice and service given to Mr L 
could have been clearer and think an award of £50 compensation is fair. I understand this 
wont be the answer Mr L was hoping for. Ill explain my reasoning.
Mr L was insured during the time he didnt make payments. Ageas has confirmed 
this. Mr L hasnt paid for this cover, so while he may not feel it, this is a benefit.
I appreciate it would be distressing to think you werent insured for 10 months. But 
this isnt something Mr L was aware of for that entire period- hes not had 10 months 
of worry or distress. Im satisfied he was told quickly that he was insured.
I dont find the letters threatening. I appreciate they are worded strongly, but they 
need to be. The letter about needing to speak to Mr L about a payment is important. 
I appreciate hes said a letter explaining the error would have avoided much of this 
distress. And I agree it likely would have. But I wouldnt expect Ages to detail exactly 
what had happened in that letter. I think needing Mr L to call it was a reasonable 
thing to do. And once he called, although the call could have been handled better, I 
think he was given the correct information about being insured. As Ageas didnt hear 
from Mr L following this first letter, it sent a cancellation letter. And Im satisfied thats 
reasonable. Mr L did need to pay for his policy, regardless of who made the error in 
taking payments. The cancellation of an insurance policy is an important matter so 
needs to be made clear to the reader of the letter. I dont find it reasonable to expect 
Ageas to continue offering insurance once it realised the policy wasnt being funded.
But I do find the letters and that call confusing. Mr L never should have been told he 
wasnt insured or given any impression he wasnt. That issue was resolved quickly, 
but it would have caused acute distress. The renewal letter sent in-between the first 
letter asking Mr L to call, and the cancellation letter is confusing. I appreciate its 
system generated, but this doesnt change the fact its confusing. Im satisfied £50 
compensation is a fair award for the distress caused and the inconvenience of 
finding a new policy sooner than Mr L had been planning.
Ageas dont have to offer Mr L cover. Ive seen the reason it didnt, and while this 
cant be shared as its commercial sensitive information, I can say its not because 
Mr L raised a complaint or refused to tow the line. Hes not been declined cover as 
punishment. Simply, hes been declined cover as the risk he presents is no longer 
acceptable to Ageas. And thats a decision Ageas is entitled to take. Im satisfied 
anyone else with the same risk profile as Mr L would be treated the same way. But 
as set out above, I appreciate being declined a new policy so shortly after being 
invited to renew the current one would have been frustrating. Im not aware of this 
decline having any negative effect on Mr L.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above. I partially uphold this complaint. To put things right I require 
Ageas Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mr L £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman