DRN-2946014
The complaint
Mr L complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc blocked his account access.
What happened
Mr L says he tried to make a payment to a business for repairs to his piano in November 
2020. He says Clydesdale blocked the payment and so he contacted it. Mr L says he was 
told the block would be removed but was then told he would be sent a letter by second class 
post which would allow the block to be removed. He says he spent hours on the telephone 
trying to sort matters out and was caused distress as well as embarrassment as he couldnt 
pay the bill of just over £14,000. Mr L says the invoice was paid on 16 November 2020 by 
his husband and says he has had the same telephone number for over 20 years which 
would have allowed Clydesdale to send a message to unlock the account as it originally 
said.
Clydesdale says it blocked the payment on 11 November 2020 due to security concerns but 
accepts it told Mr L that the payment would be authorised when he called which was 
incorrect. It says it required further checks due to the telephone number details it held and so 
required the letter to be sent. Clydesdale has apologised for that part of the complaint and 
paid £100 compensation. It says it is entitled to block a payment where it has security 
concerns.
Mr L brought his complaint to us and our investigator initially didnt uphold the complaint but 
asked Clydesdale for further information about the telephone number issue. The investigator 
re-considered his view and thought that Mr L wasnt responsible for what took place about 
the number. He recommended Clydesdale pay £350 compensation but thought it was 
entitled to restrict account use.
Clydesdale doesnt accept that view and say there was a week delay in making the payment 
which doesnt justify £350 compensation and says it wouldnt be obvious to its fraud 
department that it held the correct telephone number for Mr L.
Mr L doesnt accept that view and maintains he should be paid £1,000 compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I uphold this complaint but consider the 
investigators compensation recommendation is fair and reasonable.
There is no need for me to comment on large parts of this complaint as they are not in 
dispute. I hope Mr L appreciates that we are not Clydesdales regulator and so its not our 
role to punish it or direct it to change the way in runs its business. And about how it makes 
such security decisions.
Banks and building societies must have security measures in place to protect its and its 
customers money. I accept that on occasions legitimate transactions can be made subject to 
such security measures as here which inevitably means some inconvenience to genuine 
customers of a business. But that doesnt mean that a business has made a mistake by 
applying any fraud measures to a transaction or an account. And Im satisfied such steps are 
taken in line with agreed account terms and conditions.
There is no question here that Mr L was attempting to make a genuine transaction for just 
over £14,000. I appreciate Mr Ls frustration that the payment was blocked. And that through 
no fault of his that Clydesdale was not able to send him a message to his telephone to 
unlock his account despite initially being told his account would be unblocked. So I accept 
that Mr L was caused inconvenience and would have been caused embarrassment in not 
being able to pay the invoice. I also accept Mr L made a number of calls to Clydesdale and 
there doesnt appear to be any real explanation from it about what the issue was with its 
records about Mr Ls telephone number. I appreciate Clydesdale says it wouldnt be obvious 
to its fraud department that it held the correct telephone number. But I am not sure what that 
means or what Mr L could have done differently. I cant fairly hold Mr L responsible for 
whatever took place with that telephone number recording and its clear that if it was 
recorded correctly that the block could have been removed immediately.
The only real issue for me to consider is the level of compensation. I have made clear that I 
accept Mr L was caused distress, inconvenience and embarrassment. But I also have to 
consider that I think Clydesdale was entitled to place the account block. Im satisfied that Mr 
L was able to pay the invoice within about five days of the block and that block itself was 
removed shortly afterwards. I have not seen evidence of any financial loss and consider that 
an overall compensation award of £350 is fair and reasonable and fairly reflects the impact 
what took place on Mr L. I dont think £1,000 compensation is justified here or is line with the 
type and amount of awards we would make for this type of issue.
It is not our role to comment on the use of second-class post in these circumstances by 
Clydesdale. But I appreciate what Mr L says about that decision, in the light of the fact that 
his account was blocked, and he needed that letter to unblock it. I can see that Clydesdale 
says it will look at that issue in future.
Putting things right
Clydesdale should pay Mr L a total of £350 compensation. It is not clear if it has paid the 
£100 compensation already, but I make clear that if it has then the award should be 
adjusted.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Clydesdale Bank Plc to pay Mr L a 
total of £350 compensation. Mr Ls acceptance of this decision would be in full and final 
settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman