DRN-2202349
The complaint
Mr J and Mr J are unhappy with the amount of compensation HSBC Bank Plc has offered to 
settle their complaint about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
alongside a business loan. 
What happened
Mr J and Mr J took out a single premium PPI policy with a business loan in 2006. HSBS 
upheld their complaint that theyd been mis-sold the policy and offered them £913.20 to 
compensate them for this mis-sale. HSBC also offered £50 for the distress and 
inconvenience theyd suffered because of the way their complaint had been handled.
Mr J and Mr J werent satisfied that HSBC had calculated the compensation it paid them 
correctly, or that the additional amount it had offered for the way it had handled their 
complaint was enough considering the very poor service they thought theyd received.  
Our adjudicator thought that the way HSBC had calculated the compensation offered for this 
mis-sale was fair. But she said HSBC should pay a larger amount of £250 for the distress 
and inconvenience Mr J and Mr J had suffered because of the way HSBC had handled the 
complaint. 
Following receipt of the adjudicators view, HSBC agreed to increase its offer to 
Mr J and Mr J for the distress and inconvenience it had caused to £250. But Mr J and Mr J 
were still not satisfied with the adjudicators view and the revised offer from HSBC.
As Mr J and Mr J disagreed with the adjudicators view, the case has been passed to me for 
a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As HSBC has upheld Mr J and Mr Js complaint that the PPI was mis-sold to them, in this 
decision I am not looking at how the PPI came to be mis-sold. I am only considering if what 
HSBC has offered Mr J and Mr J in compensation for this mis-sale is fair. 
When a single premium PPI policy attached to a loan has been mis-sold the business needs, 
as far as possible, to put the consumer in the position they would have been in if they had 
never taken out the policy. To do this, all premiums charged for the PPI must be repaid plus 
any interest or charges caused by the PPI being added to the loan account. The business 
must also pay compensatory interest at a simple rate of 8% for any period the consumer is 
out of pocket because of the mis-sale.
HSBC has provided a breakdown of the offer it made Mr J and Mr J for the mis-sale. This 
shows that it has refunded £461.77 which it charged them for the PPI, including the interest 
added to the single premium. And it has added 8% in statutory interest for the time 
Mr J and Mr J have been out of pocket since these charges were paid by them. 
So, from what Ive seen, I have no reason to think that the compensation which HSBC has 
offered to Mr J and Mr J for the mis-sale of the PPI policy was not calculated in the way in 
which this service would have expected in these circumstances. This means that I think this 
compensation payment to Mr J and Mr J was fair and has, as far as is possible, put them 
back in the position they would have been in if the mis-sale hadnt happened.
Ive next considered whether the offer which HSBC has now made of £250 for the distress 
and inconvenience they have suffered from the way it handled their complaint is fair. And it is 
clear from what Ive seen that HSBC failed  by some margin - to provide the level of service 
from HSBC that Mr J and Mr J were entitled to expect. This has included mistakenly referring 
to one of them as having been subject to an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA). It has 
also required Mr J and Mr J to make a number of unnecessary visits to a local branch of 
HSBC to repeatedly provide the same information to the bank as well as to discuss HSBCs 
erroneous reference to a past IVA. So I can understand why Mr J and Mr J say they have 
suffered considerable distress and inconvenience as a result of this.
In these circumstances, I think that Mr J and Mr J are entitled to a significant payment from 
HSBC for the poor way in which their complaint was handled. And, whilst I recognise that 
Mr J and Mr J still think they should be offered more, I think that the £250 the adjudicator 
said HSBC should pay Mr J and Mr J for these failings, and which HSBC has now agreed to, 
is fair. So I dont think it needs to offer Mr J and Mr J more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint against HSBC Bank Plc. 
If HSBC Bank Plc hasnt already paid Mr J and Mr J £250 for the distress and inconvenience 
it caused them, it should now do so now
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Simon Furse
Ombudsman