DRN-4009796
The complaint
Mr J complains that esure Insurance Limited incorrectly told him that his car insurance had 
successfully renewed. 
What happened
Mr J had car insurance with esure. The policy was due to end on 14 July 2022 and on 15 
July Mr J called to renew it. The first time he called he was told that as the policy had lapsed 
as it wasnt renewed in time, hed need to buy a new policy as it wasnt possible to renew the 
old one. However when he called back to pay for the policy, the agent reinstated the lapsed 
policy in error. This meant it automatically lapsed again the next day and Mr J had no 
insurance cover in place. 
However around ten days later Mr J received an email from esure reminding him to renew. 
He called it and found out that he didnt have car insurance cover due to the previous 
agents error. esure arrange a new policy and took payment again to cover this.
Mr J was unhappy with how hed been treated. He said he had been very distressed to find 
that he had no car insurance cover. And in order to pay for a new policy hed had to go into 
his overdraft, as esure was unable to transfer the funds he originally paid to the new policy. 
He made a complaint. 
esure upheld his complaint. It said it agreed it had provided poor service and offered £200 
compensation to apologise for this. It also offered £50 to cover any fees and charges 
incurred from Mr J going into his overdraft. 
Mr J didnt think this was enough and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought esure should pay an 
additional £100 compensation to make up for the distress caused.
esure didnt agree, it thought it had already offered enough. It asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
esure has accepted it provided poor service to Mr J. It took money for a policy but due to an 
error by its agent, didnt put a policy in place to cover him. Ive considered the impact of the 
poor service in order to determine what it should do to put things right. 
Mr J originally called esure to ensure he had a car insurance policy in place. He paid for the 
policy and the agent confirmed the cover was in place and sent him policy documents. It 
wasnt until around ten days later that Mr J found out he didnt have cover. This would have 
been very distressing to find out.
Further, due to the error, Mr J had to pay the full cost of another policy, before he was 
reimbursed for the first payment. He explained that in order to do this he would need to 
utilise his overdraft. This would have caused further distress as it meant he would be left with 
no available funds in his account and hed have to pay the fees and charges associated with 
the overdraft. 
In addition to this, the refund of the previous amount he paid took some time to be 
processed. And he didnt receive it in his account until nearly a month after he paid it. As Mr 
J explained he had low funds in his account this would have been particularly distressing.
During this time Mr J had to make a number of calls to esure in order to resolve the situation 
which would have been inconvenient. 
So when I consider the impact that the errors and poor service from esure had on Mr J, I 
agree with our investigator that £300 is a fair amount of compensation, and in line with other 
similar complaints.
Mr J has also raised that he has had to pay charges for using his overdraft that esure should 
cover. Its offered £50 to cover these charges and I think thats fair in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Js complaint and direct esure Insurance Limited to 
pay him an additional £100 compensation, on top of the £200 already offered. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman