DRN-4382171
The complaint
Mrs R has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC registered fraud markers against her 
when she was the victim of fraud.
What happened
In 2017, a fraudster opened accounts in Mrs Rs name with various businesses, including 
Barclays. Mrs R reported the matter through a credit reference agency. The other 
businesses agreed to close the accounts and remove them from Mrs Rs credit file, but 
Barclays declined to do so and required Mrs R to resolve things with it separately.
After a delay, Barclays apologised for the time taken and confirmed it had closed the 
account. It said it would cleanse Mrs Rs credit file entry and log a protective marker for her 
on the national fraud database. However, instead of registering Mrs R as a victim of fraud, it 
registered her as a perpetrator of fraud.
Mrs R discovered this in 2022. Since 2021, shed been trying to open savings accounts for a 
large amount of savings which had come in. But shed been repeatedly declined, or the 
accounts had been opened then been closed against her wishes shortly after. Mrs Rs own 
bank (which Ill refer to as S) also closed her existing accounts and withheld her savings in a 
holding account in view of Barclays fraud markers. Mrs R was unable to carry out her 
normal banking.
Mrs R raised the matter with Barclays, but it made further errors, such as failing to identify or 
remove the markers when it said it had, sending correspondence to the wrong place, and 
losing Mrs Rs complaint. Barclays apologised and paid Mrs R £350 compensation.
Our adjudicator looked into things independently and thought £500 would be fairer. Mrs R 
didnt think that fully accounted for the impact this had had on her. She asked for an 
ombudsman to look at things afresh, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
I sent Mrs R and Barclays a provisional decision on 31 August 2023, to explain why 
I thought the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I plan to increase the redress here  Ill explain why.
From what I can see, Barclays mishandled things in quite a number of ways. For example, 
where the other businesses involved dealt with Mrs Rs fraud report straight away, Barclays 
declined to work with her credit reference agency at first and delayed things.
Most seriously of all, instead of marking Mrs R as a victim of fraud, Barclays marked her as a 
perpetrator. In some of its submissions, Barclays has maintained that the CIFAS marker was 
protective from the start. But CIFASs records confirm that Barclays actually registered a 
misuse of facility marker against Mrs R. This was a grave error by Barclays.
Even once Mrs R told Barclays things had gone wrong, it continued to get things wrong. 
From what Ive seen, Barclays gave Mrs R conflicting information, passed her between 
departments, sent correspondence to the wrong contact details, lost the record of her 
complaint, and failed to contact Mrs R when it should have. It failed to remove its erroneous 
markers for some time, as it seems it didnt realise at first that it had logged two, it mistook 
one as being a protective marker, and it thought it had removed one when it had not.
In terms of putting things right, Ill first consider the likely financial losses that the markers 
caused. Mrs R has confirmed that she didnt need any credit while the markers were in 
place. But I can see that she was unable to open savings accounts or current accounts with 
better interest rates  or if they were opened, they were closed shortly after. The accounts in 
question should not have been difficult to open, and I cannot see anything on Mrs Rs credit 
file which should have prevented her from being granted them. As far as I can see, the only 
negative information on her file was Barclays fraud markers. The way she was turned down 
 e.g. due to compliance obligations, or by having the accounts opened and then closed on 
further review  is consistent with them being closed due to these fraud markers. And as 
soon as the markers were removed, Mrs R was able to open her desired accounts  many 
being the same products she was turned down for when the markers were still on file. I find 
its most likely that Barclays fraud markers directly caused Mrs R to be unable to open the 
new accounts. And Mrs R has shown that in the meantime, she had to keep her savings in 
current accounts which did not pay interest, and a low-interest regular savings account with 
only limited monthly deposits allowed.
When a business error has caused financial losses, we generally tell it to put the consumer 
in the financial position they wouldve been in had the error not happened. Its difficult to do 
that in this case, as its not possible to know for certain exactly how things wouldve looked 
had the fraud markers never existed and had Mrs R been able to open her accounts in 2021. 
For example, I cant know for certain exactly how much Mrs R wouldve put into each 
account or spent had things gone differently.
But I can see that from January 2023, following the fraud markers removal, Mrs R was then 
able to open accounts of the type shed been trying to get since March 2021. And she did 
indeed start keeping her savings there. So to account for the likely loss, I think Barclays 
should pay interest on the credit balances of Mrs Rs bank accounts during the period 
between when she started applying for new accounts (March 2021) and the first point she 
was able to open those accounts (January 2023). I will attach Mrs Rs bank statements to 
Barclays copy of the provisional decision. For the interest rates, Ive looked up the historic 
rates via Moneyfacts for the savings accounts Mrs R was applying for, and taken an average 
for each month. That seems like the fairest rate to use here. I have set out a table in a 
section below.I do note that Mrs R also kept significant sums in her current accounts, even after she was 
able to open new savings accounts. So Barclays may argue that it shouldnt have to pay 
interest on the whole credit balances. But on the other hand, Mrs R also applied for new 
current accounts which paid interest on the first portion of her credit balances, so it should all 
roughly balance out. Again, its not possible to know for certain what Mrs Rs exact financial 
losses were  so we just have to estimate things in a reasonable fashion. Of course, 
Barclays is welcome to reply to this provisional decision with representations about the 
proposed redress. But if it does so, it will need to provide other pragmatic solutions to 
refunding Mrs Rs likely lost interest, detailing its reasons and proposed calculation method.
Turning to the other losses involved, Barclays errors caused Mrs R to have accounts closed 
and to struggle opening new ones. Its been established that S closed Mrs Rs accounts due 
to finding Barclays fraud markers. When her current accounts were closed, Mrs R had direct 
debits go unpaid, she had to go to branch to pay bills manually, she couldnt do bank 
transfers, and she couldnt access her pension or savings.
Of course, S is a separate business to Barclays, which is capable of making its own 
decisions. So I cant hold Barclays wholly responsible for Ss own actions. Weve considered 
a separate case against S for its actions here and made awards for its part in the matter. But 
I do find that Barclays errors were a key cause in things going wrong with S, and Barclays 
also bears much responsibility. I also need to bear in mind that Im not here to issue fines or 
to punish businesses, but to resolve complaints informally. 
Mrs R was embarrassed at being recorded as having committed fraud, feeling her character 
had been defamed. And shes had to go to a lot of effort to sort things out, over a significant 
time frame. This was compounded by Barclays further errors when it was supposed to be 
fixing what it had already got wrong, which only added to Mrs Rs stress in an already very 
stressful time. I find that Barclays caused Mrs R substantial distress and upset over a 
lengthy period, and contributed to some notable disruption of her day-to-day life. Taking 
everything into account, I currently think Barclays should pay Mrs R £900 compensation in 
total for the trouble and upset it caused.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
28 September 2023. Barclays didnt add anything further. Mrs R made some further 
submissions, which Ill talk about below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs R thanked us for the provisional decision and submitted more detailed statements, along 
with her own calculations of what she thought the lost interest would come to.
Im grateful to Mrs R for putting in such effort to help. I will pass on her more detailed bank 
statements to Barclays. Im afraid there are a number of issues with her calculations which 
mean theyre not right. For example, they were based on opening statement balances rather 
than average credit balances, some figures were taken from the wrong month (e.g. a 
statement dated 2nd December covers transactions predominantly from the previous 
November rather than the December), it doesnt look like the calculation compounds the 
interest in the proper way, and so on. Mrs R also kindly included tax calculations, but she 
doesnt need to give that to us or Barclays  thats between her and HMRC.I hope I can reassure Mrs R that she doesnt need to do all this work herself. These are quite 
complex and involved calculations, so we would not expect the individual complainant to do 
them. Instead, we expect Barclays to do the work: its a business with the resources and 
expertise to do so, and its the one that needs to put things right here.
Mrs R asked for a letter of apology from Barclays, and I understand why she thought to ask 
for this. The problem is that if I were to tell Barclays to apologise, its apology would seem 
forced rather than genuine  it would be saying sorry because I told it to. Further, I can see 
that Barclays apologised a number of times in its previous contact with Mrs R, and that 
clearly has not repaired its relationship with her. So I dont think another apology is likely to 
help. Instead, the compensation Ive awarded is there to recognise what Barclays got wrong 
and the impact it had.
Similarly, Mrs R asked for a letter detailing why Barclays added a marker. But I dont think 
thats necessary. Its right that Barclays keeps certain internal security processes private, 
and were here to resolve mistakes rather than to spark debates about why they happened. 
To be clear, I directed Barclays to remove any residual markers just to be on the safe side, 
given the initial issues it had in removing the erroneous markers.
Lastly, Mrs R said Barclays had already paid her £350 compensation, meaning there was 
£550 left to pay to bring the total non-financial redress to £900. She is correct.
Otherwise, neither side sent me any new evidence or arguments which would change the 
outcome of the case. So having reconsidered the matter, Ive come to the same conclusions 
as before, for the reasons set out above.
Putting things right
I direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
pay compound interest on Mrs Rs credit balances for the period of March 2021 to 
January 2023 inclusive, calculated monthly, using the rates in the table below, less 
any interest Mrs R received during that period;
remove any negative information recorded against Mrs R in relation to this matter, 
including any internal markers, if any remains, and confirm when this is done; and-
pay Mrs R £900 compensation in total for the trouble and upset it caused.
Interest rate table
MonthAverage Rate 
(gross annual)MonthAverage Rate 
(gross annual)
March 2021 0.40% March 2022 0.69%April 2021 0.38% April 2022 0.79%
May 2021 0.41% May 2022 0.94%
June 2021 0.41% June 2022 1.08%
July 2021 0.43% July 2022 1.15%
August 2021 0.51% August 2022 1.30%
September 2021 0.58% September 2022 1.63%
October 2021 0.60% October 2022 1.82%
November 2021 0.64% November 2022 2.22%
December 2021 0.66% December 2022 2.38%
January 2022 0.66% January 2023 2.33%
February 2022 0.64%
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Rs complaint, and direct Barclays Bank UK 
PLC to put things right in the way I set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman