DRN-1664908
 
The complaint
Miss P complains that Bank of Scotland plc (Bank of Scotland) mis-sold her a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium MPPI policy taken out in August 1995 alongside a 
mortgage. Miss P applied for the policy in a meeting. The policy covered her against 
accidents, sickness and unemployment.
Miss P says she was informed the PPI was required to secure the mortgage. She says she 
wasn't given an option to not take it.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Miss P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ps case.
I have decided not to uphold Miss Ps complaint. Here are my reasons:
Miss P says Bank of Scotland informed her PPI was required to secure her 
mortgage. I cant be sure what was discussed between Miss P and Bank of Scotland 
during the meeting. Its completely understandable that Miss Ps recollections are not 
detailed as the sale took place a number of years ago. And because of this i have 
needed to also consider the sales documentation to give me an understanding as to 
what more likely happened.
 
I can see that Miss P would have signed a separate application form for MPPI when 
she was also arranging her mortgage. So i think, it is more likely that she would have 
understood that it was a separate product and that she had a choice to take it. So i 
don't uphold her complaint on this point, based on what i have seen and have 
concluded above.
 
Moving on, I need to consider next whether Bank of Scotland provided advice to Miss 
P or not during the sale. If it did, it would have had an additional responsibility to 
ensure the policy was suitable for her. On looking at the information provided and in 
particular the application form, I think advice was given. 
And based on the information Ive seen, I think the policy was suitable for Miss P. I 
say this after considering Miss P's circumstances at the time of sale. Because, 
although Miss P says she had sick pay she could have used (6 months half and 
6 months full), the MPPI policy would have paid out if she was made unemployed or 
if she was sick in addition to her means. Having the policy in place would mean Miss 
P could use any provisions she may have had to cover other expenses. I dont think 
her means are sufficient for me reasonably to say that she wouldnt have had a need 
for the policy. 
 
Miss P was not affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits. It 
is unlikely Miss P needed better advice or information about the policys exclusions 
and limitations and if she had received clear information on these terms I dont think it 
would have put her off.
 
Finally, I cant be sure that the costs of the policy were disclosed in a clear way, but 
even if Bank of Scotland did, I dont think Miss P would have done anything 
differently for the same reasons as I have already given. Ive also seen nothing to 
suggest it was unaffordable.
 
In conclusion, based on what I have seen, I do not think the policy was mis-sold.
Ive also thought about the commission Miss P paid on the policy  and whether Bank of 
Scotland treated her unfairly. 
Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss P because: 
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should have told Miss P about that. Because Bank of 
Scotland didnt tell her, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this 
case.
 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss P.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back to Miss P any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 April 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman