DRN-2150843
The complaint
Mrs S complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) stopped a direct debit without her knowledge.
Also, that it put a default on her account and passed it to a debt collection agency(dca).
She would like the default removed . And the account returned in house
What happened
Mrs S says she had a TSB credit card with a direct debit set up from her current account to
pay a regular amount towards the balance. She says she reported the card as stolen on 28
September 2017. As a result, her card was cancelled and a new one issued.
She says the automatic direct debit failed with the new card. But she wasnt aware of this
until she received a letter from a dca. She says at this point she realised TSB had put a
default on her credit file.
TSB said that the problem arose when it issued a new credit card to Mrs S when she 
reported hers as stolen. This meant her direct debit details didnt match with the new card, 
so her payments failed. It said Mrs S would have been aware payments werent being made 
from her statements. Also, that it sent Mrs S a formal demand and default notice letter to 
which she didnt respond. Mrs S only engaged with TSB when it transferred her account to a 
dca.
I issued a provisional decision in which I decided:-
- Mrs Ss direct debit failed after she get a new credit. This meant payments werent 
made to her account. And as a result, TSB defaulted her account and transferred it to 
a dca.
- I was unsure whether Mrs Ss direct debit should have automatically updated or not 
after she got a new card. I concluded if TSB should have automatically transferred 
the direct debit and didnt then clearly it make a mistake
- I understood why Mrs S might have expected her direct debit to continue since the 
current account from which the direct debit payments for her credit card were made 
was also with TSB.
- I understood Mrs S stopped making any payments to her account from November 
2017. Prior to this she had been making a direct debit payment of usually £150. 
Sometimes this was manually adjusted.
- When Mrs S stopped making payments the balance on the account was 
approximately £5,000. At the same time, she seemed  to have stopped making any 
transactions on the card.
- As there were numerous transactions on Mrs S current account it may not have 
immediately been obvious to her that one relatively small transaction wasnt being 
made.
- However, the  credit card statements were very clear  particularly as there were no 
additional transactions from November 2017. I found from those monthly statements 
it should have been obvious to Mrs S that the direct debit payments werent being 
made. And that the balance owing was increasing due to late payment and interest 
added.
- Statements dated  December 2017, March 2018, June 2018, August 2018,October 
2018 and December 2018 all included arrears letters warning Mrs S that if she didnt 
make a payment her account could be passed to a dca.
- TSB sent  a default notice letter TSB sent dated 30 October 2018 and a final demand 
letter  dated 4 December 2019.
- All correspondence from TSB was correctly addressed. I found it surprising Mrs S 
didnt get any of this correspondence but did get a letter from the dca who used the 
address TSB provided.
- It was unreasonable to expect  TSB to have tried to contact Mrs S in other ways. 
None of its post was returned , and it used the correct address . So, I found it  
reasonable for TSB to conclude that Mrs S was choosing not to engage with the bank 
not that she hadnt received any of its communications.
- TSB evidenced that  although Mrs S wasnt registered for paperless statements she 
was  registered for online banking. Its records showed Mrs S logged onto the online 
system twice in July 2018. That gave Mrs S another opportunity to view her 
accounts.
- Even if I concluded  that  TSB should have contacted Mrs S about her direct debit, I 
felt it sent her enough correspondence for her to be aware that payments werent 
being made.
- I agreed  with TSB that consumers  have some responsibility to manage their own 
account. I felt Mrs S must have known the outstanding balance on her account was  
significant. So, I was surprised she didnt check of her own accord to ensure she was 
making payments.
- I believed if Mrs S had contacted TSB sooner it would have rectified the situation and 
agreed a repayment plan with her which would have avoided putting a default on her 
credit file and passing her account to a dca.
- I didnt think it was reasonable to expect TSB to alter Mrs Ss credit file as I believed 
it was an accurate reflection of her account  
- I also didnt feel it was reasonable to ask TSB to take Mrs Ss account back in house. 
I felt that was a  business decision for TSB to take.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mrs S and TSB have responded to my provisional decision. TSB had no additional 
information for me to consider.
Mrs S raised several issues so I think it might be helpful to consider these in turn.
Mrs S has asked  that as I was unsure as to whether her direct debit should have updated 
automatically or not could I find out if this should have been the case. If it should have done 
so then TSB made a mistake. I accept Mrs Ss point  I made the same point in my 
provisional decision. I have decided not to seek further clarity from TSB. I felt , as I did in m 
provisional decision, that there was sufficient information available to Mrs S for her to know 
that payments werent being made .And I was persuaded by TSB that had she raised the 
issue sooner with the bank it could have resolved the matter without the need to involve a 
dca or for there to be any impact on her credit file. Even if TSB were now to advise me that it 
should have automatically updated the direct debit that wouldnt change my view.
Mrs S has said she stopped making transactions on her account whilst her stolen card was 
being investigated. I was aware Mrs S reported her card as stolen but not that she had been 
advised to stop making transactions to her account. However, I have no evidence to show 
Mrs S was told not to make payments to her account. But  Mrs S stopped making payments 
to her account in 2017 and  TSB sent final demand letters over 2018 and 2019  I would have 
expected that ,over such a long timescale, Mrs S would have been in touch with TSB to 
discuss her account, but I am not aware that she did this.
Mrs S has made several points about correspondence from TSB. She says she only 
received the final demand letter not any other correspondence. That her online account 
didnt show her credit card account. That any correspondence she did receive was in the 
wrong name. That she raised with TSB the fact she wasnt getting any correspondence.  
That TSB didnt try to contact her in any other way. And that she raised a problem with her 
correspondence with the postal service.
I have considered these points very carefully. And I have gone back over all the information 
we have to date for Mrs Ss complaint. For me to uphold a complaint I must be persuaded a 
business did something wrong. But I am not convinced TSB has done anything wrong in this 
case. 
I dont know why Mrs S only got a final demand letter and no other correspondences from 
TSB. It  has given us copies of  numerous letters and statements it sent to Mrs S. Mrs S 
hasnt given us any evidence to show she raised an issue with the postal service. Neither 
have I  seen any evidence to show that Mrs S raised problems with correspondence with 
TSB.
So, I am persuaded that TSB  did  write to Mrs S. If her name change was an issue, I would 
have thought that would have impacted on Mrs S getting the final demand letter but as it 
didnt, I dont think I can reasonably conclude that might be the reason as to why Mrs S 
didnt get the rest of TSBs correspondence. 
I am still of the view that it was reasonable for TSB to think , as no post was returned, that  
Mrs S was choosing not to engage with the bank not that its correspondence wasnt being 
received. 
In terms of Mrs Ss online banking access even if she couldnt access her credit card 
account, she could have checked her current account to see if payments were being made.Finally, Mrs S has said she had enough funds to pay off the outstanding debt. So, it wasnt in 
her interest not do so. And that she attempted to settle the account, but TSB wouldnt let her 
do so.
I dont doubt Mrs S when she says she had the funds to pay off the account balance in full. 
And clearly it would have been in her interest to do so. But I have no evidence to show she 
attempted to do this prior to the dca being involved. And I feel she had ample time to do so 
from when payments on her account stopped to the account being passed to the dca.
Having looked at all the information I have I feel I have no new significant information to 
change my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman