DRN-1245453
 
The complaint
Mr D complains that the settlement value given by Tesco Underwriting Limited following an 
accident where his car was written off, was too low.
What happened
Mr D was involved in a road accident in which his car was badly damaged. The other driver's 
insurance company (who Ill refer to as X) accepted liability. Mr D did not initially claim via his 
own insurance with Tesco as X said it would settle the claim.
Mr D's car was examined and deemed to be beyond economic repair. X paid Mr D £17,500 
as an interim payment. Mr D said the car was worth more, but X would not raise its offer.
Mr D then spoke to Tesco and opened a claim. He wanted Tesco to pay the difference 
between what X had paid, and what he considered to be a fair market value, £19,289.
Tesco did its own valuation of the car and said it would only cost £15,733 to replace it in the 
retail market (the market value) and this meant Mr D had already received more from X than 
he was entitled to under his policy with Tesco. 
Mr D complained, and in its final response, Tesco said its offer was an accurate reflection of 
the market value of the car, and it wouldn't raise its offer any further. So, Mr D complained to 
our service.
Our investigator used four valuation guides to check the market value. As he explained in his 
view, he discounted the lowest value as it was clearly an outlier. He took an average of the 
remaining three which resulted in an average market value of £17,573. He said we couldnt 
investigate the value X placed on his vehicle, as Mr D was not a customer of theirs. And, as 
X had already paid Mr D £17,500 he didnt think Tesco needed to pay anything more.
Mr D did not agree. He said he had not asked for X's valuation to be looked at. But he 
wanted Tesco to pay the difference between this and what he thought the fair market value 
was. He provided examples of vehicles similar to his being sold for around £19,000 and said 
the market value Tesco had placed on it was far too low. He did not agree with the market 
value suggested by the investigator either. So the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the terms of Mr Ds policy of insurance, Tesco says that if the damage means the car is 
beyond economic repair, it will assess its market value, and pay this. Market value is defined 
as;The cost of replacing the car with one of similar age, type, specification, mileage and 
condition, immediately before the loss or damage happened.
In view of this, Im satisfied that Mr D would be entitled to payment equivalent to the market 
value of his car, as defined above.
As Mr D has already been paid for the damage to his car by X, he cant claim for the same 
damage twice. So, if hed already got more from X than hed be entitled to under his policy 
with Tesco, then I wouldnt consider it fair and reasonable to make Tesco pay him anything.
Firstly, I must explain, my role is not to provide an exact value of Mr Ds car. Instead, I must 
consider if the value given by Tesco is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
When looking at these types of complaints, I check motor trade guides and consider whether 
Tesco has made a reasonable offer in line with them. I may also consider other information 
such as retail and private adverts. However, I tend to place more weight on the guides as 
theyre based on nationwide research of likely selling prices, so theyre more reliable than 
individual adverts. This is because adverts can be misleading as vehicles often dont sell for 
the advertised price.
Tesco said they checked two trade guides which gave valuations of £14,570 and £16,895 
and they calculated the market value based on the average - £15,733.
Along with the two trade guides Tesco has referred to, our service commonly also refers to 
two other guides when considering such cases. So I have taken into account all four guides 
in considering this complaint. Our investigator found valuations of £14,560 and £16,450 
based on the guides used by Tesco. The other guides which our service also uses, 
gave valuations of £18,316 and £17,905. It would appear the market valuation of £14,560 is 
significantly out of line when compared to the other three, so I think it reasonable that it 
should be disregarded. So, Im satisfied that taking an average of the remaining three 
valuations gives a good indication of the market value of Mr Ds car.
Therefore, Im not persuaded Tescos market valuation of £15,733 is fair. But as I said 
above, it is not my role to provide an exact valuation. Even though I am satisfied the final 
valuation given by Tesco was too low, the indication of the market value we have come to is 
very close to that paid by X. So, I dont think Tesco needs to pay Mr D anything, and so it 
wouldnt be appropriate to make them do so.
As a result of the above, I don't think it is reasonable to require Tesco to do any more.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint. And I do not require Tesco Underwriting Limited to do 
anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2020.
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman