DRN-3067570
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company (LV) incorrectly settled a 
third-party claim against him under his motor insurance policy.
  
What happened
Mr B had a motor insurance policy with LV at the relevant time. In November 2019, LV was 
notified by third party insurers that its policy-holder had been in an accident involving Mr Bs 
vehicle in October 2019. LV attempted to contact Mr B in order to discuss the claim, with 
limited success, and settled the claim with the third party.  
When renewing his insurance in November 2020, Mr B became aware of this settlement. Mr 
B complained to LV that it had falsely accused him of being involved in an accident and that 
this now affected his insurance record and the cost of insurance. He said it had also led to 
serious personal issues including a negative credit history. To put things right hed like a 
written letter of acceptance of mistaken identity and compensation. 
LV stated in its final response letter that it considered that at the relevant time, it had no 
option but to settle the third party claim as it said it didnt have Mr Bs full cooperation. It had 
subsequently accepted that Mr Bs vehicle hadnt been involved in the accident and removed 
the claim from Mr Bs records.
Mr B was unhappy with LVs response and complained to this service. Our investigator didnt 
think LV had acted fairly in all respects. She thought that LV should refund any additional 
premiums Mr B had paid as a result of LVs handling of this claim. She also thought LV 
should pay Mr B £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr B remained unhappy and was looking for a far greater sum in compensation. LV was also 
unhappy with this outcome as it said that any additional premiums would already have been 
refunded and there was no longer a claim on his record.
The complaint has been referred to me in order to come to a final decision in my role as 
Ombudsman.         
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 The service doesnt decide questions of liability for a particular incident. Instead, my role is 
to look at whether LV properly investigated Mr Bs claim and whether it reached its decision 
in a fair and reasonable way and in line with the terms and conditions of the relevant policy. I 
conclude that it didnt do so in all respects and Ill explain why.
My starting point will be the terms and conditions of the policy. There is a standard term 
which appears in most motor insurance policies and this allows the insurer to take over,
defend or settle any claim against its policyholder as it thinks fit.
LVs policy states; Were entitled to:  have total control to conduct, defend and settle any
claim...
LV states that having tried to contact Mr B to discuss the claim, Mr B did initially telephone 
back to deny involvement in any accident, however he declined to provide further 
information. LV says that this, combined with the fact that Mr B didnt respond to subsequent 
letters, meant it had no option but to settle the third-party claim. LV added that it could only 
defend cases where it had the full cooperation of its policyholder.
LVs sent a letter to Mr B in January 2020 which stated; We've tried to call you to clarify 
these allegations but we've been unable to reach you. We need you to call usIt is 
important that we speak to you urgently. If we dont hear from you within the next 5 days and 
the information provided to us by the third party suggests the involvement of your vehicle, we 
will accept responsibility for the incident and settle any third-party claim. This is in line with 
the general conditions section of your policy booklet, and may affect the no claim discount 
and the price of your policy.
Having received communication from Mr B in late 2020, LV reviewed the matter. It carried 
out an inspection of the car in December 2020 and found no sign of damage. It also became 
clear that the third-party insurer had identified the vehicle involved to be a different model to 
Mr Bs vehicle model. These combined factors had cast doubt on whether Mr Bs vehicle had 
been involved in any accident in October 2019. LV therefore removed the claim from Mr Bs 
records.
LV re-opened the matter in the light of Mr Bs current complaint and his request for 
compensation. It states that it doesnt think that any compensation is warranted. It says the 
main aspect of this matter is the customers lack of cooperation which led to its initial 
decision to record a claim against Mr B. It said that it was only when Mr B allowed his car to 
be inspected that it made the decision to change the claims record. LV states that the 
vehicle model discrepancy was an additional factor and it states that this factor alone 
wouldnt have changed the initial decision.
Mr B states that LV should have conducted a thorough investigation to establish that the 
make and model of the vehicle involved was different from his vehicle model. He states that 
he didnt receive a letter from LV by post and he thought that LV should have sent such an 
important letter by recorded delivery. He says he shouldnt be held accountable for not 
receiving something he was never aware of in the first place. He was also sure an email 
would have alerted him.
Mr B states the compensation recommended by our investigator is too low. He also 
reiterates the impact that the mistake has had on him and on his personal life. Mr B 
considers that the incident has severely affected his insurance premiums and that a negative 
record was being stored against him.
Mr B wishes to receive a letter of apology, accepting that liability was wrongly recorded and 
citing this as a case of mistaken identity. He also wishes to receive a refund of all premiums 
paid to LV under the relevant insurance policy. He also wishes to receive punitive damages 
of not less than £5,000.
In considering all the relevant information and records, I've noted that LV tried to contact Mr 
B in 2019 and early 2020 to ask for some information and to hear his version of events once 
it was made aware of a potential claim. There was limited initial telephone contact by Mr B. 
LV then attempted to contact Mr B by letter sent by ordinary post and e-mail to obtain further 
information. Im satisfied that LV had made fair and reasonable efforts to communicate with Mr B and to 
obtain further information from him in relation to the incident. I dont consider it to be 
reasonable to have expected LV to send all important communication by recorded delivery. 
Although I agree that post can be lost, I consider that telephoning and then sending a letter 
sent in the ordinary post sent to the correct address, as in this case, is a reasonable course 
of action.
I also note that LV felt it had no choice but to settle the claim against Mr Bs policy at the 
relevant time due to non-co-operation by Mr B. As Mr B did initially engage with LV regarding 
the incident, Im satisfied that he was aware of the claim. He didnt co-operate fully with LV 
however and terminated the initial telephone call. 
I do however agree with our investigator that LV didnt act in a fair and reasonable manner in 
all respects. Im satisfied that LV should have been on notice from the date of notification of 
the third-party claim, that the model of Mr Bs car didnt match the model which was alleged 
to have been involved in the accident in October 2019. Im not persuaded that LV did 
enough to investigate the discrepancy before settling this claim, despite Mr Bs limited co-
operation.
LV has now removed this claim from Mr Bs records accordingly and I consider that its 
therefore addressed one of the main points of concern. I also note from a follow up to its final 
response letter to Mr B in December 2020 that it did appreciate how distressing it could be to 
have a claim against his policy for an incident he said he had no knowledge of.
I agree with our investigator that its likely that this outcome would have been achieved 
sooner had LV raised some questions over the make and model of the vehicle which was 
involved in the accident, particularly following Mr Bs denial of involvement in an accident in 
his initial telephone call with LV.
In the circumstances, I dont consider that LV is required to refund all premiums paid in 
relation to the policy as Mr B did receive insurance cover for the relevant period. I require it 
to refund only those additional sums which may have been paid by Mr B to LV or his new 
insurer as a result of the incorrect recording of a claim on his policy. Mr B should provide 
proof of his additional premiums to LV.
I consider that LV hasnt acted in a fair and reasonable manner in all respects in the handling 
of the claim however, and that this caused stress and inconvenience to Mr B. This would 
have been additional to the stress and inconvenience caused by a third-party making an 
incorrect claim on Mr Bs policy. In the circumstances, I consider that a modest amount of 
compensation should be awarded to Mr B.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Bs complaint against Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Company and I require it to;
- refund any additional premiums Mr B has paid as a result of this claim, within 28 days 
of Mr Bs acceptance of this final decision (where these premiums have not already 
been refunded), and
 
- Pay Mr B £100 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman