DRN-3691190
The complaint
Mrs E and Mr M complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) have been unfairly declining a 
claim made under their policy for structural cracking to a garage at one of their properties.
What happened
In August 2020, following some excavation work carried out by a neighbour, Mrs E and Mr M 
made a claim to their insurer, AXA, for cracking theyd noticed at a property they owned. 
AXA declined the claim saying it wasnt a result of subsidence. Mrs E and Mr M had never 
suggested the claim was for subsidence damage, so they raised a complaint.
AXA considered the complaint which eventually came to this service. Our investigator told 
AXA to remove any reference to subsidence and consider the claim again. AXA did this but 
continued to decline the claim for different reasons, first citing hydrostatic earth pressure and 
then using an exclusion in the policy relating to cracking. Finally, AXA said the damage was 
pre-inception. Mrs E and Mr M were unhappy with AXAs responses and so they raised a 
further complaint.
AXA said in response that online images suggested that the damage was pre-inception of 
the policy and that it had been there before the neighbour commenced works, but it also said 
that as Mrs E and Mr M remained unhappy, AXA had appointed loss adjusters to re-inspect 
the property in order to determine whether cover was available under the policy. AXA said 
Mrs E and Mr M had refused the loss adjuster access. Mrs E and Mr M then referred the 
second complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the second complaint and agreed with AXA that although the 
claim had been declined for various reasons, a re-inspection was necessary. Because Mrs E 
and Mr M disagreed with our investigators assessment, the complaint has now come to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
I can see that this claim has been going on for longer than it shouldve  and I do agree with 
Mrs E and Mr M that AXA has used a number of different reasons to decline the claim. This 
isnt unusual in claims of this nature  and it indicates that mistakes have been made that 
need to be put right and that further work is necessary to determine the cause of the damage 
and the correct part of the policy for the claim to be considered under.
Mrs E and Mr M have asked me to reconsider their original complaint against AXA. Ive 
looked into this complaint and can see that our investigator upheld it, requiring AXA to 
remove any reference to a subsidence claim (if it had been recorded as such on the claims 
register) and to consider the claim in line with the remaining policy terms.
Because AXA accepted the original investigators recommendations, that complaint was 
closed and I cannot consider the issues presented under that complaint, here. This is 
because new issues arose under that complaint which Mrs E and Mr M were asked to raise 
as a new complaint with AXA and then with this service. I can consider the new issues only  
which were not the subject of the previous complaint.
The events Im able to consider in this final decision are those which are dealt with in AXAs 
final response letter which it issued in March 2022. And, all things considered, I think even if 
AXA has been wrong in the past about the reasons it has declined the claim, its now offered 
what Id expect it to, which is to reinspect the damage and determine whether cover is 
available under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. If Mrs E and Mr M allow the 
loss adjuster access to re-inspect the damage, and then disagree with any decision AXA 
makes thereafter, theyll be able to raise this as a new complaint and AXA will need to 
respond to it with a new final response letter. Mrs E and Mr M will also be able to refer any 
new complaint to this service about the ultimate decision AXA makes, subject to the time 
limits which apply to bringing complaints to this service.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs E and Mr M, but I agree that its not unreasonable for AXA to 
consider it necessary for further inspections to take place to determine the correct cause of 
damage and to identify the part of the policy that might provide them with cover. I would 
however expect that once Mrs E and Mr M allow the loss adjuster access, AXA must not 
unreasonably decline the claim without strong evidence such as a detailed report to support 
its reasoning. And it must deal swiftly with matters if it accepts the claim, as the length of 
time this claim is taking to deal with has had a detrimental impact on Mrs E and Mr Ms 
tenant, as well as on Mrs E and Mr M themselves.
If Mrs E and Mr M choose to make a further complaint after allowing the loss adjuster access 
and after receiving AXAs decision on the claim, AXA must also deal swiftly with that 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 April 2023.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman