DRN-4399975
The complaint
Mr G complains that Ageas Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim he made under his 
home insurance policy.
What happened
In June 2022, Mr G took out a home insurance policy with Ageas via a broker. He told the 
broker that building works were being carried out on his home and the broker said this was 
acceptable.
In November 2022, Mr G made a claim under the policy. He told Ageas that a builder hed 
hired to build a dormer on top of his bungalow had turned out to be a con artist. The builder 
had removed the roof and then demanded more money for materials. He hadnt completed 
the work and Mr G had been left without a roof for 15 weeks. Mr G said the roof wasnt 
secured and two concrete blocks had fallen through into the hall and bathroom.
Ageas declined Mr Gs claim on the basis that there wasnt an insured peril. It also told Mr G 
it wouldnt have insured his property it the broker had made him aware of the building work 
that was being carried out. 
Mr G raised a complaint, but Ageas maintained its position. So, Mr G asked our service to 
consider the matter.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Gs complaint should be upheld. She considered whether   
Mr Gs claim should be covered under the insured perils of vandalism, theft and accidental 
damage. She concluded that the damage wasnt covered by the vandalism or accidental 
damage sections of the policy. But she didnt think Ageas had shown that an exclusion 
applied for the theft of materials from the roof. She concluded that Ageas should assess this 
part of Mr Gs claim.
Mr G disagreed with our investigators outcome. He said he couldnt understand how our 
investigator had reached the conclusion she had, when the policy states it covers criminal 
damage and hes provided evidence to show that there was. He also commented that his 
whole claim was based around damage to the contents of his home, not the structure. He 
said he was trying to claim for his floors, carpets, kitchen units and other items that had 
suffered damage due to a criminal act.
Mr G also provided a number of comments regarding policy wording he felt was relevant to 
his claim.
As Mr G disagrees with our investigators outcome, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
When a policyholder makes a claim, the onus is on them to show that an insured event most 
likely caused the loss or damage. If its established that an insured event caused the 
damage an insurer can decline a claim if it can show that an exclusion applies, or a condition 
has been breached.
Mr G says his property was damaged by a con man who is under investigation for fraud and 
criminal damage. He says the builder had no intention of carrying out the work he was hired 
to do. 
Mr G says he ripped off the roof in June 2022, demanded more money than agreed, and left 
without carrying the work once the additional payment had been made. Mr G says the 
builder stole lead from his roof which would cost a lot of money to replace. He says a 
significant amount of damage was caused due to their being no roof on the property. There 
was water damage to plaster and floors and damp throughout the property. Kitchen 
worktops, furniture and appliances have also become damaged. Mr G feels the policy should 
cover him for being a victim of a criminal act through deception. 
Ageas says that Mr Gs claim isnt covered under any of the perils listed in the policy. It says 
that when it first logged the claim it believed poor workmanship was at play, which is 
excluded under the policy. It says vandalism would be the most applicable peril to consider 
the claim under. However, its underwriting team has said there is no cover for this peril as of 
the date of policy inception and its also not able to consider it under theft or accidental 
damage.
Vandalism
In the buildings section of the policys terms and conditions under Vandalism it says:
Well pay claims for vandalism to your buildings.
We dont pay claims for:
Vandalism caused by you or your family, or by a person who is allowed to be in your 
home, such as a cleaner or tenant.
Vandalism if your home is unoccupied.
Keeping in mind what Mr G has said about his roof being damage by a deliberate and 
criminal act, I think it would be reasonable to consider this to be vandalism.
Mr G thinks Ageas shouldnt exclude damage under this section because the damage wasnt 
caused by a family member, and he says the con man illegally entered his home under false 
pretences. Hes also told us that the builder caused damage to his front door and was 
aggressive towards him.
Ive considered Mr Gs comments. However, the exclusion doesnt only relate to damage 
caused by family members it also relates to vandalism caused by a person who is allowed 
to be in (the policyholders) home. Mr Gs claim relates to damage caused as a result of the 
roof being removed by the builder. And Mr G allowed the builder access to his home in order 
to carry out work on his roof. So, I dont think its unreasonable for Ageas to decline Mr Gs 
claim under this section of the policy. 
Accidental damageI can see that Mr Gs policy provided cover for accidental damage to buildings and contents.
In this section it says:
Just to be clear, when we use the term accidental damage, we mean damage that is 
unexpected and unintended, caused by something sudden and which is not deliberate.
Mr G says the damage to his roof was deliberate and the damage to other parts of his 
buildings and contents appear to have been as a result of this. So, I dont think his claim is 
covered under this section of the policy.
Theft
In the buildings section of the policys terms and conditions under Theft it says:
Well pay claims for:
Damage to your buildings as a result of theft or an attempted theft.
Any fixtures or fittings, such as copper pipes, that are stolen.
We dont pay claims for:
Theft or any attempted theft by you, your family, or anyone whos employed 
permanently in or around your home, such as a nanny, carer, cleaner or gardener.
Theft or attempted theft by lodgers, paying guests or tenants.
Theft or any attempted theft if your home is unoccupied.
Mr G says the builder stole lead and other materials from his roof. 
The exclusions under this section of the policy are different to whats found under the 
vandalism section. The builder doesnt appear to have been permanently employed by    
Mr G. I dont think an exclusion applies to Mr Gs claim for theft of roof materials. So, I think 
Ageas should reassess this part of Mr Gs claim under the remaining terms and conditions of 
the policy.
Other perils
Mr G has referred to several other insured perils he feels his claim should be considered 
under such as storm, flood and damage to your property caused by moving objects.
Mr G says concrete blocks fell into his home and roof contents fell onto his carpet. He says 
every room in the house is damaged by water and mould. The electrics, kitchen units, floors 
and television have been damaged due to water and damp.  
However, the falling items and water ingress appear to have occurred as a result of the roof 
having been removed. So, Im not persuaded that the damage Mr Gs is claiming for was 
caused by these other perils. 
Mr G has also made reference to the professional fees and costs section of the policy. This 
says:
If your buildings are damaged, well pay claims for any necessary and reasonable costs that 
you need to pay as part of the repair or rebuild, as long as the damage would have been 
covered elsewhere in this Buildings policy.
As Im not satisfied that damage to Mr Gs building is covered elsewhere in the policy, I dont 
think this section applies to his claim.Policy sale
Mr G has also questioned if Ageas is at fault for the policy being sold to him after he told the 
broker he was having building work carried out. 
The broker has accepted responsibility for what happened during the sale of the policy, and I 
havent seen any evidence to suggest Ageas was at fault here. So, I havent considered the 
sale of the policy in this decision.
In conclusion
I dont doubt what Mr G has told us about being a victim of a scam. I understand this has 
had a devastating impact on him and his family. It sounds like theyve been left living in 
appalling conditions in a property they believe to be unsafe. Mr G has told us they are 
experiencing financial difficulties and are unable to heat their home properly. 
I do empathise with Mr G and his family. However, I cant tell Ageas to pay for repairs to 
damage that doesnt appear to be covered by the policy. 
Having carefully considered the policys terms and conditions, I think the only loss Mr G has 
claimed for that might be covered, is the theft of materials from his roof.  
Putting things right
Ageas should reassess Mr Gs claim for stolen materials from the roof, in line with the 
policys remaining terms and conditions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Gs complaint in part and direct Ageas Insurance 
Limited to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman