DRN-4137550
The complaint
Mr G complains that Creation Financial Services Limited closed his account without notice 
and didnt credit his points. Hed like compensation for the closure and the points returned. 
What happened
Mr G had a reward club credit card account with Creation. This included the ability to earn 
reward points which could be redeemed for hotel stays or experiences.  
On 16 July 2021 Creation decided to close Mr Gs account with immediate notice. Mr G 
advised he didnt discover this until logging into his mobile app. 
Creation also refused to credit Mr G with the 17,600 points he accrued during the last 
statement period. 
Mr G complained to Creation. But Creation didnt uphold his complaint. They thought theyd 
acted fairly in closing his account without notice  and not crediting the points. 
Mr G wasnt satisfied with Creations response so complained to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Gs complaint. They asked Creation for more 
information regarding their decision to close his account and evidence of the notification of 
closure. 
Creation provided further information regarding their decision to close Mr Gs account. But, 
Creation advised that apart from the template letter already provided they couldnt provide 
any further information.  
Our investigator thought Creation acted fairly in closing Mr Gs account without notice, and 
failing to award him the points from the last statement period. However, they thought 
Creation hadnt notified Mr G of the account closure  as they are required to do  and 
therefore Mr G was caused inconvenience. Our investigator asked Creation to pay Mr G £50 
compensation. 
Mr G accepted our investigators recommendation. But Creation didnt agree. In response 
they sent a copy of the letter they issued to Mr G dated 16 July 2021 which notified him of 
the account closure. Our investigator asked Creation why they hadnt shared this letter with 
our service before and she explained on balance she wasnt persuaded the letter was sent.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account closure and withholding of points
Our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat evidence from banks as 
confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains security information, or 
commercially sensitive information. Some of the information Creation has provided is 
information that we considered should be kept confidential.
Creation can only close accounts in certain circumstances and if its in the terms and 
conditions of the account. Creation have relied on the terms and conditions when closing 
Mr Gs account. The terms explain that the bank can close an account without notice in 
certain specific circumstances. Ive considered the full circumstances of this complaint and I 
agree Creation were entitled to close the account without giving notice. 
Ive also considered the withholding of Mr Gs points for the last statement period . I 
understand this will disappoint Mr G, but Im satisfied Creation acted fairly and within the 
reward club terms and conditions when failing to credit the points. The relevant term says, 
services and benefits can be removed at any time. For this reason Im satisfied Creations 
actions werent unfair here. 
Account closure notification
  
Creation provided our service with a template closure letter sent to all customers when an 
account is closed. They also advised that they couldn't provide a copy of the actual letter 
sent to Mr G. I can see we've now received a copy of the letter and it is dated the same date 
(16 July 2021) that Creation advised the closure letter was sent. But, Creation haven't been 
able to provide confirmation via screenshot or contact notes to show the letter was issued. 
Usually our service would regard a dated letter as sufficient to indicate it was likely sent 
however as Creation weren't able to initially provide it to our service I don't find it as 
persuasive as I normally would. Ive also taken into account Mr Gs consistent account that 
he didnt receive the letter. For this reason I'd want to see a record on the case file, which I 
haven't, that the letter was issued. It follows, on balance I cant say the letter was 
successfully sent. 
Putting things right
I've thought about the level of inconvenience caused to Mr G in Creation failing to notify him 
of the account closure. And I think he was caused some upset in logging on to his app and 
finding out his account was closed. I think £50 is fair compensation for the distress caused to 
him. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is I direct Creation Financial Services Limited to:
Pay Mr G £50 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman