DRN-2479245
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the information given by Experian Limited when she asked about 
improving her credit score. 
 What happened
On 22 September 2020 Mrs B says she noticed her credit score had dropped so she paid 
£14.99 to gain access to Experians Credit Expert service. 
Mrs B called Experian and asked about ways she could use her credit card to help improve 
her credit score. Mrs B complained the information provided was generic and didnt offer 
guidance or advice on how to improve her credit score. Mrs S complained that Experian had 
failed to provide the service she paid for and asked for a refund. 
Experian responded to Mrs Bs complaint by email on 29 September 2020 and said it had 
provided the service she paid for. In its final response Experian said the balance of a credit 
card reported on Mrs Bs credit file had changed and gave information about how active 
balances can impact a credit score. Experian also said that a credit score doesnt affect 
lenders decisions and is intended to help predict what their decisions may be. 
Mrs B referred her complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator thought Experian had dealt with Mrs Bs complaint fairly and didnt ask it to 
refund the £14.99 she had paid. Mrs B asked to appeal and said Experian had failed to 
provide guidance on how to improve her credit score. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B has sent us a screen print from Experians website regarding the service she paid for. 
The information says Experians customer support teams can offer help and guidance about 
a customers report and credit score. Mrs B says Experian failed to offer the guidance she 
needed. Mrs B has also forwarded information from the Financial Conduct Authority that 
talks about the difference between advice and guidance. 
Ive read the report Mrs B forwarded us and I understand her view. But, in this case, the 
information given by Experian said it would provide guidance about her report and credit 
score. The information didnt say it would provide guidance on how Mrs B should use 
financial products that are reported on her credit file. I think Experians responses were 
reasonable in this case. 
Whilst I can see Mrs B feels the information provided was generic in nature, Experian did 
give details of specific changes to the information shown on her credit file along with how 
that could impact her credit score is in line with the service it offered. 
Based on the information Ive seen, Im satisfied that the service Experian provided to Mrs B 
was in line with the information it gave her before she decided to proceed. As a result, I 
havent found grounds to tell Experian to refund the £14.99 Mrs B paid. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs B but Im satisfied Experian has dealt with her complaint fairly, so 
Im not telling it to take any further action. 
 My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman