DRN-3462068
The complaint
Ms K complains that UK Credit Limited (UK Credit) lent to her in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
Ms K was given a guarantor loan by UK Credit in August 2018. She borrowed £4500 and 
agreed to repay this over 24 months. The guarantor for this loan was Ms Ks partner. When 
Ms K made her complaint to UK Credit, she had a balance to repay.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in April 2022. Both parties have received a 
copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the decision 
below. I said;
UK Credit gathered some information from Ms K before it agreed to lend. It asked Ms K 
about her income and expenditure. It says it verified her income using an online tool and 
called her to discuss her expenditure. It carried out a credit check and used this to work out 
her credit commitments. Those checks suggested Ms K had enough disposable income 
each month to afford the loan repayments. 
Ms K was entering into a significant commitment with UK Credit. She was agreeing to make 
monthly repayments for a period of 2 years. So, I think it is right that UK Credit wanted to 
gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Ms Ks financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to her. I think that the checks it did were sufficient to 
achieve that aim. I think UK Credits checks were proportionate. 
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to
react appropriately to the information those checks show. Those results might sometimes 
lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. Or, in some 
cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. So, Ive looked at 
what UK Credit gathered to see whether it needed to ask for more or whether it made a fair 
lending decision. 
I have looked at the credit search that UK Credit conducted. The search showed that Ms K 
had 3 credit cards, 2 bank accounts with overdrafts and another guarantor loan, along with a 
payday loan. The two loans had only recently been obtained. Our investigator concluded that 
Ms K had recently taken out credit and increased her indebtedness in a short space of time. 
I can see from looking at the credit search results why they would conclude this. The other 
guarantor loan was only taken 2 months before Ms K asked for this one. Ms K had also 
recently taken out a payday loan and third credit card too. So, I think UK Credit ought to 
have been mindful of this when it looked through its credit search and was completing its 
assessment. 
I have also listened to a call between the parties, where UK Credit went through the credit 
search and also asked Ms K about her income and expenditure. Ms K told UK Credit that 
she was going to use the loan to buy a car and the first years insurance premium. She also 
told it she had taken out a payday loan for her mother, and that her mother was making the 
repayment for it. I think it is reasonable for UK Credit to rely on what she has said here and 
discount this payment from the credit commitments that it assessed her to have at that time. 
The credit Ms K had taken out seemed to be well managed. She was not in arrears with any 
of her accounts and I couldnt see any other signs that she was having problems managing 
her finances or that the loan wasnt affordable for her. Ms K was living at home and told UK 
Credit that she contributed about 5% to the household bills as she was only paying for food. I 
think when I consider how much Ms Ks verified monthly income was, and how little she 
declared to UK Credit she had in essential spend, I think the credit she had taken out was 
affordable for her. The repayments on her overdrafts, 3 credit cards, guarantor loan and the 
repayment for this loan did represent a fairly sizable proportion of her monthly income. But in 
the circumstances, I have already described, on balance, I think the loan was sustainably 
affordable for her.
I appreciate that Ms Ks financial situation could have been worse than my assessment 
above might suggest. But I think that the checks UK Credit performed were proportionate 
and didnt suggest that Ms K was facing any current problems in managing her finances. I 
think UK Credit was entitled to rely on what Ms K said about her finances, and what she 
intended to use the loan for. And that information suggested that she would be able to 
sustainably afford the repayments on the loan. So, I dont currently think UK Credit was 
wrong to give the loan to Ms K.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. Ms Ks representatives responded and said it had received the 
provisional decision but did not provide any further comments. UK Credit responded and 
said it had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms K and UK Credit have not made any new points for me to respond to. So, as neither 
party has anything further to add that I feel I need to comment on or that will change the 
outcome of this complaint, I dont see any reason to depart from my findings within my 
provisional decision. With that being the case, I do not uphold Ms Ks complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman