DRN-4039175
The complaint
Mr B complains Gain Credit LLC (trading as Drafty) gave him a line of credit without carrying 
out sufficient affordability checks. Mr B says had better checks been carried out, Drafty 
wouldve realised he had several outstanding payday loans and so couldnt afford to repay 
his facilities. 
What happened
Mr B approached Drafty for a running credit facility in September 2016. Mr B was given a
facility with a £1,000 credit limit. Drafty then increased Mr Bs credit limit on one occasion 
taking his credit limit to £1,400 in March 2017. Drafty has confirmed that as of March 2023, 
an outstanding balance remains due of around £1,689.
Mr B was given a running credit account where he could either request funds up to his 
agreed credit limit in one go or could take multiple drawdowns up to his limit. He was also 
able to borrow further, up to his credit limit, as and when he repaid what he owed. To be 
clear, Mr B was not given a payday loan. 
In Draftys latest final response letter (from October 2022) it explained what had happened 
with Mr Bs complaint including that a previous final response letter which was issued in 
2019. However, Drafty explained that it took another look at his complaint and believed that 
it should refund any interest applied to new drawdowns from 11 October 2017. 
Mr B referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service where one of our 
adjudicators reviewed it and partly upheld the complaint.
She thought the checks Drafty carried out before initially granting this facility were 
proportionate and showed it Mr B was likely to be able to afford the payment amount as 
outlined in the hypothetical payment schedule in Mr Bs credit agreement. This was 
calculated on the full £1,000 being drawn down at the outset and then being repaid over 
12 months. So, she didnt think it was wrong to have initially approved the facility.
However, the adjudicator, pointed out that as Drafty had provided Mr B with a credit facility, 
in addition to taking reasonable steps to ensure the facility was affordable at the outset, it 
also had an obligation to monitor Mr Bs ongoing use of the facility. The adjudicator thought, 
the manner in which Mr B had used and repaid the facility ought to have alerted Drafty that 
the facility was no longer sustainable for Mr B from 12 February 2018. 
Overall, the adjudicator thought there were signs of financial difficulties, so not only should 
Drafty not have approved the credit limit increase, Drafty shouldve stepped in and shouldve 
frozen the interest on the facility. 
In order to put things right, the adjudicator recommended all interest, fees and charged paid 
by Mr B from February 2018 should be refunded, along with additional interest of 8% simple. 
Drafty didnt fully agree with the adjudicators assessment. It agreed to uphold the complaint 
from the same point in time (12 February 2018) but it agreed to only refund the interest fees 
and charges applied to any new drawdowns from that date. 
At the time the offer was made, Drafty explained this would lead to a new reduced 
outstanding balance of £1,536.77 and it also agreed to remove any adverse information from 
Mr Bs credit file. It further commented that should Mr B need a repayment plan to pay down 
the outstanding balance, then details of that would be recorded with the credit reference 
agency. 
However, Drafty didnt agree to refund all of the interest fees and charges applied from 12 
 February 2018. It said this was because: 
As the assessment is about whether our decision to continue lending the money 
was appropriate or not, your decision implies that any draws granted after February, 
12 2018 were inappropriate, and we should refund any interest paid on them. 
However, it also implied that draws granted prior to the upheld date were 
reasonable for us to grant...
Draftys offer was put to Mr B and he didnt accept it. Mr B said the agent confirmed his 
facility was unaffordable. He also said, the information Drafty is recording on his credit file is 
incorrect.  As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the relevant times.
A lender had to take proportionate steps to ensure a consumer wouldve been able to repay 
what they were borrowing in a sustainable manner without it adversely impacting on their 
financial situation. Put simply the lender had to gather enough information so that it could 
make an informed decision on the lending.
Although the guidance didnt set out compulsory checks it did list a number of things a lender 
could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key thing was that it required a lenders 
checks to be proportionate. Any checks had to take into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent and when what was being borrowed was due to be 
repaid. 
As explained, Mr B was given an open-ended credit facility. So, overall, I think that this 
means the checks Drafty carried out had to provide enough for it to be able to understand 
whether Mr B would be able to both service and then repay his facility within a reasonable 
period of time. Drafty also needed to monitor Mr Bs repayment record for any sign that he 
may have been experiencing financial difficulties.
Before the facility was approved, Drafty took details of Mr Bs income and expenditure 
information as well as carrying out a credit search. In my view, given this was the start of the 
lending relationship Draftys checks were entirely reasonable and proportionate and showed 
it that Mr B would be able to afford the repayments as outlined in the hypothetical scenario in 
the credit agreement. So, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about Drafty approving the facility 
for him. It is worth saying here that Drafty agrees with the uphold point the adjudicator reached, as it 
offered some redress from that date  12 February 2018. Mr B rejected the settlement offer 
by Drafty, and he said he didnt think the facility was affordable  which Ive addressed 
above. 
Ive looked at the way Mr B used the facility from inception until the point the adjudicator 
reached (and which Drafty agrees) it should pay some redress for. Having done so, I do 
think point the adjudicator upheld the complaint from was reasonable, given the relationship 
between the repayments and when Mr B returned for further credit. So, Im also going to be 
concluding, the complaint ought to be upheld from 12 February 2018. 
However, what is in dispute, and therefore what this decision has focused on, is whether the 
redress proposed by Drafty is fair and reasonable considering the circumstances of Mr Bs 
complaint. 
So, I dont think that I need to speculate here about the actions Drafty may or may not have 
taken in February 2018. There were a number of options which Drafty could have taken. But 
seeing as none of these were taken and Im satisfied that action ought to have been taken  
as it agrees. Ive considered what Drafty ought to fairly and reasonably do to put things right 
sometime after the event. And the proposed redress is the clearest and fairest way of doing 
this. 
As Ive said above, and as the adjudicator pointed out, Mr B wasnt repaying the facility in a 
sustainable manner because he would frequently make the minimum repayment and then 
drawdown any available credit which was regularly only around £28. So, Drafty ought to 
have realised, the current balance was unsustainable  and therefore Mr B ought to have 
been offered some assistance. 
Therefore, Ive set out below what I think Drafty needs to do in order to put things right for 
Mr B while explaining why I agree with the adjudicators conclusions that all the interest 
charged after the 12 February 2018 needs to be refunded. 
In any event, whats most important here is that I dont think its fair and reasonable for a 
lender to allow a customer to continue using a facility that has become demonstrably 
unsustainable  instead I think its fair and reasonable to expect a lender to help the 
customer repay what theyve already drawn down and what they already owe.  
So, I dont think that Drafty continuing to allow interest to be charged on Mr Bs total balance, 
in circumstances where this increased the chances of him being unable to repay, is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. 
So, although, I do accept that the balance up to the uphold point was legitimately provided 
and appeared affordable for Mr B at the time it was lent, once the point had been reached 
where Drafty accepted the facility was unsustainable, it ought to have exercised forbearance 
in order to allow Mr B to repay what he owed. In these circumstances, it isnt, in my view, fair 
and reasonable for Drafty to have continued charging interest on this balance from 
12 February 2018 onwards. 
Therefore, given what Drafty said in response to the adjudicators assessment, that it agrees 
with the point that the complaint has been upheld, it follows that it isnt just the new 
drawdowns that werent sustainable for Mr B. It also wasnt sustainable to repay what he 
already owed  so actions in failing to offer help to repay this as well as offering further 
drawdowns needs to be reflected in what it does to put things right going forward. Thinking about this, and the fact the reasons why Drafty has already agreed to uphold the 
complaint at the point the adjudicator recommended, Ive outlined below what Drafty needs 
to do in order to put things right for Mr B. 
Mr B says the information Drafty is reporting to the credit reference agencies is incorrect but 
he hasnt supplied his credit file so I dont know what, if anything it is reporting. However, as 
the complaint has been partly upheld, Drafty may have to make adjustments to the credit file. 
Putting things right
If Drafty has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back if it is able to do so and then take 
the following steps. If Drafty isnt able to buy the debt back then it should liaise with the new 
debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
Re-work Mr Bs credit facility balance so that all additional interest, fees and charges 
applied from 12 February 2018 onwards are removed. 
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the credit facility once these adjustments have 
been made Drafty should contact Mr B to arrange a suitable repayment plan for this. 
If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Bs credit file, it 
should backdate this to February 2018.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer being 
an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Mr B, along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date 
they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no outstanding balance 
remains after all adjustments have been made, then Drafty should remove any 
adverse information from Mr Bs credit file.*
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to take off tax from this interest. Drafty must give
Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
Given what Drafty has told the Financial Ombudsman Service, it is likely, that even after 
carrying out the above redress an outstanding balance will remain due. I would remind 
Drafty has an obligation to treat Mr B fairly and with forbearance while working with him to 
collect any outstanding balance which may be due.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above I partly uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Gain Credit LLC trading as Drafty should put things right for Mr B as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman