DRN-4224022
The complaint
Mr O and Mrs O complain that a door supplied with finance from Shawbrook Bank Limited 
wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In January 2019 Mr O ordered some replacement windows and doors from a merchant and 
entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook.
Mr and Mrs O experienced some issues with the installation. These included:
- Poor workmanship when replacing an L shaped unit to the rear of the property. The 
merchant said it would send a surveyor out, but appointments were missed and 
ultimately Mr O arranged his own surveyor.  The issue was finally resolved in March 
2022.
- The front door mechanism seizes in heat and cant be opened
Mr and Mrs O were unbale to resolve matters with the merchant. In June 2022 Mr O raised a 
complaint with Shawbrook. Mr O said he wanted compensation for the time hed taken off 
work fort appointments which werent kept and compensation for the stress and anxiety the 
issue had caused. 
In its final response, Shawbrook said that the merchant had offered a replacement door, but 
that this had been refused by Mr O. Shawbrook also said that the merchant had undertaken 
works to repair an issue with the roof joist and ceiling which wasnt included in the schedule 
of works, the value of which had been estimated by the merchant to be in the region of 
£1500. Shawbrook said that the offer to replace the door, and the work undertaken free of 
charge, was a sufficient resolution.
Mr O remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. He said he hadnt refused 
a replacement door but wanted compensation as part of the settlement. Mr O said hed had 
to take 12 days off work and that hed had to pay for his own surveyor. He also said that not 
knowing whether the door would open or not on any given day had caused anxiety and 
distress. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said she was satisfied that the door wasnt of 
satisfactory quality and that Shawbrook should arrange for it to be replaced. She also said 
that Shawbrook should refund the surveyors fee and pay compensation for trouble and 
upset.
Shawbrook replied to the investigator and said its position remained as set out in its final 
response. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of 
goods or the provide of credit if theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. In 
order to uphold Mr Os complaint, I would need to be satisfied that theres been a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation and that Shawbrooks response to the claim under section 
75 wasnt fair or reasonable. 
Ive reviewed the available evidence to determine whether theres been a fault with the door. 
Mr O first reported an issue with the door swelling in warm weather in 2020. The merchant 
attempted repairs more than once, but the issue wasnt resolved and in 2022 the merchant 
said that the door was bowed and needed replacing.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the door supplied to Mr O wasnt of satisfactory 
quality. Im satisfied that theres been a breach of contract for the purposes of section 75.
Ive gone on to consider whether the response from Shawbrook was fair.
The merchant said it had undertaken additional works to Mr Os property as a good will 
gesture and because of this, the merchant didnt think it should pay compensation to Mr O.
Mr O disagreed with this and said hed paid for the additional work himself. He provided 
evidence to show that hed paid monies to the builder who carried out the additional work.
The merchant hasnt provided any evidence of the work it says it carried out for free. It has 
provided some photos, but these dont establish who carried out the work and /or whether 
any payment was made.
Based on what Ive seen, it seems more likely that Mr O paid for the additional work, But 
even if he didnt, Im not persuaded that carrying out work for free is adequate compensation 
for the issues arising from the breach of contract.
When Shawbrook investigated Mr Os complaint, it acknowledged that the door wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. In its final response it said that the merchants offer to replace the door 
and the work which was carried out for free was a fair offer.
Im not persuaded that Shawbrooks response to the section 75 claim was fair. I think 
Shawbrook shouldve done more to confirm that the work had actually carried out for free, or 
whether Mr O had evidence to show otherwise.
Ive taken into account what Mr O has said about the compensation hes seeking. The door 
wasnt of satisfactory quality and attempts to repair it have failed so Im satisfied that it 
should be replaced. I understand that the original merchant has become insolvent so 
alternative arrangements to replace it will need to be made.
Mr O has said that hes taken a total of 12 days off work. Hes said that 8 of these were 
taken off for building work when no-one turned up and 4 of these were taken off when work 
was being carried out.
I appreciate that it mustve been frustrating for Mr O to take time off work only to find that no-
one turned up. However, Im unable to consider this time  or the other 4 days  as loss of 
earnings because taking time off work for appointments with workmen is something that 
wed expect a customer to do and is outside of the scope for reimbursement under section 
75. Mr O has paid for a survey which was meant to be organised and paid for by the merchant. 
This was necessary before work could start, so Im satisfied that the cost was reasonably 
incurred.
Ive taken into account the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr O by the issues with the 
door, I appreciate that it mustve been very stressful for Mr O to be uncertain of whether the 
door would function correctly on a day to day basis.
Putting things right
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 sets out various remedies which can be considered where 
goods arent of satisfactory quality.
One of the remedies is repair. There have been several attempts to repair the door already 
which didnt resolve the issue, so Im satisfied that replacement of the door is the only viable 
remedy.
Im therefore requiring Shawbrook to do the following: 
Arrange for the front door to be replaced at no cost to Mr O
Refund the survey fee of £420
Pay £300 compensation to Mr O for distress and inconvenience
Pay 8% simple interest per annum on all refunded amounts from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold the complaint. Shawbrook Bank Limited must take the steps Ive 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman