DRN-3069845
The complaint
Mr J complains that Ald Automotive Limited unfairly charged him for damages to his car at 
the end of the hire agreement. He believes the damage was down to normal wear and tear. 
He would like the cars paint quality inspected.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons:-
Ald Automotive uses British Vehicle Leasing & Rental Association (BVRLA) 
guidelines for assessing damage to vehicles. Having looked at the guidelines, photos 
of the car and inspection report I agree with our investigators view that the scratches 
fall outside of fair wear and tear guidelines So  dont think it was unreasonable of Ald 
Automotive to charge for these.
I appreciate Mr Js views that the paint work was of a poor quality. The agreement Mr 
J took out made it clear he was responsible for maintaining the car in a good 
condition. The damage to the paintwork is clearly visible so if Mr J felt there was an 
issue with the paintwork quality, he could have raised this with Ald Automotive prior 
to returning the car but I have no evidence he did so.
I understand there was also an issue with a service being completed but not correctly 
logged for which Ald Automotive has charged £175. Its unfortunate if the service was 
completed but not recorded correctly. But the terms of Mr Js agreement specifically 
state that Ald Automotive can charge if the  service booklet isnt stamped, as I 
understand was the case here. So, I dont believe Ald Automotive were wrong to 
charge for this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman