DRN-3130325
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as F has complained that Liberty Mutual Insurance Europe SE 
unfairly turned down its business interruption insurance claim.
Mr T, a director of F, has brought the complaint on Fs behalf. 
What happened
F held a business interruption policy with Liberty Mutual. F claimed on its policy after its 
business was impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Liberty Mutual turned down Fs claim as they thought F had closed due to the Governments 
response to the pandemic rather than because of a notifiable disease at its premises. Liberty 
Mutual said other extensions in the policy didnt provide cover because Covid-19 hadnt 
caused damage. 
Unhappy with Liberty Mutuals response, F brought its complaint to our service. It said the 
policy covered closure due to a notifiable disease at its premises and part of its premises 
was an outdoor area in a busy part of the city which had been heavily impacted by Covid-19. 
F also said that the impact of Covid-19 could be considered a civil commotion and as loss 
wasnt defined within the definition of damage the loss of footfall to the business could be 
considered a loss. 
Our investigator looked into Fs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he didnt 
think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of Fs claim. 
F disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said on the balance of probabilities 
there was most likely a case of Covid-19 at its premises. F also said that it had never been 
asked by Liberty Mutual to demonstrate evidence of its loss. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Fs business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if Liberty Mutual have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining Fs claim.
Damage
The core business interruption cover provided by the policy, as well as the extension for 
prevention of access or loss of attraction, require damage to property in order to provide 
cover. I dont think I need to make a finding on whether the impact of Covid-19 would be 
considered a civil commotion. I say that because even if it was a civil commotion I havent 
seen anything to indicate that Covid-19 caused damage to property. And while there might 
have been a loss of footfall, that doesnt amount to damage to property. So this doesnt 
provide cover for Fs claim. 
Disease
The extension for compulsory closure covers:
Interruption for interference with the Business in consequence of compulsory 
closure by a public body authorised to prevent or restrict access to the Premises 
arising from
(a) discovery of a notifiable human infectious or contagious disease at the 
Premises
Covid-19 is a notifiable human infectious or contagious disease. So for this extension to 
provide cover the restrictions placed on F would need to be as a result of a Covid-19 being 
discovered at its premises. 
Premises is defined as:
that part of the Buildings, situated at the risk address or locations stated in the 
Schedule, occupied by the Insured for the purposes of the Business
The policy schedule gives the details of the insured address and includes the buildings at 
that address. F has pointed out that the definition of buildings in the policy includes yards, 
car parks, roads and pavements which partly or wholly serve to supply the premises.
While the definition of buildings appears to indicate a wider area of cover, the definition of 
premises specifies that it is the part of the buildings occupied by the insured for the purpose 
of the business. F said it has a small outdoor space leading to the public walkway. While I 
accept this area is likely to be considered Fs premises, I dont think F can reasonably said to 
occupy the surrounding streets for the purpose of its business. 
I think that a court would most likely interpret the word discovery to mean that someone had 
displayed symptoms of the disease or been diagnosed with it. And as this extension requires 
the disease to have been discovered at the premises, I think the symptoms or diagnosis 
would need to have been present while the person with Covid-19 was at Fs premises. 
Therefore, F would need to show its more likely than not that someone at its premises 
(including the small outdoor space) had symptoms, or been diagnosed with Covid-19.
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-
19, save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able to produce a 
positive test result from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to demonstrate a 
case on the premises would, in my view, be unfair.
Its therefore necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on the balance of probabilities, that Covid-19 was 
discovered at the insured premises prior to closure. As with any insurance claim, the burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder to demonstrate that its suffered a loss its policy 
covers.
F hasnt provided any evidence to indicate that anyone at its premises had symptoms or 
had been diagnosed with Covid-19. I understand that it thinks on the balance of 
probabilities Covid-19 would have been discovered at its premises due to the prevalence in 
the local area, but I have to bear in mind that most people didnt have Covid-19 at that time. 
Therefore, I dont think F has shown its most likely Covid-19 was discovered at its 
premises. 
I appreciate this isnt the answer F was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Liberty Mutual to pay Fs claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman