DRN-4389417
The complaint
Mr P complains that AJ Bell Securities Limited unfairly cancelled three trades he had placed, 
causing him financial loss. 
What happened
On 19 December 2022 at 8.13am Mr P placed a trade in each of his AJ Bell ISA, dealing 
account and SIPP, to sell a combined total of just over 89,000 shares in a Wisdomtree ETF, 
for around £4,200,000. At 8.53am AJ Bell notified him that the trades had been cancelled 
and explained that the shares shouldnt have been available for him to trade. This was due 
to an ongoing share consolidation. Instead of having 89,000 shares, Mr P only had 684 
shares following the consolidation. Mr P complained as he felt he was entitled to the 
£4,200,000, as hed received contract notes from AJ Bell and the money had already been 
showing as credited to his online account. 
AJ Bell explained that due to the consolidation, there ought to have been a block on sales of 
the shares. At the time Mr P placed the trade, the share price had been updated to show the 
new, post-consolidation share price, but the number of shares Mr P owned hadnt been 
updated  they apologised and offered £100 compensation. However, they said they didnt 
have to honour the sale, as under the terms they were allowed to block any instruction that 
would breach regulatory requirements. Mr P no longer actually owned 89,000 shares and so 
to fulfil the sale with the counterparty, AJ Bell would have had to sell other clients shares  
which they said would have been a breach of regulation.
As he remained unhappy, Mr P brought the complaint to our service and an Investigator 
looked into it. The Investigator didnt uphold it and found that the £100 was fair and 
reasonable for the disappointment caused. Mr P said that he accepts AJ Bell made an error, 
but he still feels they owe him amount promised in the contract notes. As he didnt agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator for largely the same 
reasons. Both parties agree that AJ Bell made an error in allowing Mr P to place his trade, 
and for completeness I agree. So, my decision focuses on what ought to have happened 
following the discovery of the error and how the situation should be put right. 
I can see that although Mr P placed the trade on 19 December 2022, the contract notes he 
received confirmed that the settlement date would be 21 December 2022. In general, when 
trading shares, trades are not complete until theyve settled, and problems can be identified 
between the trade and settlement dates which means the trade cant be settled. 
I appreciate his accounts were showing as having received the money from the sale 
following the placing of the trade. However, its not uncommon that the broker credits an 
account in this way, prior to receiving the money from the buyer, and I can see that under 
the terms, Mr P wouldnt have actually been able to withdraw the cash until the settlement 
date. Particularly, the terms say:
22.1 Details of the date on which your Order is intended to settle will be given in the Contract 
Note. For a sell Order, this is when we would expect to receive the sale proceeds. For a buy 
Order, this is when we would expect to receive the investment. For most investments, 
settlement will take place between 1 and 5 Business Days after the Order is executed. 
22.2 However, the date on which the settlement of your Order actually takes place may differ 
from the intended settlement date. You will be exposed to the risk of a Settlement Failure 
until such time as settlement actually takes place on the actual settlement date. For sale 
Orders, once actual settlement has taken place, you will then be able to withdraw the sale 
proceeds from your Account. 
Ive considered those terms alongside the one AJ Bell has sought to rely upon, which says:
18.4 We reserve the right for any reason to refuse to:
(a) execute an Order but will act reasonably in so doing;
(b) act on any instruction you give us on an investment, which could result in a breach of 
a Regulatory Requirements, or, if the instruction has already been acted upon, to 
take any action which we consider appropriate to reverse your instruction, and
in each case we will try to notify you of the reason. 
Mr P no longer actually held 89,000 shares and so would have been unable to fulfil the order 
alone, had it gone through to settlement. Had AJ Bell allowed it to go through, then that 
would have had to involve them selling the shares they held on behalf of other investors 
alongside Mr Ps shares. Thats what they consider would have been a regulatory breach 
under 18.4(b). So, taking all of the above into account, in the circumstances, I think it was 
fair and reasonable for AJ Bell to rely on these terms to cancel the trade. 
Ive also considered whether Mr P ought to have been aware of a potential issue prior to 
placing the trade. Mr P was sent a notification on 13 December 2022, which explained the 
share consolidation would mean hed be credited with one new share for every 130 shares 
held, and that the share price would be expected to rise, to reduce the impact to the market 
value of the shares. So, Mr P had been warned of the fact his shareholding would be 
changing. Though Mr P says he didnt read this until after the trade was placed, Im satisfied 
AJ Bell had notified him of it, in a clear and fair manner. 
Mr P has also explained that his reason for placing the shares was because of the dramatic 
increase in the share price since the previous trading day  from 37.15p to 4,710p. This 
equates to an increase of over 12,000%, which is an improbable level of overnight growth. 
Together with the notification of the consolidation, I think Mr P ought to have been aware 
that there was something wrong with the price he was quoted for the trades. 
My aim is to put Mr P in the position hed be in now, had the error not occurred. I consider 
the initial error was AJ Bell failing to place a block on the trading of these shares. It follows 
that if the block had been placed, Mr P wouldnt have been able to trade at all and would 
then have owned 684 shares following the consolidation. I understand he had that number of 
shares post-cancellation of the trade, so Im satisfied AJ Bell did put him in the position he 
would have been in, if he hadnt been able to trade. 
Im also satisfied Mr P hasnt lost out financially due to this situation - Mr Ps shares in this 
ETF were never actually worth £4,200,000 as he didnt own as many at the higher price as he thought. However, he has clearly been caused disappointment by the situation, and I 
think he deserves compensation for the loss of expectation. I can see that AJ Bell let him 
know in less than an hour from the time he placed the trade, that it had been cancelled. So, 
Mr P wasnt under the wrong impression for long. Taking into account what Ive said above 
about the increase in the share price being improbable, Im persuaded that the £100 offered 
by AJ Bell is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
AJ Bell Securities Limited has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint and 
I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that AJ Bell Securities Limited should pay Mr P £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Katie Haywood
Ombudsman