DRN-3727474
The complaint
Mr E complains Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund him for a payment he made to a car rental 
company.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
In July 2021 Mr E made a debit card payment of £1167.45 to a car rental company who Ill 
refer to as R to book a hire car for his holiday. Mr E says when he arrived at the airport to 
collect the car, he was unable to do so. As he couldnt resolve the matter with R, Mr E 
contacted Lloyds for assistance. Lloyds submitted a chargeback request, and credited 
Mr Es account with a temporary refund for the disputed payment. The claim was 
successfully defended, and Lloyds removed, from Mr Es account, the temporary refund it 
had given. Mr E complained. Lloyds said there was nothing more it could do. It had 
submitted a claim, but it had not been successful.  
Mr E referred the matter to this service, and one of our Investigators considered what had 
happened. She agreed with Lloyds that it had acted appropriately. Mr E did not accept the 
Investigators assessment and asked that an Ombudsman review the case.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise Mr E feels strongly about Rs actions and Im sorry to hear about the difficulties 
he experienced on holiday because of this. But this complaint is about Lloyds actions  not 
Rs. My role here is limited to deciding whether Lloyds has acted fairly in the individual 
circumstances of Mr Es complaint. I appreciate Mr E thinks he should get a refund as he 
has not received the service he paid for from R. But I can only direct Lloyds to reimburse 
Mr E if I can fairly and reasonably conclude that it was its failing that resulted in the loss.
Firstly, there is no dispute that the payment to R was authorised by Mr E. So I cant say that 
Lloyds have made an error in processing the payment. And in circumstances such as these, 
where a payment has been authorised by the card holder, and the nature of their claim is 
that goods and/or services havent been provided by the merchant  the only avenue 
available to the card issuer to try and recover the funds is through chargeback. However, 
this would be subject to the relevant scheme rules  here Visa. 
Im satisfied Lloyds correctly raised a chargeback claim on Mr Es behalf. The claim was 
defended, and R provided the relevant information required under the scheme rules to 
remedy the chargeback dispute. Therefore, under Visas scheme rules the funds would 
remain with R. Lloyds are bound by these rules, so I cant say it acted unreasonably by 
removing from Mr Es account the temporary refund that it had given.  
I know Mr E feels aggrieved that R, hadnt made clear at the time of booking, the 
requirement for all drivers to have held a licence for at least two years. I can also see in his 
submissions he has commented on his dissatisfaction with the service he has received from 
R. But its important to note that it is not my role to arbitrate on a dispute between Mr E and 
R. Indeed, I have no power to do so. I therefore make no comment on the question of 
whether the terms were made clear to Mr E or about the service he received from R. Mr Es 
complaint about Rs actions is something hed need to take up, if he chooses to do so, with 
them directly.
Taking all the above into consideration I dont think Lloyds have done anything wrong. So it 
follows that I wont be asking it to do any more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman