DRN-4251360
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with how AWP P&C SA handled his claim on his travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B had a travel insurance policy attached to his packaged bank account. The policy was 
underwritten by AWP. 
Mr B and his family were on holiday abroad. On their way to the airport they received an 
email to say their flight home had been cancelled. Mr B contacted AWP that day and says he 
was told to retain all his receipts and submit a claim when he returned home. 
Mr B and his family had to remain abroad for five days until the next available flight. Mr B 
returned home and made a claim on his policy for the costs hed incurred. AWP declined 
cover under the cancellation section of the policy. They also considered the claim under the 
travel disruption section but concluded this didnt apply as Mr B wasnt at the airport when 
the flight was cancelled. 
Mr B said he couldnt check in for the flight because it was cancelled. He also raised 
concerns he hadnt received a copy of his policy document, so hed relied on the what is 
covered section of the online portal - which he now thinks is misleading. 
AWP maintained there wasnt any cover under the policy for this flight cancellation. They 
advised Mr B that as the airline cancelled the flight, it was their responsibility to cover 
additional food and accommodation costs until the next flight. Mr B said he hadnt received a 
response from the airline. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and said she didnt think AWP had unfairly 
declined the claim at this stage. She agreed it wasnt covered by the policy terms and she 
thought it was reasonable for Mr B to wait for an answer on if the costs were recoverable 
from the airline first.
Mr B didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. In summary he said: 
He hadnt ever been sent a copy of his policy document 
Hed spoken to AWP on numerous occasions and was given the impression his claim 
would be honored
The case has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that AWP has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Id like to assure Mr B that Ive read and considered all his representations. But I wont be 
addressing every point which has been raised.  Ill only refer to the points which I think are 
central to my findings. 
Having carefully considered the policy terms and conditions I dont think AWP unfairly 
declined cover.  I can see they reviewed all the relevant sections of the policy, but I agree 
that unfortunately Mr Bs claim for the flight cancellation isnt an insured event in the 
circumstances. 
The policy terms also state AWP will not consider claims for:
 any unused or additional costs incurred by you which are recoverable from anywhere else. 
Under UK law, airlines must provide care and assistance when they cancel a flight. Whilst I 
appreciate its frustrating Mr B didnt hear back from the airline, its not unreasonable for his 
insurer to decline his claim at that stage. Travel policies usually only cover irrecoverable 
losses, and as Mr Bs costs arent yet deemed irrecoverable from the airline, its fair for AWP 
not to provide cover until the airline confirms their position. Its reasonable AWP will only pay 
costs that arent recoverable from another source. 
Mr B says AWP told him his claim would be covered, and this was misleading. AWP have 
provided the call note from 19 December and recordings from his claim calls in January. But 
I havent seen evidence to support he was told his claim would be covered. 
The call note from 19 December logs that Mr B was told his flight cancellation wouldnt be 
covered because he wasnt at the airport before cancellation. Which is in line with the policy 
terms. Although I havent heard a copy of the call on this date, Mr B does make reference in 
the call on 16 January that he was previously told he wasnt covered. So on balance, I think 
its likely the call note from the 19 December can be reasonably relied upon.
Mr B has raised repeated concerns that he wasnt provided with a copy of his policy 
document, so he had to rely on the information on the portal. But Mr Bs policy wasnt sold by 
AWP - its attached to his bank account. Ive seen evidence to show the full policy document 
can be accessed through Mr Bs banking website under account benefits.  And AWP also 
sent Mr B a copy of the full policy document as part of their complaint response. So Im 
satisfied he now has a copy. 
For clarity, AWP also confirmed theyve only provided this type of cover since 2021 (prior to 
this it was a different underwriter), so AWP arent responsible for the failure to provide any 
previous policy documents. Mr B may want to discuss this with his bank he remains 
unhappy. 
Taking all of the above into account, I dont think AWP have treated Mr B unfairly. Our 
investigator has provided information on how he can pursue the airline for confirmation on if 
his costs will be reimbursed by them and the next steps thereafter.
I understand its disappointing that Mr Bs costs arent covered by his travel insurance. But I 
hope he understands there just arent any reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask 
AWP to do anything further at this stage.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B, Mr B and 
Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman