DRN-3893622
The complaint
Mr Y complains in relation to a training course that he financed using a fixed sum loan 
agreement Carnegie Consumer Finance Limited supplied. He says the course provider N 
changed the course and made it impossible for him to complete within the given timescale.
What happened
Mr Y enrolled on Ns domestic electrician course in late 2019 after discussion with one of its 
representatives. The course was modular, with a combination of tutor-supported self-study 
and practical assessments, to be completed over a 36-month period. Mr Y paid a registration 
fee of £60, with the remaining cost of the course (£5,460) being paid with a loan from 
Carnegie. The loan was to be repaid by 39 monthly instalments of £140.
Unfortunately, a few months later Mr Ys course was affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. N 
made changes to the course modules, which meant a much greater emphasis on home-
based learning. Mr Ys main concern was that classroom-based sessions were replaced with 
a large number of learning videos. Mr Y was unhappy that the course was changed in this 
way, though he acknowledged the adjustments N had to make during the pandemic.
Once the pandemic restrictions eased Mr Y expected his course to revert to practical 
sessions. However, this didnt happen. Mr Y was dissatisfied with Ns stance and ultimately 
his concerns were raised with Carnegie.
In response Carnegie said that while the way in which the training took place had changed, 
the overall content and qualifications remained as before. The changes had been instigated 
due to the pandemic and had enabled students to continue their learning. N had said that 
since the Covid-19 restrictions were lifted, it had continued with the video-based sessions as 
students were achieving better results by this method of learning.
Carnegie went on to say that while it didnt consider the changes unreasonable, it had liaised 
with N and proposed a way forward. This involved a six-month extension to enable Mr Y to 
progress and complete the training course, along with the ability to book and attend five 
practical week sessions without completing all of the distance study. Alternatively, it was 
agreeable to an accelerated two and a half week practical study arrangement, contingent 
on Mr Y completing the video-based study sessions.
Our investigator didnt think Carnegie had acted unfairly in its response to Mr Ys claim or 
that it needed to refund what hed paid. He felt the pandemic warranted the original changes, 
and that these didnt fundamentally change the course itself, such that it might amount to a 
breach of contract.
Mr Y didnt accept the investigators conclusions. He feels that N should have to provide the 
course as originally agreed, and that it is unreasonable to continue with the amended 
arrangements now that the pandemic is over. He says there are thousands of videos he will 
need to watch, none of which was specified in his contract with N.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Ys concerns. Its clearly important to him that in studying for a vocational 
qualification as an electrical installer, he has practical experience. I understand why he feels 
the changes in the way in which the course content is delivered makes it different from the 
way he understood the course would operate when he signed up. Of course, those changes 
were brought about due to the pandemic, and its understandable why N sought to make 
what were, at the time, necessary adjustments.
But Mr Ys argument isnt that N couldnt make those adjustments. As far as I can see, he 
completely understands why they were made. He says his concerns only arose after the 
pandemic restrictions were lifted, because N kept the adjustments in place rather than 
reverting to the pre-Covid arrangements.
As the provider of the finance for the course, Carnegie can be held responsible for a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by N in relation to the course. Theres no suggestion 
here that the course or its content was misrepresented to Mr Y. At the time he entered into 
the contract, none of the parties had any knowledge or intention to make the amendments 
that are his cause for concern. 
Ive reviewed the course information and the contract between N and Mr Y, to see whether I 
think Carnegie has unfairly dealt with a breach of contract. The course content  the syllabus 
 doesnt appear to have changed. Nor has the qualification attainable. Im conscious that 
Terms 11 and 19 of the agreement contain provisions relating to practical sessions, referred 
to as practical experience days. That suggests the course included hands-on experience 
rather than just video-based sessions, though the agreement itself doesnt specify how many 
practical experience days were scheduled.
Primarily, however, the course was one of self-study. I think that would be a material 
consideration in determining whether the amendment from classroom-based activity to video 
learning amounts to a breach of contract such that he would be entitled to a refund or 
reduction in the cost of the course.
Looking at the way in which the rest of the course operates and the resolution proposed 
through Carnegie, I think its quite possible that even if the lack of practical experience days 
was considered a breach, it might well have been remedied by the combination of video 
learning and the proposal of the five practical week sessions. Even if it was not, it cant be 
disputed that Mr Y has had the benefit of the rest of the course learning and so cant expect 
to receive all his money back.
It's possible Mr Y might be able to persuade a court towards a reduction in the cost of the 
course if it can be shown that it was unfair for N to substitute the practical sessions for video-
based training, and that a value can be placed on the difference between the two. However, 
I havent seen anything that suggests the video-based training disadvantaged him in terms 
of the learning requirements of the course. I appreciate Mr Y feels he would have derived 
more benefit from classroom sessions, but Ive no reason to think the content was deficient 
merely because it was delivered by video.
With this in mind, Im satisfied Carnegie has made reasonable efforts to resolve the dispute.My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out here, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ys complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman