DRN-1716513
The complaint
Mr P says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
Mr P bought the policy in 2001 at the same time as taking out a credit card. Mr P applied for 
the card and the policy by post. 
Our adjudicator concluded the PPI hadnt been mis-sold. Mr P disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ps case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint because:
Ive seen a copy of Mr Ps credit card application form and I can see a box was ticked 
to confirm he wanted PPI. There was an equally noticeable box that couldve been 
ticked if Mr P didnt want PPI. So I think Capital One made Mr P aware that the PPI 
was optional and that he chose to take it. 
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr P so it didnt have to check if it was 
suitable for him. This means it was up to Mr P to decide if the policy was right for him. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But its unlikely Mr P wouldve been affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover. And the policy seems to have been affordable to Mr P. 
So I dont think better information wouldve stopped him buying it. 
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr P because:
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr P abut that. Because Capital One didnt tell Mr P, that 
was unfair.
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Mr P any commission and profit 
share that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so 
I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman