DRN-1861892
The complaint
Mr T says Shelby Finance Ltd trading at the time as Dot Dot Loans irresponsibly lent to     
him.
What happened
This complaint is about one loan Dot Dot Loans provided to Mr T on 10 September 2019 for 
£600.The highest monthly repayment for this loan would have been £199.03 and it was 
payable over six months. Mr T repaid his loan on 31 March 2020.
Mr T said he already had loans with other short-term lenders, and he should never have 
been lent the money because he struggled to repay it.
Our adjudicator didnt think this matter should be upheld. He said in summary, given the loan 
amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ts circumstances and his history with the lender he 
didnt think it would have been proportionate to ask Mr T for the amount of information 
needed to show the loan was unsustainable. He said the information didnt indicate that Mr T 
might have been experiencing underlying financial difficulty. He also explained that there 
wasnt anything in the information provided which meant the lender should have verified 
what Mr T was saying.
Mr T disagreed with this view and asked that the matter be referred to an ombudsman for a 
final decision. So, the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Dot Dot Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr T 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Dot Dot Loans should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Dot Dot Loans was required to 
establish whether Mr T could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ts complaint. Im very sorry to disappoint Mr T but 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
When Mr T borrowed his loan, this was early in the relationship with Dot Dot Loans. Mr T 
declared his income to be £2,630 and reported his expenses were £1,184 per month. Dot 
Dot Loans increased his expenditure after verification to £1,465. So, Mr T had a disposable 
income of £1,165. I think based on this information the loan would have appeared affordable.
Dot Dot Loans also conducted a credit search which showed that Mr T hadnt opened any 
short-term loans within the last six months, and he hadnt defaulted on any accounts in the 
last 12 months. This credit search wouldnt have been as detailed as one Mr T might have 
obtained himself, but I think taking into account this was Mr Ts first loan it was enough and I 
dont think Dot Dot Loans would have been alerted to Mr T having problems managing his 
money.
There was also no evidence of bankruptcy or any judgments. As this was the first loan Mr T 
took out with Dot Dot Loans, I think the checks it carried out were proportionate and there 
was nothing in the information it saw which would have meant it should have verified what 
Mr T was saying or would have indicated that the loan was unsustainable or unaffordable. 
Overall, based on the information it had, I cant say it was unfair for Dot Dot Loans to give 
Mr T this loan and I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint. Shelby Finance Ltd trading as 
Dot Dot Loans doesnt have to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2020 . 
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman