DRN-3539358
The complaint
Mr M complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money mis-sold his credit card.
What happened
Mr M successfully applied for a Virgin Money credit card in 2018. He says at the time of the 
application, it was clear that the accrued reward points could be either used for direct flights 
or packaged holidays. He says when he made enquiries at a travel centre to book a holiday, 
he was told they could no longer be used for holidays due to the pandemic. He says while he 
understood the rationale at the time, as he was not able to book holidays during this period, 
the card could not be used as he originally intended.
Mr M suggested to Virgin Money that he should be reimbursed with the annual card fee in 
return for the reward points which were no longer of any use to him. He says the annual fees 
he paid were £180, apart from the last year being £160. He had also tried to find out how 
many miles he had from Virgin Money call centre staff, but they had not been able to let him 
know the figure. Mr M made a complaint to Virgin Money.
Virgin Money partially upheld Mr Ms complaint. They said in relation to his complaint about 
the destinations he could use his reward points for, he would need to raise this directly with 
the third party who administered the rewards scheme. They said the credit card they provide 
is one of the ways he could accrue reward points for that scheme, and if and when he 
wanted to utilise them, he had to contact the third party rewards provider directly. And as 
such, they were unable to uphold this aspect of his complaint. They said he agreed to pay 
the annual fee as part of the terms and conditions, so they were unable to refund this. Virgin 
Money also said that they were disappointed to hear no one had been able to inform him 
how many reward points he had. They confirmed the number of points on their response to 
him and they offered Mr M £30 compensation as a result of this. 
Mr M declined the compensation, and he brought his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator did not uphold his complaint. He said there was nothing to indicate Mr M was 
unhappy with the terms and conditions at the time of applying for the card, more that he was 
dissatisfied when these terms changed. He said the offer of £30 was fair for the poor 
customer service he received. Mr M asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to note that while Virgin Money provided the credit card, the rewards scheme is 
provided by a third party company. As such, as the complaint is about Virgin Money, Im only 
able to look into the actions they have specifically taken, as it is not within my remit to rule on 
a third party company who is not covered by our jurisdiction. If Mr M wishes to complain 
specifically about the removal of the packaged holidays from the rewards scheme, then he 
will need to complain to the third party directly on the details Virgin Money have already 
given him.
Ive had a look at the 2018 terms and conditions of Mr Ms credit card to see what they say 
about the rewards scheme. But the terms and conditions do not reference the rewards 
scheme. Virgin Money have told me that as part of his application, the website also referred 
him to the reward scheme terms and conditions. And they have sent me a screenshot of the 
website to show that there is a link to those terms and conditions. So Im satisfied that they 
would have made Mr M aware that the rewards scheme was not administered by Virgin 
Money themselves as part of the credit card. 
Ive considered what Mr M has said about the card being mis-sold to him and the initial 
marketing showing that he could use his points for package holidays. Ive not seen any 
evidence to say at the time he applied for the card this was inaccurate or misleading. So Im 
not persuaded that based on his conversation with the travel centre staff  at a much later 
date, that he was mis-sold the account due to changes that had been made to the rewards 
scheme based on the pandemic. Im aware Mr M has been a member of the rewards 
scheme since 2012, despite having his Virgin Money credit card since 2018, so Im not 
persuaded that Mr M would be unfamiliar with how the rewards scheme worked. But even if 
he was unfamiliar with this, Im satisfied the terms and conditions of the rewards scheme 
were made clear to him prior to him submitting his application.
I have listened to a call Mr M had with Virgin Money on 6 January 2020  prior to him trying 
to redeem the points. On the call Mr M was trying to find out how many points he had. The 
call handler informed him of the total on his screen, but he also explained that Mr M should 
go on the third party companys website to see his accurate points total as he could have 
also accrued points outside of spending on the credit card. Mr M says he didnt realise they 
were separate entities and thats cleared this up for him, then the call handler explained how 
the third party company were the ones who issued the rewards.
Mr M would have agreed to pay the annual fee as part of his application. Ive listened to a 
call he had with Virgin Money on 16 October 2021, where he proposed a refund of the 
annual fees he had paid in exchange for his points. But again, the call handler informed Mr 
M that the rewards scheme had changed their terms and conditions and not them, so they 
were unable to do this. Mr M also says the travel centre had referred him to the third party 
rewards scheme provider, but the reason he was calling Virgin Money was because he 
couldnt get hold of anyone there. So I cant say that Virgin Money shouldve agreed to the 
offer Mr M made them to have the annual fee refunded, when they had set out the annual 
fee he would need to pay. While I have sympathy for the predicament he found himself in 
with the changes to the rewards scheme, I cant hold Virgin Money responsible for changes 
to a third party reward scheme, when they dont administer this. 
Ive then considered the service that Mr M received from Virgin Money when he asked about 
how many points he had. Virgin Money have confirmed that their customer services 
department are able to confirm how many points he had accrued on his credit card. So it is 
not clear why the call handlers he spoke to were unable to tell him this information. 
So Im persuaded that it would be fair for Virgin Money to pay Mr M compensation for the 
inconvenience he had when he was unable to get this information from them. Virgin Money 
offered Mr M £30 for this. Im satisfied that this is fair for what happened, and if they had not 
upheld this part of his complaint, then I would have broadly awarded similar compensation to 
this. So it follows that Virgin Money should pay Mr M £30 compensation for inconvenience, 
but I dont require them to do anything further.
My final decision
Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money has already made an offer to pay Mr M £30 to 
settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.So my decision is that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money should pay £30 to Mr M.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman