DRN-3254124
The complaint
Mr N complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct (First Direct) wrongfully 
refused to make a payment he wished to make.
What happened
Mr N has a bank account with First Direct. First Direct say that Mr N has been the victim of 
numerous scams and so they have been working with him to try and protect him from further 
fraud.
Mr N called First Direct towards the end of April 2021. He called as he wished to make 
payment of £500 to invest in cryptocurrency. First Direct say they asked Mr N for the name 
of the company he wished to pay. The name Mr N provided was the same company that he 
attempted to pay earlier in the month, but First Direct refused to make the payment. At the 
time, the reason Mr N wished to make payment to the company was to invest in a film. First 
Direct say Mr N believes he would make thousands of pounds as he was being sold 
cryptocurrency at well below market value.
First Direct declined to send the funds to the company as they suspected Mr N was at risk of 
a scam and that he would lose money. Mr N, unhappy, raised a complaint about First 
Directs handling of his money.
In May 2021, First Direct provided Mr N with their final response, explaining to Mr N why 
they declined sending the money to the company. They concluded they made no banking 
error.
Mr N brought his complaint to our service and our investigator found that First Direct didnt 
act unreasonably to block Mr Ns transaction and hadnt treated him unfairly.
Mr N responded, unhappy with the investigators view, asked for his complaint to be referred 
to an ombudsman for a final decision. And so, it has been passed to me to decide on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why below.
Ive reviewed First Directs personal banking terms and Ive noted it says that they can block 
any payment device (and access to telephone, mobile and online banking) where they 
suspect fraud or criminal use of the payment device. Ive also noted that their terms say that 
theyll make a payment from an account where they can, but there are some reasons where 
they may not be able to or they reasonably believe that certain things have happened. One 
of the examples they give is if theres been fraudulent or criminal activity of any kind and its 
reasonable for them not to make the payment.
First Direct have a duty to protect their customers and their money from fraudulent and 
criminal activity. First Direct has sent us information to show that Mr N has been a victim of 
scams previously and they had concerns about him being targeted for further scams 
because of it. They say they have been working with him to try and protect him from further 
fraud. First Direct say that they have put in place measures so that any unusual new 
payment requests are referred to a specialist team to review.
In this instance, Mr N wished to make a payment of £500 to invest in cryptocurrency. As Mr 
N says, this was well below market value and the sellers of the cryptocurrency had 
suggested to him that he would be able to make significant profit from the investment. First 
Direct refused to make the payment. They believe this was a scam as they identified the 
payee was the same as a payment they refused to make earlier in the month, which they 
also believed to be a scam.
Having listened to the calls Mr N had with First Direct about the cryptocurrency payment, I 
dont think their actions were unreasonable. They had concerns that the payee may not have 
been who they said they were. I also think First Direct has acted within their terms by 
blocking a payment where they reasonably believed there to be fraudulent and criminal 
activity. I appreciate my answer will be disappointing for Mr N, but Im satisfied that First 
Direct was acting in his best interests.
So, in this instance I wont be asking First Direct to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman