DRN-3124244
The complaint
Mr F complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) overdraft charges were unfair and caused 
him financial difficulty.
What happened
Mr F complained to HSBC that its overdraft charges were unfair and caused him financial 
difficulty trapping him in a cycle of debt. HSBC says all charges were applied in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account but that it froze all charges following contact by Mr F in 
June 2017 informing it of his health conditions. HSBC says that it has already refunded 
charges from July 2016 to account closure which total more than the charges applied. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Fs concerns and reached the conclusion HSBC 
hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr F unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint 
be upheld. Mr F disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
Why I think we can only look at part of your complaint
Mr F has complained about fees that were charged on his account from 11 June 2014. 
HSBC investigated Mr Fs complaint about overdraft fees and sent its final response on 8 
July 2016. Any fees charged by HSBC between 11 June 2014 and 8 July 2016 would be 
covered by that final response letter. 
The final response letter outlined the 6 month time limit Mr F had to bring his complaint to 
this service. Because Mr F didnt bring his complaint to us within the 6 months of HSBCs 
final response letter, I will only be considering overdraft charges applied after 8 July 2016.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Fs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail. 
Ive seen that Mr F has in some of his correspondence referred to the proportionality of the 
charges applied to his account. But before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I 
havent considered whether the various amounts HSBC charged over the years were fair 
and reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. That said, while Im not looking at HSBCs various 
charging structures or processes per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards 
Mr F if it applied any interest, fees and charges to Mr Fs account in circumstances where it 
was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Mr F was experiencing 
financial difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where HSBC didnt treat Mr F fairly and 
reasonably. I dont think that HSBC did treat Mr F unfairly or unreasonably here though. I say 
this because having looked at Mr Fs statements I cant see anything to suggest that HSBC 
ought to have realised he might have been experiencing financial difficulty prior to it being 
notified of this. 
Mr F may argue that going into unarranged overdraft was in itself an indication that he was 
struggling. But there were regular deposits of salary and cash transfers into the account and 
Mr F was able to bring the account back to a credit balance within a reasonable period of 
time. I accept this doesnt necessarily mean that Mrs I wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. 
But there isnt anything in these transactions in themselves which ought to have alerted 
HSBC to any potential financial difficulty. And the amount being credited to Mr Fs account 
each month didnt indicate that there was no reasonable prospect of him being able to 
maintain a credit balance within a reasonable period of time. 
So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for HSBC to proceed with 
adding the interest, fees and charges it did in light of how Mr Fs account was being used. 
HSBC has also refunded a large proportion of charges which total more than the charges 
applied to Mr Fs account. So taking everything into consideration I dont think HSBC treated 
Mr F unfairly or unreasonably which means that Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman