DRN-2315325
The complaint
Mr T says that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua (Aqua) lent to him irresponsibly when it 
increased his credit limits four times over a 14 month period. Mr T wants a refund of all 
interest paid and any late payment charges. 
What happened
Aqua opened Mr Ts account in December 2014 with a credit limit of £900. The following 
credit limit increases were then applied:
Date May 2015 August 2015 February 2016 July 2016
Credit limit £1,500 £1,800 £2,800 £3,550
 
On each occasion, Aqua wrote to Mr T letting him know about the credit limit increase. Mr T 
continued to make minimum monthly repayments and, when Mr T told Aqua about difficulties 
he was having, it took steps to help him make repayments. 
Mr T provided us with his credit report. Ive set out details of how Mr T was performing on his 
Aqua account as well as three other accounts in the month prior to each of the credit limit 
increases by Aqua.
Aqua
Month/year April 2015 July 2015 January 2016 June 2016
Credit limit (£) 900 1,500 1,800 2,800
Balance (£) 881 1,483 1,774 2,753
Payment (£) 34 52 64 100
Account 1
Month/year April 2015 July 2015 January 2016 June 2016
Credit limit (£) 950 950 950 950
Balance (£) 935 931 936 929
Payment (£) 33 35 45 34
Account 2
Month/year April 2015 July 2015 January 2016 June 2016
Credit limit (£) 3,000 3,000 3,000 3,500
Balance (£) 2,965 3,067 3,114 2,954
Payment (£) 150 250 300 155
Account 3
Month/year April 2015 July 2015 January 2016 June 2016
Credit limit (£) 1,500 1,500 1,500 1,500
Balance (£) 1,512 1,491 1,512 1,478
Payment (£) 43 37 55 36
The credit file also shows Mr T had taken out a number of unsecured loans and advances 
against income with other lenders in the months leading up to the first credit limit increase by 
Aqua. There is further similar borrowing in periods between the dates of the three further 
credit limit increases.     
Our investigator looked into things for Mr T. Aqua told us that prior to each of the increases, 
Mr T had kept up his payments. Aqua said that this, together with the information it received 
from a credit reference agency, meant that Mr T became eligible for an increase. Aqua 
confirmed it did carry out an assessment at every credit increase. Aqua also said that its 
relationship with the credit bureau had changed over the years. Aqua said it wasnt informed 
of any financial difficulties during the time of the credit limit increases and there was no 
indication that Mr T was struggling to pay. 
Aqua accepted it did have enough information, prior to the fourth increase, to show that Mr T 
may have been overstretched and it shouldve tried to get a better understanding of his 
finances. Aqua offered to refund a proportion of each monthly interest charged on the 
increased balance from August 2016, which was £823.46. It also offered to refund 8% 
simple interest on any monthly overpayment payment after the last increase, which is £184. 
Aqua explained it couldnt remove any adverse data as it has a duty to provide a true 
account of a customers payment history.  
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr T 
and Aqua on 8 October 2020. In my provisional decision I said as follows:
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
 
Aqua needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
that Mr T could repay the credit in a sustainable manner. These checks could take 
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, 
in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Aqua 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for a consumer. These factors include:
 
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable). There may even come a point where the lending history and 
pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
The first point I will address is whether I think Aqua carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks. Section 5 of the Consumer Credit (CONC) sourcebook in place 
at the time outline that the assessment that Aqua needed to complete shouldve been dependent on, and proportionate to, a number of factors  including the amount and 
cost of the credit and the consumers borrowing history. 
CONC also provides guidance on the sources of information Aqua may have wanted 
to consider as part of making a proportionate assessment. It then gives examples of 
factors a firm must consider and refers to whether the information the firm has is 
sufficient and whether to obtain additional information from the customer and any 
other sources of information to use. 
      
Aqua is free to decide how to set its lending criteria but it should complete 
proportionate checks to ensure borrowing is sustainable. In this case, I dont think the 
checks Aqua completed went far enough. In relation to the first increase in May 2015, 
I understand that Aqua may not have had full details of Mr Ts other credit because of 
the nature of the credit checks it completed. But, in line with the rules I have 
mentioned above, it couldve taken other approaches, like asking to see his full credit 
file for example.
 
Ive seen the information which Aqua say it took into consideration when applying 
credit limit increases. While I understand why Aqua took into account that Mr T had 
kept up his payments in line with the terms of the agreement and there had been no 
late fee or over limit charges, this only shows activity on one account and didnt 
create a complete picture of Mr Ts financial situation. Aqua has told us about 
changes which took place in March 2016 which then gave them access to more 
information. While I take this into account, the fact remains that Aqua couldve 
obtained more information from Mr T and other sources to better understand Mr Ts 
financial situation. CONC also makes reference to significantly increasing credit 
limits and I can see that Aqua increased Mr Ts credit limit by 400% over 14 months. 
So, I dont think Aqua did enough to carry out significant creditworthiness checks.
    
There is a further argument for saying that Aqua shouldve carried out more thorough 
checks in this case. When opening Mr Ts account, Aqua was aware that his gross 
salary was £18,200 and he had a total unsecured balance of £12,300. This was the 
position five months before Aqua applied the first credit limit increase. This 
information alone was already enough to show that Mr T might not be in a position to 
make repayments in a sustainable manner against a higher credit limit. On that basis, 
I intend to take the view that reasonable and proportionate checks werent 
completed.
 
The next point to consider is, had reasonable and proportionate checks been carried 
out, whether they wouldve shown that Mr T was more likely than not unable to 
sustainably repay the credit. The information I have seen shows that Mr T did later 
run into difficulties with repayments and was given a payment holiday. This 
happened in 2018 so it wouldnt be fair to take this into account because I need to 
consider the position at the point the credit limits were increased. So, given that I 
have said that Aqua shouldve got Mr Ts credit file, I will focus on the information this 
wouldve shown them. 
At the point, all four increases were made, Mr T already had open accounts with 
other lenders. These accounts were running right up to the limit. The tables above 
show the position in relation to three accounts. 
In May 2015, when the first increase was made, the credit file shows that Mr T, in the 
month before, had an account where he had gone over the limit by £12. And, in 
relation to another account, his balance was £2,965 which was £35 short of his credit 
limit. Mr T was also consistently making small payments towards the outstanding balances on these three accounts for at least the 12 months prior to May 2015. This 
position continued throughout the period the three further credit limit increases were 
made by Aqua.
 
The credit file also shows significant short term borrowing by Mr T in the form of 
unsecured loans and advances against income. Had Aqua taken this information into 
account, I feel it wouldve pointed towards Mr T being in a difficult financial position 
and needing short term loans to either meet other repayment liabilities or to 
otherwise make ends meet. This wouldve highlighted that Mr T wouldnt be able to 
repay the extra credit in a sustainable manner and without any undue difficulty.
    
Taking everything Ive seen into account, I dont think the decision to approve the 
increase to £1,500 in May 2015 was reasonable. And, from what Ive seen, I think 
Aqua failed to complete proportionate checks to ensure the borrowing it approved 
was sustainable. I think its likely that if Aqua had done better checks it wouldnt have 
offered Mr T the £1,500 limit.
 
As I think the limit increase to £1,500 was irresponsible, it follows the subsequent 
increases to £1,800, £2,800 and £3,550 were irresponsible as well. I say this for the 
very same reasons I have given in respect of the May 2015 increase. Again, Ive 
looked at the information Aqua had available as well as the types of questions it 
couldve asked.
 
The additional point I would make however in respect of the later three increases 
made by Aqua is that the information shows Mr T used the extra credit very shortly 
after it was made available to him. While this, on its own, might not suggest an issue, 
it would raise a concern about Mr Ts finances given the other short term borrowing 
which was taking place at the time. Had Aqua carried out more thorough checks, 
which I feel it shouldve, then I dont think it wouldve approved any of the four credit 
limit increases.
 
I can see that Mr T later found himself in a position where he couldnt keep up his 
repayments to Aqua. Aqua did take reasonable steps to help Mr T out during this 
time. Its not clear what the change in circumstances was and whether Aqua was a 
cause of this, but the fact remains that, at the point Mr T asked for help, he was over 
his increased credit limit with Aqua - a limit which, for the reasons set out above, I 
feel shouldnt have been in place. So, I think its reasonable for Aqua to pay 
compensation of £100 to reflect the trouble and upset to Mr T.     
Mr T has said that he had a gambling addiction and Aqua shouldve picked up on this 
from his credit card statements. Mr Ts statements do show regular payments being 
made to a gambling company around the time he received the credit limit increases 
although I cant see any information which shows that Mr T made Aqua aware of his 
gambling addiction. I also havent seen any evidence which shows that Aqua did 
check Mr Ts statements so it wouldve been unaware what the credit card was being 
used for. There is no doubt this has been a difficult time for Mr T and its good to hear 
that he has recovered from the problems he has mentioned. I believe that even 
without this additional financial pressure it still wasnt appropriate for Aqua to 
increase Mr Ts credit limits.  
So, subject to any further comments from Mr T or Aqua, my provisional decision was that I 
was minded to uphold this complaint.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision and copied above.
Following my provisional decision, Aqua responded to say they have nothing further to add. 
Mr T responded and explained hes hoping to borrow in the future and a query showing on 
his credit file could be viewed as a problem. Ive taken this into account and can see there is 
adverse information showing on Mr Ts credit file.   
As Ive decided that proportionate checks would have shown that Mr T couldnt sustainably 
repay the loan following the credit increases, I feel its reasonable that Mr Ts credit file 
shouldnt have any adverse information recorded about this credit. Ive decided there came a 
point where Aqua should have realised that any further lending was clearly unsustainable, so 
Aqua should get any adverse information removed from Mr Ts credit file completely. 
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Aqua lent irresponsibly to Mr T when it increased his credit limit four 
times over 14 months. I therefore consider this is irresponsible lending and Aqua should put 
this right. Ive also taken the view that Aqua should pay compensation for trouble and upset 
caused to Mr T by increasing his credit limits.  
Mr Ts credit file shows status markers for a missed payment and an arrangement to pay in 
relation to the Aqua account. I understand Aquas point about a credit file showing a true 
account of a customers payment history. My view is that Aqua lent irresponsibly and his 
account shouldnt have reached the credit limit it did. So, Aqua should get any adverse 
information, which has arisen following the credit limit increases, removed from Mr Ts credit 
file completely. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua must:
Refund the interest and any charges incurred as a result of the credit card limits 
being increased from May 2015 to the date the account was brought to a nil balance; 
Pay simple interest on this amount at the rate of 8% a year*; 
Remove any adverse information about this credit from Mr Ts credit file; and
Pay compensation to Mr T in the sum of £100 for the trouble and upset caused
* HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua to take off tax from this 
interest. NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua must give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its 
taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman