DRN-1840600
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain about the way Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Yorkshire Bank) 
dealt with their mortgage application. They ask for compensation for their costs.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P applied to Yorkshire Bank for a buy to let re-mortgage in October 2017, using 
the services of a broker. They intended to use the proceeds to repay the existing buy to let 
mortgage and raise an additional amount towards the purchase of another property. They 
say Yorkshire Bank gave assurances about the application being affordable.
Yorkshire Bank then declined the application, saying it wasnt affordable. Mr P says this 
happened on the day they were due to exchange contracts for their property purchase. Mr P 
says he had to take out an emergency bridging loan, which cost about £70,000. He says this 
and other costs could have been avoided if Yorkshire Bank had declined their application 
sooner. 
Our investigator said while Yorkshire Bank made an error when it first assessed affordability, 
it corrected this and declined to lend less than two weeks after Mr and Mrs P made their 
mortgage application. It didnt charge any fees to Mr and Mrs P. Our investigator said 
Yorkshire Bank didnt issue a mortgage offer, and it wasnt responsible for Mr and Mrs Ps 
decision to exchange contracts without having an offer in place. 
Mr and Mrs P didnt agree. Mr P said Clydesdale had given them assurances there wouldnt 
be any problems. It later turned out it made an error when assessing affordability which was 
only discovered on the day they were due to exchange. Mr P says if Clydesdale hadnt made 
an error, the application would have been declined sooner and they could have applied 
elsewhere.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like all lenders, Yorkshire Bank has to assess affordability before offering a mortgage. Its 
also entitled to apply its other lending criteria when deciding whether to lend. 
Mr P made an application in his sole name in early October. Mr and Mrs P made a joint 
mortgage application in late October 2017. I appreciate that Mr P had provided some 
information earlier in October, but Clydesdale had to assess the joint application from when 
it was made. It made a decision not to lend less than two weeks later. I dont think this was 
an unreasonable amount of time  especially as Mr and Mrs P only provided information it 
requested in early November and the application was amended after the property valuation 
was lower than expected.
Mr P says Yorkshire Bank gave assurances that there wouldnt be any problems with their 
application. But until it issued a mortgage offer, Yorkshire Bank wasnt committed to lend. 
Yorkshire Bank didnt issue a mortgage offer to Mr and Mrs P. 
Mr and Mrs P decided to go ahead with their purchase without a mortgage offer in place. I 
dont think Yorkshire Bank was responsible for this decision, or the associated costs.
Yorkshire Bank made an error when it first assessed affordability. This was corrected, after 
which Mr and Mrs Ps application was declined. Its possible that Yorkshire Bank would have 
told Mr and Mrs P at the outset that it wouldnt lend them amount they wanted, if it hadnt 
made this error. 
Mr and Mrs P sent a copy of the mortgage offer for the mortgage they used to repay the 
bridging loan. This is dated March 2018  some four months later  and is for a lower 
amount than theyd asked Yorkshire Bank for. I dont think I can fairly find that even if 
Yorkshire Bank had declined Mr and Mrs Ps application at the outset, theyd have been able 
to secure a mortgage for the amount they needed elsewhere in the available time.
I dont think Yorkshire Bank caused unreasonable delays here. It wasnt responsible for Mr 
and Mrs Ps decision to go ahead with their property purchase without a mortgage offer, or 
their decision to take out a bridging loan. It follows that I dont think its fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances to require Yorkshire Bank to pay compensation to Mr and Mrs P. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 January 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman