DRN-3043133
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the response of Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), following a 
claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (CCA) 1974.
What happened
Mr H was contacted by a company Ill refer to as P that supplied and installed solar panel 
systems. Following a meeting, Mr H agreed to enter into a contract with P for it to supply and 
install a solar panel system at his home. To fund this Mr H also agreed to enter into a 15-
year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook.
Mr H made a claim under section 75 (s75) of the CCA via his representative. The 
representative said that P had told Mr H that the solar panels would be self-funded and that 
the monthly loan repayments would be more than off-set by the feed-in-tariff (FIT) income. 
But that hadnt happened. Instead, the monthly loan repayments had been much higher than 
the income.
In its final response letter, Shawbrook said that it didnt think the benefits of the solar panels 
had been misrepresented to Mr H. Unhappy with this response, he referred the complaint to 
our service.
During the course of our investigation Shawbrook made an offer to resolve the complaint. 
Shawbrook offered to calculate the potential savings and income to Mr H over the term of 
the loan. It then said it would restructure the loan so that he didnt pay any more than this 
over the 15 year term of the loan. It also offered to pay Mr H £200 to recognise the trouble 
and upset caused.
Our investigator felt that the offer was fair. Mr H, via his representative didnt. In summary he 
said that Shawbrook had overestimated the expected benefits that he could expect to 
receive over the term of the loan. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Shawbrook, nor Mr H, dispute that the benefits of the solar panel system were 
misrepresented. As a result, this decision will deal with what I consider to be fair 
compensation. 
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between consumers and businesses 
providing financial services fairly and reasonably with minimum formality. In cases like this 
one, determining fair compensation isnt an exact science. My role is to arrive at a fair and 
reasonable outcome taking account of the particular circumstances.
Ive considered whether Mr H should be able to rescind the contract with P and be refunded 
all payments he has made to Shawbrook, minus any financial benefits he may have received 
from the solar panel system. However, here, I dont think it would be fair or proportionate to 
require the removal of the solar panels from Mr Hs home. Rather, I think the fair outcome 
here is to put Mr H in a position where the panels are self-funding over the original term of 
the loan. By allowing Mr H to keep the panels, I am satisfied that he will likely benefit from 
lower electricity bills and FIT payments going forward (i.e. after the term of the loan has 
finished).
Mr Hs representative says that he was told that the loan repayments would be covered by 
the FIT. So, Ive considered whether any electricity savings should be taken into account 
when arriving at fair compensation.
Im satisfied that Mr H was misled into thinking that the solar panels would be self-funding 
and so on that basis I need to decide fair compensation. When thinking about that question, I 
think its fair to take account of the electricity generated by the solar panel units. On the one 
hand Mr H has to pay the loan and for any electricity used in addition to that generated by 
the panels and on the other he can off-set those payments by the FIT payments and the 
savings associated with the electricity generated by the panels. It would be unfair to ignore 
the electricity generated and used by Mr H when calculating fair compensation.
I have carefully considered the methodology Shawbrook has submitted to this service to 
calculate the total benefits of the solar system. This methodology has been shared with Mr 
Hs representative and is based on the actual performance and estimated future 
performance of Mr Hs solar panel system. 
Shawbrook has outlined that when calculating the estimated future performance of Mr Hs 
solar panels, it will use a number of assumptions. These include the percentage of energy 
generated by Mr Hs solar panels that he is expected to use rather than buying electricity 
from his energy provider, electricity price inflation, the degradation rate and the estimated 
retail price index (RPI). 
Based on the available evidence, Im of the view that these appear reasonable. As an 
example, the actual average RPI for the last four years doesnt seem to be far from the 
assumed figure. In summary, Im satisfied that the assumptions that have been used by 
Shawbrook provide a fair and reasonable basis for calculating fair compensation.
By making the panels self-funding, Mr Hs monthly repayments will reduce, meaning that he 
would have previously been paying more each month, resulting in an overpayment. And as 
Mr H would have been deprived of the monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to 
add 8% simple interest from the date of the overpayment to the date of settlement. In a case 
like this, Im satisfied that Shawbrooks offer to let Mr H have the following selection of 
options as to how he would like his overpayments to be used is fair:
(a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
(b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new, lower monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
(c) the overpayments are returned to Mr H and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or
(d) the overpayments are returned to Mr H and he pays a new, lower monthly payment 
until the end of the loan term.
I am satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr H first 
contacted Shawbrook that means that his claim should have been upheld. The fact that this did not happen undoubtedly caused him trouble and upset and consequently Ill make an 
award of £200 to cover this.
Putting things right
Shawbrook Bank Limited should:
(a) allow Mr H to keep the solar panels,
(b) estimate the potential savings and incomes to Mr H from the panels over the 15 year 
term of the loan and rework it so he pays no more than this. Where possible, it 
should use Mr Hs electricity bills and FIT statements to do this,
(c) add 8% simple interest* to any overpayment made from the date the overpayment 
was made to date of settlement,
(d) allow Mr H to decide how hed like his overpayments to be used, using the four 
options described above, and;
(e) pay Mr H £200 for the trouble and upset caused.
*If Shawbrook Bank Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much itss taken off. It should also 
give Mr H a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can claim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs.
My final decision
My final decision is that Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. In full and final settlement of it, 
Shawbrook Bank Limited should take the actions Ive described above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman