DRN-3223246
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that TSB Bank plc (TSB) didnt reimburse him after he told it hed fallen 
victim to a scam.
What happened
Mr S saw a signed football shirt advertised that he wished to purchase. After liaising with the 
seller, he made a bank transfer for £200 on 3 April 2021. Mr S says the seller told him hed 
receive authentication documents with the signed football shirt. 
When Mr S received the item, no authentication documents were provided. He contacted the 
seller about this and was told these would be sent, but they were not received. He informed 
the seller hed be raising this with his bank. Mr S told us the seller said that if he returned the 
item, hed receive a refund. However, when Mr S asked for the return address, he says the 
seller stopped responding. 
Mr S contacted TSB on 19 April 2021 and asked it to help. It said it wouldnt refund the 
payment because it wasnt covered under its Fraud Refund Guarantee (FRG). It said that, 
as part of the goods were received, it is classed as a civil dispute. It also referred to its 
website where it provides customers with details of when a claim can and cannot be raised 
under the FRG. It says this advises customers who choose to ignore personalised account 
safety advice may not be refunded in future. TSB referred to previous purchase scam 
advice/education given to Mr S at the end of January 2021. TSB also noted Mr S made two 
other faster payments to the seller after the payment on 3 April 2021. TSB added it was 
unable to raise this as a credit payment recovery as Mr S had willingly made this purchase. 
One of our investigators looked into things and said he didnt think TSB ought to have 
refunded Mr S under its FRG, as it had done previously at the end of January 2021. He said 
that he wasnt convinced that Mr S had been advised about the implications of ignoring 
personalised account safety advice and the ways that might affect his entitlement to a refund 
in the future. He added that he didnt think there was an obvious risk to making this payment 
or that Mr S simply ignored advice by doing so. But he did think the circumstances relating to 
the purchase of the sign football shirt were different from the previous claim in January 2021. 
Our investigator concluded this was a civil dispute between Mr S and the seller on the basis 
hed not seen anything to suggest that the seller had attempted to defraud Mr S from the 
outset. So it followed that he didnt think TSBs FRG covered disputes about goods that have 
been received. He also noted the subsequent payments Mr S made to the seller on 
10 April 2021, which Mr S informed him had been refunded. Our investigator thought this 
supported the legitimacy of the seller.
Because Mr S didnt agree with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to 
me to consider and come to a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion that this should be treated as a 
civil dispute rather than a scam. It then follows that I dont think TSB has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in not reimbursing Mr S his losses under its FRG. 
I should be clear at the outset that Im only considering whether TSB has met its obligations 
in its interactions with Mr S. That doesnt mean that the seller of the item hasnt done 
anything wrong or that Mr S isnt entitled to redress from them directly. I cant make any 
finding on that point, but Mr S may want to take independent legal advice to explore his 
options. 
The key thing I need to consider here is what the intentions of the seller of the football shirt 
were. Here Mr S received the signed football shirt but not the authentication documents he 
was expecting with it. Whilst I accept Mr S didnt receive everything he was expecting to 
receive, that doesnt automatically mean that this was a scam. 
Im also mindful that Mr S has told us he sent other payments to the same seller after the 
payment in question for another football shirt. He told our investigator that he received a 
refund from the seller for this item when it was not received by him. When thinking carefully 
about this, Im not persuaded the refund of the later payment by the seller is consistent with 
something a fraudster would normally do.
With this in mind, I think the payment Mr S made forms part of a civil dispute and it follows 
that I dont think TSB is responsible for reimbursing Mr S under its FRG. I say this because, 
having looked at the wording of TSBs FRG it says;
 The guarantee doesnt cover non-fraudulent purchase disputes. This is where you pay for 
something with your TSB account, from a genuine merchant, and the good or service doesnt 
meet your expectations. But, if you feel youve been misled by the seller, you may be able to 
claim under the chargeback rules or the Consumer Credit Act. This will depend on whether you 
used your debit or credit account. 
I do note Mr S has referred to and provided specific links to TSBs website in relation to 
when a customer hasnt received the goods or services that they paid for. But when 
considering this, Im mindful these refer to when the payment method is made by debit or 
credit card. And in addition, while I accept part of the FRG above does say that it may be 
possible to claim under the chargeback rules or the Consumer Credit Act, as Mr S made the 
payment by bank transfer, Im afraid these avenues are not available to him as he did not 
make the payment with his debit or credit account. So, these points dont change my 
conclusions. 
Overall, based on everything Ive seen and been told, on the balance of probabilities, I cant 
safely say that the seller had a clear intention to deceive or defraud Mr S.
I appreciate that this will come as a disappointment to Mr S and that he had lost out here.  
But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for TSB to 
cover his losses. Im satisfied this is a dispute between Mr S and the seller of the football 
shirt.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman