DRN-3981380
The complaint
Mrs K complains that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) has unfairly declined her contents insurance 
claim. Any reference in this decision to QIC or Mrs K includes the parties respective agents 
and representatives unless specified otherwise.
What happened
The background and circumstances of this complaint are known in detail to the parties 
involved so Ill set out what Ive found to be the key points.
Mrs K made a claim on her home insurance policy, underwritten by QIC, for a lost 
ring. The ring was purchased over 20 years earlier and was at that time valued at 
£1,250. Mrs K thought the QIC policy limit of £2,000 for a single unspecified item 
provided sufficient cover for the ring.
Upon receiving Mrs Ks claim, QIC appointed its own jewellery specialists to provide 
an up-to-date valuation, which was £3,850, so it was more than Mrs Ks initial 
valuation and more than the relevant cover limit.
QIC declined the claim in full saying Mrs K had failed to disclose the ring and its true 
value at the time the policy was incepted and that had it been aware the value of the 
ring was greater than the cover limit of any individual item, it wouldve applied an 
endorsement and/or an additional premium. It said that as the value wasnt disclosed 
it was unable to provide cover for Mrs Ks loss.
Mrs K thought this was unfair. She accepted she wasnt entitled to claim the current 
value of the ring but thought QIC should reasonably still pay her the cover limit 
amount or at least the initial valuation amount.
Our investigator considered Mrs Ks subsequent complaint about the matter and 
initially didnt uphold it, but later changed his mind. He said QIC had failed to 
demonstrate that it had fairly declined the claim based on Mrs K not providing an 
accurate valuation. As a result, he concluded that it was reasonable for QIC to pay 
the claim at the cover limit. 
The investigator asked QIC for its comments in response to this on more than one 
occasion, but it didnt reply or provide any further information about its reasons for 
declining the claim and why it thought this was fair. 
The complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
From what Ive seen, when taking out the policy Mrs K was asked Do you have any 
valuables or personal items worth over £2,000 each (not including bicycles), to 
which Mrs K answered No.
On receipt of her claim, QICs jewellery specialists valued Mrs Ks ring at £3,850. 
This valuation doesnt seem to be in dispute between the parties. So, on the face of 
it, the answer Mrs K gave to QIC when applying for the policy was wrong and she 
failed to specify the ring on the policy as a result. 
QIC says that failure to specify items worth over £2,000 means they wont be insured 
under the policy. And that had it known about the true value of Mrs Ks ring it 
wouldve applied an endorsement and/or an additional premium.
Mrs K says she never specified the ring on the policy as in her opinion, she did not 
think it would be worth more than £2,000. The ring had been bought as a present for 
her by her late husband who had previously dealt with such matters and so she 
answered the question QIC asked to the best of her belief and knowledge. 
Essentially, she never took out the policy expecting her ring to be covered for more 
than the limit of £2,000.
Ive thought about this carefully and in the specific circumstances of this case, Im not 
persuaded the answer Mrs K gave was unreasonable. Im satisfied she answered it 
to the best of her knowledge and in line with the cover amount she thought she 
needed. So I dont think it would be fair or reasonable in this case for QIC to apply its 
terms as it has suggested.
For completeness, even if I agreed that Mrs Ks answer was unreasonable (which I 
dont in this case for the reasons given), for me to also agree that its fair for QIC to 
take any action it still must show that the unreasonable answer had a negative 
impact on it. But Im not satisfied its done this. 
I say this because, its failed to tell us how much, if at all, the premiums wouldve 
increased by if Mrs K had specified the ring and its value. It does say that had Mrs K 
specified the ring, it wouldve applied an endorsement requiring her to have the ring 
valued every three years. And that failure to do so allows it to decline the claim, 
which is what its now done, so it thinks this is fair in line with the policy.
But from what Ive seen, failure to comply with the endorsement allows QIC to either 
not pay the claim or reduce it. So, theres two options available to QIC under the 
endorsement and its failed to explain why it was fairer in this case for it to decline 
Mrs Ks claim instead of reducing it. In the absence of a response from QIC to this 
point, the endorsement alone wouldnt persuade me that it was fair for QIC to decline 
Mrs Ks claim in full in this case.
Im satisfied QIC has been given ample opportunity to reply and provide more 
information with regards to these points, but to date weve had no response. 
It follows that on balance of what Ive seen, I agree with our investigator that QIC has 
failed to sufficiently evidence in this case that it acted fairly by declining Mrs Ks claim 
the way it has. It must now take steps to put things right.
From what Ive seen, Mrs K does have cover under the policy for loss of unspecified 
items away from the home up to £2,000 each. The ring was unspecified because 
Mrs K didnt think it was worth more than that limit for the reasons already explained. 
And as a result, shes not claiming for the amount QIC say the ring is worth but rather 
the applicable cover limit. I think this is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this case, so QIC should pay Mrs Ks claim at the applicable cover limit of £2,000.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. QIC Europe Ltd must pay Mrs Ks claim at the applicable cover limit of £2,000 in line with the 
policy terms and conditions (less any applicable policy excess).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman