DRN-2735212
The complaint
 The complaint is about fees and charges applied to Mr Qs mortgage account with Preferred 
Mortgages Limited. Mr Q says theyre unfair and should be refunded.
 
What happened
 In a recent jurisdiction decision, I explained why my remit to consider this complaint was 
limited to the following disputed items.
£80 in December 2017
£165 in January 2018
£205 in March 2018
£591.50 in June 2018
£406.50 in July 2018. 
What Ive decided  and why
The facts of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont 
be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
Mr Q says that because the court action Preferred took was struck out without any order for 
costs against him, it cant hold him liable for the legal costs. Im afraid Mr Q has slightly 
mis-directed himself there. The starting point is that Preferred can hold him liable for legal 
costs by virtue of the mortgage contract. 
A court can make an order that such costs should not be debited to a borrowers mortgage 
account, but if the court makes no order, the contractual position prevails. So, in respect of 
the fees and charges Mr Q has disputed, Preferred can debit them to his mortgage account; 
what I have to decide is whether it should have done; in essence, whether it treated Mr Q 
fairly when it applied the charges.
 The fee of £591.50 from June 2018 was not fairly charged; it arose because Preferred 
called in the entire debt on the grounds that it considered its security to be at risk due to 
rental arrears (Mr Qs home is a shared-ownership property- he also pays rent to a landlord). 
But the landlord, a housing association, had already confirmed that it wasnt looking to 
pursue recovery proceedings at that time, and if it changed its mind, it would let Preferred 
know. The action for which the £591.50 was charged was therefore unnecessary.
£206.25 of the £406.50 from July 2018 was not fairly charged; it arose from costs incurred 
as a result of Preferreds solicitor engaging in an extended email dialogue with Mr Q. Mr Q 
has provided us with that email exchange, and Im satisfied the fair thing to do would have 
been for the solicitors to advise Mr Q to hold the dialogue with Preferred directly, to avoid 
costs escalating.
All of the other disputed fees from late 2017 and early 2018 were debited in circumstances 
that Id consider it was fair of Preferred to do so. Preferred had written to Mr Q in October 
2017 asking him to contact it in the wake of payment arrangements having failed. When he 
didnt respond, instructing solicitors wasnt unfair on Preferreds part.
That leaves compensation for Mr Qs time, trouble and upset; the investigator recommended 
£200, Mr Q has said hell accept £1,000. I appreciate Mr Q has health problems; added to 
that, he has the underlying pressure of the struggle to meet his financial commitments and 
keep his home. Ive no doubt those wider circumstances are stressful for him, but my award 
of compensation can only reflect Preferreds errors. Taking everything into account, Ive 
decided £200 is fair.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part only. In full and final settlement, I 
direct Preferred Mortgages Limited to:
remove the debit of £591.50 from Mr Qs mortgage account, back-dated to June 2018 for 
interest purposes:
remove £206.25 of the debit of £406.50 from Mr Qs mortgage account, back-dated to 
July 2018 for interest purposes; and
pay Mr Q £200.
I make no other order or award. My final decision concludes this services consideration of 
this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman