DRN-3026161
The complaint
Mr E complains that CLUB LA COSTA (UK) PLC (CLC) refused to cancel a contract from 
which he withdrew within 14 days.
What happened
Mr E purchased a timeshare holiday membership on 31 March 2016. This was funded by a 
loan from a company I will call H. The contract allowed for him to resile from it within 14 
days. He has supplied a copy of a letter he sent to CLC dated 12 April confirming his 
decision not to continue with the agreement. He was also given a tablet and he was required 
to return this undamaged within five days of cancelling, but he didnt do so.
In May CLC called Mrs E twice to discuss their bonus week holiday and a holiday in 
Tenerife was discussed but noting was finalised. The second call was made two days later 
and it seems that Mrs E had discussed the matter with her husband, but no decision was 
made.
Mr E made six payments by direct debit, but on 7 November 2016 Mr E contacted CLC to 
say he had cancelled the contract and he wanted the loan agreement to be cancelled too. 
CLC said it had not received notice of cancellation and it asked for some proof that the 
cancellation had been made in the 14-day window. Mr E sent CLC a copy of the letter dated 
12 April. CLC noted that Mr E hadnt returned the tablet and concluded that Mr E had not 
cancelled in time.
Mr E brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. She noted the contract stipulated that Mr E 
could withdraw if he notified CLC within 14 days using any durable medium (e.g. written 
letter sent by post, email).
She thought Mr E may well have had a change of heart about the membership, but she 
didnt consider there was enough evidence to show he had told CLC within 14 days. There 
was no proof of posting, Mr E hadnt returned the tablet until February 2017 and he hadnt 
noticed the money coming out of his bank account even though he had said that he was 
facing financial challenges. 
She also listened to the calls made to Mrs E and thought these showed no evidence that that 
the contract had been cancelled.
Mr E didnt agree and said he wasnt required to have proof of posting and the delay in 
returning the table wasnt central to his claim. He said that he had sufficient funds to cover 
the outgoings and hadnt noticed the regular payments going out. He added that his wife was 
extremely polite and would not wish to turn someone down rudely which is why she hadnt 
mentioned that the contract had been cancelled.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering matter such as this I need to take into account all the evidence including 
circumstantial evidence.
Mr E says that he sent a letter to CLC on 12 April cancelling the agreement as he was 
entitled to do. However, all the other evidence I have seen does not support that claim.
He does not have any proof of posting, nor is there anything to show that he sought to 
contact either CLC or the lender by phone or email to confirm his actions. Nor did he pursue 
the matter for another six months or so despite money being taken from his bank account. I 
appreciate not everybody keeps an eye on their bank statements regularly, but as Mr E first 
told this service one of the issues that caused him to change his mind was money concerns.
I also find it strange that he didnt pursue the matter until November. It would be normal to 
expect to have had some response from CLC to his letter confirming receipt and that the 
cancellation had been completed. He had signed a legal agreement and it is reasonable to 
presume he would wish to see some written confirmation of it having ended.
We also have the two calls to Mrs E to which I have listened. She gives no indication that the 
contract has been cancelled and agrees to a provisional booking of the bonus week holiday 
It appears that she had discussed the matter with Mr E and I note she was not put under any 
pressure by the call handler. Both conversations are amicable and I cannot see why Mrs E 
wouldnt have politely told the call handler that the agreement had been cancelled rather 
than making a provisional booking. 
Finally, we have the matter of the tablet which Mr E was required to return with five days of 
cancelling. He didnt do so and this is yet another indication that the agreement hadnt been 
cancelled. I agree it is not central to the agreement, but it is yet another piece of information 
which undermines Mr Es claim. 
I have every sympathy with Mr E, but I cannot safely conclude that CLC was wrong to reject 
his claim that he had cancelled the agreement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman