DRN-4290912
The complaint
Mr D says the advice given by Berkley Jacobs Financial Services Limited (BJF) to transfer 
his deferred defined benefit (DB) pension to alternative arrangements in 2001 was 
unsuitable.
It is of note that certain business of BJF was later acquired by Ascot Lloyd Financial 
Services, a trading name of Capital Professional Limited (CPL). The agreement reached 
included provision for it to deal with any complaints arising within a given financial cap and 
up until 2024. Mr Ds case falls within that contract for consideration by CPL.
Mr D is represented by Spencer Churchill Law Ltd (SCL).
What happened
Mr D started to work for an employer in 1981 and became a member of its DB scheme in 
1986. He was employed as a foreman. He left the business in 1996 having accrued nearly 
ten years of reckonable service. His annual salary at that time had been about £12,400. And 
the value of his deferred annual pension at the date of his departure was around £2,570.
Mr D says he was approached by BJF about retirement planning. And from the limited 
contemporaneous evidence available its clear it did provide him with advice about his DB 
pension scheme. For example, in June 2001 he completed a letter of authority to enable it to 
obtain information from third parties. At the top of the form it confirmed it would be providing 
him with advice about his pension.
In July 2001 the firm wrote to his DB scheme administrator on Mr Ds authority. It was 
seeking information about his deferred benefits and it enclosed a Pension Transfer 
Questionnaire for it to complete. In August 2001 BJF wrote to the administrator again, this 
time seeking information to enable it to conduct a Pension Analysis.
By September 2001 BJF confirmed to Mr Ds DB administrator that he wanted to transfer his 
pension value. It sent details of his new personal pension provider, applications for his new 
pension plans which it needed to complete and the DB scheme discharge form.
The administrator of Mr Ds former DB scheme confirmed the total transfer value of his 
deferred benefits was about £35,383. It noted that of this around £9,432 attracted 
Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) rights - this was to be placed in a Section 32 plan. The 
remainder of the payment was to be placed in a personal pension plan.
Mr D took the retirement benefits from his personal pension plan almost immediately 
following the transfer. He bought a level single life annuity effective from October 2001 which 
provided an annual income of £765. And he took tax-free cash (TFC) of around £11,313. Mr 
D completed a mandate which showed BJF was to receive a fee of £1,131 to be taken from 
his TFC in respect of the advice it gave him.
A number of key documents from the original transaction are missing. So, for example, we 
dont have an adequate contemporaneous record of Mr Ds circumstances at the time, his 
objectives or his attitude to risk. But he has told this Service he accessed tax-free cash from 
the transfer of his pension and that he used this to help repay debt he had at the time.
SCL, on behalf of Mr D, raised a complaint with CPL in May 2022. It said:
Mr D was advised that by transferring his pension, he would be able to access his pension 
at an earlier age. However, this was without the understanding of what he was giving up as a 
result. Mr D was not informed of any benefits he would be losing by transferring out of the 
final salary pension, had this been discussed with him at the time, he would not have 
proceeded with the advice.
SCL went on to set-out several concerns about what had happened to him in 2001. For 
example, it said he lost valuable guarantees as a result of the transfer of his DB pension and 
he wasnt properly informed about this. It said his risk appetite and capacity for loss wasnt 
assessed. It said BJF hadnt followed the regulations in place at the time it gave advice.
CPL responded on 6 January 2023 rejecting Mr Ds complaint in the following terms:
Ascot Lloyd Financial Services Limited acquired the assets of business of Berkeley Jacobs 
Financial Services Limited in 2014 and agreed to handle certain complaints that might be 
received. Berkeley Jacobs Financial Services Limited was deauthorised by the FCA in 2016, 
and subsequently wound up and dissolved as a company. We therefore no longer have 
access to their client records. We cannot therefore establish what advice you received from 
Berkeley Jacobs Financial Services Limited and whether you had cause for complaint about 
it more than 3 years before you complained. Given the advice was provided more than 6 
years ago, if you ought to have been aware of cause to complain more than 3 years ago, 
your complaint would likely be time-barred in any event.
Based on the above, I am unable to uphold your complaint as I am unable to investigate the 
complaint points you have raised. Whilst I note that you have provided some documentation 
in relation to the transfer, this is in the form of an application form and confirmation of 
transfer only. There is no further documentation available to allow us to assess the advice 
that was given.
Mr D rejected CPLs response and brought his complaint to this Service. An Investigator 
reviewed his case and while he concluded it was within our jurisdiction he didnt uphold it. He 
issued two views and summarised his position in the following terms:
There is insufficient evidence to uphold a complaint. Given what is known, it would be 
reasonable to transfer in order to access a tax free cash lump sum and annuity immediately 
with the majority of the funds and take more of a risk with the smaller pension fund in 
exchange for added flexibility.
SCL, on behalf of Mr D, rejected the Investigators view. Amongst other matters, it said he 
didnt have a financial background or experience of pensions and investments. It said the 
firm responsible shouldve helped him understand the alternatives available to him for 
meeting any debt. It reiterated the points it had raised in the original complaint and 
summarised his position in the following terms:
Had the initial advice in 2001 been suitable, Mr D would not have accessed his pension. Mr 
D only took this initial action due to the advice provided by Berkeley Jacobs; they began the 
chain of causation. But for Berkeley Jacobss advice, Mr D would not have transferred his 
final salary pension scheme and would not have been able to access his pension. Berkeley 
Jacobs ought to have verified the findings and confirmed the reasons why Mr D required the 
funds. This did not take place and further evidences Berkeley Jacobs negligence.As both parties couldnt agree with the Investigators findings and conclusions, Mr Ds 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh. I issued my provisional decision in July, 
saying I expected to uphold his case but inviting further submissions. Neither party has 
provided any new evidence or arguments, so I see no reason to depart from my initial 
findings and conclusions.
However, I note CPL has provided a copy of the legal agreement it had to buy part of the 
book of business from another firm, including Mr Ds account. I note that originating business 
is no longer operating, although there appears to be some debate about whether its liabilities 
have since been assumed by another firm. Ill address these matters later in this final 
decision.
Our jurisdiction to consider Mr Ds complaint
Our service was set up by Parliament under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 
(FSMA). Its important to make clear that as a public body we dont have a general, at large, 
power to investigate any complaint. We can only investigate what FSMA and the rules made 
under it say we can  this sets the boundaries of our scheme. And we have no legal power 
to investigate complaints that are beyond our jurisdiction.
FSMA gives the FCA the power to say what complaints we can and cant consider. The FCA 
has set these out in the Dispute Resolution chapter of the FCA Handbook (also known as 
DISP or the DISP rules).
If a business doesnt consent, this Service cant consider a complaint which isnt made within 
specified time limits. Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:
More than:
2. a. six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
b. three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably 
to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint;unless:
3. In the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in DISP 2.8.2 R or 
DISP 2.8.7 R was as a result of exceptional circumstances.
Mr D is worried hes lost out because of the advice he received to transfer his deferred DB 
pension in 2001. He doesnt think the advice was suitable.
Taking the six-year rule first, a complaint is out of time if its referred to our Service more 
than six years after the event complained about. Thats unless the complaint was referred to 
the respondent business within that period and the complainant has a written 
acknowledgement or other record of the complaint having been received.
Mr Ds complaint was raised with CPL in May 2022. It issued a final response to him in 
January 2023. As the advice complained about happened in 2001, his case is out of time on 
the six-year limb of the test.
In respect of the three-year test. I need to decide when Mr D became aware, or ought 
reasonably to have become aware, that he had a cause to complain. And having established 
that date, determine whether he brought his complaint within three years of it.In making its case to time bar Mr Ds complaint, CPL hasnt advanced an argument beyond 
that because the advice the predecessor firm gave him was in 2001 he shouldve been 
aware of cause for complaint more than three years ago. This isnt a strong argument, there 
are many reasons why people arent aware, and reasonably so, of cause for complaint for 
many years after the event. This is particularly the case when considering the long-term 
nature of matters involving pensions. It hasnt provided any evidence to support its case.
The Investigator noted:
It would be unreasonable to conclude that Mr D had cause for complaint when he 
transferred. After all, if he had cause for complaint at that point, he just wouldnt have 
proceeded. As would be expected, a retail investor would trust the professional in such 
matters. So there needs to be a reason why Mr D ought to have been aware of cause for 
complaint after the event.
I agree with the Investigator on this point. And since Mr D took over 70% of his pension 
benefits in the form of an annuity and TFC around the time he received advice from BJF, he 
wouldnt have received any information subsequently which led him to compare his position 
with what he mightve received through his DB scheme. While it appears Mr D took the 
residual benefits originating from his DB scheme from his Section 32 plan in 2011, again 
theres no evidence as to why at this point he ought to have been aware of cause for 
concern.
In the absence of evidence to the contrary, I think Mr D became aware of cause for 
complaint in November 2021 when he saw an online advert that notified him his previous DB 
pension held various benefits and guarantees which he hadnt been advised of.
SCL, on behalf of Mr D, raised a complaint with CPL in May 2022. And as that was within 
three years of his awareness something mayve gone wrong in 2001, his complaint is duly 
made and this Service can consider it.
Ill now move on to consider the merits of Mr Ds complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
How does the regulatory framework inform the consideration of Mr Ds case?
The first thing Ive considered is the regulation around transactions like those performed by 
BJF for Mr D. Of course, I must be mindful that law, regulation and industry best practice 
have evolved over the past twenty years. Whats required of firms now, wasnt necessarily 
the case when Mr D received advice.Nevertheless, a good starting point for my consideration is the FCA Handbook. This contains 
the Principles for businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to 
(PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7  which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
While the Principles were formalised in 2001  a few months after Mr D received advice - 
they were nevertheless built upon existing regulations and accepted practice. And I dont 
think any firm would argue that it wouldnt have tried to adhere to such standards prior to 
their consolidation. As such, they provide a useful framework for thinking about Mr Ds 
complaint.
I can see from the limited paperwork available that at the time BJF provided the advice for 
Mr D - which business CPL subsequently bought and took responsibility for - its practice was 
to adhere to the Personal Investment Authority (PIA) rulebook.
The PIA rulebook set out important requirements of firms regarding pension transfers. These 
were established prior to 2001 and firms needed to apply these when advising individuals 
about transferring benefits from DB schemes into personal pension arrangements.
It was established that in advising customers who were existing or prospective members of 
DB schemes, the starting point for firms would be that it wasnt suitable to recommend opting 
out into a personal pension. In relation to deferred members, like Mr D, the rules said 
The position is more finely balanced when a prospective investor currently has deferred 
benefits from an [DB pension] and is considering transferring those benefits to a personal 
pension scheme.
Advice on whether to transfer deferred benefits should be preceded by a detailed 
consideration of the ceding scheme compared with the personal pension scheme, and the 
personal circumstances and objectives of the investor. A fact find designed with pension 
transfers in mind will be needed. A properly established process is necessary to ensure the 
suitability of the advice provided.
The rulebook went on to detail the procedures to be followed, this included the following 
extracts:
To assess the prospective investors attitude to risk and security, this is relevant not merely 
to the choice of contract or fund, but also (and more fundamentally) to the choice between 
an [DB pension] and a personal pension scheme in the first place.
enabling the prospective investor to receive sufficient, clear information to make an 
informed investment decision based on a firm understanding of the risks involved and 
knowledge of what protection, rights, expectations and options they may be giving up
a Transfer Value Analysis must be undertaken or obtained. The analysis should be based 
on a proper consideration of all the relevant factors. It should be documented and recorded before firm investment advice is offered to the prospective investor. The results of this 
analysis should be discussed with the latter in simple clear language.
Relevant items of information for the prospective investor include: the different character of 
the risks associated with personal pension scheme and [DB pension] provision; the impact of 
fluctuations in annuity rates on the size of the eventual pension;changes to tax-free 
cash;the transfer value analysis including an indication of the rate of growth needed to 
ensure the investor is no worse off.
The section of the PIA rulebook about the transfer of deferred benefits to personal pension 
arrangements concluded:
Members may find it difficult to demonstrate compliance with the relevant rules if the 
process outlined above has not been completed and fully documented, including the 
collection of the relevant information from the ceding scheme and the prospective investor, 
and a clear provision of the necessary information to the latter. The records should be kept 
indefinitely. The process will by no means point to all customers being confirmed as 
prospects for the sale of personal pensions or section 32 contracts. It will confirm that many 
customers would be better advised to remain in their [DB pension]
Did BJF adhere to the regulatory requirements placed on it?
On balance, CPL (which effectively took responsibility for the transaction and BJFs failings) 
hasnt done enough to satisfy me that the regulatory requirements placed on firms at the 
time advice was given to Mr D were met. Ill explain why.
While different parties have been able to provide some of the contemporaneous paperwork 
from the transaction in 2001, its very unfortunate key documents such as the fact-find, 
transfer analysis and what might be described as a reasons why letter are missing.
I appreciate CPL bought the book of business from BJF. But thats a matter between the 
firms concerned and the due diligence they did before agreeing the contract. CPL was taking 
on responsibility and it shouldve satisfied itself it was being left in a position to carry out its 
duties effectively.
The lack of this documentation is a failing measured against the regulations of the time. And 
it puts CPL on the back foot in respect of Mr Ds complaint.
At the time of the advice Mr D was 50 years old. He was living with a long-term partner who 
subsequently became his wife. Theres no information available about any investments or 
savings he had. But in his testimony he says he used the TFC generated from the transfer of 
his pension to pay off debts. He says he wasnt experienced in investments or pensions and 
Ive seen no information to suggest otherwise.
SCL said:
Mr D was not looking to take any risk with his pension, he transferred his pension based on 
the advice that he was given. Although Mr D was employed at the time, he confirmed that he 
had a cautious attitude to risk, a low capacity for loss and no previous investment 
experience. He could not afford to replace any of the pension should he risk losing this. Mr D 
was not informed of any benefits that he would lose by transferring away from his final salary 
pension. Berkeley Jacobs was at all material times responsible for correctly assessing the 
advantages and disadvantages of the transfer, including the costs and charges associated 
with it.
SCL also notedMr D was in a long term relationship at the time and [his partners] circumstances ought to 
have been considered by Berkeley Jacobs when they provided their advice. These benefits 
may have been made available to her if they were to marry. The significance of this should 
have been discussed with the adviserMr D confirmed he would have liked for the benefit to 
be safeguarded for his partner should anything happen to him. Additionally, whilst the 
spousal benefits ought to have been emphasised, this was not the only benefit available to 
Mr D if he remained a member of the final salary scheme.
His Diageo pension scheme held the ill-health benefits that would have been available to 
him should his ability to work be impeded. In 2009, Mr D had suffered a heart attack and had 
a quadruple bypass which impeded his ability to work as a builder. This is another benefit 
that was not explained to him by Berkeley Jacobs, Mr D may have been entitled to early 
access of his final salary scheme utilising this benefit.
My observation here would be for the need to avoid hindsight in relation to benefits that were 
available from Mr Ds DB scheme and which may or may not have been of value to him in 
later years. Its also problematic to rely solely on testimony from 2022 about events from 
2001. While Ive no reason to doubt that the assertions Mr D makes now about his 
circumstances, objectives and risk appetite in 2001 are genuinely made, memories can and 
do fade.
So, there are significant evidential weaknesses to the position of both parties in this case. 
And my conclusions are necessarily made on the balance of probabilities and on a more 
likely than not basis.
Ultimately Ive concluded the biggest hurdle was for CPL to overcome in defending its 
position, which presumably is it thinks the advice provided to Mr D was appropriate. I 
suggested it tried again to access the missing key documents it shouldve ensured it was in 
possession of when it bought the business which included the transaction in 2001 with Mr D 
which is now in dispute. It hasnt been able to obtain such evidence.
Ive arrived at this position for several reasons. Not least amongst these are the regulatory 
requirements that were placed on firms like BJF at the time of the advice given to Mr D.
Im mindful Mr D was approached by the firm to initiate the provision of advice. In addition, 
looking at the information we do have, Mr D ended up taking over 70% of his pension 
benefits early at the age of 50. Part of the value he used to take a single life level annuity. 
This meant:
- His evidenced long-term partner (subsequently wife) wouldnt have been entitled to 
any benefits from the policy in the event of his pre-deceasing her. Had he remained 
in his DB scheme shed have been entitled to some benefits in the event of his 
passing.
- The value of this retirement income would atrophy over time. He was only 50 when 
he took out the annuity contract and couldve expected to live for over 30 more years. 
Had he remained in his DB scheme his benefits wouldve enjoyed uprating before 
and after his retirement.
The other element of the benefits Mr D took in 2001 was TFC. Hes explained this was to 
clear debt. This appears to have been the main motivation for the transfer of his DB pension. 
But the purpose of a pension is to provide for an income in retirement. There have to be 
strong reasons for accessing benefits early, especially if that involved a transfer away from a 
DB scheme with its guarantees and protections.
Although I dont have information about the level of Mr Ds outstanding debt in 2001, we 
know he used his TFC of around £10,000 to clear it. I dont know whether the debt was secured or unsecured, or whether he was managing to service his commitments at the time. 
But what seems reasonable to conclude is the circumstances in which it would be 
appropriate to advise someone to draw on their valuable pension benefits to clear what 
appears to have been a modest level of debt would be unusual. There wouldve been a 
number of alternatives to dipping into Mr Ds pension provision, including coming to an 
arrangement with his credit providers for more time to pay, rescheduling or consolidation.
We have no contemporaneous information about Mr Ds risk appetite. Hes told this Service 
he had no experience of pensions or investments. Hes said he had a cautious attitude to 
risk, and that wouldve been particularly the case with his pension. We do however have 
some indications of Mr Ds capacity for loss at the time. Given he had some debt and wanted 
to access TFC in 2001, this suggests he didnt have other available assets to call on at the 
time. We know that his employment provided for a modest income. 
Further, Mr D has informed us about his pension income now. He has a state pension, the 
annuities purchased with the benefits from personal pension plans established with the 
proceeds of his DB scheme transfer and a small pension from a local council. I think that in 
2001 BJF wouldve known that Mr Ds capacity for loss was limited.
BJF was in a good position to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Mr D about 
what was in his best interest for retirement planning. It knew pension pots built up over many 
years are to provide for retirement. And certainly, when the transfer of deferred benefits was 
being considered, there needed to be strong reasons to do so. On balance, I think its more 
likely than not this wasnt the case here.
It was the firms role to discern what Mr Ds wants and needs were and why. Its role wasnt 
simply to facilitate what he wanted without any critical thinking. It had to use due care and 
skill. It had to do these things because it had to act in his best interests. I dont think it 
demonstrably met the obligations on it.
I think that if Mr D had been given appropriate and fully formed advice, BJF wouldnt have 
recommended that he transfer his DB pension. In that case I dont think hed have gone 
ahead. I say this because its unusual for a lay person to seek professional advice and then 
go against the recommendations received.
To conclude I dont think the transfer of Mr Ds DB pension into personal pension plans, with 
the majority of benefits being taken immediately, was fair to him. As such I think the firm 
giving advice failed to meet the regulatory requirements placed on it.
So, taking all the circumstances of the case into account, its reasonable for me to uphold 
this complaint against CPL and for it to put things right.
In responding to my provisional decision CPL said:
I would like to reiterate at this stage, that Ascot Lloyd have sought legal counsel in respect 
of this agreement and our stance that has been reiterated throughout the progress of this 
complaint has been based on the legal guidance received. I once again therefore wish to 
clarify that Ascot Lloyd do not have ultimate responsibility for these claims, or the advice 
provided, only the complaint handling element. Therefore, the section in the Provisional 
Decision which states; The lack of this documentation is a failing on CPLs part measured 
against the regulations of the time. And it puts it on the back foot in respect of Mr Ds 
complaint. This is a failure of James Hay and not the responsibility of Ascot Lloyd, given our 
responsibility only extends to the complaint handling of these complaints, which has been 
made difficult by the lack of forthcoming evidence to review suitability. We would therefore like to see this part of the Provisional Decision amended accordingly in the Ombudsmans 
final version.
I set out at the beginning of my provisional decision that it had not been CPL which had been 
responsible for the original advice to Mr D. I have made further clarifications to this effect in 
this final decision.
CPL went on to say:
It is important to note that the payment obligation in clause 3.3 of Schedule 12 is owed to 
the Seller, not to the Claimants. The liabilities to Clients remain with the Sellers, even though 
the Buyer has agreed to have conduct of the claims and to pay the first £200,000 of any 
liability. Therefore, any payment to be made following a calculation being produced is to be 
made by James Hay and Ascot Lloyd will only be liable for any costs up to the capped 
liability stipulated within the agreement, with any payments thereafter being owed by James 
Hay and not reimbursable by Ascot Lloyd.
This Service has also received representations from Nucleus Financial a third party firm 
about its contractual position with CPL and the book of business in dispute between the 
firms. For example, its Head of Legal told this Service:
I understand that the Berkeley Jacobs business was sold to Ascot Lloyd by IFG Group 
(along with a number of other businesses) in 2014. Under the terms of the business 
purchase agreement, Ascot Lloyd has sole conduct of client claims. Consequently, the 
information you have been provided with by Ascot Lloyd is incorrect and they are the 
successor firm (and not any of the James Hay regulated entities).
IFG Group Limited is a parent company of James Hay (and does not trade). It is not a 
regulated entity and has no responsibility for the businesses which were bought by Ascot 
Lloyd.
In another submission it said:
The relationship between James Hay and Ascot Lloyd in this context is set out in the 
aforementioned BPA  that is a Business Purchase Agreement entered into in 2014 under 
which James Hay (and predecessor) companies sold certain businesses and assets to Ascot 
Lloyd. Under the terms of the BPA, Ascot Lloyd retains responsibility  for a specified period 
(which is continuing), and up to a maximum monetary amount (which has not been reached) 
 for handling client complaints relating to those sold businesses. Berkeley Jacobs Financial 
Services is one of the businesses sold by James Hay / purchased by Ascot Lloyd, and Ascot 
Lloyd therefore retains responsibility for client complaints relating to Berkeley Jacobs arising 
since the effective date of the BPA and for the duration of the specified period.
James Hay has had an ongoing disagreement with Ascot Lloyd as to the scope of its 
obligations pursuant to the BPA  Ascot Lloyd has resisted dealing with complaints. It is not 
clear to us what Ascot Lloyd is trying to say when it says that James Hay is primarily 
responsible for these complaints, though Ascot Lloyd will continue to have conduct. As both 
the time limit and the financial limit referred to above are subsisting, it makes no sense to try 
to differentiate between a party who is primarily responsible for the complaints and the 
party who has conduct and is obliged to make redress if the complaint is upheld. As far as 
James Hay is concerned, the responsibility for appropriately conducting all complaints 
brought in respect of the businesses covered by the BPA  which includes Berkeley Jacobs 
 remains with Ascot Lloyd until either the specified period expires or the maximum financial 
limit of their obligation is reached. As neither of those has yet happened, the responsibility 
for dealing with relevant complaints is, in fact, with Ascot Lloyd, not James Hay.I accept that legal agreements between firms can be highly technical, and that with the 
passage of time, changes to company structures and ownership, these matters become 
even more complex. But frankly, this is of no concern to Mr D.
Im grateful to CPL for sight of certain legal documents related to the agreement it struck in 
2014. Nothing Ive seen in these makes me think it doesnt have lead responsibility for 
dealing with Mr Ds complaint and making sure he receives any compensation he is due. 
CPL can of course pursue other parties, where appropriate, to meet some or all of these 
costs according to the contract it struck. Considering the submissions made by James 
Hay/Nucleus Financial to this Service, and the documentation Ive seen, there does appear 
to be scope, indeed provision for, proper discussions between these parties about these 
matters. But this isnt something its appropriate for me to give a view on or provide advice 
about.
Putting things right
Im upholding Mr Ds case. so, a fair and reasonable outcome is for Capital Professional 
Limited to put him, as far as is reasonably possible, into the position hed be in now but for 
the unsuitable advice he received.
I consider Mr D wouldve remained in his DB scheme had he received fuller information, 
better guidance and effective advice. Based on the pattern of decisions he took about his 
pension, I think hed have taken benefits from the scheme as soon as he was able to before 
the scheme retirement date (SRD), and at that time taking the maximum TFC available to 
him. Had this been possible, this is likely to have led to an actuarial adjustment.
Mr D has had the benefits of TFC and a stream of income from his annuities. These facts will 
also need to be taken into account in calculating any redress due.
Capital Professional Limited should therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the 
rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in Policy 
Statement PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, the 
calculation should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following 
receipt of notification of Mr Ds acceptance.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in PS22/13 and set out in DISP 
App 4, Capital Professional Limited should:
- Calculate and offer Mr D redress as a cash lump sum payment.
- Explain to Mr D before starting the redress calculation that:
oredress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in line 
with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), and 
oa straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his current pension provision.
- Offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr D receives could be used to augment 
the pension rather than receiving it all as a cash lump sum.
- If Mr D accepts Capital Professional Limiteds offer to calculate how much of the 
redress could be augmented, request the necessary information and not charge him for the calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of the redress 
augmented.
- Take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ds s end of year tax position.
Redress paid directly to Mr D as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of 
benefits that would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, 
Capital Professional Limited may make a notional deduction to allow for income tax that 
would otherwise have been paid.
In this regard, the assumption made is that Mr Ds likely income tax rate in retirement is 
20%. However, if Mr D wouldve been able to take 25% tax-free cash from the benefits the 
cash payment represents, then this notional reduction may only be applied to 75% of the 
compensation, resulting in an overall notional deduction of 15%.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr D within 90 days of the date 
Capital Professional Limited receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision.
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 
90 days, that it takes CPL to pay Mr D.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Ds complaint. I now require Capital 
Professional Limited to put matters right in the way Ive directed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman