DRN-2552994
The complaint
Miss P complains that AXA France IARD offered her £300 compensation for a mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy which she accepted. Later AXA reduced its 
offer to £100. Miss P wants AXA to pay her the original amount offered.
 
What happened
In 2019 Miss P complained to AXA about the sale of the PPI. In August 2019 AXA wrote to 
Miss P upholding her complaint and offering compensation. AXA explained in its letter that it 
didnt have enough information about her account to calculate an accurate offer. It only 
knew the amount of the last premium she paid which was £1.39, and the length of time the 
policy had been active on her account.
So AXA had calculated what it said was the average amount it paid consumers who 
had held PPI on their account for a similar time and had paid a similar final premium. 
So AXA offered Miss P £300 in full and final settlement of her complaint.
Miss P accepted the offer and signed a settlement form, but just over a week later AXA 
wrote to her again. AXA said it had made an error and should have offered only £100 as 
this was the average compensation for a consumer like Miss P who had been charged a 
similar final payment and had held PPI for a comparable length of time.
Miss P didnt accept the new offer and asked AXA for clarification of why the offer had been 
reduced. Miss P didnt receive a response and asked this service to step in.
An adjudicator from this service thought AXAs new offer of £100 was fair. But the 
adjudicator said AXA should pay Miss P an additional £75 for the error it had made.
AXA offered to pay Miss P an additional £25 for the distress and inconvenience its error had 
caused Miss P to experience.
Miss P remained unhappy with AXAs offer and asked for an ombudsman to review her
complaint.
In January 2021 I issued my provisional findings on this complaint. I invited both parties to 
respond with any new information or points theyd like me to consider.
In my provisional decision I explained I was intending to uphold Miss Ps complaint, my 
reasons were as follows:
Firstly Ive looked at the nature of AXAs offer.
Where a PPI has been mis-sold this service would normally expect a business to put 
the consumer back in the financial position theyd be in if the sale had not taken place. 
This would normally involve the business refunding all the PPI premiums together with 
any interest and charges incurred because of the PPI. And the business should add 
compensatory interest calculated at 8% simple for the time the consumer has been out 
of pocket.
In this case that isnt possible because after so many years AXA doesnt know the 
premiums Miss P paid. That isnt unusual and it is understandable as we dont expect 
businesses to keep detailed records indefinitely. So Id expect a business to make 
reasonable assumptions based on what evidence it has.
AXA knows how long Miss P held PPI on her account and what the final premium was. 
And it used this information to work out the average compensation it has paid other 
consumers whod held PPI in similar circumstances.
So when AXA offered Miss P £300 it was never intended to be a completely accurate 
reflection of the PPI shed been charged. It was an estimate of the compensation she was 
due based on the average payment made to other consumers. In reality, if AXA had 
retained accurate records that allowed a proper calculation then Miss P could have been 
owed much less than £300 or indeed much more than £300.
It follows that when AXA replaced its offer with a new offer of £100 there was no 
guarantee that offer was any more accurate than the first. It hadnt, for example, located 
statements showing the actual PPI paid by Miss P. AXA in effect replaced one estimate 
with another, lower estimate. It remains the case that Miss P may be owed more or less 
than £100 if accurate data was available. And I dont think it is fair for AXA to replace one 
estimate with a different, lower estimate.
Secondly I note that when AXA made its first offer of £300 it asked her to sign in full and 
final settlement of her complaint. And Miss P did so in good faith. Ive seen no evidence 
or suggestion that Miss P might reasonably have thought the offer may be wrong. So 
AXA made an offer and Miss P accepted it. If Miss P had signed the settlement and later 
referred her complaint to this service it is likely AXA would point to the fact Miss P had 
accepted its offer in full and final settlement.
To be clear, if a business makes an offer to a consumer that is wrong, and I thought a 
consumer accepted it whilst reasonably knowing it was an error then I wouldnt expect 
a business to honour it. But in this case Ive seen nothing to make me think Miss P 
thought AXAs offer of £300 was anything other than a genuine offer to settle her 
complaint. So I think AXA should have honoured its first offer and made payment to 
Miss P.
I note when Miss P first complained she was told AXA could not find PPI in her name. 
Later it found the PPI and made an offer to Miss P which she accepted. My 
understanding is she contacted AXA when the offer was reduced and asked for 
clarification about why this
happened but AXA didnt reply. I think all this must have caused Miss P considerable 
upset. And Miss P has been caused a lot of inconvenience and trouble pursuing payment 
of the offer she accepted. So AXA should compensate her for the trouble and upset shes 
experienced. So Im intending to award Miss P £75 to compensate her for this.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA has contacted us to say it is prepared to make a new offer.Miss P has not responded to my provisional findings.
In the absence of any new evidence I see no reason to depart from the findings I set out in 
my provisional decision in January 2021.  
Putting things right
AXA should pay Miss P the £300 it originally offered her.
And AXA should pay Miss P an additional £75 to compensate her for the trouble and upset 
shes experienced due to AXA withdrawing its original offer.
  
My final decision
I uphold Miss Ps complaint and direct AXA France IARD to pay Miss P compensation as 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman