DRN-3386544
The complaint
Mr K complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc (Sainsburys) hasnt done enough to help him get 
his money back for flights he couldnt take due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
What happened
In January 2020, Mr K booked five flights to the Canary Islands, departing at the beginning 
of August 2020. He paid just over £1,650 for the flights using his Sainsburys credit card.
 
Towards the end of July, the UK Foreign & Commonwealth Office extended its travel advice 
for Spain to the Canary Islands, advising against all but essential travel and requiring a 14-
day quarantine period for those returning from the islands.
 
Mindful of this advice, and the fact that his travel insurance wouldnt cover him for the trip, Mr 
K decided not to travel.
 
He looked to see if he could move the flights, but this was only possible at a considerable 
extra cost to Mr K, and in any event, he didnt know when to move the flights to, as it wasnt 
clear when it would be safe to travel again.
 
So, he waited to see if the airline would cancel the flights, but it didnt. Mr K then wrote to the 
airline explaining things. He got an automated response which said, amongst other things, 
that the airline wouldnt refund fares where the flight was scheduled to operate, but the 
consumer chose not to travel. 
Mr K sought advice from various bodies as to his rights. He didnt think the airline was acting 
fairly. By not cancelling the flights he said it was placing pressure on passengers to travel, 
despite the government advice. He highlighted that his mother was due to travel to the same 
destination at the same time, and the airline she was flying with had cancelled the return 
flight and given her a full refund. 
In September 2020, Mr K contacted his bank for its help to get his money back. But 
Sainsburys said as the flights were still available to use, there wasnt any ground for it to 
refund the cost of the flights to Mr K.
 
One of our investigators looked at Mr Ks complaint. She didnt think Sainsburys had acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in not refunding Mr K the cost of the flights.
 
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr K asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint, so the 
matter has come to me. Mr K said it wasnt his fault he couldnt take the flights, so it wasnt 
right that he should have to pay for them. 
Mr K has also made a claim on his travel insurance, which I understand was declined and is 
subject to a separate complaint at this service. I make no comment on that complaint in this 
decision, as it will be considered separately.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Covid-19 pandemic brought with it many issues relating to travel which could not go 
ahead as planned, with lots of flights and holidays being cancelled. In the early days of the 
pandemic, it seems there were some poor practices by some suppliers, who were not 
refunding customers when they should have.
 
In many instances, where the supplier hadnt refunded the cost of a service that didnt go 
ahead, the customer could look to their bank for a refund and commonly the banks refunded 
customers where the supplier had failed to, when appropriate.
 
But the right to a refund when a holiday or flight hasnt happened as expected because of 
Covid-19 isnt automatic. It is dependent on the individual circumstances of each case and 
the legal position, which can be complicated.
 
Here, I am looking at the actions of the bank and whether it has acted fairly and reasonably 
in the way it handled Mr Ks request for help in getting his money back. This will take into 
account the circumstances of the failed trip and how the supplier has acted, but there are 
also other considerations at play.
 
There are two main ways a bank can help a customer to recover money paid to a supplier 
who hasnt provided what was promised. It can try to recover the money from the supplier 
through a process known as chargeback. Or the bank can assess whether its customer has 
a valid claim under Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75).
 
Sainsburys said it couldnt raise a chargeback in Mr Ks case, or pay him the flight costs 
under Section 75, because the service went ahead.
 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr K, but I dont think, looking at the relevant 
rules and obligations on Sainsburys bank, that it has acted unfairly or unreasonably here. Ill 
explain in more detail why I think that is the case.
 
Chargeback
 
In certain circumstances the chargeback process provides a way for a bank to ask for a 
payment Mr K made to be refunded. Where applicable, the bank raises a dispute with the 
supplier and effectively asks for the payment to be returned to the customer.
 
While it is good practice for a bank to attempt a chargeback where the right exists and there 
is some prosect of success, the circumstances of a dispute means it wont always be 
appropriate for the bank to raise a chargeback. There are grounds or dispute conditions set 
by the relevant card scheme (Mastercard in this case) and if these are not met a chargeback 
is unlikely to succeed.
Here, both Mr Ks outbound and return flight went ahead. I have looked at the nature of the 
booking and the terms and conditions as close to and pre-dating Mr Ks booking as our 
investigator could find. The airline seemed to offer only non-refundable bookings at the time 
Mr K booked his flights and I cannot see anything in the refund/cancellation policy that would 
have entitled Mr K to a refund in these circumstances.
 
Looking at the chargeback scheme rules and Covid-19 guidance, I dont think a chargeback 
could have successfully been pursued under the dispute condition goods or service not provided as the flight went ahead. In addition, as the cancellation policy of the airline does 
not allow for a refund in these circumstances, a chargeback would have been unlikely to 
succeed in relation to the other potentially relevant dispute condition, credit not processed. 
So looking at what happened in Mr Ks case, the terms and conditions of the booking, the 
relevant refund/cancellation policy and considering these carefully alongside the relevant 
chargeback scheme rules and guidance, I do not think a chargeback could have been 
successfully raised on Mr Ks behalf. So, I dont think Sainsburys was acting unfairly or 
unreasonably when it didnt raise one. 
Section 75 
Section 75 provides that in certain circumstances the borrower under a credit agreement has 
an equal right to claim against the credit provider if there's either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services.
 
So, given Mr Ks complaint, for me to find that Sainsburys should have refunded the cost of 
the flights to Mr K, Id need to be satisfied that there has been a breach of contract.
 
The legal position where a service can legally go ahead, but a consumer cant take up the 
service because of government guidance/restrictions on travel, is complicated. It could 
arguably be said that in these circumstances the contract has been frustrated (effectively 
impossible to perform) and as such the consumer is entitled to a refund.
 
But even if that were the case, here I am looking at the liability of the bank under Section 75 
and this is limited to when a contract has been breached or misrepresented. So although it 
might be possible to argue that the contact has been frustrated, that does not amount to a 
breach of contract. 
I have looked carefully at what has happened here, alongside the relevant terms and 
conditions and I cannot see evidence of a breach of contract. The airline provided the 
service as it had contracted to do. The booking was, it seems, non-refundable and I cannot 
see that the cancellation policy gave rise to a refund in these circumstances.
 
There are terms relating to a claim for a refund of the tax element of the fare cost, but that 
only arises in relation to certain higher priced tickets from this supplier and where taxes are 
itemised on the invoice. Although I note Mr K recalls that tax was likely paid, from the invoice 
evidence available, it isnt clear that tax was paid on these tickets and without such evidence 
I couldnt properly go on to consider whether there has been a breach of contract on that 
basis (potentially giving rise to a refund of the tax element of the fare). 
Indeed, as Mr K fairly highlights, he did note that even if he did apply for a refund of tax, he 
would likely be charged an administration fee and assumed that this fee was likely more than 
any tax paid as the airline didnt offer it. He did not go on to make a claim. 
In deciding whether Sainsburys acted fairly in declining Mr Ks Section 75 claim, I need to 
be satisfied that there has been a breach of contract or misrepresentation. Looking at what 
has happened here, I am not persuaded that there has been. 
I really do sympathise with Mr K. He was merely following government guidance and now he 
finds himself out of pocket to a considerable sum. It may be that he has an action against the 
supplier through the courts, but that is far from clear and something Mr K may wish to take 
advice on.
 But as I set out above, here I am looking at the obligations of the bank and as explained, I 
dont think it needed to do more for Mr K. Therefore, I dont think it was acting unfairly or 
unreasonably when it declined his claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Siobhan Kelly
Ombudsman