DRN-2434046
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs B complain about the service they received from British Gas Insurance Limited 
(BG) under their home emergency policy. 
 
What happened
 Mr and Mrs B had a policy with BG that covered their heating system for breakdowns, 
repairs and included an annual service. They experienced issues with their boiler from May 
2019 until around March 2020. They contacted BG on a regular basis for engineer visits as 
their boiler kept breaking down. During some of the visits, the engineers changed the printed 
circuit board and gas valve. But unfortunately this didnt stop the breakdowns. 
In February 2020, the boiler broke down again and on that occasion the BG engineer 
recommended that the boiler manufacturer attend to examine it. The engineer told Mr and 
Mrs B that the boiler manufacturer would contact them to arrange a date to attend. But this 
didnt happen. 
Mr and Mrs B contacted BG to find out what had happened, to be told via the online chat 
agent that the engineer would contact them, this also didnt happen. They contacted BG 
again and another online chat agent told them that the engineer was on his way to them. But 
that engineer didnt turn up. So, Mr and Mrs B contacted BG again to try and resolve the 
situation but again were not successful in their efforts.
Mr and Mrs B continued to experience issues with their boiler until March 2020 when the 
boiler manufacturer attended and repaired the boiler. Since then Mr and Mrs B havent 
experienced any issues with the boiler. But they raised a complaint with BG due to the poor 
level of service they experienced. 
In its final response, BG said that it had followed the manufacturers instructions and the 
issue with the boiler wasnt as a result of the electrodes. That it had replaced parts in the 
boiler and those parts had come directly from the boiler manufacturer. So, the reason for the 
fault with the boiler was because of a defective part supplied by the manufacturer, which BG 
couldnt be blamed for. 
BG had booked the boiler manufacturer who shouldve contacted Mr and Mrs B. This wasnt 
done as per the process, which BG said wasnt its fault. BG apologised for the confusion 
regarding the webchats.
Mr and Mrs B were not satisfied with BGs explanation and referred their complaint to this 
service as they felt that BG had failed to adequately diagnose the issue with their boiler. And 
that the service plan wasnt fit for purpose, so they wanted compensation for the 
inconvenience caused.
Our Investigator didnt uphold their complaint. He said that:
BG apologised for the mis-information it gave 
Attended each time that a fault was reported with the boiler within a reasonable 
timescale. So it acted in accordance with the terms and conditions and there was 
nothing further he could reasonable ask it to do. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with our investigators view as they felt that BG had failed to carry 
out adequate diagnosis of the issues with the boiler, were untruthful and offered them a poor 
level of service. So they asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered the complaint and I thought the complaint should be upheld in part. I issued a 
provisional decision on 30 November 2020 and asked both parties to send me anything else 
by 30 December 2020. In my provisional decision I said:
Having done so, Im minded to uphold this complaint in part, by awarding compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused to Mr and Mrs B. 
My role is to determine whether BG has been reasonable in its dealings with Mr and Mrs B. 
In doing so I have considered both parties comments, the work history and reviewed the 
terms and conditions of the policy. The main aspect of this complaint is whether BG failed to 
adequately diagnose the issues with the boiler and secondly, whether the service Mr and 
Mrs B received was poor.  
Mr and Mrs B had taken out a policy that allowed for unlimited repairs including an annual 
service. It isnt in dispute that they called BG out several times. I have reviewed the job 
history and comments made by BG and I can see that in May 2019 it noted that the boiler 
breakdown was caused by intermittent pressure loss and not as a result of a faulty printed 
circuit board (PCB).  
But in October 2019, when the boiler next broke down, the engineer contacted the
manufacturer for assistance with the issues, who advised the engineer to change the PCB, 
which was done the following day. The next breakdown in December 2019, was due to leaks 
and BG concluded that this wasnt as a result of a faulty PCB. 
In January 2020, two visits were made. The issues identified with the boiler, related to the 
gas valve and were not linked to any PCB issue. It wasnt until February 2020, that BG 
contacted the manufacturer as it couldnt resolve the issue with the boiler.  
BG has said that its technical helpdesk had reviewed the breakdown appointments and it 
has confirmed that the engineers who attended carried out the correct diagnostic tests to 
establish the fault with the boiler. When the engineer was unable to resolve the issue with 
the boiler, the manufacturer was contacted who then resolved the issues. Without any expert 
evidence to suggest that BG hadnt adequately diagnosed the issues with the boiler, it isnt 
possible for me to conclude that this is what has happened here.
Mr and Mrs B understanding was that the problem with their boiler were faulty electrodes. I 
have asked both parties if the manufacturer left a written report with details of what the issue 
was with the boiler and details of its repair. Neither party has provided this evidence as both say that the manufacturer didnt leave one. So, I must decide this point on the evidence 
before me. BG has said that the issue with the boiler was the PCB and after the 
manufacturer had replaced this part, the boiler worked without any further issues.
Mr and Mrs B said that it was the electrodes that were the issue and that they didnt have 
any other evidence such as photos or the faulty electrodes themselves. They said the 
manufacturer wouldnt leave them. But as the electrodes belonged to Mr and Mrs B, I think 
that there would be no reason for the manufacturer to retain them. 
BG instructed the manufacturer to carry out the assessment and repair of Mr and Mrs Bs 
boiler which is what it did. BG said that it was the PCB that was faulty, and it was replaced. 
So without a report or expert evidence to the contrary, I cant say that the PCB wasnt the 
part replaced.  
BG has apologised for what it says was some confusion regarding the webchats. But Mr and 
Mrs B detailed the poor level of service they said they received from BG that included 
members of staff not properly dealing with their enquiries, the misinformation from the 
webchat agents and delays in receiving any information regarding the manufacturer not 
contacting them. I think that Mr and Mrs B were inconvenienced by BG, and I think that it is 
right that it should recognise the trouble and upset that it caused. So Im minded to award 
compensation of £100 in this regard. 
Overall, BG acted in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy by attending 
each time Mr and Mrs B reported an issue with their boiler. But I do think that Mr and Mrs B 
experienced a poor level of service, which BG should put right. 
  
Putting things right
Responses to my provisional decision
BG had nothing further to add to the provisional decision. 
Mr and Mrs B had nothing further to add about the proposed award of compensation but did 
want BG to answer the following questions: 
(a) Since replacement, the boiler has functioned normally. In which case perhaps British 
Gas can tell us what they say the issue was?
And
(b) As British Gas were not present when the engineer identified the fault, how are they
able to comment on what the issue was?
If British Gas are confident enough to make assertions as to cause, perhaps they can tell us 
the basis upon which those assertions are made?
As mentioned in the provisional decision, BG had said that the PCB was faulty and that was 
replaced. So as far as it was concerned this was the issue with the boiler.  If Mr and Mrs B 
want further information regarding this, then they are at liberty to obtain this information 
directly from BG.
Given that both parties have not raised any objection to the level of compensation proposed, 
I am satisfied that this is a fair and reasonable amount given the poor level of service that Mr and Mrs B experienced. Overall, BG did comply with the terms and conditions of the policy 
but its customer service was lacking and I award £100 compensation to acknowledge this.
  
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs 
complaint, in part. 
To put matters right, I direct British Gas Insurance Limited to pay compensation of £100.
British Gas Insurance Limited should also pay interest on the amount above, at a rate of 8% 
simple a year from the date of payment, to settlement. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman