DRN-3242364
The complaint
Mr H, a sole trader, is unhappy with how Santander UK Plc administered his application for a 
Bounce Back Loan.
What happened
Mr H applied for a Bounce Back Loan in May 2020, but the application was declined. Mr H 
didnt think Santanders decision was fair, so he complained.
Santander maintained its decision to decline Mr Hs application. It said it couldnt determine 
that Mr H had been using a personal account as the main account to manage his business, 
which was a requirement of Santanders criteria at the time.
   
Santander also said it had found that Mr H was a director of a limited company which 
operated in the same sector as his sole trader business. And, further, the bank also said it 
had reason to believe Mr H was employed  based on his tax documentation  and not self-
employed as hed declared in his application. So, for various reasons, the bank felt that Mr H 
didnt meet its lending criteria.
Mr H referred his complaint to our service. He said he disagreed with the reasons Santander 
had provided for declining his application. Further, Mr H said hed only been told that his 
application had been declined when hed called the bank around a month after hed applied.
 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Hs complaint and asked him to provide some further 
information, specifically around how his business operates. Mr H explained he did use his 
personal account with Santander to manage his sole trader business, and that his 
statements would support this. Further, Mr H clarified he wasnt the director of the company 
Santander thought he was  but one with a similar name which had been dormant until 
recently. And lastly, Mr H said that it was likely a mistake made by his accountant on his self-
assessment form which had led to the bank thinking he was employed.
 
Mr H said he no longer wanted the Bounce Back Loan, hed managed to obtain one 
elsewhere, but he was still unhappy with how his application had been handled by 
Santander because hed given it this information previously. So, he felt the reasons hed 
been given by the bank for its decision werent accurate.
  
While the complaint was with our service, a further reason that Santander had relied upon to 
decline Mr Hs application came to light  one Mr H says he wasnt aware of.
 
In short, the bank said Mr Hs application indicated he was applying on behalf of a 
partnership. Santander wasnt accepting applications from customers using a personal 
account for business purposes, if they were applying on behalf of a partnership  which 
meant Mr Hs application didnt meet its criteria. The bank said this issue had formed part of 
its decision to decline Mr Hs application at the time.  
The investigator considered what had happened, and she felt the bank had reasonably 
declined Mr Hs application based on the information that it had available. She felt that, 
although there may have been some confusion around how Mr H operates his business, 
Santander was entitled to assess applications against its own criteria. And, here, it had done 
so fairly. 
Further, the investigator explained that while it wouldve been helpful of the bank to have 
pointed out the partnership issue at the time, even if Santander had told Mr H, it wouldnt 
have led to a different outcome  and he still wouldnt have been approved for a 
Bounce Back Loan. 
In response, Mr H said he accepted that Santander can decide how it wishes to run its 
business and the basis upon which it was willing to accept Bounce Back Loan applications. 
And he acknowledged that the reasoning  around the partnership issue  given to decline 
the application was valid. But he remained unhappy that Santander hadnt explained this 
before and with the general way in which it had dealt with his application. So, he felt his 
complaint should be upheld and he asked for an ombudsmans decision.
 
The case was passed to me to decide and I issued a provisional decision saying I intended 
to uphold the complaint. I said:
I think Mr Hs complaint, as it stands now, centres on how Santander administered 
his application. Hes unhappy that the banks full reasoning wasnt explained to him, 
and that he didnt receive any notification that his application had been declined. 
I can understand Mr Hs point of view here. And I agree that  if Santander did 
identify that Mr Hs application appeared to be on behalf of a partnership  then it 
wouldve been more helpful to have told him at the time, so he could engage with the 
bank about it.
Thats not to say Mr Hs application wouldve been successful. Indeed, Santander 
has explained that it didnt reach its decision on the partnership issue alone. So, as 
our investigator pointed out, its unlikely that Mr H would be in a different position 
even if the bank had told him about the partnership issue.
 
But, overall, I can see why hes unhappy at how his application was handled. 
Particularly if I keep in mind that Santander didnt ever inform him of its decision. Mr 
H only found out his application had been declined after he chased the bank for an 
update around a month after hed applied. 
I know that, at the time of Mr Hs application, Santander was dealing with the 
significant impact of the pandemic  as well as the unprecedented level of demand 
for borrowing under the government-backed loan schemes. But nonetheless, 
Santander has accepted that it didnt respond to Mr Hs application when it should 
have done. And I can appreciate Mr Hs frustration at having to chase the bank some 
weeks after hed applied  only to find out his application had been assessed and 
declined, without him being given any notification that was the case. 
I think that would have exacerbated the stress of the application, and I think its right 
that Mr H is compensated for this. To that end, I think £150 would be a fair amount of 
compensation for Santander to pay Mr H. So, for the reasons Ive set out above, 
thats what I intend to award in recognition of how Santander dealt with Mr Hs 
Bounce Back Loan application.Santander accepted my findings and Mr H also agreed. Although, he did say that he felt 
further compensation was deserved because he didnt think £150 was enough to reflect the 
stress and anxiety Santander had caused him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Overall, Mr H has accepted my provisional findings. But he has also commented that he 
doesnt think £150 compensation is sufficient. He feels the award should be higher  given 
the stress and anxiety he says Santanders actions caused. 
I think it would be helpful to explain that, when considering appropriate compensation, we 
decide an amount which we believe to be fair and reasonable in the specific circumstances 
of each individual case. And we focus on the overall impact that a financial business had on 
the complainant, rather than on particular awards for things like time spent.
 
In the circumstances of this case, Mr H undoubtedly had to do more than shouldve been 
necessary. He had to chase Santander to find out the status of his Bounce Back Loan 
application, when the bank shouldve contacted him. And the reasoning behind Santanders 
decision wasnt properly explained to him.
 
That said, Santanders actions didnt prevent Mr H from accessing the Bounce Back Loan 
Scheme entirely. He was able to obtain a loan from another provider once Santander 
confirmed his application had been declined. And, from what Ive seen, he didnt incur any 
losses as a direct consequence of the banks actions. So, with that in mind, I think £150 is 
fair compensation to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr H by 
Santanders handling of his Bounce Back Loan application.
My final decision
 
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Santander UK Plc to pay Mr H 
£150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman