DRN-3067238
The complaint
Mr B complains that British Gas Insurance Limited unfairly charged him a £99 excess after 
he made a claim on his home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr B has a British Gas HomeCare policy, covering his central heating. He made a claim for 
two leaking radiators, and an engineer fixed the problem. 
Mr B complained that he was charged a £99 excess for the claim. He says the engineer was 
at his property for 20 minutes and simply tightened three nuts. He says three firms have 
confirmed that the job would have cost £50 at the most.
Mr B says he only needs to pay the £99 excess if the repairs cost more than £99. As such, 
he wants a breakdown of the repair costs. British Gas says the excess is payable for each 
repair it carries out, regardless of the repair cost or the time taken.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt think it should be upheld. He 
thought the £99 excess was the amount Mr B had agreed to pay for each repair, regardless 
of cost. Because Mr B disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Bs upset given the nature of the repair. I also accept a local plumber or 
heating engineer would have likely charged a call out fee of about £50. However, it doesnt 
necessarily follow that British Gas operating costs, per job, are the same as other firms. In 
any event, whats important here is that Mr B made a claim, and British Gas completed a 
repair. In such circumstances, Im satisfied the excess is payable. Ill explain why.
Mr Bs policy agreement says:
-Central Heating Breakdown Cover (£99.00 excess)
-If you have chosen to pay an excess you will need to pay this for each completed 
repair or replacement
The policy terms say:
- Under definitions: excess/fixed fee  the amount youve chosen to pay towards each 
completed repair or replacement.
- Under the heading making repairs: Your statement shows how much excess or 
fixed fee youve agreed to pay each time we complete a repair or replace your 
appliance
In my view, the agreement is clear that the excess is payable for every completed repair, as 
is the statement in the policy terms under the heading making repairs. Ive not seen 
anything in the policy agreement, or in the more in-depth policy terms, that states 
Mr B only needs to pay £99 if the repair costs more than £99.
The policy definition of excess uses the term towards. As such, I accept this definition 
could be interpreted to mean that the policyholder only needs to pay towards the repair 
costs, up to a maximum of their excess amount. So, if the repair cost less than their 
excess, they would just pay this amount.
However, overall, when the information Ive highlighted is considered altogether, I dont find 
the policy documents to be misleading. Im satisfied the terms allow British Gas to charge 
the full excess amount in the event of a repair or replacement, and the documents are 
sufficiently clear about that.
Furthermore, British Gas says Mr B took out the policy online in October 2020 and he opted 
for a £99 excess. Ive seen British Gas website contains statements such as these:
-You can usually choose the amount of excess youd like to pay when you buy your 
cover. Our excess options tend to be £0, £60 and £99.
-Your excess is the amount youll pay for every completed claim. Your HomeCare 
price will depend on the amount of excess youve chosen for your agreement. Put 
simply, the higher the excess, the lower the premium.
-You will need to pay the full excess amount. If you have opted for a £60 excess, 
then you will need to pay £60 for every completed new repair.
-The job was completed quickly, do I still need to pay an excess? Yes, the excess is 
charged for each new claim on the policy and isnt related to the time taken to 
complete the repair.
Whilst I dont know what information Mr B saw online when taking the policy out, Im satisfied 
the above information is clearly signposted on British Gas website, and it makes clear the 
excess is payable for every claim irrespective of the repair or time taken.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B. But for the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under 
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject 
my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman