DRN-3427149
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) declined their travel insurance 
claim.
Any reference to AXA includes its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B have a travel insurance policy alongside their bank current account. AXA is 
the underwriter of the policy.
Mr and Mrs B booked a holiday through a package provider. They were intending to travel 
on 27 September 2020 and return on 4 October 2020. As there was some uncertainty 
surrounding Covid-19 at the time, Mrs B called AXA on 26 September 2020 to get some 
advice on whether to cancel the holiday. They say they were told to cancel their holiday as 
cover was available on the policy. So, Mr and Mrs B didnt go on their holiday but decided to 
cancel it.
They submitted a claim to AXA for their cancelled holiday. AXA assessed the claim and 
declined it. It said the holiday they cancelled had been booked as a package and there was 
therefore no cover available under their policy terms and conditions because the cost of the 
cancelled holiday was recoverable from the package provider. Mr and Mrs B say they had 
been misled by AXA when they contacted it. Had they not been told by AXA they had cover 
for cancellation, they would have either gone ahead on the holiday or accepted a voucher to 
use for a future booking from the package provider.
Unhappy with AXAs response, they brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator 
looked into it. He didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said the holiday that Mr and 
Mrs B had booked was through a package provider. Under their policy theres an exclusion 
which says where a trip was booked as part of a package holiday, there would be no cover 
as the cost would be seen as one which is recoverable through the package provider. And, 
in order for AXA to consider Mr and Mrs Bs claim, they would need to show that theyd 
taken reasonable steps to recover their loss through the package provider in the first 
instance. As Mr and Mrs B havent shown evidence of this, our investigator didnt think AXA 
had declined the claim unfairly or unreasonably. 
Our investigator listened to the call to AXA that Mrs B made on 26 September 2020. He said 
while the advisor said the claim would be covered, she also said Mrs B should contact the 
travel provider first to seek a refund of any cancellation costs. He said there was no promise 
made by the advisor the claim would be definitely paid. As such, he didnt think Mr and Mrs 
B were misled by AXA in that call.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the investigator. They said they called AXA for information 
regarding their policy and were told they would be covered. They felt they were misled which 
made them go ahead and cancel their holiday. The package provider has also said because 
it hadnt cancelled the holiday and it was Mr and Mrs B who cancelled the holiday of their 
own volition, it wouldnt cover the cost of the cancellation either. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
The key issue on this complaint is that AXA declined Mr and Mrs Bs cancellation claim. And 
theyre unhappy that had they not been told they would be able to claim for cancelling their 
holiday during the phone call of 26 September 2020, they would have either gone ahead or 
accepted a voucher from the package provider. 
The policy terms and conditions
Ive started by looking at Mr and Mrs Bs policy terms and conditions as this forms the basis 
of their travel insurance contract with AXA. 
There is no dispute from either party that the holiday Mr and Mrs B booked was through a 
package provider. 
On page 34 and page 35 of the policy document, Section 13 sets out the cover available for 
travel disruption and specifically, what isnt covered or is excluded for costs that are 
recoverable elsewhere:
What is not covered:

Any costs if Your Trip was booked as part of a Package holiday
While I appreciate that there is cover under the policy for cancellation costs, where a holiday 
is booked through a package provider, the insured must first show evidence that they 
attempted to recover the cost from their package holiday provider. The package provider 
would be responsible for providing a refund but, in the circumstances here, theres no 
evidence from Mr and Mrs B to show they did that. I can see theyve since gone back to their 
package provider. But as Mr and Mrs B decided to cancel the holiday themselves, the 
provider has said it isnt required to refund the cost of the cancellation. This is because the 
package provider didnt cancel the holiday. 
Im not persuaded in the circumstances of this complaint that AXA has declined the claim 
unfairly or unreasonably. I say this because Mr and Mrs B were told by AXA to first contact 
their package provider before cancelling the holiday but unfortunately, they werent able to 
do this and decided to cancel their holiday themselves. I cant therefore reasonably ask AXA 
to take responsibility for paying the claim for what happened here. 
The call on 26 September 2020
Ive listened to the call recording provided by AXA dated 26 September 2020 between Mrs B 
and the AXA advisor. Mrs B called to ask AXA if they would be covered for cancelling their 
holiday. While I appreciate the AXA advisor did say there would be cover on the policy, she 
also said Mrs B should contact her holiday provider first to see what it would do if they decided to cancel the holiday. The AXA advisor didnt say Mr and Mrs B would be covered 
no matter what. or that they would be paid definitely if the claim was made. 
I understand and have every sympathy for the circumstances of what happened on this 
complaint. But Im not satisfied that AXA misled them during the call. 
Conclusion
Overall, I dont think AXA declined Mr and Mrs Bs claim unfairly or unreasonably. Im also 
satisfied that AXA didnt mislead them in the call they made on 26 September 2020. Taking 
everything into account, Im not persuaded therefore AXA did anything wrong and it follows 
that I dont think it needs to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint against AXA 
Insurance UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 May 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman