DRN-3780690
The complaint
Mrs D complains about the customer service she received from HSBC UK Bank Plc after 
she asked it to provide proof of her funds. She says that HSBC also breached data 
protection law when it emailed her a document that contained her full account details and 
wasnt password protected.
What happened
In early 2022, Mrs D phoned HSBC and explained that she intended to use funds in her 
account to buy a property abroad. She asked HSBC to provide her with a consent letter to 
verify the legitimacy of the funds, so she could share this with the overseas bank.
HSBC said it would arrange for the letter to be sent to her. However, three months later    
Mrs D still hadnt received what she needed, despite contacting HSBC many times.
 
HSBC paid Mrs D £150 to compensate her for distress and inconvenience. She was told that 
the letter she required would be sent by email and the document would be password 
protected. However, the letter she received wasnt password protected. Mrs D says her initial 
was incorrect and there were grammatical errors. The letter was on a Word document, it 
contained her full account details and the word public was at the bottom of it. 
Mrs D contacted HSBC again and the adviser she spoke to managed to email her the letter 
she required the same day. However, Mrs D was concerned about a breach in data 
protection. So, the adviser told her that her complaint would be looked into.
In response to Mrs Ds complaint, HSBC said there had been no breach and her data was 
safe. It said the document had been sent to her through an encrypted email which would 
ensure the communication would not be intercepted.
Mrs D remained unhappy, so she asked our service to consider her complaint. HSBC then 
offered to pay Mrs D a further £50 but this didnt resolve the matter for her.
 
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ds concerns and recommended HSBC increase its offer of 
compensation by another £50. She thought a total of £250 would be fair compensation for 
the length of time it took to resolve the issue with sending the letter. However, she wasnt 
persuaded that there had been a data breach.
HSBC accepted our investigators recommendation. However, Mrs D disagreed with the 
outcome shed reached. Mrs D remained concerned that all of her bank details were 
included in the letter that could be opened without a password. So, her complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mrs D. But, having done so, Ive reached broadly 
the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain why.
HSBC has acknowledged there were failings in the customer service it provided to Mrs D. 
Its agreed to pay her a total of £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it 
caused her. So, Ive needed to consider if thats enough to put things right.
Mrs D initially called HSBC to ask for the letter she required in mid-January 2022. The 
adviser she spoke to said it would be sent by post to her UK address and that they would 
also request it be emailed to her.
Its unclear why the original letter wasnt received. Mrs D had to call HSBC several more 
times over the next few months before she got what she needed. This was no doubt 
frustrating for Mrs D, particularly when she received a document she was unable to use as it 
wasnt stamped, signed or on headed paper. Mrs D was also concerned about losing the 
property she wanted to buy if the matter wasnt sorted out. 
Mrs D says HSBC breached General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) when it emailed 
her a letter that wasnt password protected.
 
Our service isnt able to decide if theres a breach of GDPR. Thats the role of the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO). We also dont have the power to fine a business 
for a potential breach. But we can award compensation to consumers whove suffered 
financial loss or have been caused distress and inconvenience by the way a financial 
business has handled their data. 
Mrs D says the adviser who sent the email had told her that the document would be 
password protected but it wasnt. When she forwarded the email on to her husband, he was 
able to open the letter. The letter also had the word public at the bottom of it.
Mrs D says the letter contained her full account details and balances. So, I can understand 
her concerns about the security of this information. However, HSBC says the incorrect 
labelling of the email as public was an internal process and didnt impact Mrs Ds personal 
information. It says the document was sent through encrypted email which meant it wouldnt 
be intercepted.
I appreciate Mrs D isnt convinced by HSBCs assurance that her data has been kept safe. 
But I havent seen any evidence to show that it failed to keep her data secure. I understand 
shes concerned about what might have happened if HSBC had sent the letter to the wrong 
email address. However, I havent seen anything to suggest that HSBC sent any emails with 
Mrs Ds personal data to the wrong address. Nor have I seen any evidence to show that   
Mrs D has suffered a financial loss as a result of how HSBC handled her data.
Although Im not persuaded that HSBC failed to keep Mrs Ds data safe, I think she was 
caused some additional worry when she received an email that wasnt password protected 
after she was told it would be. The word public also caused her some concern. So, Ive 
considered this as part of the overall distress and inconvenience Mrs D experienced. 
Mrs D was understandably frustrated that she needed to contact HSBC several times before 
she got the letter she needed. However, HSBC has agreed to pay her £250 to compensate 
for the poor customer service she received, and I think this is reasonable. 
Putting things right
HSBC should pay Mrs D a further £100 for distress and inconvenience. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ds complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to 
put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman