DRN-4179811
The complaint
Mr H has complained that TSB Bank plc did not downgrade his packaged account in 2016,
after hed submitted a mis-sale complaint.
Mr H is also unhappy that he was not told that the packaged account he held had been
withdrawn from sale to new customers.
To resolve his complaint, Mr H would like a refund of his account fees from 2016.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and upheld the complaint in part.
TSB responded and disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred
for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 19 June 2023, explaining why I didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld. Ive included an extract of my provisional decision below, and it forms a 
part of this decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our 
website and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having reviewed 
everything, Im currently minded to reach a different outcome to the one reached by 
the adjudicator. I have explained why below.
Account not downgraded in 2016
Mr H has complained that his account was not downgraded in 2016, after hed 
submitted a mis-sale complaint.
To explain, as the packaged account was sold at a time when TSB was operating 
under a different name, another bank investigated the mis-sale complaint. Neither Mr 
H nor TSB have provided us with a copy of the other banks final response letter from 
2016. However, TSB has said that it wouldve explained how Mr H could downgrade 
his account  which was essentially to arrange an appointment with TSB so that TSB 
could run through the benefits being cancelled and to agree the terms and conditions 
of the new account that he would be changing to.
Looking at Mr Hs testimony, it does seem that he was aware of this, as he said that 
once he received the refund of account fees for his mis-sale complaint, he spoke to 
TSB and TSB said hed need an appointment to downgrade. Mr H said that as he 
was busy he never got round to it, and then a lot happened e.g. he moved house and 
then in 2020 the pandemic occurred.
Overall, from the information that I have seen, it does seem as though Mr H was 
aware of what he needed to do to change his account in 2016. And it seems the 
account was not downgraded after the mis-sale complaint had been resolved, 
essentially because Mr H never got round to doing so. But I cant reasonably hold 
TSB responsible for that.
It is the case that I could only recommend a refund of account fees from 2016, if I 
thought that TSB had done something wrong or acted unfairly. But I cant see that 
TSB did either. On the contrary, it does look like TSB continued to send Mr H bank 
statements and documentation about the packaged account in the intervening years 
since 2016. These wouldve served as reminders to Mr H that he still held the 
account.
So based on what I have seen so far, I cant reasonably say that TSB should refund 
Mr Hs account fees from 2016.
Account withdrawn
When Mr H spoke to TSB in 2022 about downgrading his account, Mr H was 
informed that the packaged account he held had been withdrawn from sale. Mr H 
was unaware of this and says that TSB shouldve written to him at the time this 
happened.
In the circumstances, I cant see why TSB did need to write to him about this. TSB 
had decided to withdraw the account for any new applications. However, existing 
customers were unaffected by this and could still continue to use the account 
benefits. So I dont think TSB was required to inform Mr H about this, given that it had 
no impact on his ability to use the account  and bearing in mind that Mr H was 
already aware since 2016 that he could downgrade his account whenever he wanted 
to.
The only impact the withdrawal of the packaged account had on existing customers 
was that if they chose to downgrade - as Mr H did in 2022  they would then be 
unable to revert back to it later on. But given that Mr H was evidently made aware of 
this when he downgraded in 2022, this shows that TSB did what it was required to 
do, to ensure that Mr H was able to make an informed decision about whether to 
downgrade or not.
Downgrading in 2022
Finally, I can see that the adjudicator upheld this complaint and recommended that 
the account fees for 8 - 16 June 2022 be refunded. The adjudicator said that TSB 
shouldve downgraded the account immediately when Mr H raised his complaint on 8 
June, rather than arrange an appointment for him to do so.
But in the circumstances, I dont think that what TSB did was unreasonable. I say this
because I understand that Mr H could downgrade his account either by completing a 
form online, or alternatively, by attending an appointment in branch.
TSBs contact notes indicate that Mr H was offered the chance to review his account 
on 2 May 2022, but he said he would consider his options first. So it seems that TSB 
had already given Mr H an opportunity to downgrade his account in May 2022, but Mr 
H initially chose not to take TSB up on the offer at the time. And when Mr H called TSB on 8 June 2022, TSB did then arrange an appointment within a reasonable 
period of time for Mr H and he was then able to downgrade his account successfully.
Overall, I think that TSB dealt with the downgrade request in a reasonable manner 
and I cant see that TSB was trying to prevent Mr H from downgrading his account. 
As such, I currently dont think that a refund of account fees is warranted in this 
case.
After issuing the provisional decision Mr H didnt respond. TSB did respond but said that it 
has nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no new information has been provided since my provisional decision, I see no reason to 
reach a different outcome than the one I explained in my provisional decision.
So in summary, I dont uphold this complaint because it seems that the reason why Mr Hs 
account wasnt downgraded in 2016, was because he never got round to it, rather than it 
being the case that TSB had done something wrong or had acted unfairly. 
I also dont think that Mr H needed to be informed that TSB had stopped selling the 
packaged account to new customers, essentially because this change did not have any 
impact on his ability to use the account benefits. And it does appear that TSB made Mr H 
aware that he would be unable to revert back to the packaged account when he downgraded 
his account. So I think Mr H was given enough information to be able to make an informed 
decision about whether to downgrade or not.
Finally, I dont think that TSB acted unfairly when the account was downgraded in 2022. TSB 
had proactively offered Mr H the opportunity to downgrade his account in May 2022, but he 
declined, so that he could think about it first. And TSB did arrange for Mr Hs packaged 
account to be downgraded within a reasonable period of time, when Mr H told TSB on 8 
June 2022 that he wanted to downgrade.  
So overall, I think that TSB dealt with the downgrade request in a reasonable manner, and I 
cant see that TSB prevented Mr H from downgrading his account. As such, I dont think that 
a refund of account fees is warranted in this case.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above and in my provisional decision, Im unable to uphold 
this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman