DRN-3526981
The complaint
Miss H has complained about her insurer, Haven Insurance Company Limited because it 
wont progress her claim without receipt of certain evidence.
What happened
Miss H had a policy with Haven which included cover for a named driver. In December 2020 
the named driver was contacted by the police stating that the car had been involved in 
accident. He told the police he had found his coat and car keys missing from his home, and 
the car gone. Miss H made a claim to Haven for theft. Haven arranged to interview Miss H 
and the named driver. It also wanted to see a copy of the police report. 
Some delays and issues occurred with Haven progressing its request for the police report. 
Eventually, in June 2021 it told Miss H it needed the named driver to sign a form to send to 
the police. Miss H had been unhappy with things to that point and had complained to us. 
Following a view being issued by our investigator, Haven paid Miss H £250 compensation 
for delays. 
But Haven told Miss H it still needed the form to be signed by the named driver. In 
February 2021, Haven issued a final response to Miss H stating it did need the police report 
and whilst it had asked the named driver to provide the required form, if this wasnt received 
it wouldnt progress the claim. Miss H complained to us. She said she felt bullied and 
victimised by Haven. She said it wasnt necessary for it to get the police report as it had her 
and the named drivers statements.
Our investigator felt Haven reasonably needed to see the police report. She didnt think it 
had done anything wrong in that respect. So she didnt uphold the complaint.
Miss H was dissatisfied. She said Haven had only begun asking for the named driver to sign 
the form some six months after the loss. Miss H reiterated that she feels enough information 
had been given to Haven already and that its insistence on obtaining the police report is 
making her feel bullied. She said she is not in contact with the named driver anymore. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that this is a difficult situation for Miss H. I appreciate that she isnt currently in 
contact with the named driver. And that it is important for her that her claim gets progressed. 
However, I think that, on this occasion, Havens refusal to progress the claim without seeing 
the police report is reasonable.
Haven has a duty to investigate claims. Miss H and the named driver were interviewed. But it 
isnt unusual in a theft claim for the insurer to want to see the police report. And that is 
particularly the case where there is seemingly no other way to verify the account given of the 
reported loss. Here the named driver gave his version of events, Miss H wasnt there so 
couldnt add to that, and it seems the theft wasnt otherwise witnessed. I think its 
reasonable, in the circumstances, for Haven to want to see the police report.
I say that even knowing that Miss H is no longer in contact with the named driver. Their 
situation doesnt mean that Haven should overlook or set aside its reasonably necessary 
claim enquiries. Ideally Haven would have thought to ask both Miss H and the named driver 
to sign forms in the early stages of the claim. But the fact it didnt doesnt mean it must now 
forego that enquiry. I dont think Haven is being unfair to Miss H or treating her any 
differently than it would any other policyholder in similar circumstances. Afterall it is Miss H 
that is the policyholder, who has the contractual relationship with Haven. It isnt 
unreasonable for it to ask her to assist it with obtaining the signed form it needs in order to 
be able to progress its reasonable claim enquiries.
Miss H has said she is no longer in contact with the named driver and clearly feels that she 
can no longer influence his actions anyway. But if she wants her claim to progress then she 
may wish to try to contact him in order to try and obtain his signature for Haven to use in its 
enquiries. At the moment Haven hasnt suggested it is thinking of declining the claim. Rather 
it has said it wont progress it if the signed form isnt received. I think thats a reasonable 
response in the circumstances.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Haven Insurance Company 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 July 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman