DRN-3356922
The complaint
Mr L complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim he made 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel 
system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr L is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around August 2017, Mr L was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P 
to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Mr L decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a five year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In August 2020 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr Ls behalf under section 75 of 
the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of representations 
about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that 
had induced Mr L to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the total cost of the system was documented as £6,900 to mislead Mr L, as when the 
interest was added the total cost was actually £8,668;
the system would generate free electricity;
the system would be self-funding; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) would provide enough income to cover the finance agreement 
repayments costs.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr L or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr L and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt accept the adjudicators view, but did not provide any further comments.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr L paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that section 
75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr L could claim against Shawbrook, the 
creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could have 
claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr L and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Bespoke Quote. Ive 
considered these in detail and whether they support the alleged representations made by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mr Ls recollection of the sale.
The CMC continues to question whether the quotation document formed a central part of the 
sales process with P when Mr L agreed to enter into the contract for the system. I have 
carefully considered the points made by the representative along with those made by 
Shawbrook on behalf of P. Having done so, I remain satisfied that the quotation did form a 
central part of the sales process when Mr L agreed to enter into the contract.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, the 
total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
Cost of the system
Im satisfied that the credit agreement provided to Mr L makes it clear that the overall cost of 
the system is £8,668.60. This sets out a clear breakdown of the cash price, the amount of 
credit provided, the total charge for credit and the total amount repayable.
As the quote provided by P is clear that there would be a monthly loan repayment due, as 
set out in the table below, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the credit 
agreement, made it clear that it would cost Mr L more than the cash price as he had decided 
to pay for it with an interest bearing loan.
FIT payments
Mr L has alleged that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P and 
considered whether this supports what Mr L has said.The contract sets out the estimated income Mr L could expect to receive from the system by 
way of FIT payments and electricity savings.
I think this is clear that Mr L could expect to receive a total FIT income in year one of 
£139.41. The contract goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr L could expect from the 
system. The expected year one electricity savings is £400 precisely and, when taking into 
account the optional extras chosen by Mr L, the combined income and savings in year one is 
shown as £625.56. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
Theres a section headed Finance repayments with three tables showing repayments over 
60 months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 60 months as this is 
the length of the loan that Mr L entered into with Shawbrook  but I will also consider the 
table next to it on the same page, for 120 months, in order to demonstrate the obvious 
contrast between them.
The 60 months table shows the loan as repayable in 60 monthly payments of £137.55. (This 
is incorrect; the loan agreement gives the correct monthly figure of £142.81, but the 
difference  £5.26  is too small to affect the following observations.) For each year of the 
five year loan it shows the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that 
figure over 12 months, and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £137.55, to give an 
average difference between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan 
repayment in each year. This gives a negative figure for each year of the loan, which is 
highlighted in red.
In contrast, the 120 months table shows positive figures in each year, highlighted in green. 
I think these tables, and the difference between them, are clear.
So I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr L could expect to receive from the 
system, by way of FIT payments, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Whilst I accept that the 60 months table doesnt simply compare the FIT income 
to the monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income he could 
expect to receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would not be immediately 
sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. Therefore, Im not satisfied that he was told 
that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone.
That section of the quote has been signed by Mr , so Im satisfied that it was brought to his 
attention.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr L that the system would be self-funding.
Ive considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from 
the system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand (notwithstanding the £5.26 
discrepancy in the monthly payments).
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start. 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
However, I do accept that Mr L was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
period of time.
There is a page of the quote entitled What will you earn & save per year? which has a table 
detailing the estimated performance over 25 years. This shows that it would take 6 years for 
the overall benefits that Mr L could expect to receive to overtake the cash price of the 
system, £6,900. (So as not to take up too much space, Ill just show the first ten years.)
I think the 6-year estimated payback time is clear and prominent, since the first five years 
are highlighted in red, and the sixth and subsequent years are shown in green.
The same table shows that by the end of year 7 the overall benefits that Mr L could expect to 
receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement, £8,668.
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr L that the system would pay for its cash 
price within 6 years, and for the loan in about 7 years, as supported by the graph and the 
table above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what 
induced him to enter into the contract, and he subsequently suffered a loss, that could 
amount to a misrepresentation.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr L. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the system is 
expected to produce 3,425 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mr Ls FIT statements and can see that his system, on average, has 
generated 3,417 kWh a year. This is almost exactly the same as was estimated by P at the 
point of sale, so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2015 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Mr L hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr L could have 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr L entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr L to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman