DRN-4047653
The complaint
Mrs T complained about advice she was given to transfer the benefits of a defined-benefit 
(DB) occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a personal pension plan, in 2009. She says the 
advice was unsuitable for her and believes this has caused her a financial loss.
JLT Wealth Management Limited is responsible for answering this complaint. To keep things 
simple Ill refer mainly to JLT.
What happened
At the time, Mrs T was a deferred member of her OPS, having been employed from the mid- 
1990s until 2007 and she had accrued around 12 years worth of benefits. The trustees of 
the DB scheme wrote to members like Mrs T in 2009 explaining that the scheme had 
become expensive to maintain and so it was looking at ways to manage its long-term 
pension commitments. 
The company decided to offer enhanced terms to members who chose to transfer their 
benefits to a personal pension scheme. Members of the DB scheme were also being offered 
regulated financial advice, the cost of which was being met by Mrs Ts former employer. JLT 
was contracted to provide that advice.
Information gathered about Mrs Ts circumstances were broadly as follows:
Mrs T was 45 years old, divorced and with no-one financially dependent on her. She 
was in good health.
Mrs T currently earned around £24,000 per year. She didnt own a property and had 
no savings, investments or significant assets. She had outstanding credit card debt of 
around £12,550.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of the DB pension was around £126,387 
and the normal retirement age (NRA) was 60. A cash enhancement of £20,221 was 
being offered if she transferred away, taking the total amount to £146,608.
Mrs Ts options were to keep the pension where it was and effectively do nothing. 
Alternatively, she could transfer away to a new personal pension arrangement and 
invest both the CETV and the enhancement in the new personal plan. She could also 
transfer away, but only invest the CETV in a personal plan. In this case the 
enhancement would be taken as cash and used by Mrs T as she saw fit.
JLT set out its advice in a suitability letter on 1 December 2009. It advised Mrs T to transfer 
out of her DB scheme and into a personal plan. JLT said this was based upon the 
assumption that she could either invest the full transfer value, including the enhancement. Or 
she could take the enhancement as a cash payment and invest only the remainder amount 
(£126,387) in funds within a personal pension plan. Mrs T agreed that she wanted to transfer 
out and she wanted to use the enhancement to pay down her debts. So, she transferred 
from her DB scheme to a personal pension shortly thereafter. She took the enhancement of 
£20,221 as cash which became subject to income tax and national insurance.
Mrs T first complained to JLT about its advice in September 2021, saying she shouldnt have 
been advised to transfer out of her DB scheme. In response, JLT said it hadnt done 
anything wrong and was acting on the financial objectives Mrs T had at the time. 
Mrs T then referred her case to our Service in March 2022. One of our investigators looked 
into the complaint and said it should be upheld. As JLT hasnt agreed and the complaint 
couldnt be resolved informally, its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the final response from JLT dated September 2021 and also JLTs response 
to our investigators view. Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, 
regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and 
the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, 
what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and 
the wider surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of JLT's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, JLT should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mrs Ts best interests. 
Ive used all the information we have to consider whether transferring away from the DB 
scheme to a personal pension arrangement was in Mrs Ts best interests. 
I dont think it was so Im upholding her complaint.
IntroductionIve noted that when responding to our investigators view, JLT signposted our Service to 
what it says were a number of previous outcomes reached on very similar complaints in 
respect of the same pension scheme. JLT says we didnt uphold these complaints and so 
the implication is that complaints about advice to transfer out of this particular pension 
scheme are ones we usually dont uphold.
However, Ive looked at the four cases JLT refers to and they all have different features 
which include the consumers age, their financial circumstances and their points of 
complaint. Of the four mentioned, only one was ever referred to the ombudsman for a final 
decision. And the previous final decision I made has many notable differences to Mrs Ts 
complaint. 
So, to be clear, JLT is wrong to infer we have an approach to cases like these and Ive 
therefore judged Mrs Ts complaint strictly on its own particular merits, as is appropriate.
Financial viability
JLT referred in its transfer recommendation to critical yield rates. The critical yield is 
essentially the average annual investment return that would be required on the transfer 
value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity benefits as the 
DB scheme. The critical yield is part of a range of different things which help show how likely 
it is that a transferred personal pension fund could achieve the necessary investment growth 
for a transfer-out to become financially viable. 
In its suitability report, the JLT adviser said that the critical yield required to match the 
benefits of the DB scheme she was in at the time, at her NRA of 60, was 5.9%. The critical 
yield if she retired at 55 was 5.5%. Both these figures assumed Mrs T intended to take a tax-
free cash lump sum and a reduced pension when she retired. And they were based on her 
taking the enhancement offer as cash rather than reinvesting it in a new personal pension 
together with the existing CETV.
What JLT didnt set out on the suitability report was the critical yields in relation to retiring 
without taking a tax-free lump sum; these were actually 6.5% and 6.4% respectively (for 
retirement at ages 60 and 55). Mrs T was only 45 at the time, so its not possible to be sure 
what she would have most likely done at retirement as this was still a long way off for her. 
Also, given her financial circumstances, I think a retirement at 55 looked very unlikely.
Ive noted that the critical yields for reinvesting the whole offer  both the CETV and the 
enhancement  in a personal pension, were generally lower. The yields were 4.8% (retiring 
aged 60) and 3.9% (aged 55). But JLTs recommendation was that she transfer away 
whether reinvesting the enhancement offer or not. And in any event, I think the evidence 
shows she was definitely leaning to taking the enhancement as cash, without reinvesting it in 
a pension. 
So, in my view, the first critical yield figure I mentioned above was closest to Mrs Ts 
circumstances  this was 5.9%. Next came the potential for her most likely retiring at 60 and 
taking a full pension  this was 6.5%. There would therefore need to be solid evidence 
showing these types of growth rates could be exceeded for a transfer to be financially viable. 
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case.The relevant discount rate published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period 
was 6.4% per year for 14 years to the NRA (age 60), which is broadly within the critical yield 
bands Ive mentioned above. Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's upper projection rate 
at the time was 9%, the middle projection rate was 7%, and the lower projection rate was 
5%. 
I do accept that all these figures might be difficult to follow. But essentially what they are 
demonstrating is that the discount rate is showing us that, as of December 2009, it was likely 
that Mrs T at best could hope to match the benefits her DB scheme provided her with at age 
60. But exceeding those benefits was less certain. And as such, there wasnt a clear case for 
saying that transferring her DB pension would be worthwhile from a purely financial 
perspective. 
Looking at other indicators, I think the financial case for transferring was even weaker. The 
guidance from the regulator at the time assumed a mid-rate annual growth, of around 7% 
and a low assumed growth rate of 5%. JLT said Mrs Ts attitude to risk (ATR) was 
medium. However, Ive noted Mrs Ts circumstances meant she had no capacity for loss 
because this was her only meaningful pension at that point in her life. While she had other 
pensions, they were not significant in value. She also owned no property and had no 
savings, assets or investments. She also had no investment experience to call upon so I 
think saying she had a medium ATR was stretching credibility here, based as it was on her 
simply answering a few generalised questions on a form. Her reality was obviously quite 
different and I think her actual ATR should have been moderated down because of the 
obvious financial vulnerabilities she faced. Overall, I think a fair assessment of her ATR 
would have been low.
This means, that in all likelihood, the reasonable rate of assumed growth from the regulator 
was also below the critical yield rate because the low assumption of 5% per year should 
have been used. This is below the 5.9% and 6.4% per year growth assumed by the critical 
yields. 
There also would most likely have been charges and fees associated with the recommended 
personal plan which could have acted as a drag on growth, and of course, there was always 
a risk that if Mrs T transferred her funds to a personal pension arrangement, the growth 
could have been even lower. Mrs T didnt face either these costs or risk with her DB pension. 
In any event, Ive seen the adviser also went beyond its own assessment of Mrs Ts ATR by 
recommending that a part of her pension fund be allocated to a money market fund with a 
risk level that was adventurous. This was clearly much higher than I think Mrs T would 
have been comfortable with and I dont think she had the necessary capacity for loss to take 
such a risk with her pension funds.
Overall, I dont think there was sufficient opportunity for Mrs Ts transferred funds to grow 
enough outside her DB scheme to make transferring worthwhile, particularly given her low 
ATR. And in my view, there would be little point in her transferring away from this type of 
guaranteed pension scheme to get lower overall benefits in the longer term.
JLT has asked why we refer to the critical yield rate and not a hurdle rate. However, the 
regulator required firms to consider the critical yield at the time of the advice and as Ive said, 
use of the critical yield is only a part of how Ive assessed Mrs Ts situation. 
Of course, according to JLT, its recommendation that she should transfer out to a personal 
pension was not based on the financial comparisons with her current scheme alone. Rather, 
JLT said Mrs T had different reasons to transfer away, so Ive thought about all the other 
considerations which might have meant a transfer was suitable for her. Ive considered these below.
Other reasons given for the transfer advice
Ive used the documentation from JLT at the time to help list some of the themes the 
recommended transfer-away was based on. Our investigator also highlighted some themes 
when he issued his view. These were:
Transferring away from the DB scheme was going to provide an immediate cash sum 
of £20,221.92 (less income tax and national insurance). Mrs T indicated she wanted 
this because she was experiencing financial challenges and wanted to pay off debts.
Transferring away to a personal pension plan would provide scheme death benefits 
which were more appropriate to her circumstances.
Transferring provided more overall flexibility and personal control over her pension 
fund.
So, as well as being the only way to access the cash enhancement there and then, it seems 
the supporting reasons that JLT recommended the transfer out to a personal pension was 
for the flexibility and control it offered to Mrs T. I have therefore considered all these issues 
in turn.
The cash enhancement
It was recorded on documents from the time that Mrs T faced some difficult circumstances in 
2009. She was divorced and had no significant assets, savings or investments. She didnt 
own a property. Its evident that Mrs T had some debts that she was interested in clearing. 
But Ive seen no evidence to demonstrate Mrs T had fallen behind with her repayment of 
these such that she needed to repay them in full immediately. 
In any event, our investigator quite rightly pointed out that irrevocably transferring away from 
a DB pension scheme wasnt the only way of potentially addressing these issues. For 
example, Mrs T might have been able to seek a type of debt management arrangement and 
she may have been able to borrow money from elsewhere; she herself has said that her 
family was an option. I accept some of these options may have seemed unpalatable in her 
difficult financial situation of the time, but the adviser doesnt seem to have considered  or 
at least recorded  other debt management or lending alternatives.
I think that recommending Mrs T seek debt consolidation advice ought to have been JLTs 
first consideration before recommending Mrs T transfer her pension away from her DB 
scheme.
Death benefits in her pension 
A key theme in the advice JLT gave to Mrs T was that she wasnt currently married and had 
no-one financially dependent on her, so the death related pension benefits associated with 
her existing scheme were of no use to Mrs T.
I do understand the point being made. In addition to spousal benefits, there were likely wider 
child-related benefits whilst children remained within full-time education. For many 
consumers, these things are of great reassurance, and therefore great value, in a pension. I 
accept Mrs T didnt need them at the time. Although Mrs T has told our Service recently that she had a partner theres no indication she 
told the adviser at the time she intended to marry again. Its possible to view this as a failing 
on the advisers part as they didnt elicit such details. But Ive got no evidence Mrs T 
disclosed this at the time; she may have felt this was a personal matter or one which didnt 
relate to her existing financial circumstances. So, I think its likely the adviser didnt know of 
her existing partner in 2009. The absence of a partner was mentioned several times in the 
suitability report. So, I think if the adviser had mis-understood this, then Mrs T would have 
been likely to put them right and correct what was set out in the death benefits section of the 
report.
What JLT told Mrs T is that if she transferred away, then any value in a personal pension 
plan could be passed on, most likely tax-free, to a nominee. This may have sounded good, 
but it needed careful explanation, particularly as Mrs T was still only 45 years old and in 
good health. And whilst the entire value of a pension in a personal scheme could be passed 
on upon death, the whole point of a pension is to pay for ones ongoing retirement. 
Therefore, if Mrs T had lived a long life, its highly likely there would be very little left in the 
personal pension fund to pass on. The amount in a personal scheme was also at risk to 
market volatility and it wasnt index linked so had no built-in protection against inflation.
So, although JLT implied that the death benefits were discussed at the time and the personal 
pension arrangement would better enable the retention of the value of the funds if Mrs T 
died, this isnt strictly the full picture. JLT should not have encouraged Mrs T to prioritise the 
potential for higher death benefits through a personal pension over her security in retirement.
Im also not clear the extent to which life insurance was discussed. However, at 45 years of 
age, a term cover policy may have been a reasonably affordable product if Mrs T really did 
want to leave a legacy for a partner, relative, or anyone else, if she passed away. 
Overall in this case, I dont think different death benefits on their own justified transferring 
from the DB scheme. 
Flexibility, ownership and control
I cant see that Mrs T required flexibility in retirement in the way JLT implied. I think JLT did a 
poor job at identifying what Mrs Ts retirement income requirements might be and there were 
already limited degrees of flexibility still available to her around retiring early in her existing 
scheme. 
In my view, there was no evidence to support that Mrs T needed flexibility at all and the 
concept of flexibility wasnt really defined by the adviser. 
Theres also no evidence showing that Mrs T had either the desire or capacity to manage 
these funds. Mrs T had no such investments at the time and theres nothing to suggest she 
was knowledgeable enough in these pension related matters or that she had any past 
investment experience to call upon.  
I therefore think the issue of flexibility was used to merely help justify the transfer-away 
recommendation. And at around £126,000 in total value, I think Mrs T would have needed 
significant help and advice to manage the scale and complexity of the funds. Given their 
value, this would have come at an ongoing cost which she didnt have with the scheme she 
was already in.
SummaryI do accept the enhancement offer and Mrs Ts financial circumstances meant that her 
situation was a somewhat mixed picture. I also accept JLT provided Mrs T with quite a lot of 
information. 
But ultimately, as per the regulators stance, JLT should have only considered a transfer if it 
could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mrs Ts best interests. I dont think the 
advice given to her was suitable. She was advised to give up a guaranteed, risk-free and 
increasing income. By transferring away from her DB scheme, she was more likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this.  
JLT also cited the death benefits in a personal plan as being better than in Mrs Ts existing 
scheme, particularly as she was divorced and had no financial dependents. However, I 
described above how this wasnt a viable enough reason to recommend the transfer on its 
own.
Similarly, for the reasons of flexibility, control and personal ownership of her pension funds, I 
think the adviser used this as no more than a stock objective. Flexibility wasnt really 
defined and she already had some with her current scheme. More so, Mrs T didnt have the 
capacity or desire to manage her pension funds if she transferred and so listing this as a 
positive rationale for transferring was unreasonable. All the evidence Ive seen shows Mrs T, 
an inexperienced investor, would have needed ongoing and significant support to manage 
her funds. The adviser also recommended a part of her pension fund be transferred and 
allocated to a fund with a risk level that was much higher than I think Mrs T was comfortable 
with. 
On the other hand, Mrs T knew she was being offered an incentive to leave the DB scheme 
and she knew that offer was basically £20,221 in cash (less tax and national insurance). In 
her difficult financial position of the time she thought the best option might be to reduce the 
burden of debt shed been enduring. But JLT wasnt just there to transact what Mrs T 
thought she wanted. After all, it was still being paid to provide advice. And as a regulated 
adviser, its job was to understand her needs and recommend what was in her best interests. 
In the event JLT encouraged Mrs T to accept a short-term gain without fully considering 
workable alternatives that would have been much better for her in the longer term. In my 
view, she now faces a more uncertain retirement as a result. 
Ive considered whether Mrs T would have still gone ahead anyway, against JLTs advice. I 
accept the cash was most likely quite tempting. But Im not persuaded that she would have 
insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, against JLTs advice. I say this because she 
was an inexperienced investor with no capacity for loss. As Ive said, this pension also 
accounted for the vast majority of her retirement provision. So, if JLT had provided her with 
some alternatives to address her outstanding debts, and very clear advice against 
transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in her best interests, I think she 
would have accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think JLT should compensate Mrs T for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mrs T, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mrs T would 
have most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been 
given. JLT must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mrs Ts 
acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, JLT should:
always calculate and offer Mrs T redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mrs T before starting the redress calculation that:
- the redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mrs T receives could be augmented 
rather than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mrs T accepts JLTs offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mrs T for the 
calculation, even if she ultimately decides not to have any of their redress 
augmented, and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mrs Ts end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mrs T as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, JLT may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mrs Ts likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
I have also considered the impact on Mrs T of the unsuitable advice and transfer. Our 
investigator recommended that a sum of £250 should be paid to Mrs T by JLT for what they 
referred to as the inconvenience of bringing this complaint. Whilst I understand this was 
inconvenient, Ive considered the wider circumstances of this case. And as Im directing that things should be put right if there has been a loss, I consider this to be sufficient and fair in 
all the circumstances of the case. I therefore make no additional award for distress and 
inconvenience.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and I direct JLT Wealth 
Management Limited to pay Mrs T the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
JLT Wealth Management Limited pays Mrs T the balance. If Mrs T accepts this decision, the 
money award becomes binding on JLT Wealth Management Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mrs T can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mrs T may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman