DRN-4114292
The complaint
Mr W complains that Metro Bank PLC hasnt refunded just over £3,400s worth of disputed 
transactions on his account.
What happened
Mr W has a current account with Metro Bank with a debit card.
Mr W called Metro Bank on 30 October 2021 to say that he couldnt find his card and hed 
like to cancel it. Having cancelled the card, the member of staff checked to see whether or 
not there were any transactions he didnt recognise and said that there had been several 
transactions that morning. Mr W said he didnt recognise any of the transactions  and that 
the last time hed used the card was when hed bought a drink in a bar. Metro Bank agreed 
to flag the transactions in question as fraudulent and to investigate.
Metro Bank investigated and, having done so, said that it didnt think the transactions were 
fraudulent. For the reason, it said it wouldnt refund them. Mr W complained saying that the 
transactions werent his. Metro Bank didnt uphold his complaint. So he complained to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ws complaint and upheld it. They said that Metro 
Bank hadnt provided evidence to show whether or not there were any balance enquiries 
before, during or after the disputed transactions. Nor had Metro Bank been able to show that 
there were attempts to use the card after it had been blocked. In the circumstances, given 
that Mr Ws evidence showed that his PIN could have been compromised, Metro Bank 
shouldnt have held him liable for the disputed transactions as it had not shown theyd been 
authorised by him. Metro Bank was unhappy with our investigators conclusions saying that 
there was no likely explanation as to how someone else had obtained Mr Ws card and PIN 
and that what had happened in this case wasnt whats typically seen when someone is 
shoulder surfed. So, Ive looked into this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W called Metro Bank on 30 October 2021 to say that he couldnt find his card and that 
hed like to cancel it. The member of staff he spoke to asked him when hed lost the card, 
and he said he didnt know. He said hed to use the card that morning and couldnt find it.
The member of staff cancelled the card and said theyd check to see whether or not there 
were any transactions he didnt recognise. The member of staff said thered been a few 
transactions done today. Mr W sounded surprised when he was told that there had been 
transactions done today. He wanted to know if Metro Bank could stop the payments going 
out of his account and was told that this wasnt possible. In total there were four transactions 
for £3,441. He was, however, told that they could be reported as fraudulent. Metro Bank 
organised that and started to investigate.
In the course of its investigation, Metro Bank spoke to Mr W about what had happened that 
night and what hed told the police. He said hed used his card in a well-known supermarket, 
had a drink in a bar and had then gone home. He said that no-one was with him in the bar 
and that his card was in his pocket. He said he couldnt find his card the following morning 
when he wanted to buy something and that nothing else of his was missing. He still, for 
example, had his wallet, his mobile phone and his driving licence.
The following morning  around ten hours after Mr W had used his card in the bar  Mr Ws 
genuine card and PIN was used to carry out four chip and PIN transactions, including a cash 
withdrawal from an ATM and a high-value transaction in a well-known store. Metro Bank 
says that there were no balance enquiries before those transactions took place and no 
declined transactions but it hasnt been able to supply evidence to corroborate this. Nor has 
Metro Bank been able to supply evidence to show that attempts were made to use the card 
after Mr W called and it was blocked. In the circumstances, I agree with our investigator that 
although youd normally expect someone who had stolen a card having successfully 
shoulder surfed its owner to spend as much on the card as possible in a short space of time 
that Metro Bank hasnt done enough to evidence the fact that Mr W authorised these 
transactions. Metro Bank has to do that in order to hold him liable.
Given what Ive said above, I agree with our investigator that Mr Ws complaint should be 
upheld. Had Metro Bank been able to supply the evidence Ive mentioned above, then it 
would have stronger grounds for saying that its entitled to hold Mr W liable for the 
transactions. It hasnt  and I have to go on the evidence sent.
Putting things right
Metro Bank should refund the disputed transactions to Mr W together with 8% interest from 
the date of the payment to the date of settlement in full and final settlement of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I require Metro Bank PLC to refund the four transactions that Mr W 
disputed  totalling £3,441  together with 8% simple interest from the date of the payment 
to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman