DRN-2045915
The complaint
Mrs H says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with a credit card 
that she took out in 2001 from Barclays Bank UK PLC.
What happened
One of our adjudicators recently re-looked at this case said there wasnt enough evidence to 
uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagreed asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mrs Hs complaint about the mis-sale.
I see Mrs H has used a third-party company to help progress her complaint and it made 
very specific allegations on her behalf about what a Barclays advisor apparently said to her 
at the point of sale. However, Im afraid I dont think this is right, because I see she filled out 
a postal application form as opposed to having a face-to-face meeting. 
So, whilst I dont doubt Mrs H genuinely now feels she was mis-sold the policy, the 
application form gave what appears to me to be an obvious and clear choice to either have, 
or not have, this type cover with her new card. Mrs H ticked the relevant box to add the PPI 
policy and she signed the form too. And I think its clear enough that she consented to the 
policy at the time although I entirely accept she might not remember this 19 years later.
As Ive said, this was a postal application and so I think Mrs H would have made her way 
through the application form without any intervention from Barclays. I also think she would 
have done this in her own time. It wasnt an advised sale and Barclays didnt therefore need 
to make sure the policy was suitable for Mrs H. The decision about buying the cover and 
whether it was right for her was for Mrs H to make. 
I can certainly see some ways in which the postal application form could have been set out 
in a better way, but overall this doesnt change what I think. I say this because the evidence 
does tend to show Mrs H wanted this type of protection. I also think the application leaflet 
would have contained some brief information about the policy. Mrs H was also eligible for the 
cover and not caught by any of the main exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. 
Mrs H said she had three different jobs at the time. But again, I take account that this was all 
a long time ago and the dates where two of the part-time jobs seem to have featured pre-
date her PPI being taken out. 
We do sometimes think that multiple occupations can make credit card PPI inappropriate, so 
we asked for evidence that she had three such jobs at the point of sale. However, no such 
evidence has been submitted and the information for her bank statements does tend to show 
the employment for two of these jobs had ceased prior to the PPI sale, in mid-2001.
Nevertheless, with the one remaining job to assess, I agree Mrs H may have had some 
sickness protection already. But this doesnt necessarily mean the cover wasnt of value to 
her. The PPI would have paid out 10% of her outstanding credit card balance for up to a 
year if shed needed to claim. This would have been in addition to any other means she had 
at that time. 
Overall, I think this policy was of use and thats probably why she agreed to buy it. Im very 
sorry to disappoint Mrs H but Im not upholding her complaint as I think she asked for the 
cover and would have been able to see she had a choice.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman