DRN-3116134
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy with several aspects of the service that he received from National 
Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) surrounding a loan he took to fund the redevelopment of 
his business premises.
What happened
Mr J took a loan from NatWest in 2012 to fund the planned redevelopment of his business 
premises, which involved the demolishment of the existing building followed by the 
construction of a new one. There were delays with the project which ultimately resulted in 
NatWest being unwilling to lend the remaining funds required to complete the works.
In 2013, Mr J raised a complaint with NatWest about how theyd managed his loan facility 
including that NatWest were calculating interest on the full facility amount rather than on the 
amount that Mr J had actually drawn down. This complaint was later referred by Mr J to this 
service, and a response was issued by this service which didnt find in Mr Js favour.
In 2019, Mr J raised a new complaint with NatWest, which while similar in several respects 
to the 2013 complaint also included additional points. NatWest initially felt the subject matter 
of the complaint was the same as the complaint in 2013, and as such didnt feel that the new 
complaint was one which should be investigated. However, when Mr J referred his later 
complaint to this service it was explained to NatWest that it was felt that it included several 
aspects that hadnt been previously addressed by the earlier complaint.
Following this, NatWest reassessed the complaint and maintained that the aspects of the 
complaint surrounding how NatWest had managed how Mr J should repay the loan account 
had already been assessed by the 2013 complaint and so shouldnt be considered further. 
However, NatWest also confirmed that they didnt feel that they had acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in regard to the unresolved aspects of Mr Js complaint, including that theyd 
asked to assess the income and expenditure information of all members of Mr Js household 
and not just Mr J, and that they had refused to provide Mr J with a full copy of a valuation 
report on the property asset undertaken by them.
Mr J wasnt satisfied with NatWests response and confirmed that he would like his complaint 
to be considered by this service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they 
also felt that the aspects of Mr Js complaint surrounding how NatWest had managed the 
payments required on the account had already been investigated by this service during the 
assessment of the earlier 2013 complaint, and that therefore these aspects of Mr Js 
complaint shouldnt be considered again here.
Additionally, our investigator also felt that NatWest hadnt acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Mr J regarding the other aspects of his complaint, and because of this they didnt 
recommend that this complaint be upheld in Mr Js favour.
Mr J wasnt satisfied with the recommendation put forwards by our investigator, and so the 
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In his correspondence with this service, Mr J has provided a number of detailed 
submissions. Id like to thank Mr J for these submissions, and I hope that he doesnt 
consider it a discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here. Instead, Ill focus on 
what I consider to be the key aspects of this complaint - in line with this services role as an 
informal dispute resolution service.
As such, if Mr J feels that I havent directly addressed a particular aspect of his complaint, it 
shouldnt be taken from this that I havent read and considered that aspect of his complaint, 
and I can confirm that Ive read and considered all submissions provided by both Mr J and 
NatWest. Instead, it should be taken that I have read and considered that aspect of Mr Js 
complaint, but that I dont feel it necessary to address that specific point directly, in order to 
arrive at what I consider to be a fair and reasonable outcome here.
The Financial Ombudsman Service isnt free to consider every complaint thats brought to 
us. The rules that were governed by set out the complaints we can and cant look at. 
Theyre called the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules and can be found in the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys (FCA) handbook.
Of particular relevance here is DISP 3.3.4A(5) which explains that an ombudsman may 
dismiss a complaint referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service without considering the 
merits of that complaint, if the ombudsman considers that dealing with such a type of 
complaint would seriously impair the effective operation of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. The DISP rules provide examples of when this rule may apply, and these examples 
include where the subject matter of a complaint has already been previously investigated by 
the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
In this instance, its clear to me that several aspects of this complaint have been previously 
investigated by this service when Mr J referred his earlier complaint to us in 2013. 
Specifically, I feel that all aspects of this complaint that relate to how NatWest managed the 
repayments that they were requesting from Mr J and how NatWest declined to provide 
continuing finance to Mr J have already been investigated and addressed by this service in 
our response to the earlier complaint, and as such I dont feel that it would fair or reasonable 
to reconsider those aspects of this complaint here. 
The DISP rules do allow this service to reconsider previously investigated complaints where 
the complainant has brought forwards material new evidence that the ombudsman considers 
is likely to affect the outcome of the complaint. But I dont feel that Mr J has brought forwards 
such material new evidence in this instance, and so my decision here will be that this service 
cannot consider the aspects of Mr Js complaint that relate either to how NatWest managed 
the level of repayments due on the loan account or how NatWest declined to provide 
continuing finance on the loan account, and I will not refer to these complaint points further.
I must also note that Mr J has made several references to NatWest not adhering to banking 
regulations. I can appreciate Mr Js strength of feeling here, but this service isnt a regulatory 
body or a court of law, and so it isnt within the remit of this service to decide on whether a 
business has adhered to industry regulations or not. Such matters would be better suited for 
referral to either a court of law or to a relevant regulatory body, such as the FCA. One of the aspects of Mr Js complaint I can consider here is whether it was fair and 
reasonable for NatWest, when seeking to assess Mr Js ongoing financial position, to have 
asked Mr J to provide details of the income and expenditure of his wife and son who lived 
with him in the household but whom had no official involvement with the loan account.
NatWest have explained that the reason they asked for this information was because they 
wanted to get a more detailed understand of Mr Js financial position, which given that Mr J 
lived with his wife and son, would include whether his wife and son made any contributions 
to the household expenditure declared by Mr J.
This seems reasonable to me, especially given the concerns that NatWest had with Mr Js 
ability to repay the loan facility at that time, and as such I dont feel that it was unfair for 
NatWest to seek to obtain clarification on how Mr Js household shared the responsibilities of 
household expenditure at that time.
Mr J is also unhappy that NatWest wont acknowledge that his account was transferred to 
NatWests Global Restructuring Group (GRG) following the transfer of his account to the 
Specialist Relationship Management department (SRM). However, NatWest have 
confirmed that is isnt necessarily the case that an account that is transferred to the SRM is 
subsequently transferred to the GRG, and Im satisfied from the information that NatWest 
have provided to this service that Mr Js account wasnt transferred to the GRG as he 
believes.
Finally, Mr J is unhappy that NatWest wouldnt provide him with a full copy of a valuation 
they commissioned on the property asset. NatWest have confirmed that this valuation was 
undertaken for their own internal decision making processes as such they werent obliged to 
share a copy of the full report with Mr J  although they did provide Mr J with a summary of 
the valuation amount. 
I can appreciate Mr Js frustrations at not being given a copy of the full report, especially as 
he disagreed with the valuation amount. But once again, NatWests position here seems 
reasonable to me, and I note that if Mr J disagreed with the valuation amount, he was free to 
commission a valuation of the site himself.
All of which means that, in regard to the aspects of Mr Js complaint that this service can 
consider, I find it difficult to conclude that NatWest have acted unreasonably or unfairly here, 
and it follows from this that my final decision here will be that I wont be upholding this 
complaint or instructing NatWest to take any further action at this time.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr J was wanting here, but I hope that hell 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman