DRN-3933489
The complaint
Mr F complains that Telefonica UK Limited trading as O2 unfairly asks him to repay the cost
of goods he says he didnt receive.
What happened
In April 2021 Mr F attempted to purchase an electronic device with O2, to be funded by a 
fixed sum loan. It seems that there was some confusion about whether the application had 
been successful, but Mr F says he was subsequently told his application had been 
declined.
Concerned about issues regarding his creditworthiness, Mr F applied to purchase two 
more devices, again to be funded by fixed some loans. Mr F says he was under the 
impression that at least one of those applications had been unsuccessful. Mr F says that 
despite this a courier attempted to deliver two devices to him, one on 19 April 2021 and 
one on 20 April 2021. Mr F says he refused to take delivery on both occasions.
O2 subsequently asked Mr F to repay the lending it had provided for those devices. Mr F 
said he shouldnt need to repay those sums because he wasnt provided with the goods. 
He raised a complaint about the matter with O2.
O2 said its record showed Mr F had applied online to finance the purchase of electronic 
devices on 8 and 19 April 2021 and they were delivered on 20 and 21 April 2021. O2 said 
it had been given pictures of the devices being delivered at Mr Fs home address so it said 
Mr F might want to raise the issue with the courier. It said it would hold Mr F responsible 
for the lending.
Mr F didnt think that was fair, so he referred his complaint to this service. He said, in 
summary, there was a delay in O2 telling him that his initial application had been 
unsuccessful, that he was told his first and third application had not been successful, and 
whilst there was a photograph of the attempted delivery of two devices, he refused both 
and no signatures were taken as proof of him having accepted the deliveries.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They said that theyd seen evidence that Mr F 
had applied for funding for three devices on 2, 8 and 19 April 2021. They accepted there 
had been a delay in O2 telling Mr F his first application had been unsuccessful, but noted 
that another Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) service had investigated the matter and 
awarded compensation for that.
They found that the subsequent two applications Mr F had made were successful. They 
noted that the courier used by O2 said that pictures of deliveries would only be taken if the 
deliveries were made successfully. They werent persuaded, on balance, that O2 had done 
anything wrong by requiring Mr F to repay the lending in light of the evidence that O2 had 
been provided to show that the goods had been delivered successfully.
Mr F disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to make a decision on the case. He also said 
that O2 continued to write to him about the agreements and that constituted harassment.
The case was passed to me and I issued a provisional decision on it. In summary, I said;
The agreements which O2 has asked Mr F to repay are fixed sum loans. Theyre regulated 
agreements and ones which this service has the power to consider complaints about. Im 
able to decide whether O2 has acted fairly in seeking to recover the lending it provided to 
Mr F in light of what he says happened.
Mr F might have been provided with unregulated service agreements for airtime at the 
point he applied for funding for the devices. Those products dont fall under this services 
jurisdiction, so I cannot find on matters arising from their provision.
From what Mr F has said I think its clear that he accepts he made three separate 
applications for funding to procure electronic devices. Although, theres some debate about 
the order in which they were placed and whether or not Mr F were told his applications had 
been successful.
Like our investigator, Im satisfied that one of the applications was declined and two were 
successful. I accept that O2 delayed in telling Mr F about the unsuccessful application.
However, that matter has already been addressed by another ADR and Mr F was awarded
£30 compensation for poor service. I dont find it necessary to make any further award in 
respect of this.
Mr F accepts that following his application, a courier attempted to deliver two electronic 
devices to him on different dates. He says he rejected both parcels and returned them to 
the courier, after a picture had been taken of the parcels at his property. Conversely, the 
courier says that it wouldnt have taken any pictures if the delivery had been refused. Its 
also said that it had followed its usual process during the pandemic by not asking for a 
signature to confirm successful delivery.
Our investigator noted that because of the time which has now passed, detailed tracking 
information isnt available. However, we have been provided with delivery notes. These 
show the dates and times of the deliveries, as well as the names of the people who had 
accepted the parcels.
The names provided were Mr Fs and another. Before issuing my provisional decision, I 
asked Mr F to account for how it seems the courier had obtained the name of someone else 
accepting a parcel at his address. I suggested it wasnt consistent with his version of events 
 that he rejected both deliveries. Mr F said he can only assume that someone else provided
their name, checked the parcel and then rejected it.
Overall, like our investigator I find that the evidence weve been presented points towards 
the parcels being successfully delivered to Mr F. Particularly because Mr F accepts the
parcels were photographed at his property and because weve been given accompanying
details about who accepted them and when. Im not persuaded otherwise by what Mr F has
said.
In light of that, it follows that I think O2 has acted fairly by holding Mr F responsible for the
lending it provided to finance the purchases. I also dont find that it has done anything wrong
in attempting to correspond with Mr F about the outstanding lending.
O2 didnt respond. Mr F said that the courier shouldve done its own investigation but had failed to. He also questioned the reliability of what had been said about the couriers usual 
processes and maintained that there was no evidence of signing to accept any parcels. Mr F 
said that O2 ought to have stopped asking him for repayment whilst the issue was in dispute 
as it is not allowed to do this and can be considered harassment.
The case has been passed back to me to make my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision Mr F raised concerns about whether the courier 
involved has investigated matters sufficiently. However, this complaint is about whether or 
not O2 has handled the matter fairly. Ive seen that it liaised with the courier about what 
happened and was given what I consider to be an unambiguous answer  that the devices 
were delivered successfully. It was also supplied with notes regarding the delivery as well as 
pictures to support them. Im satisfied that O2 made reasonable enquiries with the courier it 
used.
Mr F has questioned the veracity of the evidence weve been provided, particularly regarding 
the couriers usual process when the parcels were sent to him. However, Ive not been given 
reason to doubt whats been said.
Overall, I remain of the view that the evidence which O2 has presented regarding the 
delivery of the devices Mr F ordered to be persuasive. So, I find it more likely than not that 
the devices in question were successfully delivered to Mr F. Mr Fs version of events has not 
persuaded me otherwise. It follows that I remain of the opinion that O2 has acted reasonably 
by asking Mr F to repay the lending it provided to finance the purchase of those devices.
Lastly, I remain of the view that it is reasonable for O2 to contact Mr F about the outstanding 
lending. I dont think there was any obligation for O2 not to have done this, even taking into 
account Mr Fs dispute. I dont think that O2 harassed Mr F.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman