DRN-3440614
The complaint
Mr M complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC treated him in branch.
What happened
Mr M says he went to a Barclays branch to open a new account in around October 2021, but 
its staff wouldnt accept his documents. He says he was the victim of racism and that during 
the meeting the door was kept open when people could have heard the conversation. Mr M 
says he asked to speak to a manager but was told he could not, and the manager was busy. 
He accepts swearing but says that was due to his anger about what had taken place. Mr M 
says he was later told his documents were acceptable.
Barclays says it didnt discriminate against Mr M and says it will not accept any swearing at 
its staff. It says its manager did confirm the documents were acceptable but says by that 
stage Mr M had already sworn. Barclays says it offered to make an appointment for Mr M at 
a different branch and says its staff member needed to check the documents Mr M provided.
Mr M brought his complaint to us and explained it would be for a court to decide if the 
Equality Act 2010 had been breached. The investigator didnt think that Mr M had been 
discriminated against and thought Barclays was entitled to refuse to open the account when 
Mr M swore at its staff member. The investigator thought Barclays staff member was entitled 
to check if it could accept Mr Ms documents.
Mr M doesnt accept that view and says another bank accepted the documents he provided 
to Barclays.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr M will be disappointed by my decision.
The investigator has explained that it would be for a court to decide if the Equality Act 2010 
had been breached. I have looked carefully at this complaint and dont think Mr M was 
discriminated against. Im satisfied that Barclays was entitled to check if it could accept the 
document Mr M provided it with when opening the account. I dont think it matters that 
another bank did accept the document and think it likely that Barclays would have also 
accepted the document were it not for the swearing by Mr M.
I appreciate Mr M may well have been frustrated that Barclays wished to check the 
document he provided but I cant see that justifies Mr M swearing at its staff member. I can 
see Mr M accepts he did swear and was angry, but I dont think checking a document was 
unreasonable or ought to have resulted in such behaviour.
I also appreciate that Mr M wished to speak to a manager. I am sure Mr M appreciates that 
on occasions a manager may not be available or that there may be a delay in speaking to 
one. Im satisfied that Mr Ms complaint was dealt with by a manager who approved the 
document Mr M provided. But by that stage I think Barclays was reasonably entitled to 
consider the swearing and decide that it would no longer continue with Mr Ms application. I 
can see that Barclays fairly agreed to make Mr M an appointment at a different branch but 
that it was Mr Ms choice not to do so.
I can see Mr M says the door of the meeting room was kept open. I dont think Mr M 
mentioned that whilst the meeting was ongoing which he ought to have done if he was 
concerned about privacy. I think it likely that Barclays would have been aware of the 
pandemic issues in these circumstances which would require it to balance staff and 
customer protection against possible privacy issues. I have not seen any evidence that any 
conversations were overheard in any event.
Overall, Im satisfied Barclays was entitled to decide it would no longer proceed with Mr Ms 
account application in these circumstances. It follows that I cant fairly order Barclays do 
anything further in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman