DRN-3131931
The complaint
Mr M complains that Vanquis Bank Limited lent irresponsibly when it approved his credit 
card application. 
What happened
In March 2020 Mr M applied for a credit card with Vanquis. In his application, Mr M told 
Vanquis he earned £18,000 a year. Vanquis completed a credit search and went on to 
approve a credit card with a £250 credit limit. 
Mr M withdrew £240 in cash and Vanquis applied cash handling fees as well as interest. Mr 
M hasnt made any payments to the credit card and has explained he fell into financial 
difficulties. 
Representatives acting for Mr M complained that Vanquis had lent irresponsibly when it 
approved his credit card. Vanquis didnt agree and said it had carried out reasonable checks 
before approving the application. An investigator at this service looked at Mr Ms complaint 
but didnt agree Vanquis had lent irresponsibly. 
Mr Ms representatives asked to appeal and pointed to defaults it says were showing on his 
credit file at the time his application was made. As a result, Mr Ms case has been passed to 
me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before deciding to lend, Vanquis was required to carry out reasonable and proportionate 
checks to ensure Mr M could afford to repay his borrowing in a sustainable way. Theres no 
set list of checks a lender has to complete before approving an application. Checks should 
be proportionate to the type of credit and amount lent. The checks should be consumer 
focused. Whilst the rules say businesses have to complete proportionate checks, they dont 
say lenders must verify all the information an applicant provides. 
Ive considered the type of credit Mr M applied for as well as the amount Vanquis approved. 
In this case, Mr M told Vanquis he earned £18,000. I understand Mr Ms representatives say 
he earned less at the point of application, but I dont think it was unreasonable for Vanquis to 
accept that level of income as genuine. Mr M also declared living expenses of £360 a month 
and I can see Vanquis took that into account as well. 
Vanquis also completed a credit search. When Vanquis first checked Mr Ms credit file it 
didnt find any adverse information at all. I appreciate Mr Ms representatives have provided 
a screen shot to show he had two defaults recorded on his credit file at the time. But that 
information wasnt found by Vanquis when it looked at Mr Ms application. I also note that 
whilst the representatives have provided mobile phone screen shots showing accounts in 
default, theres no way to show who the defaults relate to. I note our investigator asked for a 
full copy of Mr Ms credit file but none was provided. 
Im satisfied the information Ive seen shows Vanquis wasnt aware of the defaults when it 
assessed Mr Ms application. 
Vanquis approved a credit limit of £250. Taking everything Ive seen into account, Im 
satisfied it did complete proportionate checks as part of the application process. Whilst I 
understand Mr M wasnt able to maintain payments, Im satisfied Vanquis decision to 
proceed based on the information it had available was reasonable. I havent been persuaded 
that Vanquis lent irresponsibly in this case. As Im satisfied Vanquis dealt with Mr Ms 
complaint fairly, Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman