complaint  
Mrs W complains that Bank of Scotland Plc mis - sold her a payment protection insurance  
(PPI) policy.  
background  
This complaint is about the sale of a PPI policy. The policy was sold to Mrs W in January  
2009 and provided cover for unemployment.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me.  
my findings  
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and  
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and  
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ws case.  
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain why.  
Mrs W says the PPI was sold to her during a telephone call. Bank of Scotland on the other  
hand says the sale took place during a meeting. In support of what its said, Bank of  
Scotland has provided us with some screenshots from its internal s ystem which sets out  
some of the information it holds about the sale. Bank of Scotland says these screenshots  
show that the sale took place in a branch.  
Having reviewed these screenshots, Im satisfied that its more likely the sale took place  
during a me eting, while Mrs W was in a branch.  
Mrs W says she was told she had to take out the PPI. Bank of Scotland says Mrs W would  
have been given a choice about the PPI. So, Ive thought about what Mrs W has said in light  
of the additional information provided b y Bank of Scotland.  
Looking at the information provided, I can see Mrs W took out the PPI to cover mortgage  
repayments on a mortgage she had with another lender. I can also see that the  
documentation sent to Mrs W following the sale referred to the PPI as  optional mortgage  
repayments cover. Taking everything into account, including the fact that Mrs W didnt have  
a mortgage with Bank of Scotland, I think its more likely that Mrs W would have understood  
that the PPI wasnt something she had to have. And I think its more likely that she agreed to  
it, knowing she had a choice.  
DRN-1010973Bank of Scotland says it recommended the PPI to Mrs W, and the policy seems to have  
been right for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. She was eligible  
for cover and I cant see that she would have been affected by any of things the policy didnt  
cover.  
Mrs W has told us that she would have received six months full pay followed by six months  
half pay from her employer if she was too unwell to work. Shes also told us she had some  
savings which she could have used to help cover her mortgage repayments.  
Having thought about what Mrs W has said about her sick pay, I dont think this makes a  
difference to the outcome of this complaint. I say this becaus e the PPI covered Mrs W for  
unemployment, so I dont think any sick pay Mrs W says she had would have been  
something Bank of Scotland would have had to take into account when recommending the  
unemployment cover to Mrs W.  
Ive also thought about what Mrs W  has said about her savings. Again, I dont think this  
would have meant that Bank of Scotland were wrong to recommend that she take out the  
PPI. The PPI would have paid a benefit if Mrs W was ever made redundant and would have  
enabled her to use her saving s for any other financial commitments she may have had at  
what could be a difficult time.  
In addition to making sure the policy was suitable for Mrs W, Bank of Scotland also had to  
give her clear enough information about the PPI. I think its possible tha t 
Bank of Scotland didnt give her all the information it should have. But, even if the 
information wasnt as clear as it should have been, for the reasons Ive already explained, I 
dont think better information about the PPI would have stopped Mrs W buyi ng it.  
Based on what Ive said above, I dont think the PPI was mis -sold.  
my final decision  
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or  
reject my decision before 22 October 2019.  
Margaux Stride -Noble  
Ombudsman  