DRN-4471586
The complaint
Miss C complains that Cowen Insurance Company Limited declined her claim against her 
travel insurance policy.   
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, in February 2023, Miss C bought a single trip travel insurance 
policy underwritten by Cowen. The policy was for a trip with departure and return dates 
of 11 March 2023 and 17 March 2023 respectively. When Miss C arrived at the airport 
for her return flight, she was faced with long queues due to an unannounced strike by 
border control. She missed her flight. Miss C arranged an alternative return flight for the 
following day, arriving at a different airport than her planned return flight. She incurred 
additional travel, accommodation and other expenses. 
Miss C made a claim against her policy. Cowen declined her claim. It said that what 
happened here isnt covered by the policy. Miss C didnt think that was fair. She said that 
the fact that the policy doesnt include cover for missed departure wasnt brought to her 
attention at the point of sale. She wants Cowen to settle her claim and to highlight in 
future sales that the policy doesnt include cover for missed departure. 
 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt recommend that the 
complaint be upheld. The investigator said that Miss Cs policy didnt cover missed 
departure and Cowen didnt act unfairly in declining the claim. She said that it was clear 
that the policy didnt cover missed departure, as it isnt included in the summary of cover. 
The investigator said that delays at security arent covered in most travel insurance 
policies, and she didnt think that Miss C would have found a policy that covered what 
happened here in any event. 
Miss C didnt agree with the investigator. She said that in previous decisions from this 
service we said that wed expect insurers to make clear that theres no cover for missed 
departure. Miss C said that the policy says several times that all its clauses cover strike 
action, so she thought that she had cover for strike action which led to additional cost or 
restricted her travel. She doesnt accept that she wouldnt have been covered for what 
happened here by another policy. 
The investigator considered what Miss C said but didnt change her view. She said that 
missed departure cover usually covers circumstances where the insured doesnt make it 
to the departure point in time to go on the trip because of mechanical breakdown or 
failure of public transport, heavy traffic or road closures or the insureds vehicle breaking 
down or being involved in an accident. The investigator maintained that the policy 
summary and terms were clear. 
The investigator said that Miss C wouldnt have been able to buy a policy to cover what 
happened here as the flight she missed was her homebound flight, not her outbound 
flight, her missed flight was caused by long delays at airport security due to an 
unannounced strike and shed reached her departure point on time for her flight. So, 
Miss C wasnt prejudiced by Cowen not highlighting that her policy didnt cover missed 
departure. 
Miss C asked that an ombudsman consider her complaint, so it was passed to me to 
decide. 
   
My provisional decision
On 27 October 2023, I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case. I said that I 
didnt intend to uphold the complaint but for different reasons than had been set out 
before. I said:
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Cowan has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I dont intend to  
uphold Miss Cs complaint and Ill explain why:    
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. In general terms, insurers can decide what risks 
they wish to cover. But most travel policies cover missed departure for outward and 
return flights and the absence of such cover is unusual. Wed expect Cowan to 
make it clear that Miss Cs policy doesnt have cover for missed departure. 
Ive looked at the information Cowan made available to Miss C in this case. I dont 
think that the documentation makes it sufficiently clear to Miss C that the policy 
doesnt cover missed departure. The absence of Missed departure in the 
summary of cover on Miss Cs certificate of cover isnt sufficient to draw Miss Cs 
attention to this unusual limitation. I dont think that Miss C is required to look 
through the policy wording to figure out - by noting its absence - that there was no 
cover for something thats standard in most policies. So, I dont think that the fact 
that Miss Cs policy didnt have missed departure cover was brought to her 
attention at the point of sale. 
Thats not the end of the matter, as Ive gone on to consider what would have 
happened if Miss C had been made aware of the true position. Miss C says that 
she would have obtained missed departure cover elsewhere. But Im not aware of 
a travel insurance policy that would cover what happened here - a claim for missed 
departure caused by delays at security at an airport as a result of strike action. 
Missed departure cover generally covers circumstances where an insured doesnt 
make it to the point of departure  an airport in this case  in time for a planned 
departure for a limited set of reasons. The reasons are usually failure of public 
transport, heavy traffic or road closures or the insureds vehicle breaking down or 
being involved in an accident. Thats not what happened here. Miss C made it to 
the airport in time for her planned departure but wasnt able to board the flight for 
reasons that wouldnt be covered by missed departure cover. 
Miss C says that her policy says several times that all its clauses cover strike 
action, so she thought that she had cover for strike action. I dont agree that the 
policy says that all its clauses cover strike action. I can see that theres cover in 
certain circumstances for delayed departure due to strike or industrial action. 
Theres also cover for flight reimbursement after abandonment of a trip following 
cancellation or delay in the departure of an outward flight due to strike or industrial action. But it remains the case that missed departure cover wouldnt cover what 
happened here. 
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think that Cowens failure to make it clear 
that Miss Cs policy didnt have cover for missed departure caused her loss in this 
case.
 
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss C accepted my provisional decision. Cowen responded to say that it will take my 
findings into consideration in its next policy wording review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Miss C nor Cowen has provided any fresh information or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. I therefore find no basis on which to depart from my earlier conclusions. 
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think that Cowens failure to make it clear that       
Miss Cs policy didnt have cover for missed departure caused her loss in this case. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 December 2023. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman