DRN-3624689
Complaint
Mr T has complained that Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) provided him with unaffordable loans. 
He says L2G failed to check his financial circumstances and if it had done it would have 
seen that he couldnt repay these loans.  
Background
L2G provided Mr T with two loans for £500 and £972.11 in October 2017 and June 2018. 
The remaining balance on loan 1 was repaid with some of the proceeds from loan 2. Both 
loans had APRs of 1,2435 and were due to be repaid in 78 weekly instalments. 
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that L2G didnt act unfairly 
when providing loan 1 but it shouldnt have provided loan. Mr T didnt disagree with our 
adjudicator but L2G did on loan 2. So the case was passed forward for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. 
As the parties are no longer in dispute about loan 1, this decision is only looking whether 
L2G acted fairly and reasonably when providing loan 2 to Mr T.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Mr Ts complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Ts complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr T 
would be able to repay loan 2 without experiencing significant adverse 
consequences?
o If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
o If not, would those checks have shown that Mr T wouldve been able to do 
so?
2. Did L2G act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr T would be 
able to repay loan 2 without experiencing significant adverse consequences?
L2G provided loan 2 while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required L2G to carry out a reasonable 
and proportionate assessment of Mr Ts ability to make the repayments under this 
agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so L2G had to think about whether repaying the 
loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mr T. In practice this meant that L2G 
had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr T undue difficulty or 
adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for L2G to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr T. Checks also had 
to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were L2Gs checks reasonable and proportionate?
L2G says that it carried out an income and expenditure assessment with Mr T prior to 
providing him with all of his loans. It also carried out credit checks. L2Gs checks suggested   
Mr T had more than enough to cover the payments to these loans. 
Ive carefully considered what L2G has said. But for loan 2 Mr T was looking to borrow, on 
such disadvantageous terms, for the second time in matter of months. And it is also clear 
that L2G wasnt persuaded by the income and expenditure information it received from Mr T either. I also think that that the credit search carried out on Mr T showed that his position had 
worsened since loan 1 too.
So I think that L2G should have been concerned at why Mr T wanted or needed further 
funds on such disadvantageous terms so quickly and in circumstances where his 
indebtedness was increasing. And I think its reasonable and proportionate to have expected 
L2G to have taken additional steps to verify the information it received. In these 
circumstances, I think that L2G needed to take additional steps to confirm Mr Ts actual 
monthly expenditure. 
As I cant see that this L2G did do this, I dont think that the checks it carried out before 
providing Mr T with loan 2 were reasonable and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to L2G that Mr T would have 
been unable to repay loan 2?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before loan was provided, I 
cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely 
than not that proportionate checks would have told L2G that Mr T would have been unable to 
sustainably repay his loan.
L2G was required to establish whether Mr T could make his loan repayments without 
experiencing significant adverse consequences  not just whether the loan payments were 
technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ive carefully considered the information provided. Having done so, its clear that Mr T was 
struggling to manage his finances. Most of his income was being taken up by his existing 
living costs and repayments to his existing commitments. 
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would
more likely than not have demonstrated that Mr T would not have been able to make the
repayments to loan 2 without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty. And, in 
these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than 
not have alerted L2G to the fact that Mr T was in no sort of position to make the payments 
on this loan without suffering significant adverse consequences.
Did L2G act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr T in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. And having done so, Ive not seen anything 
to suggest that L2G acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr T in some other way. So I 
dont think L2G acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr T in some other way.
Did Mr T lose out as a result of L2G unfairly providing him with loan 2?
As Mr T paid a high amount of interest and charges on a loan that he shouldnt have been 
provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of what L2G did wrong.
So I think that L2G needs to put things right.
Fair compensation  what L2G needs to do to put things right for Mr T
Having thought about everything, L2G should put things right for Mr T by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan 2 from the outset. The 
payments Mr T made, whether to L2G or any third-party debt purchaser, should be deducted from the new starting balance  the £972.11 originally lent. If Mr T has 
already repaid more than £972.11 then L2G should treat any extra as overpayments. 
And any overpayments should be refunded to Mr T;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Mr T to the date of settlement
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, all adverse 
information L2G recorded about this loan should be removed from Mr Ts credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give    
Mr T a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
L2G sold the outstanding balance on this account to a third-party debt purchaser. So it will 
need to either buy the account back from the third-party concerned and make the necessary 
adjustments, pay an amount to the third party in order for it to make the necessary 
adjustments, or pay Mr T an amount to ensure that it fully complies with this direction.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ts complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited needs to 
put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman