DRN-3843030
The complaint
Ms P complains that ReAssure Limited delayed in transferring her pension to another 
provider. She also feels its given her unclear information about the transfer value and 
whether all of her contributions had been taken into account.  
What happened
Ms P was a member of a group personal pension. The policy had been subject to a premium 
holiday. In early 2020, Ms P asked ReAssure if she could reinstate payments. She then 
started making payments of £200 a month from around February 2020. By May 2021 the 
value of the plan was £11,298.01. Ms P made a further pension contribution of £200 on 1 
June 2021. 
ReAssure was asked to transfer Ms Ps pension to a new provider on 9 June 2021. In a 
letter to the new provider dated 15 June 2021, ReAssure confirmed that the value of the fund 
was £10,937.41. 
There was a delay in ReAssure transferring Ms Ps pension to the new provider, so she 
complained. In its response ReAssure said that since Ms P reinstated the policy around 
February 2020 there had been issues in automatically allocating premiums to it. In turn, it 
said this caused a delay when dealing with Ms Ps transfer request. ReAssure 
acknowledged that the transfer request should have been dealt with within its normal service 
standard of ten working days. So, it said that once it had transferred the fund to the new 
provider it would work out whether Ms P had suffered a financial loss. It also paid Ms P 
compensation of £175 in respect of the inconvenience shed suffered as a result of its 
delays. As there were then further delays, ReAssure paid Ms P another £75 compensation. 
According to information that ReAssure provided, the pension transfer was eventually 
completed with effect from 9 November 2021. It seems that the amount transferred to the 
new provider was £11,305.52. 
Ms P complained to our Service and, amongst other things, she said she was still unclear 
how ReAssure had arrived at the transfer value for her pension fund. As, even allowing for 
market fluctuations, she expected the fund value to increase by more than about £7 between 
the valuation she was given in May 2021 and what was eventually transferred, bearing in 
mind that shed made another payment of £200 in the meantime. She said she also wanted 
proof that all of her payments had been included in the transfer value and reassurance that 
she hadnt been negatively impacted by the transfer delay  such as the value of the fund 
having reduced as a consequence. 
In a further response ReAssure said that as a payment had since been paid to the new 
provider, it could work out whether Ms P had suffered a financial loss. Whilst it indicated it 
was satisfied all contributions had been taken into account in calculating the transfer value, it 
said this wasnt something that it could share with Ms P. 
ReAssure later carried out an assessment and determined that Ms P had suffered a financial 
loss of £23.58 as a result of its delays. It agreed to round that amount up and make a 
payment of £50 to Ms P. 
As Ms P wasnt happy with ReAssures responses one of our investigators looked into the 
complaint and noted ReAssures acceptance of its delays. She worked out that, given what 
ReAssure had said about its service standards for completing pension transfers, the process 
should have been completed by 23 June 2021. So, the investigator said that ReAssure 
should work out the extent of any loss by comparing the value of Ms Ps pension with the 
new provider versus what it would have been worth had it been transferred on 23 June 2021. 
If there was a shortfall, the investigator said that amount should be paid into Ms Ps pension 
where possible. The investigator was satisfied that ReAssure had paid reasonable 
compensation in respect of the inconvenience caused by its delays.
Ms P didnt think that ReAssure had taken responsibility for its mistakes - not least because 
it had given conflicting answers, including about the transfer value, and hadnt given her a 
copy of its calculations. Our investigator asked ReAssure for a copy of its calculations, but it 
didnt provide them. Again, it said it was satisfied that all premiums were taken into account 
when it manually calculated the transfer value. 
As the matter wasnt resolved, the complaint was referred to an Ombudsman to consider. 
ReAssure responded to our Service in the meantime. It said it felt its original outcome was 
fair and explained the methodology it used when working out the loss that it felt Ms P 
suffered. ReAssure still didnt provide a copy of its calculations or a breakdown showing that 
all premiums were included in the transfer value.
As agreement couldnt be reached overall, the matter was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
ReAssure accepts that it caused a delay. And it has acknowledged that it should have 
completed the pension transfer within its own service standard of ten days. Whilst I cant see 
that it has specified from what date it feels the ten days should have started, it doesnt 
appear to have disputed our investigators assessment (which I agree with) that based on 
the information it had, it should have completed the transfer by 23 June 2021. In any event, 
ReAssure has already paid £250 compensation in respect of the inconvenience its delay 
caused. Im satisfied that payment fairly reflects the impact that the delay had on Ms P.
That leaves me to decide what else, if anything, ReAssure needs to do to put things right.  
Its evident that Ms P has been given different figures along the way regarding the transfer 
value. And whilst she appears to accept that the value was subject to market fluctuations, 
even allowing for those fluctuations, shes unclear why the value only increased by about £7 
when shed made an additional payment of £200. And, as there had been other problems 
allocating premiums automatically to the policy following its reinstatement, I can understand 
why Ms P questioned whether all of her payments had been included before the policy was 
transferred. 
In those circumstances I can see why she might have been looking for further assurances 
that everything was in order. But ReAssure doesnt appear to have given her the kind of 
breakdown that shes seeking. And whilst it appears to be satisfied that it took account of all 
premiums, it hasnt given Ms P a breakdown. It seems to be suggesting that this was 
something to do with having to complete manual calculations. Im not persuaded that 
ReAssures response here is reasonable. Whether it calculated the transfer value manually 
or automatically, in order to be satisfied that it took account of all premiums, it must have had 
information it could rely on. That being the case, I cant see why its been unable to share 
that information with Ms P. 
Similarly, Ms P wants to understand how ReAssure determined shed suffered a financial 
loss of around £23. Again, I dont think thats unreasonable. And whilst ReAssure has gone 
to certain lengths to explain its methodology to this Service, its so far been unable to give 
either Ms P, or us, a copy of its calculations. I dont think ReAssures actions go far enough.  I have no reason to doubt that ReAssure has completed some form of calculation. But I dont 
think its reasonable for it to simply expect Ms P to accept its explanations, especially given 
the problems along the way, without being able to check them for herself. And whilst I 
appreciate the loss calculation may have been completed via the system, I dont think thats 
a good enough reason not to be able to show Ms P how the figure was arrived at. 
In any event, Im also not persuaded that ReAssure has based its loss calculation on the 
right information. ReAssures methodology appears to have been to assume that Ms Ps 
pension would have remained invested in her original fund throughout the period of delay. 
So, its apparently compared the earlier value of the fund had there not been a delay with the 
amount that was eventually paid to the new provider. But, I think thats only part of the 
consideration. I have to bear in mind that had all things been equal, Ms P would have 
transferred her plan to the new provider with effect from 23 June 2021. So, it would have 
been transferred at whatever its value was at that time. But on top of that, it would then have 
been invested in the new providers funds, so, throughout the period of delay and beyond, it 
would have been subject to whatever investment growth (or loss) was relevant to those 
funds. So far, I cant see that ReAssure has taken that additional factor into consideration.
Taking those things together, I uphold Ms Ps complaint. Ive set out below what ReAssure 
now needs to do to put things right.
Putting things right
To fully and fairly resolve this complaint, ReAssure Limited needs to:
Give Ms P a full breakdown showing that all of her pension contributions were taken 
into account when calculating the transfer value of her policy. If any contributions are 
found to be missing, ReAssure should include those missing contributions in the loss 
calculation below.
Contact Ms Ps new pension provider to ascertain the notional value of her policy on 
the date of my final decision had the correct value been transferred to them on 23 
June 2021. It should assume Ms P made the same investments as she did when the 
funds were actually transferred on 9 November 2021 (the effective date of the 
transfer). If the value is higher than Ms Ps actual fund on the date of my final 
decision, the difference is the loss that Ms P has suffered. ReAssure needs to pay 
that amount into Ms Ps pension.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance 
implications, it should be paid directly to Ms P as a lump sum after making a notional 
reduction to allow for future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
As Ms P would be entitled to take tax-free cash, 25% of the loss would be tax-free 
and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in retirement 
 presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman