DRN-3487832
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as D, is unhappy that Santander UK Plc recalled a 
Bounce Back Loan (BBL). This complaint is brought to this service by Ds director, Mr S.
What happened
D applied to Santander for a BBL of £50,000. The application was approved, and D received 
the BBL funds from Santander. However, Santander later informed D that, upon review, D 
wasnt in fact eligible to receive a BBL, and so Santander recalled the BBL funds that D had 
received. Mr S wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint on behalf of D. Santander 
looked at Ds complaint. It reiterated that D wasnt eligible to receive a BBL and as such it 
didnt feel it had done anything wrong by recalling the BBL funds. Mr S wasnt satisfied with 
Santanders response, so he referred Ds complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel Santander had acted 
unfairly towards D in how it had managed this situation, and so they didnt uphold the 
complaint. Mr S remained dissatisfied and continued to feel that D had been eligible to 
receive a BBL, so the complaint was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the rules of the BBL Scheme, a company could borrow up to a maximum of 25% of its 
annual turnover  for which the 2019 calendar years turnover was to be used, if the 
company had been established before that period. Where a company had been established 
more recently, but before the eligibility cut off date of 1 March 2020, an estimate could be 
provided of expected turnover, based on trading activity up to the point of application.
D was established in 2017, and so Ds turnover for the 2019 calendar year should have been 
considered when establishing whether D met the criteria for a BBL. But, while Ds BBL 
application to Santander did self-declare business turnover of £200,000, Mr S has confirmed 
that this figure was an estimate of projected future turnover, and that Ds actual business 
turnover for the 2019 calendar year was zero because D was dormant during this period. 
Indeed, Mr S has also confirmed that since being established in 2017, D has never traded. 
Im aware that Mr S believes that businesses such as D, which havent traded, can obtain a 
BBL on the basis of projected future turnover. But this is a misunderstanding on Mr Ss part. 
As explained above, the only circumstances where an estimate of future turnover could be 
considered is where an applicant business hadnt been established long enough to be able 
to provide proof of turnover for the 2019 calendar year, but where that business was actively 
trading by the cut off date 1 March 2020 and could provide an estimate of its projected 
future turnover based on its trading activity up to the time of application. It was never the 
case that a business that wasnt trading or had never traded was eligible to receive a BBL.
It seems clear that Mr S applied for the BBL for D based on a misunderstanding of the BBL 
eligibility criteria. And given that BBL applicants self-declared they met the required criteria, 
and also that Santander, like all Scheme participants, were expected by the UK government 
to process applications quickly, given the circumstances at that time, I can understand why 
Santander initially approved Ds BBL application and provided the funds to D that it did.
But under the terms and conditions of the BBL, Santander was entitled to terminate the loan 
and demand its immediate repayment in certain circumstances. This included where any of 
the information provided within the application was found to be misleading, incomplete, or 
incorrect. And in this case, while I appreciate Mr S may have completed the application in 
good faith, he did so on a misunderstanding of Ds eligibility to receive the BBL, which meant 
that the information he submitted about the eligibility of Ds turnover was incorrect.
Ive considered whether the questions Santander asked about turnover within the application 
process may have been unclear. But having reviewed Santanders BBL application journey, I 
note that the question thats asked about company turnover specifically asks for the 2019 
company turnover amount to be given  which, as explained, Mr S didnt provide. As such, 
Im satisfied that Santander had reasonable grounds to terminate the BBL and also that 
Santander was entitled to recover the BBL funds from Ds account in the manner it did. And 
this is in consideration of the communication that Santander issued to D regarding the 
recalling of the funds and the actions that Santander took following that communication.
Finally, Im aware that Mr S is unhappy with how some members of Santanders staff spoke 
with him on the telephone. Having listened to the telephone calls in question, I can 
understand Mr Ss grievance here. However, this complaint has been brought in the name of 
D, the limited company, and as such I can only consider the impact of events here on D as a 
limited company  which being a legal entity, and not a person, is itself unable to experience 
distress. I hope Mr S will therefore understand that any points of complaint that he might 
have personally against Santander simply dont fall within the scope of what Im permitted to 
consider here, and as such Im unable to comment on these points of complaint further.
All of which means that I dont feel that Santander have acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards D here as Mr S contends, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this 
complaint or instructing Santander to take any further action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022. 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman