DRN-2004478
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy about a mortgage valuation carried out on behalf of Leeds 
Building Society (LBS). To settle the complaint Mr and Mrs B want LBS to compensate them 
for their losses, due to the inaccurate valuation and the failure of LBS to progress an appeal 
against the valuation. Mr B has dealt with the complaint throughout.
What happened
In September 2019 Mr and Mrs B were purchasing a property with the assistance of a 
mortgage from LBS. The property was on the market for £375,000 and the mortgage 
application shows the purchase price as £370,000, although I am told that Mr and Mrs B 
were able to negotiate the price down to £365,000. Mr and Mrs B wanted a mortgage of 
£326,612 over a period of 30 years 5 months and were porting their existing interest rate 
product onto their new mortgage.
A surveyor was instructed to value the property on behalf of LBS. He valued it at £340,000 
(which is the purchase price shown in the mortgage offer, although I understand the actual 
purchase price was £20,000 higher). As a result, LBS was only prepared to lend Mr and Mrs 
B £306,000. In order to proceed with the purchase, Mr and Mrs B needed to find an 
additional £20,000, which came from their savings. 
Mr and Mrs B complained to LBS about the valuation, as they believed it was inaccurate. 
LBS agreed to submit an appeal to the valuer, but unfortunately this was sent to an email 
address which was not used by the surveyors any more. Mr and Mrs B completed the 
purchase of their new property  using their savings to make up the purchase price  before 
any appeal of the valuation could be considered by the surveyors.
In its final response letter, LBS acknowledged that its service had fallen short in relation to 
the way it had dealt with the appeal and that LBS hadnt chased it up. But as the mortgage 
had already completed, the surveyors would not reconsider its valuation.
LBS also explained to Mr B that there had been a data breach, as it had sent a letter 
addressed to him to his old address. LBS was satisfied no sensitive information was in that 
letter, but it accepted that this shouldnt have happened. LBS explained that the complaint 
had been made before the mortgage completed, so its system hadnt updated the address 
for the complaint. LBS said it would pay the cost of a two-year protective registration on the 
CIFAS database (£25) for Mr B.
Overall, LBS offered compensation totalling £500, to cover its customer service failings in 
sending the appeal to a redundant email address (£100), for not following up emails from 
Mr B (£75), the £25 for the CIFAS protective registration and £300 for distress and 
inconvenience.
Dissatisfied with LBSs response, Mr B, on behalf of himself and Mrs B, complained to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. An investigator looked at the complaint, but didnt think LBS 
needed to pay any more compensation. He explained that the surveyors didnt fall within the 
scope of the Financial Ombudsman Service and so any grievance Mr and Mrs B had about 
the valuation wasnt something we could consider.
The investigator wasnt persuaded that, even if the surveyors had received the appeal before 
completion, it would have changed the outcome. Overall, he thought the £500 offered by 
LBS was fair and reasonable in relation to the customer service issues for which LBS was 
responsible.
Mr and Mrs B didnt accept the investigators findings. Mr B has made some further points, 
which I summarise.
the valuer made a mistake when he said the property hadnt been renovated;
he chased LBS at least three times to check if they had followed up the appeal. LBS 
should have done more than re-emailing the same account;
he and his wife are now in a difficult financial position as they are now having to consider 
borrowing at higher interest rates to cover expenditure.
In the circumstances, Mr and Mrs B consider the £500 offered by LBS to be inadequate to 
compensate them for their distress and inconvenience.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr B has said. Having done so, Ive reached the 
same conclusion as the investigator, for broadly the same reasons.
This was a basic valuation report carried out for LBS, not for Mr and Mrs B. Its purpose was 
to assist LBS in its lending decision. LBS was required to instruct a suitably-qualified 
surveyor to value the property, and Im satisfied that it did, as the surveyor is a Member of 
the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors. As such LBS was entitled to rely on his opinion.
I agree that LBS should have taken more care in submitting the appeal to the surveyors, and 
that its failure to do so meant that the appeal wasnt considered before the mortgage 
completed. But Im satisfied that, even if the surveyors had received the appeal, this would 
not have changed the outcome.
I say this because Mr B has set us a copy of the valuation appeal form. This states clearly, in 
bold, underlined type, that Requests for adjustment within 15% of the reported value will not 
be considered, as this would not clearly demonstrate the valuers considered opinion to be 
wrong.
I will explain here that it is established surveying and valuation practice  endorsed by 
multiple court decisions  that there is an allowed  margin of error in a valuation of up to 
15% either way. So a valuation which is within the range of 15% of the reported value of the 
property is an acceptable tolerance.
On the LBS valuation appeal form Mr B has completed the purchase price as £370,000. The 
surveyors valuation was £340,000. The difference between the reported valuation of 
£340,000 and Mr and Mrs Bs estimated valuation of £370,000 is less than 9% of the 
reported valuation. Given this, the valuation was well within the acceptable margin of error of 
15%, and so Im satisfied the appeal would not have been considered by the surveyors, 
even if it had been received before completion.In the circumstances, Im satisfied that the outcome would not have been any different even 
if LBS hadnt made a mistake. Im also satisfied that the information on the appeal valuation 
form which I have highlighted above was clear enough that Mr and Mrs B ought to have 
known, based on the figures, that the surveyors would not reconsider the valuation.
LBS has acknowledged that its customer service fell short in some areas  in not answering 
emails, in sending the form to the wrong email address and in relation to the data breach. As 
LBS has accepted this, I dont need to analyse what went wrong or why. All I need to decide 
is what level of compensation is fair and reasonable. Overall, Im satisfied that the 
compensation LBS has offered of £500 for this (including £25 for the cost of a CIFAS 
protective registration for Mr B, should he so wish) is fair and reasonable. I dont think LBS is 
required to do anything further and so I make no other order or award.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, insofar as Im satisfied that the £500 
offered by Leeds Building Society is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. I simply 
leave it to Mr and Mrs B to decide if they want to accept it in full and final settlement of their 
complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman