DRN-4132214
The complaint
Miss S complains that Lloyds Bank Plc wont make any form of refund for a payment made 
on her debit card for a holiday.
What happened
In May 2022 Miss S used her Lloyds debit card to pay just over f £2,555 to a holiday 
company for a package holiday in July 2022 for four people including her. Miss S says that 
when she arrived at the hotel they were put into the wrong type of room. She says they were 
then moved into another room on the third day of their stay, but it was a smaller room. She 
says the hotel was dirty and had numerous issues, some of which made her health 
conditions worse. She also says the hotel staff and holiday company staff were rude and 
unhelpful. She complained to the holiday company and it made her an offer as a gesture, but 
she declined it as she felt it wasnt enough. So when she got back she complained to Lloyds.
Lloyds looked into the matter and says it asked Miss S for further evidence, but it says Miss 
S provided further information only after the time limits for a chargeback had already run out. 
So it didnt take her Chargeback any further. Lloyds has said it could have done more to 
inform Miss S whilst she was liaising with it, so it offered her £50 for her trouble. Other than 
that it doesnt think it could do any more for Miss S.
Miss S didnt think this was fair, so she brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into the matter. Overall, he didnt think Lloyds had acted unfairly by declining Miss Ss 
request for a refund. Miss S didnt agree. So the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear about Miss S health issues, I hope she has the support she needs to 
manage those as best as possible. I should make very clear that this decision is not about 
the holiday company, which isnt a financial services provider and doesnt fall within my 
remit.  I can see from Miss S representations to the Investigator that Miss S is 
(understandably) focusing on the actions of the Holiday company. However whatever the 
issues there maybe with the Holiday company and just because Miss S feels shes lost out, it 
doesnt necessarily follow that Lloyds has treated Miss S unfairly. 
Lloydss role in the matter is to be considered only under the Chargeback rules in place as 
this transaction was on Miss S debit card. The Chargeback rules are under a voluntary 
scheme and consumers do not have a right to a chargeback being raised. It is the case 
though that this Service considers raising a chargeback to be good practice. Lloyds can only 
be held responsible if it has failed in some way. And the question of whether or not Lloyds 
has treated Miss S fairly is the only question I can decide upon in this decision. This is an 
important distinction which I hope Ive made sufficiently clear.
Miss S accepts she made this transaction for the holiday with the holiday company in 
question and doesnt dispute the amount, date, or other aspects of the transaction itself. 
Having looked into the matter Im satisfied the transaction was properly authorised by Miss S 
and correctly applied to her debit card account with Lloyds. 
could Lloyds challenge the transaction through a chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Miss S 
does here, Lloyds (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through a chargeback process. I 
dont think Lloyds couldve challenged the payment on the basis Miss S didnt properly 
authorise the transaction, given the conclusions on this issue that Ive already set out.
The card scheme here has time limits for raising chargebacks. Here Lloyds didnt raise a 
chargeback because it says it didnt get sufficient information from Miss S before running out 
of time under the time limit rules. I can see Miss S feels that Lloyds didnt sufficiently make 
clear the time limit rules. And I can also see theres been a lot of discussion between the 
parties here on this issue. However Im not persuaded this is a key issue. I say this because 
it only makes a difference if I thought the chargeback would have been successful if full 
information had been provided. And I dont think this is the case here. Ill explain why.
Miss S says she was misrepresented into taking the hotel room she paid for. However its 
clear from what she says that she complained about the first room she was given and was 
moved rooms on her third day at the hotel. Miss S has said the second room was very small. 
But to have been misrepresented into taking a room shed otherwise not have taken the 
room would have had to be advertised as being a certain size. But Miss S doesnt mention 
that. She explains there wasnt a photo for the room she booked just a description. And she 
notes that those rooms advertised with a photo were photos for illustrative purposes only. In 
essence Miss S has made clear she was unhappy with the room but hasnt actually pointed 
persuasively to what was misrepresented to her about the room in the advert she saw. In 
essence she says that if shed known the room was how it was, shed have not taken it. That 
may well be the case, but for a misrepresentation to have been made out Id have to be 
persuaded she was told something that was untrue which she relied upon. And Ive not seen 
Miss S demonstrate that she was told something untrue.
Miss S accepts she stayed at the hotel for the full period of the holiday. As such she 
received the full benefit of it. Accordingly a full refund as shes asked for would be unfair on 
Lloyds.
Miss S has said that staff members were rude and treated her badly. Im sorry to hear this. 
However for Lloyds to be responsible here it she needs to have lost out because of what 
Lloyds did. I think had Lloyds done everything here correctly the chargeback made and 
would have been unsuccessful. I say this because the chargeback process is a 
straightforward set of reasons for transactions to be disputed such as double charged, or 
goods or services not provided. It doesnt cover more nuanced issues such as the quality of 
experience or whether expectations were met or indeed how people treated Miss S. So I 
dont think this is a reason for Lloyds to refund Miss S because there isnt a chargeback 
code that covers such issues.
Miss S has provided a long list of issues with Lloyds customer service to her. Ive considered 
them all and listened to the calls. Lloyds has accepted that it could have provided better 
information and offered Miss S £50 for this which she was not enough. There is some effort 
involved in making a complaint naturally and many of the points Miss S has raised around 
customer service made no impact on the progression of the complaint. And the one that did 
have an impact Lloyds has paid her for. Miss S says shes not received it. Ive seen the 
evidence from Lloyds systems showing it has been paid in November 2022. So I dont think 
it needs to do anymore regarding its customer service.Miss S has said the whole process has caused her stress and anxiety and impacted her 
health. Im very sorry to hear this. Shes also gone on to say that the whole system is 
designed to fail, and everything was done to stop her being successful. Im not persuaded by 
this. Having reviewed everything I see points where things could have been done better, but 
I see few issues where Lloyds has done something wrong. And where it has, chiefly around 
not properly informing Miss S it has done something to remedy that.
Lloyds didnt provide everything to start with. But Im satisfied Ive seen everything now that I 
need to make a fair decision on how Lloyds handled the chargeback. This is at the crux of 
Miss S complaint is whether her chargeback should have been successful if it had been 
done properly. It is accepted that Lloyds didnt do everything perfectly. The question is 
whether that made a difference and Im not persuaded it did. This is because I think had 
Miss S chargeback been put through immaculately I dont think it would have been 
successful. I say this because I think the holiday company would have defended it by saying 
Miss S was moved rooms in line with her wishes and that it made her an offer for the other 
issues which she refused. And had Lloyds taken the chargeback further I dont think it had a 
reasonable prospect of success and ultimately I dont think it would have been successful. 
So the issues Miss S points to with Lloyds ultimately didnt impact her chances of winning a 
refund through the chargeback.
So although Miss S clearly feels the holiday company is at fault here this doesnt necessarily 
mean that Lloyds is liable to refund this transaction. In summary this is a decision about what 
Lloyds is responsible for regarding this transaction for this holiday. The test here is did 
Lloyds consider the Chargeback situation here properly. I think that Miss S hasnt lost out 
here because I think a chargeback would have been successfully defended by the holiday 
company. So I dont think I can fairly require Lloyds to refund Miss S for part or all of the 
holiday. And I think the offer it has made for customer service is fair. So this complaint is 
unsuccessful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Lloyds Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman