DRN-4365427
The complaint
Mr D complains that Gresham Insurance Company Limited (Gresham) declined his claim 
for damage to his roof under his home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr D has buildings insurance with Gresham.
In February 2022 Mr D was going away and needed to get some items from his loft to load 
into his van. When he opened the front door a gust of wind went through the house and his 
loft hatch slammed open and shut. Mr D says the wind funnelled through the house into the 
loft and blew the tiles out from the inside. 
Mr D went away and when he returned the items were left in the hallway until March 2022 
when he went to put the items back in the loft. He said when he went up into the loft it was 
like daylight  there were window sized holes in the roof. So he patched the holes up as 
much as he could.
Mr D called his insurer who asked if he wanted someone to do an emergency repair to it. Mr 
D thought the roof was watertight so declined and asked that an assessor attend. Mr D says 
over the summer he was busy and it was difficult to arrange a suitable time for the assessor 
to attend. 
Mr D spoke to a roofer who said the wind had lifted the tiles and broke the nails. And the 
storm made the damage worse. 
In August 2022 the assessor attended. He went into the loft, took some pictures, and 
explained he would be in touch. The assessor explained the insurer was unlikely to replace 
the whole roof but were more likely to repair the damage. 
Mr D says he didnt hear from the assessor for weeks. And when he chased it up he found 
the report hadnt been completed. Mr D says he finally heard from the insurer who declined 
the claim because Mr Ds roof was old. He said Gresham told him it had looked at images of 
his house online, and there were images of the roof from 2021 that showed missing tiles. So 
Gresham said Mr D hadnt maintained his roof and it wasnt in a state of good repair. 
Mr D says you cant see the roof of his house from the ground. He says he goes into his loft 
regularly and if there are no holes and leaks then he considers the roof to be in a good state 
of repair. Mr D also has someone come and clear the gutters regularly. 
Mr D says the insurer has refused to complete the repairs internally or externally. Mr D says 
the storm caused the damage to the roof. So he complained to Gresham. 
Gresham said given the structure of the roof, the layers between the tiles, and the inside of 
the roof space, the wind would be unable to maintain the strength required to lift secure tiles 
from their housing on the roof. 
Mr B wasnt happy with the response from Gresham, and so he referred his complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked into things for him. She said storm conditions were 
present but there was no clear evidence the damage was caused by the storm. The 
investigator said given the damage to the roof she thought this pointed to the structural 
integrity of the roof at the time. She said since she didnt think storm damage was the 
dominant factor in the damage to the roof she wasnt upholding the complaint. 
Mr D didnt agree. He said while the age of the roof and the lack of felt under the tiles may 
have contributed to the damage, without the storm it wouldnt have suffered the damage it 
did. Because Mr D didnt agree the claim has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry Mr D finds himself in this situation, I understand it must be very worrying for him.  
However having considered the evidence carefully I havent upheld Mr Ds complaint, and Ill 
explain why.
Mr D has raised a number of points regarding the amount he pays for his policy, a previous 
claim he made with his previous insurer, and some personal things he was dealing with at 
the time. While Im sorry to hear about these unfortunately they have no bearing on my 
decision. 
Not all damage a home sustains is covered by home insurance. In order for there to be a 
valid claim under a buildings insurance policy, the damage must have occurred as a result of 
an insured peril. These perils, or events, are specified in every policy and include reasons 
such as theft, fire, and storm damage. If the damage being claimed for cant be said to be as 
a result of one of these perils, then there can be no valid claim from the start. 
Gresham says the damage to Mr Ds roof isnt covered by the policy. I have checked the 
policy and it says, you also need to ensure you maintain your property, for example your 
roof and guttering, as we wont cover damage that happens gradually over time.
In the exclusions in the buildings section of the terms it says, Storm or flood, we will not 
cover loss or damage caused by frost, to fences, gates and hedges, or that happens 
gradually. 
Gresham says the damage to the roof wasnt caused by a storm. To consider a claim under 
the storm section of the policy you would expect to see wind speeds of 55mph or above. 
Having reviewed the information provided Im satisfied there was a storm in the location of 
Mr Ds house in February 2022. But to uphold Mr Ds complaint Id need to be persuaded 
that this was the main cause of the damage to Mr Ds roof. And having reviewed everything 
carefully, I dont think the storm was the main cause of the damage. 
Gresham says the damage to the roof and Mr Ds explanation of events wasnt consistent 
with storm damage. Its surveyor noted, Inspection of the loft/roof has identified a number of 
slates have moved/shifted causing rainwater to enter the roof space. Gresham provided a 
report from the surveyor who inspected Mr Ds property. The surveyor concluded it was 
difficult to verify if the recorded damage is related to the storms themselves. In light of the 
roof age we suspect not. Mr D also asserts the roof was watertight following his repairs to 
the damage but the inspector noted evidence of water penetration affecting the first floor. He 
also found there was a lack of any external mitigation to prevent internal rainwater ingress. The information in the report is detailed and Im persuaded by what it says. I also havent 
seen any firm evidence that the experts report is incorrect. Mr D has provided this service 
with reports from roofers who he has had inspect his roof. On review of these reports I can 
see they concur with Mr Ds view that the damage was caused by the storm. But I dont think 
thats in dispute here.   
Mr Ds evidence is that he maintained his roof by having the guttering cleared regularly. 
There was some damage to the roof previously and this was caused by a storm. He also 
says in the years hes lived there hes had no issues with the roof. But his own roofer said 
the tiles had lifted, another said there was no felting under the tiles which is why they were 
able to move so easily, and there was clear evidence of a number of repairs to the roof. 
Taking all of this into account it seems to me that the roof wasnt in good condition. Mr D 
says the roof may have continued to be fine for decades to come but for the storm. But on 
review of the evidence I think, on balance, its more likely that the storm highlighted the 
disrepair of the roof. 
So, while there may have been a storm which resulted in damage to the roof, and water 
getting into Mr Ds property, this was only possible because there were defects to the roof 
already. 
I know my decision will be disappointing to Mr D. But having considered everything I dont 
think Gresham acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining Mr Ds claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman