The complaint
Miss D is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) told her she could borrow 
around £78,000 to buy her first home, when the correct figure was only around £54,000.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for the following reasons:
I cant hold Halifax liable for Miss Ds decision to give notice to the landlord of her flat
before she'd  formally applied for the mortgage.
Even if Halifax had been willing to lend Miss D enough based on her income, theres
no guarantee that the property purchase would have completed. There are many
other reasons why a mortgage application can be declined (other than just because
of someones salary). There are also many other reasons why a purchase can fall
through (not to do with the mortgage). There are just too many variables for me to
say the only reason Miss D was unable to buy a property before property prices
increased was because of the mis-information given by Halifax.
The incorrect figure was given to Miss D on 17 April 2019, and it was corrected on
10 June 2019. Miss D has said that in that time prices increased between £2,000 and
£5,000. But I cant make awards based on prices of properties that Miss D didnt buy.
I also cant make awards based on the difference between house prices at two points
in time as house prices vary month-on-month, and it is possible house prices may
drop to below the level at which Miss D was going to buy. So, it would be highly
inequitable for me to compensate her the change in house prices that shes asked
for.
Putting things right
Halifax paid £100 compensation and agreed to increase that to £250. Having considered 
everything  and bearing in mind the level of awards we have made in other broadly similar 
complaints  Im satisfied thats fair and reasonable.
DRN-1117354My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and order Bank of Scotland plc to pay a further £150 in 
compensation on top of the £100 its already paid. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept or reject my decision before 24 
July 2020.
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman