DRN-3882406
The complaint
Mr W complains that Motorpoint Limited hasnt provided the correct settlement to his 
complaint following the rejection of his car.
What happened
Mr W entered into a finance agreement to acquire a car from Motorpoint Limited in March 
2017. This finance agreement was with another party. 
Mr W says the car he acquired wasnt of satisfactory quality and so he rejected it and the 
vehicle was returned to Motorpoint. Motorpoint accepted the rejection and paid Mr W 
£11,426. Mr W says that his finance agreement wasnt settled, and he continued to make the 
repayments over a five-year term meaning he paid more than he should have given the 
rejection of the car. 
In response to Mr Ws complaint, Motorpoint explained that its usual process wasnt followed 
which would have been for the finance to have been settled and the negative equity from 
Mr Ws previous vehicle to be paid to Motorpoint by Mr W. Instead, Mr W was refunded 
£11,426. Because it didnt take its usual approach Motorpoint offered to refund Mr W the 
difference between the total amount he had paid under his finance agreement, less the 
amount it had already paid to him and less the negative equity from his previous agreement. 
It also said it would add 8% statutory interest to the refund which it calculated as £251.71 
and offered £300 as a gesture of goodwill for the error that was made. Mr W accepted this 
offer and payment was made. 
Mr W then referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service as he wasnt happy 
with the calculation of the 8% statutory interest.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. They didnt think that Mr W had taken action to 
mitigate his losses when the initial payment was made by Motorpoint for the rejected car. 
They said that had he contacted the finance provider at that time then the total interest 
payable could have been reduced. Given this they thought the offer made by Motorpoint was 
reasonable. They noted the outstanding issue with the calculation of the interest on the 
refund but thought that Motorpoint had done enough to resolve this complaint. 
Mr W didnt agree with our investigators outcome. He reiterated that 8% simple interest 
hadnt been calculated correctly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is about Motorpoint. In regard to consumer credit activities, Motorpoints 
authorisation is limited to credit broking, debt adjusting and debt counselling. It is with regard 
to these activities that I can consider this complaint. 
This complaint is about the settlement provided following Mr Ws rejection of the car he 
acquired using finance provided by a third party. Any credit broking activity undertaken by 
Motorpoint would have happened at the outset when the finance was provided. No issues 
regarding the credit broking have been raised as part of this complaint. There is no 
suggestion of Motorpoint undertaking a debt counselling role in this case and so this leaves 
debt adjusting.
The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 sets out that 
debt adjusting includes:
negotiating with the lender, on behalf of the borrower, terms for the discharge of a 
debt,
taking over, in return for payments by the borrower, that persons obligation to 
discharge a debt, or
any similar activity concerned with the liquidation of a debt.
In this case I cannot see that Motorpoint carried out any negotiation with the finance provider 
when Mr W returned the car nor that it took over Mr Ws liability for the finance. Instead, it 
provided a settlement directly to Mr W. Therefore, in this case I do not think it is clear that 
Motorpoint were carrying out debt adjusting (or any other form of regulated activity) when the 
settlement was provided.
That said, even if Motorpoints actions in regard to the settlement offer could be considered a 
regulated activity, I think it has done enough to resolve this complaint. I say this because 
Motorpoint initially refunded Mr W £11,426 which he could have used to pay off his finance 
agreement. If the settlement amount at that time hadnt been enough to repay his finance, I 
would have expected Mr W to have raised this at that time. Mr W didnt settle his finance and 
instead continued to repay this over the term meaning interest continued to be charged. In 
response to Mr Ws complaint, Motorpoint refunded the interest paid as well as paying an 
amount for interest and a goodwill gesture. Given the circumstances of this complaint, and 
that Mr W didnt take actions to mitigate his costs, I think that Motorpoint has done enough to 
resolve this complaint.  
In conclusion, while it isnt clear that the issue raised in this complaint forms part of a 
regulated activity by Motorpoint, in the event it does, I do not think that Motorpoint is required 
to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Motorpoint Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman