DRN-4229777
The complaint
Ms J is unhappy with the service shed received from HSBC UK Bank Plc surrounding 
cheques that she paid into her account.
What happened
Ms J paid three cheques from overseas banks into her HSBC account. Ms J had previously 
paid similar cheques into her HSBC account on an annual basis and had experienced no 
prior problems. However, on this occasion the cheque amounts werent credited to her 
HSBC account. Ms J wasnt happy about this, so she raised a complaint.
HSBC responded to Ms J and explained they no longer an agreement that had previously 
been in place with the overseas country in question. This meant that a different process was 
now in place for cheques that were received from that country, which included that the 
cheques were sent to the overseas bank that had issued the cheque, which then transfers 
the relevant funds to HSBC. 
HSBC further explained that in this instance they had sent the cheques to the overseas 
issuing banks but had received no responses from them, despite HSBC chasing the 
overseas banks on several occasions. Because of this, HSBC didnt feel that they were at 
fault for the delay in Ms J receiving the funds into her HSBC account, and they suggested 
that Ms J might reach out to the issuing banks herself to speed up the process. Ms J wasnt 
satisfied with HSBCs response, so she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt HSBC had completed their 
actions regarding the cheques in a timely manner, and so didnt uphold the complaint. Ms J 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. Instead, this service is an informal, impartial 
dispute resolution service. And while we do take relevant law and regulation into account 
when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed on determining whether we feel a fair or 
unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial perspective, after taking all the factors and 
circumstances of a complaint into consideration.
I also note that Ms J has provided several detailed submissions to this service regarding her 
complaint. Id like to thank Ms J for these submissions, and I hope she doesnt consider it a 
discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
consider to be the key aspects of this complaint, in line with this services role as an informal 
dispute resolution service. 
 
This means that if Ms J notes that I havent addressed a specific point shes raised, it 
shouldnt be taken from this that I havent considered that point  I can confirm that Ive read 
and considered all the submissions provided by both Ms J and HSBC. Rather, it should be 
taken that I have considered that point but that I dont feel it necessary to address it directly 
in this letter to arrive at what I consider to be a fair resolution to this complaint.
Finally, the rules by which this service must abide  as per the Dispute Resolution (DISP) 
section of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook  include that this service can 
only consider a point of complaint that the respondent business has previously had the 
opportunity to formally consider and respond to. 
This means that I can only consider the points of complaint which HSBC were able to 
consider and issue a response to. And I cant consider any further points of complaint that 
Ms J has raised with this service after her complaint was responded to by HSBC are referred 
to this service by herself. If Ms J would like any further points of complaint to be considered, 
I can only ask her to raise these points of complaint with HSBC in the first instance.
Ms J is unhappy with what she feels are failures of HSBC regarding the process of clearing 
the cheques from the overseas bank into her HSBC account. And Ms J has made repeated 
reference in her correspondence with this service to that fact that she hadnt encountered 
any such problems in previous years with similar cheques that shed paid into HSBC.
But its already been explained to Ms J by both HSBC and out investigator that HSBC no 
longer hold the long-standing arrangement that had previously been in place with the 
overseas country in question. And because all of Ms Js previously submitted cheques had 
been paid into her HSBC account while the previous arrangement was in place, and 
because that previous arrangement is now no longer in place, the manner in which her 
previously submitted cheques was processed by HSBC has no bearing on how more 
recently submitted cheques are now processed.
This is because the process that had previously been in place was dependent on the 
arrangement with the overseas country that has now ended. And its been further explained 
to Mrs H that the new process that HSBC have to follow in regard to cheques submitted from 
the overseas country in question is that HSBC have to send those cheques to the overseas 
issuing banks and are then dependent on the overseas issuing bank responding to their 
communications and sending the money promised by the cheques to them.
Having reviewed all the information and evidence available to me, Im satisfied that HSBC 
have done that here. And Im also satisfied that HSBC have chased responses from the 
overseas issuing banks on several occasions, but without success.
In her correspondence with this service, Ms J has stated as follows:
As a customer, it should not be my concern as to what happens to these cheques 
from the time I hand them over to an HSBC teller to the point at which funds are 
credited into my HSBC account in the UK
But in circumstances such as this one, where HSBC are dependent on the actions and 
responses of third-party overseas banks over whom HSBC have no direct control, I feel that 
Ms Js assertion here is clearly incorrect. 
Ms J isnt happy that HSBC have suggested to her that she contacts the overseas banks 
herself. But given that HSBC have chased this issue with the overseas banks on several 
occasions without success, it seems reasonable to me that would make such a suggestion to Ms J, in the interests of Ms J receiving the money she is unhappy about not receiving as 
quickly as possible. And I note that HSBC have paid a goodwill gesture of £75 to Ms J to 
facilitate the overseas calls she might chose to make. 
To summarise: I can appreciate that Ms J is frustrated with the delay in her money being 
received into her HSBC account. But ultimately, Im satisfied that HSBC have followed the 
correct process regarding Ms Js overseas cheques and have done so in a timely manner  
including that HSBC have chased the overseas banks in question. And, consequently, Im 
therefore satisfied that any delays that Ms J has experienced arent the result of any error or 
inaction by HSBC. And it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint.
I realise this might not be the outcome Mr J was wanting and I hope that she is able to 
engage with the overseas banks in question and resolve this matter quickly. I trust that Ms J 
will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman