DRN-2818688
The complaint
Mr D complains that Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) gave him poor advice to transfer 
the benefits from two defined benefit pension schemes in order to release cash. 
What happened
In 2016, Mr D responded to an advert from Portal to get a review of his pensions. Portal 
carried out a fact find in January 2017. After a review of the information gathered, Portal said 
that their adviser recommended that Mr D didnt transfer his defined benefit pension scheme 
benefits. Mr D was told that if he was insistent on transferring his pension, Portal would be 
able to help, but this would be against their advice.
According to the fact find, at the time of advice, Mr D was 55 years old, and not married. Mr 
Ds net income from work was £1,300 each month. And he also received £34 each month 
from an annuity. The pensions he was considering transferring had transfer values of 
£20,277 and £16,420.
At the time of the advice Mr D was recorded as having a moderately cautious attitude to 
taking financial risks and a low capacity for loss. He had an outstanding loan balance of 
around £1,500, no other assets and no net disposable income.
Portal notes from the time of the advice record that Mr D wanted to access his pensions so 
that he could take holidays, improve his standard of living and give some to his children. 
Portal said that Mr D decided to go ahead with the transfers as an insistent client. 
In 2020, Mr D complained through a claims management company (CMC). They said that 
Portals recommendation had led to Mr D losing the guaranteed income from the defined 
benefit schemes. And noted that he didnt have any other pension provision other than the 
State Pension. 
In their complaint to Portal in June 2020, the CMC said that Portal had been negligent when 
providing their advice. And that Mr D had suffered a loss as a result. The complaint also 
included the following points:
1. Mr D didnt understand the term insistent client. And Portal had failed to explain this 
properly 
2. The Suitability Report Portal produced was contradictory and confusing in relation to this 
advice
3. The reason for being an insistent client shouldve been made in Mr Ds own words rather 
than typed in a declaration form. This is as per COBS 9.5.A
4. That wanting to release tax-free cash wasnt a good enough reason to transfer
5. A business should always start from the assumption that a final salary transfer is not 
suitable. This is as per COBS 19.1.6G
6. Mr D wasnt made aware of the guaranteed nature of the final salary scheme and the 
communications didnt contain sufficiently strong warnings about the risks of transferring
7. If Portal strongly believed the transfer wasnt in Mr Ds interests, they shouldnt have 
allowed it to go ahead
8. The critical yield was too high 9. Portal failed to undertake an adequate Attitude to Risk (ATR) assessment 
10. Mr D didnt have a suitable capacity for loss as Portal have suggested
11. The transfers incurred fees and there were no fees before the transfer. 
12. Portal didnt adhere to the following COBS rules: 2.1.1R, 9.2.1R, 9.2.3R 
13. Death benefits from the defined benefit schemes transferred were lost
14. The Investment and SIPP fees were not disclosed properly, so Mr D was misled into 
thinking the SIPP was cheaper than it was. 
Portal issued their final response letter on 5 August 2020. They considered each of the 
complaint points raised in turn but didnt uphold any of them. They didnt agree theyd been 
negligent when theyd provided the advice. They said theyd recommended that Mr D didnt 
transfer due to the guaranteed benefits hed be giving up and the level of critical yields. And 
that theyd started with the assumption that the transfers wouldnt be suitable. They said 
theyd followed the relevant COBS rules. Portal said theyd clearly explained what insistent 
client meant. They didnt agree that the Suitability Report had been contradictory and 
confusing. Portal also said that theyd completed an adequate ATR assessment. And that 
the fees Mr D would pay if he transferred had been explained to him. Portal also said theyd 
facilitated the transfers as Mr D had been willing to be classed as an insistent client.  
Unhappy with the response, the CMC brought Mr Ds complaint to this service. Our 
investigator didnt feel that the complaint should be upheld. She felt that the advice Mr D had 
received had been suitable. She felt that the insistent client information Portal gave to Mr D 
had been given to him earlier than it shouldve been. So shed spoken to him to ask him 
what he remembered from the time of the advice. As Mr D had verbally confirmed the 
rationale for the transfers that was recorded at the time of the advice, our investigator 
considered that it had been fair of Portal to record him as an insistent client. So she felt that 
Mr D wouldve arranged the transfers in order to access his money through another business 
if Portal hadnt assisted him. Therefore she didnt agree that Mr D had been given unsuitable 
advice.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know this will be disappointing for Mr D. But I 
agree with our investigator that the advice he received was suitable. And I agree that it was 
fair and reasonable for Portal to have treated him as insistent client. Ill explain why I came to 
this decision.
Did Portal recommend the defined benefit pension transfers?
The benefits from Mr Ds defined benefit schemes were secure. At the time of the advice, 
they formed a significant part of his pension provision. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) explains that the starting point, when providing 
advice about whether to transfer a defined benefit pension plan, is to assume the transfer is 
unsuitable. And that an adviser should therefore only recommend the transfer if there was 
clear evidence it would be in the clients best interests. 
Portal said that they did start with this assumption. And that they advised Mr D not to 
transfer. 
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Portal only facilitated the transfer once they were 
comfortable that Mr D was an insistent client. In fact, Portal explicitly told Mr D that they 
didnt recommend such a transfer as they didnt consider it was in his best interests. For 
example, in their 13 January 2017 letter to him they said:
Since our conversation we have completed our initial phase of research and analysis and 
we strongly recommend that you do not access your [pension scheme names] pensions 
early by taking more than your tax free cash entitlement and instead leave them where they 
are because of the guarantees/benefits that you will be giving up.
I consider that it was reasonable for Portal to recommend Mr D didnt transfer. He would lose 
valuable guarantees and death benefits if he transferred. I also note that one of the schemes 
he was looking to transfer from was reducing transfer values at the time due to poor funding 
in the scheme. Therefore, the transfer value Mr D would receive from that scheme would be 
lower than the value of the benefits given up. I also note that the required investment growth 
rate was higher than the rate this service wouldve considered achievable at the time, and 
also higher than even the high rate growth band set by the regulator. But as Mr D was 
looking to cash out his pension this figure only really indicates that the transfer values 
werent good value. Overall, Im satisfied that Mr D was likely to be worse off if he decided to 
transfer. 
But Portal noted on page 4 (and similarly, on page 8) of their 30 January 2017 Suitability 
Report that Mr D wanted to transfer despite their recommendation. The report went on to say 
that Portal would treat Mr D as an insistent client. And that this would allow Portal to 
recommend a way he could access the cash in his pension schemes: 
We have already recommended that you do not access your [pension scheme names] 
pension policies early by taking more than your tax free cash entitlement and instead leave 
your pension funds where they are because of the benefits you will be giving up. However, 
you have decided to disregard this recommendation and are aware that as a result we must 
now treat you as an insistent client. As an insistent client you have asked us to recommend 
how best to access your pension funds and we propose that you transfer your [pension 
scheme names] to an [provider name] plan.
Based on what Ive seen, Portals research showed that the transfer wasnt demonstrably 
viable in financial terms. And I consider that they explained this to Mr D. So it wouldnt be fair 
or reasonable to conclude that Portal recommended the transfers.Ill now consider if Portal acted fairly when they classified Mr D as an insistent client and 
facilitated the transfers. 
Should Mr D have been classified as an insistent client?
Portal carried out the transfer for Mr D as they were treating him as an insistent client. Ive 
therefore had to consider whether Mr D was truly an insistent client. And if so, whether 
Portal followed the process Id have expected them to.
The Conduct of Business sourcebook sets out guidance for businesses on insistent clients. 
In COBS 2.1.1R, it states that businesses must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client. Id therefore have expected Portal to have 
acted in this way. Whilst businesses are allowed to carry out business for insistent clients, 
they must ensure their client understands the consequences of going against the advice 
theyre given. Id usually expect to see a written acknowledgment from the consumer, in their 
own words, acknowledging that the transfer isnt in accordance with the advisers 
recommendation and that its being carried out at their request. 
The 13 January 2017 letter I referenced earlier explained to Mr D what the term insistent 
client meant. It said: We appreciate that insistent client is a bit impersonal. It is a phrase 
all financial advisers must use to describe a client who instructs them to continue even 
though it is against their advice. 
Portal have also shared a copy of Mr Ds declaration form. The form contained details of the 
benefits Mr D would be giving up if he carried out the transfers on an insistent client basis. 
The form contained the following typed sentence: I understand that Portafina has 
recommended that I do not transfer my policies with [pension scheme names] due to the 
benefits I will be giving up if I do. If I wish to proceed with the transfer then I am aware that I 
will be treated as an insistent client. Mr D signed this form on 11 February 2017.
Based on the documentation Ive seen, Im satisfied that Portal made Mr D aware of the 
basis on which he would have to carry out the transfers. And, as I consider that the 
explanation of the term was clear, I cant reasonably agree that Mr D didnt understand what 
it meant. 
Through his CMC, Mr D said that Portal didnt do what the regulator required them to do. He 
said that the declaration form was pre-written and the insistent client information was given 
to him too early in the process. 
The declaration form doesnt appear to be in Mr Ds own words and seems to have been 
pre-written. But the fact find showed that Mr D had no other options available to him to raise 
cash. He had no other assets and didnt want debt. And he had no savings or net disposable 
income at that time. So Im satisfied that he approached Portal with the aim of accessing the 
cash from his defined benefit pensions. I also note that pre-written disclaimers were only 
specifically referred to in the rules at COBS 9.5A which are applied to transactions after 
January 2018. This is after Mr D received advice. And based on the evidence provided by 
both Mr D and Portal, and considering our investigators conversation with Mr D about what 
he remembered about the insistent client process, Im satisfied that the wording used in the 
declaration form reflected what Mr D wanted and what the fact find had reported. 
Our investigator noted that the insistent client information was given to Mr D earlier than it 
shouldve been.  It was sent to him in the 13 January 2017 letter, before hed been sent the 
Suitability Report. That report outlined all the risks and warnings about the potential transfer. I agree with our investigator that giving Mr D the insistent client information BEFORE hed 
had the opportunity to discuss the full recommendation wasnt best practice. Portal had 
effectively already told Mr D how he could get round their recommendation before theyd 
discussed it with him. However, given what Mr D told this service about his intentions at the 
time of the advice, and what he understood at that time, Im satisfied that Portal did do 
enough to establish Mr D as an insistent client. 
Ive also considered if Portal followed the process Id have expected them to follow for an 
insistent client. Where a consumer is treated as an insistent client, the business first must 
give suitable advice. I consider that they did give suitable advice when they told Mr D that it 
would be against their recommendations to transfer. But given Mr Ds intention to access his 
pensions  I can see why he wanted to ignore that advice. Having looked at the 
documentation provided, I consider that the risks of not following Portals advice were 
explained in detail. 
Based on what Ive seen Im satisfied Mr D truly was an insistent client. And although Portal 
did assist Mr D in carrying out the transfers, I dont consider that they recommended them 
until it became clear that he was an insistent client. 
Other issues raised by the CMC
Through his CMC, Mr D said that if Portal had undertaken an adequate fact-find of his 
circumstances at the time, setting out clearly why they advised against the transfer, he may 
have decided not to transfer. Mr D said he had a bank loan of £3,500 at the time of the 
advice. And that when he was made redundant he received £5,000. He said the redundancy 
money couldve been used to pay off the debt. He noted that Portal didnt record that hed 
been made redundant and had no other income. He therefore felt that Portal didnt have a 
good understanding of his circumstances at the time.
The fact find Portal carried out stated that Mr D was taking home £1,300 each month from 
work and had a debt of around £1,500. This is clearly at odds with the new information that 
Mr D had been made redundant before he received the advice. And that he had a bank loan 
of £3,500. I cant know for sure whether the fact find correctly recorded what Mr D told the 
adviser at the time of the advice. But Im not persuaded that it wouldve failed to record that 
Mr D had been made redundant. Or made up a gross monthly earnings figure. And 
purposefully reduced the size of Mr Ds bank loan. So Im not persuaded that Portal didnt try 
to fairly reflect Mr Ds circumstances at the time. Im also satisfied that if the fact find had 
recorded the redundancy and the bigger loan, this wouldnt have changed either the advice 
or what happened after it. The transfer values would still have been poor value. And Mr D 
wouldve had even more need to access his pensions.
Through his CMC, Mr D also said that the advice he was given in the Suitability Report was: 
confusing, contradictory and misleading. He said that page 14 of that report stated: Please 
remember, to make a recommendation to transfer we have to be totally confident this is in 
your best interests. But that Portal then said they didnt recommend the transfers. And had 
instead treated him as an insistent client.
I've looked at page 14 of the Suitability Report. While it does make the statement Mr D noted 
in relation to the cost of the advice, that page needs to be read alongside the rest of the 
report. Portal made the following statement in four different places in the report:We have already recommended that you do not access your [pension scheme names] 
pension policies early by taking more than your tax free cash entitlement and instead leave 
your pension funds where they are because of the benefits you will be giving up. However, 
you have decided to disregard this recommendation and are aware that as a result we must 
now treat you as an insistent client. 
This statement is made on pages 4,8,10 and 15. Therefore Im satisfied that when page 14 
is read in alongside the rest of the report, the message is clear.
Should Portal have transacted the business, and would it have made a difference if it didnt?
Mr Ds CMC has said that, on the basis that the transfer wasnt in his best interests, it 
shouldnt have allowed the transfer to proceed, even on an insistent client basis. And I think 
its arguable that there may be certain situations in which it might be so clearly contrary to an 
individuals best interests that a professional financial business shouldnt facilitate the 
transfer, even on an insistent client basis.
Ive given this careful thought, and on the face of it, the proposed uses of the pension funds 
once Mr D had transferred may not have been of such importance that they would justify Mr 
D relinquishing the guaranteed scheme benefits. But I dont think I can say that the proposal 
was so extreme and obviously against Mr Ds best interests that, beyond advising against 
the transfers, Portal should have declined to facilitate the business altogether.
But even if a different interpretation of the above point was possible, I would still then need 
to consider whether Mr D would in any case have taken a different course of action had 
Portal declined to transact the business.
Having done so, Ive not been able to conclude that Mr D wouldve taken a different course 
of action. I say this because Mr D told this service that he needed the money to pay off some 
debts, as well as the reasons he gave Portal. He also told this service he had no other 
money at the time of the advice. And that he didnt have any other options to get the money 
he needed. Overall, and based on the available evidence, a fair and reasonable assessment 
of the case has led me to the conclusion that Im not going to uphold the complaint or ask 
Portal to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman