DRN-4036002
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy with the way that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) have treated her. Mrs R 
believes that BoS should have charged a rate of 0.84% above Bank of England base rate for 
the entire term of her 20-year term mortgage. She said this was only applied for three years 
and she has then been charged BoS standard variable rate which has historically been 
much higher. 
Mrs R is also unhappy that BoS have commenced legal action against her due to the level of 
arrears on her mortgage. She said that BoS have been sending correspondence to an 
incorrect address and as a result, they havent complied with the pre-action protocol before 
starting legal action. 
Mrs R would like BoS to offer her a better interest rate instead of seeking to take possession 
of her property. 
What happened
Mrs R took out a buy to let mortgage with BoS in April 2008. The mortgage was taken out for 
£569,500 plus £11,390 fees which were added to the loan giving a total borrowing of 
£580,890. The mortgage was taken out on an interest only basis for a term of 20 years. 
The interest rate was initially set at 0.84% above BoS base rate which was 5.20% at the 
time. 
Mrs R brought a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service in 2014 about the interest 
rate which was applied to her mortgage. She believed that the rate of 0.84% was for the 
lifetime of her mortgage and not for a set period of time. 
An Ombudsman here issued a final decision on the matter where they didnt uphold the 
complaint and they said the mortgage offer was clear that the tracker element of the 
mortgage was only set for three years. 
Mrs R said she has recently made a subject access request to BoS and has said she has 
uncovered evidence which means the previous final decision was incorrect  so she would 
like this matter looked into again. She has also complained about the way BoS have treated 
her over the years and raised significant concerns and issues that she has had. 
So Mrs R brought another complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service which was looked 
at by one of our investigators. 
The Investigator didnt agree that we should look into the same concerns again about the 
interest rate  as an Ombudsman had already issued a final decision. He explained to Mrs R 
that we now only have access to the final decision due to the passage of time, and not the 
documents that the Ombudsman relied on at the time, but the Investigator was satisfied that 
the Ombudsman would have considered the available evidence that they had at the time. 
He also noted that in May 2017, Mrs R reached a settlement agreement with BoS following a 
dispute which began when they tried to take possession of her property a few years earlier in 
2014. The settlement was reached in mediation prior to the dispute being heard in court. So 
he didnt think we would be able to consider any points Mrs R made about events prior to 
May 2017. 
The Investigator considered the arguments that Mrs R made regarding how BoS treated her 
from May 2017, including Mrs R saying that BoS have been writing to her at an incorrect 
address, and he didnt find that BoS had acted unreasonably  so he didnt uphold the 
complaint. 
Mrs R disagreed with what the Investigator said. She responded at great length as to why 
she disagreed. I will summarise the points she has made below. Mrs R said:
BoS should have charged 0.84% above the Bank of England base rate and not 
0.85% (which is what the Investigator had originally said). 
The contemporaneous notes she received from BoS show a number of issues with 
the maintenance of the mortgage account, so she doesnt agree that BoS have the 
right to seek possession action without any communication and without being able to 
justify what was charged to the mortgage account. 
She would like the Financial Ombudsman Service to consider every issue that she 
has raised. She doesnt accept that we should pick and choose what we consider.
Mrs R believes that her interest rate should have been 0.84% above Bank of England 
base rate and in BoSs possession application, they got this figure wrong twice. She 
said that if the interest rate figure quoted is wrong, then by default the interest rate 
charged must also be wrong and needs a thorough review. 
She disagrees that we are able to dismiss a complaint on the basis that considering 
the merits of a complaint may seriously impair the operation of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. She said she has provided new crucial evidence that was 
never disclosed so we need to look at the complaint again.
She has expressed clear concerns about the objectivity and actions of the previous 
Ombudsman, such as their failure to consider all evidence which suggests a bias 
towards BoS.
The settlement agreement from May 2017 is silent on the interest rate matter which 
is current and live and predates 2017 so needs considering. 
She has been provided with clear evidence that BoS changed the mortgage product 
without her permission. The evidence of changes are having multiple mortgages, 
some interest only, some repayment and the change to the mortgage from a buy to 
let to residential. This isnt something that should happen. 
BoS always knew she was living in the property as they handed her back the keys in 
2014. She was never told she couldnt live in the property. Her property is her home 
and residential address and BoS have always been aware of this. 
She has tried to request a review or change the rate she was on, but BoS refused 
this due to the arrears on the mortgage.
She believes that based on the evidence she now has, BoS had information and 
evidence to suggest where she was living yet they decided to deliberately write to her 
at an incorrect address. 
She disagrees that BoS are entitled to commence legal proceedings against her. She 
said that if BoS cannot substantiate their assertion of a certain amount of arrears 
then they cannot start legal proceedings. They havent communicated with her or 
made any attempt to demonstrate that she owes them anything. 
She said she couldnt remortgage because the new lender needed to see account 
details. She had a good credit rating, and it was because BoS hadnt put anything on 
the credit files which caused the issue in the first place. It is her suspicion that BoS 
set up a new mortgage account and changed it to a different one. Mrs R finally said There is substantial evidence and documentation that, in my view, 
provides evidence that the bank have acted inappropriately in the way they have managed 
my mortgage. They applied incorrect interest rates and monthly amounts, created incorrect 
arrears, created additional and different mortgages, failed to discuss options regarding 
arrears and refused to consider different rates. Appointed receivers, they hid documents and 
deleted others creating blank pages, they created fake evidence and seem to have had an 
inappropriate relationship with the previous investigator, failed to get the interest rates right 
and failed to contact me or provide detailed statements and or any statements.
As Mrs R disagreed with the Investigator, she asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
Ombudsman, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have already issued a decision explaining which parts of the complaint I am able to 
consider in a separate decision. I explained that I would not be able to consider anything to 
do with the mortgage interest rate that Mrs Rs mortgage was set at, or anything prior to the 
settlement agreement in May 2017. This decision will solely focus on what has happened 
since May 2017 and the fact that Mrs R doesnt feel she has been treated fairly by BoS.
Ive taken into consideration everything that Mrs R has said, and I know she feels very 
strongly about her complaint. She has provided detailed comments in support of her views 
which I can confirm Ive read and understood in their entirety. However, I trust that Mrs R will 
not take the fact that my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and that 
they are expressed in considerably less detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision 
isnt to address every point raised. The purpose of my decision is to set out my conclusions 
and reasons for reaching them. 
Mrs R has raised various concerns about how BoS have treated her since May 2017, as 
detailed above. She doesnt think her mortgage account has been handled correctly and 
thinks that BoS have been making changes to her mortgage when they shouldnt have been. 
Mrs R took out a buy to let mortgage and she believes that it has since changed to a 
residential mortgage. Having looked at everything I have available to me, I havent seen 
anything that makes me think this mortgage has been changed to a residential one. The 
investigator that dealt with the case also checked with BoS who confirmed the mortgage is 
still set as a buy to let. BoS said they do not have the facility where mortgage customers can 
change mortgage schemes i.e., from residential to buy to let or vice versa. They said the 
only exception they have to this is where a residential customer may want temporary 
consent to let. But as Ive said, Ive seen nothing that shows Mrs Rs mortgage account has 
been amended. 
Mrs R doesnt want BoS to take possession of her property and she would like them to offer 
her a new interest rate instead. 
The rules relating to how lenders should treat customers experiencing financial difficulties 
are different for buy to let customers from those for borrowers who have residential 
mortgages. For residential borrowers, lenders have to treat possession as a last resort 
because those borrowers are actually living in their property so there is more protection built 
into the rules for those individuals. However, with buy to let mortgages, this isnt the case as 
the borrower shouldnt be living in that property as they bought it with the purpose of letting it 
out  meaning there is less protection.
Mrs R has argued that BoS were aware she was living in the property as they handed the 
keys back to her in 2014 when BoS previously tried to take possession of the property. She 
said that the property was her home and her residential address and BoS have always been aware of this. Like I have said, I have only looked at what has happened since May 2017 
and I cant say that BoS have amended the mortgage account to show its a residential one. 
It may be that BoS were aware that Mrs R was living in the property but that doesnt mean 
that they amended the mortgage scheme - considering they said they are unable to do this 
anyway. Part of this issue is about where BoS were writing to Mrs R and I will come on to 
this shortly. 
Mrs R has said she would like a new interest rate product. Broadly speaking, lenders arent 
required or expected to proactively offer new interest rates to borrowers  its for the 
borrower to request a new rate if they would like one. This situation changes slightly when a 
borrower is in financial difficulties and contacts the lender to discuss their situation. We 
would then expect a lender to look at different options to try and help and support a borrower 
 and offering a new interest rate may be one of these options.
I have taken a look at the contact notes that have been provided by BoS. Having looked at 
these notes, I cant see any record of any conversations between Mrs R and BoS during the 
period of 2017 to late 2021 so there wouldnt have been any opportunities for BoS to offer a 
new mortgage interest rate. 
Mrs R has said that she did ask for a new interest rate, but BoS refused her one because of 
the arrears on the mortgage. Like I have already mentioned, I havent seen any evidence in 
BoSs records of Mrs R asking for a new interest rate, but even if she had, the level of 
arrears on the mortgage are likely to have meant that BoS wouldnt have offered her a new 
interest rate. This is because the arrears were already at a significant level and changing the 
interest rate wouldnt have had a positive impact which would have meant the arrears could 
or would have been cleared.   
There havent been any payments to the mortgage account between February 2020 and 
January 2022 and from what I can see, as of January 2022 the arrears were £74,502.56. I 
can see from the records provided by BoS that they made numerous attempts to try and 
contact Mrs R by telephone to discuss the situation. They also sent a field agent on at least 
two different occasions to the property that Mrs R confirmed she was living at. 
Mrs R has raised concerns surrounding the address as she said that BoS wrote to her at an 
incorrect address. BoS have disputed this and said that they have been writing to the correct 
address which Mrs R had provided, and this was her daughters address. They said they 
were notified of a change of address in September 2021 which was amended on Mrs Rs 
records but nothing prior to that.  If Mrs R had notified BoS that she had changed her 
address, then its usual for them to have amended the address to ensure they have correct 
contact details  but BoS said that the address they were writing to and sending the field 
agents to  was the address they had on file.  
Having looked at what has been provided, the address that BoS held for Mrs R was the 
address they were writing to her at. Once the address was amended in September 2021, I 
can see that this was then the address that was used after this date.  BoS appear to be 
sending field agents to the address they thought Mrs R was living at. Mrs R feels that BoS 
shouldnt be starting legal proceedings if she hasnt been notified correctly that they intend to 
do so. But like Ive said, I cant see that BoS were writing to an incorrect address based on 
where they thought that Mrs R was living at the time  and what was on their records. 
Even if there was an issue with the address and BoS didnt amend their records, I dont think 
this means that they have acted unfairly in the way they have handled things. 
Mrs R hasnt made any payments to her mortgage for two years  she would have been 
aware of this and should understand the implications of not adhering to the mortgage 
contract that she entered into. She was sent mortgage statements and letters advising her of 
the arrears and also the terms of the mortgage that she entered into meant that a contractual 
monthly payment had to be made. Mrs R said that she didnt make any mortgage payments 
because she felt she had been overpaying on the mortgage because she was paying an incorrect interest rate. My previous decision covered off the point around the interest rate 
and I explained that it had already been decided by an Ombudsman here previously that the 
interest rate that Mrs R was charged on her mortgage was correct.  Nevertheless, Mrs R 
entered into a mortgage agreement with BoS where monthly payments should have been 
made to the mortgage.  BoS have a responsibility to try and bring the mortgage back on 
track so I cant find that they have acted unreasonably in these circumstances.    
Due to the lack of contact from Mrs R and the significant arrears on the mortgage account, 
BoS decided to start legal proceedings to take possession of the property. As this is a buy to 
let property, the pre-action protocol doesnt in fact apply. For context, if they did apply, pre-
action protocols explain the conduct and set out the steps the court would normally expect 
parties to take before proceedings for particular types of civil claims. The pre-action protocol 
requires a lender to normally only start a possession claim if all other reasonable attempts to 
resolve the situation have failed. So in these circumstances, I cant find that BoS have acted 
unfairly or unreasonably. 
Moving forwards, we would still expect BoS to give fair consideration to any proposals that 
Mrs R puts forward to them, in order to repay the arrears on the mortgage. BoS have 
confirmed that Mrs R should now deal with their legal team as they have now commenced 
legal proceedings. 
Mrs R has also said that her options are now very limited because of the information that 
BoS have reported against her credit file. There are significant arrears which have accrued 
over the years and BoS have a responsibility to report accurate information to credit 
reference agencies about how her account has been managed. The evidence provided 
shows that Mrs R hasnt made any mortgage payments to the account for a considerable 
amount of time, so I cant say that BoS have acted unreasonably here.
In addition to this, Mrs R has said that while she understands that BoS had to report this to 
the credit reference agencies, she believes her mortgage account didnt exist because she 
had a good credit rating at one point. She said she wanted to remortgage and she couldnt 
because the new lender needed to see her mortgage details  which were missing on the 
credit report. She believes that BoS cancelled her mortgage and her suspicion is that they 
set up a new one which is what was causing the issue. 
I havent seen any evidence that BoS cancelled or withdrew her mortgage or that they in fact 
set up a new one without her knowing. The mortgage that is present is the one that is in 
significant arrears. I know Mrs R has very strong feelings about this  but I cant agree that 
BoS have changed her mortgage without her knowing. 
I understand that Mrs R will be disappointed with my decision, but Im satisfied that BoS 
have acted fairly in these circumstances, so I wont be upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman