DRN-4362811
The complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc mishandled his chargeback claim.
What happened
In or around December 2021 Mr S entered into a contract with a merchant for the supply and 
installation of a costal unit heat pump, a 250L solar cylinder, a 10-year parts and labour 
warranty and other works. A schedule of work was signed, and the work was due to 
commence in January 2022. Mr R made an initial payment of £8,712.15 with a final payment 
of £5,937.51 to be made once the work had been completed.
The merchant undertook the work but there were issues with their service/quality of work. 
These included that the wrong heat pump was installed, a 210L cylinder pump was fitted and 
Mr R says he wasnt provided with the parts and labour warranty. 
Mr R made a complaint to an alternative dispute resolution service (ADR) which was able 
to deal with a complaint about the supply, installation and service directly with the merchant. 
In March 2022 the ADR issued a report that set out what the merchant needed to do to put 
things right which was signed by both Mr R and the merchant. This report also stated that Mr 
R needed to pay a final instalment to the merchant of £5,360 following a deduction for 
damage that had been sustained to carpets and a bench belonging to Mr R. Mr R paid this 
amount with his visa credit card held via HSBC.
Mr R says that the merchant didnt then follow the recommendations of the ADR service. He 
therefore made a chargeback claim for the £5,360 to HSBC. HSBC credited this amount 
back to Mr Rs credit card account and raised a chargeback under the merchandise/services 
not received reason code. The merchant challenged the chargeback saying that it had 
installed everything and had provided a 10-year warranty. It said that in respect of a 10-year 
parts warranty from the manufacturer, that the manufacturer only provided as standard a 
three-year warranty and it would cost £500 to go to the maximum warranty period offered by 
them which Mr S could pay. The merchant said they didnt offer anything more than the 
standard manufacturer parts warranty for these units and that it wasnt in Mr Rs contract to 
be provided with a 10-year manufacturers warranty. They also contested that the extended 
manufacturers warranty would cost the amount of the chargeback.
Having received the response from the merchant, HSBC contacted Mr S and informed him 
of what had been said. Mr S provided a detailed challenge of his own. HSBC decided it was 
unable to take the chargeback further and notified Mr S of its decision in December 2022. 
Unfortunately, Mr S didnt receive this letter and only became aware of it when his credit 
card account was again debited for the £5,360 amount.
Mr S complained to HSBC about its decision. It provided its final response letter setting out it 
had been unable to uphold his complaint because the goods were in his possession and 
although it was the wrong heat pump this was to be replaced once back in stock at a later 
date and that the warranty had been extended. HSBC said that if that wasnt the case then 
Mr S could seek independent advice.
HSBC passed Mr Ss claim to its section 75 claim team and opened a claim for him.
Mr S made a complaint to this service in December 2022. Following his complaint there were 
a number of developments. These included the merchant installing the correct heat pump 
and Mr S raising another issue with the other ADR service. The ADR service has issued a 
new settlement agreement between Mr S and the merchant which Mr R is happy to accept. 
However, Mr S says he remains unhappy at HSBCs handling of his chargeback claim and 
he would like this service to continue to investigate that.
Our investigator recommended that Mr Ss complaint should be partially upheld. He said that 
chargeback claims werent guaranteed to succeed, and they could be challenged and 
defended by the merchant/retailer. If a retailer put up a valid defence, then he said he 
wouldnt expect a bank to take a chargeback claim further.
Here, our investigator said there was a relatively complex situation as it was contested as to 
what had been installed, what was outstanding and what Mr S had paid for using his credit 
card. Our investigator said Mr S had only paid the last instalment via his card, the larger 
portion of the cost had been paid via a different method. He said no breakdown as to what 
had been covered by this final amount had been provided.
Our investigator said he thought HSBC had acted reasonably when it decided not to proceed 
with the chargeback claim. He said that HSBC had then considered a claim for Mr S under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. However, our investigator said that as another 
ADR service had put a resolution in place it would be reasonable for HSBC to see if the 
merchant acted in accordance with that to resolve the dispute. 
Our investigator said that although HSBC had acted reasonably in considering the two 
processes it could follow to assist Mr S, he thought HSBC could have acted faster despite 
the complexity. The delay had caused Mr S frustration. He said it would be fair for HSBC to 
pay Mr S £200 as compensation for its handling of his claim.
HSBC has agreed with the view of our investigator, but Mr S has disagreed. He says that 
HSBC had many lapses in the way it handled his claim. He says it shouldnt have accepted 
the warranty as the manufacturers parts and labour warranty as it was for workmanship only 
meaning it hadnt checked the documents. Mr S says HSBC also hadnt checked that he had 
the correct item in his possession and that the correct unit was in stock and so available. 
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue for me to consider here is whether HSBC has handled Mr Ss claim for 
reimbursement of the final payment of £5,360 fairly. Im not looking at the actions of the 
merchant. And I also cant seek to enforce the settlement agreements recommended by 
the other ADR service. I, like HSBC must look at the contract that had been entered into 
between Mr S and the merchant.
Mr S made a chargeback claim for the final instalment he had paid after he had made a 
complaint with the other ADR service, and it had issued a suggested settlement which 
both Mr S and the merchant had signed. Mr S says that the merchant didnt keep to either 
the terms of the contract between them or to all of the terms of the settlement agreement. 
However, the signing of the settlement agreement by the merchant does, I think, show that there was some acknowledgement by the merchant that there were issues that 
needed to be resolved.
A chargeback is a process that involves the card issuer disputing payments made on a 
card through a dispute resolution scheme operated by the companies which run the card 
networks, here that is Visa. It allows customers to ask for a transaction to be reversed if 
there's a problem with the goods or services they've paid for. There's no automatic right 
to a chargeback and it isnt a guaranteed method of getting a refund. A consumer cant 
insist that their card provider attempts a chargeback, but this service would expect a card 
provider to do so as a matter of good industry practice if there was a reasonable prospect 
of the chargeback succeeding.
A chargeback can only be for the amount thats been paid, so that would mean Mr S 
couldnt seek reimbursement for anything outside of that amount, such as interest or 
compensation. 
Ive seen that HSBC raised a claim under merchandise/services not received. It also 
credited the amount in dispute back to Mr Ss credit card account while the claim was 
being considered.
Under the chargeback scheme a merchant/retailer is able to defend a claim and Ive seen 
that the merchant informed HSBC that it was contesting Mr Ss claim. They said the 
goods/services and warranty had or would be provided as per the contract. (There 
appears to have been acceptance that the wrong heat pump had been provided and that 
this would be rectified when the unit was available  which it later was). They disputed that 
there was an agreement to provide a 10-year manufacturers warranty and said that 
wasnt part of the contract. HSBC informed Mr S what the merchant had said, and he 
provided a response. 
While I appreciate Mr S disagrees with what the merchant has said, Ive seen that the 
situation was complicated. Ive seen there had been a contract for the supply and 
installation of a number of items plus the provision of a 10-year parts and labour warranty, 
but I havent seen that it was set out in that schedule of works that this would be a 
manufacturers warranty. Ive also seen that the total contract price was over £14,000 and 
although there was a schedule of work, there was no itemising as to the costs for the work 
or the items supplied. The payments made by Mr S werent allocated to particular items 
being supplied or works carried out. So, I dont think it was clear what the £5,360 payment 
had been for in respect of which goods or services that hadnt been received by Mr S.
Mr S says that HSBC should have done more than accept the merchants view, but I think 
its likely that HSBC had considered what both parties had said. This wasnt a 
straightforward claim of services/items not supplied and HSBC decided not to take the 
case further which it was entitled to do. As set out above, my role isnt to second-guess 
Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules but to determine whether the regulated card 
provider (here thats HSBC) had acted fairly. And I think given the contested evidence, 
that the merchant said they would be fitting the correct heat pump and the overall 
complexity of the situation including the disagreement at to the cost of any manufacturers 
warranty, that HSBC had acted reasonably in deciding that Mr Ss chargeback claim was 
likely to be unsuccessful and so it wouldnt take it further.
I appreciate Mr S was upset to discover his chargeback claim had failed by discovering 
the amount had been debited from his credit card account rather than receiving a letter 
from HSBC first. But I dont think HSBC deliberately didnt inform him, I dont know why he 
didnt receive the letter that it said it sent.
HSBC then opened a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 for Mr S. I understand from the evidence thats been provided that in April 2023, HSBC advised Mr S 
it didnt think it could assist him further as it couldnt establish whether there had been a 
breach of contract. However, I havent considered the section 75 claim in my decision for 
two reasons. Firstly, I havent seen that Mr S has complained to HSBC about its decision 
(if that has been finalised) to decline his section 75 claim. And secondly, Ive seen that Mr 
S had made a further complaint to the other ADR service and they have issued another 
settlement agreement which Mr S felt would resolve the outstanding issues with the 
merchant. If that is the case, then a section 75 claim wouldnt add anything for Mr S. 
However, should this not be the case then Mr S can ask HSBC to consider the matter 
again under section 75 since it would appear that this ADR service has found that there 
was a breach of contract.
While I think that the decision of HSBC in respect of Mr Ss chargeback claim was 
reasonable, I agree with our investigator that it could have dealt with things in a more 
timely way. I appreciate that things were changing with works being undertaken by the 
merchant and the input from the other ADR service, but I think Mr S has been caused 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience waiting for HSBC to deal with his claim. I think 
compensation of £200 is appropriate for its handling of Mr Ss claim.
I appreciate my decision will be of disappointment to Mr S, but for the reasons given Im 
partially upholding Mr Ss complaint.
Putting things right
Im asking HSBC to pay Mr S £200 compensation for its handling of his claim for 
reimbursement of £5,360.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im partially upholding Mr Ss complaint. Im asking HSBC UK 
Bank Plc to pay Mr S £200 compensation for its handling of his claim to be reimbursed the 
amount of £5.360.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman