DRN-3655110
Complaint
Ms H has complained about a loan AvantCredit of UK, LLC (Avant Credit) provided to her. 
She says the loan was provided at a time when she was already struggling and couldnt 
afford the payments.
Background
Avant Credit provided Ms H with a loan for £3,100.00 in October 2015. This loan was due to 
be repaid in 60 monthly instalments of around £103. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Ms Hs complaint and she thought Avant Credit shouldnt 
have provided Ms H with this loan. So he thought that Ms Hs complaint should be upheld. 
Avant Credit didnt respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Ms Hs complaint. Having 
carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Ms Hs complaint. Ill explain why in a 
little more detail.
Avant Credit needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Avant Credit needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether    
Ms H could afford to repay any credit it provided. Our website sets out what we typically 
think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we 
think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Despite being provided with an extended period of time to do so, Avant Credit hasnt 
explained why it disagrees with our adjudicators assessment. I find Avant Credits lack of a 
response and its apparent disregard of its DISP 1 obligations to be extremely disappointing. 
Nonetheless, Ive looked at the information Avant Credit obtained when it provided this loan 
in an attempt to determine whether it made a fair lending decision. 
The information Avant Credit has provided suggested that it obtained information on Ms Hs 
income and some of her expenditure as well as carrying out a credit check. It looks like the 
amount Avant Credit arrived at for Ms Hs expenditure exceeded what was a low monthly 
income. So it seems to me that Avant Credit ought to have been aware from what it gathered 
that Ms H wouldnt be able to make the payments to this loan.
Furthermore, Im also concerned at the results of the credit check which shows that Ms H 
was already significantly indebted, bearing in mind the amount of the monthly income, and 
that she was using payday and other high-cost lending. And while theres some suggestion 
this loan might have been for debt consolidation, the amount didnt correspond to what Ms H 
owed. Its therefore unclear to me how or what was going to be consolidated and more 
crucially how this was going to improve Ms Hs financial position  especially as she also 
appears to have had no monthly disposable income. 
So Im persuaded by what Ms H has said about already being in a difficult financial position 
at the time. And while its possible Ms Hs credit file was showing what it did as a result of 
her choices rather than because she was struggling, Id add that my experience of these 
types of cases suggest this is unlikely, in the absence of any reasonable or plausible 
arguments from Avant Credit, Ive been persuaded to accept Ms Hs version of events. 
As this is the case, I think that Ms Hs lack of disposable income coupled with her existing 
debts meant that she simply wouldnt have been able to make the payments to this loan, 
without undue difficulty or borrowing further. So Im satisfied that Avant Credit ought to have 
realised that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Ms H. 
As Avant Credit provided Ms H with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to 
act fairly and reasonably towards her. 
Ms H has ended up paying (and is still being expected to pay) interest, fees and charges on 
a loan she shouldnt have been provided with. So Im satisfied that Ms H lost out because of 
what Avant Credit did wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Avant Credit needs to do to put things right for Ms H
Having thought about everything, Avant Credit should put things right for Ms H by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments Ms H made, to Avant Credit (and any debt purchaser since the account 
was sold), should be deducted from the new starting balance  the £3.100.00 
originally lent. If Ms H has already repaid more than £3,100.00 then Avant Credit 
should treat any extra as overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded 
to Ms H;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Ms H to the date of settlement
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, all adverse 
information Avant Credit recorded about this loan should be removed from Ms Hs 
credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Avant Credit to take off tax from this interest. Avant 
Credit must give Ms H a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for 
one.
Id also remind Avant Credit of its obligation to exercise forbearance and due consideration if 
it intends to collect on an outstanding balance, should one remain after all adjustments have 
been made to the account (should it buy it back from to third-party debt purchaser it sold her 
debt to), and its the case that Ms H is experiencing financial difficulty.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Hs complaint. AvantCredit of UK, LLC 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman