DRN-3428115
The complaint
Ms R complains that St Andrews Insurance Plc (St Andrews) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Ms R took out a hire purchase agreement to buy a car in September 2000. In October 2000 
she bought a PPI policy. The policy would have covered her repayments on the car if she 
couldnt work due to an accident or sickness and it would have paid off her outstanding 
agreement if she died. 
Ms R says she didnt need the policy. She says she remembers being told that it would help 
the decision making process (presumably in relation to her application for the hire purchase 
agreement) and her credit rating if she took the insurance and kept it for the term of the hire 
purchase agreement.
Ms R also complains that delays by St Andrews in dealing with her complaint meant that 
she couldnt make a separate complaint about the commission she paid on her policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Ms Rs complaint. Ms R disagreed, so her complaint has now 
been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding Ms Rs complaint. Having done so I am not upholding her 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Ms R didnt take out the PPI when she took out the agreement. She took it out by post just 
over two weeks later. St Andrews has supplied a copy of the application she completed and 
I can see that it doesnt suggest the policy is compulsory. It makes it clear Ms R had a 
choice to take it. 
Ms R says she couldnt remember how she took out the PPI but that she does remember 
being told it would help her credit application and credit rating if she bought and kept the 
policy for the term of the agreement. I cant know what separate conversations Ms R may 
have had about the PPI but I havent seen anything which supports this part of the 
complaint. And the application form doesnt contain any reference to this. The policy was 
taken out after the hire purchase agreement was made, so I dont think it would have had 
any impact on that. On balance, I think its more likely that Ms R chose to take the policy 
knowing it was optional.
St Andrews says it didnt give Ms R a personal recommendation to take out the policy. Ms R 
considers that it did. As the application was completed by post I think its more likely that no 
advice was given. So, St Andrews didnt need to make sure the policy was right for Ms R. 
But it did need to make sure it gave her enough clear, fair and not misleading information 
about the cover. 
Its possible St Andrews didnt do this  it is impossible to tell for sure over 20 years later. 
But even if St Andrews didnt do this, I dont think Ms R would have acted differently if she 
had all the details she needed. 
Ms R was eligible for the policy and wasnt affected by any of the terms which might have 
made it more difficult for her to make a successful claim. For example, she didnt have any 
existing medical conditions which may have been excluded from cover. 
Looking at the application form I think its clear what the cover was for, how much it cost and 
what it would pay out if Ms R made a claim. As St Andrews didnt provide her with any 
advice it was up to Ms R to decide whether she had a need for it and whether it provided 
value for money.  
So I dont think Ms R lost out as a result of anything St Andrews might have done wrong in 
relation to the sale of the policy. 
Ms R also complains that St Andrews delay in dealing with her claim prevented her making 
a separate complaint about the commission she says she paid on her policy. However, I 
have looked at that aspect of her complaint too. 
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about the 
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties. So, to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship provisions 
in the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which were added to 
the Consumer Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship provisions would only apply to credit agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
         
St Andrews has given me information that shows Ms Rs hire purchase agreement was 
taken out in 2000 and ended in 2004. So, based on what Ive said above, I dont think the 
unfair relationship provisions in the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment, or 
the rules and guidance made by the FCA in relation to the non-disclosure of commission 
apply here.
So St Andrews doesnt need to refund any of the commission Ms R paid for the PPI she had 
with her hire purchase agreement.
 My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. It follows that St Andrews Insurance Plc doesnt have to do 
anything further.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2022.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman