DRN-4421481
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with how MBNA Limited handled a claim he made about a transaction on 
his credit card.
 
What happened
The background facts are well known to the parties so I wont repeat them in detail  instead 
I will summarise these and focus on reasons for my findings.
Mr M bought a business class flight from an airline (the supplier) using his MBNA card. He 
says that:
 this was a mistake  he meant to buy an economy class ticket but the airline had put 
through the wrong fare; and
 when MBNA checked if he made the transaction he texted NO but they still let the 
transaction go through.
MBNA did not refund Mr M  they said he authorised the transaction and there wasnt 
persuasive evidence of a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier so it 
couldnt uphold a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75). 
However, it acknowledged some poor customer service on its part and offered Mr M £50 
compensation.
Our investigator felt that MBNA had acted fairly and did not uphold the complaint. 
Mr M has asked the matter to be looked at by an ombudsman. In summary, he says:
 he accepts he made the payment to the supplier for flights but when he was told it 
was declined it doesnt then permit further attempts for payments to be allowed  it 
should not have gone through and he did not authorise any other payment to the 
supplier;
 he questions why there were no additional security checks like a passcode or call to 
verify the payment;
 he questions several things such as why the payment was declined, when it was 
made to the supplier, if a second attempt was made, and the security (including IP 
address) checks carried out by MBNA before making the payment;
 he has lost money (via a cancellation charge for the tickets) and airmiles as a result 
of this dispute  he is also being charged interest on the payment made to the 
supplier which is the subject of this dispute.
The matter has come to me for a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this matter which said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be commenting on every submission made by the parties here  I have chosen to 
focus on the matters I consider relevant to this complaint. I also note the business has sent a 
number of call recordings but in my judgement as ombudsman I dont consider I need to 
listen to all of these to come to a fair outcome in the particular circumstances here. This isnt 
intended as a discourtesy but reflects my role in resolving disputes informally.
It is important to note that MBNA is not the supplier of flights  so I am looking at its role as a 
provider of financial services. Which includes its ability to look into disputes about card 
transactions, including raising a chargeback or considering a Section 75 claim.
Section 75
In certain situations Mr M can hold MBNA responsible for a like claim he might have against 
the supplier for breach of contract or misrepresentation in respect of the services it provides 
(as financed by the credit card).
There are certain criteria which must be in place for a valid Section 75 claim. That appears to 
be the case here. So in deciding if MBNA acted fairly in its claim handling I have looked at 
whether Mr M had persuasive evidence that the supplier had breached its contract or 
misrepresented it.
I can see that Mr M has described what occurred when he bought the tickets in a message 
he sent to the supplier. He describes wanting to use his airmiles before they expired at 
midnight and had several tabs open with different options including the economy and 
business class fare. However, he says he closed one of the tabs down and inadvertently 
booked the more expensive business class seat instead of the economy ticket.
Mr M said that he thinks he actually booked the economy fare and was charged for the 
business class due to some error on the website rather than a mistake of his own. But the 
supplier appears to have looked into this and has confirmed there was no error with its 
website. 
On balance I dont think this was an issue with the website. Particularly as in this situation it 
sounds that Mr M was under time pressure to make a booking to use his miles and had 
several tabs open at once. I also note the supplier had investigated and found no issue at its 
end with the system. I think it more likely than not this was human error. 
Overall, I dont think there is persuasive evidence that the supplier breached its contract with 
Mr M or misrepresented it. So I dont think MBNA acted unfairly in not upholding a Section 
75 claim. Chargeback
MBNA also could consider chargeback to help recover Mr Ms money. I have considered the 
chargeback scheme here (which I understand is Mastercard) when deciding if MBNA has 
acted fairly. It is a voluntary scheme which is not guaranteed to work  but it can be good 
practice to attempt one where there is a reasonable prospect of success.
It isnt entirely clear if MBNA considered a chargeback and chose not to raise one here or 
raised one and then discontinued it. But either way I dont think MBNA is mistaken for not 
taking the chargeback further. I say this because I dont think the chargeback had a 
reasonable prospect of success in any event.
The chargeback reason codes are quite limited and in this case there isnt a strong reason to 
use. I think something like service not provided doesnt really apply here as the tickets were 
provided. Furthermore, I dont think a chargeback for an unauthorised transaction is likely to 
have succeeded for reasons I go into below. 
I think that whatever reason code under the scheme MBNA had tried here it was likely to be 
defended by the supplier as it denies any wrongdoing  and from the evidence I have seen I 
am unable to fairly say that MBNA would have had a likely chance of recovering Mr Ms 
money had they pushed things further. So I dont think MBNA made an error in the way it 
handled the chargeback.
Authorisation
Mr M has made lengthy submissions in regard to the initial text information he got from 
MBNA to say the payment was declined and asking him to confirm if it were he who made 
the transaction. He says he responded NO so this should not have gone through.
Mr M has asked a lot of questions about how this could have been allowed to go and some 
of these questions relate to technical matters such as IP addresses and whether there was a 
second attempt at the transaction or not.
Ultimately I dont think I need to analyse the technical or fraud checking process behind the 
scenes at MBNA to decide what is fair and reasonable here. So I dont think I need to 
directly address Mr Ms questions about this process or look into what he was told about it. 
To me the relevant consideration here is that MBNA made some checks which eventually 
(whatever the technical process in the background may be) let the transaction through. And 
whether that was ultimately a mistake.
My finding is that (when you strip away the nature of the checks or the use of the terminology 
used during the process) this was ultimately the correct decision (not negligent as Mr M puts 
it) because Mr M did make the transaction. In fact, MBNA not allowing the transaction 
through is likely to have caused Mr M a degree of inconvenience in most other situations. 
However, I consider it has become a greater issue here only because Mr M booked the 
wrong ticket. It appears Mr M was hoping the transaction would not go through (Mr M himself 
says he felt big relief when he got MBNAs fraud prevention message) because he realised 
there was a mistake in the booking. When the security check came through asking if it was 
he whom made the transaction he answered NO  which ultimately wasnt factually 
accurate. So I dont consider it fair and reasonable to rely on this as a way of saying MBNA 
has made an error in allowing the transaction through.I think it is helpful to put to one side the booking error or the particular process of fraud 
prevention which MBNA chose to implement for the transaction here. Ultimately what this 
comes down to is whether MBNA failed to block a fraudulent/unauthorised transaction. 
However, here I am satisfied it let through a genuine transaction. So when looking at what is 
fair and reasonable I dont think it needs to refund Mr M. 
Customer service
It appears that Mr M is not happy with aspects of MBNAs customer service particularly 
around apparent lack of communication at times.
I think Mr M answering NO when asked if it was he whom made a transaction (which he 
actually made) didnt help the communication here, and probably contributed to the checking 
process taking longer than it should have. I also think this is a somewhat unusual situation in 
that Mr M was hoping a transaction he had authorised would then be declined for reasons 
unrelated to MBNA. Which I dont think would have been obvious to MBNA at the time and 
likely led to things taking longer.
However, I do accept MBNAs communication wasnt as good as it could have been. It 
appears Mr M wasnt called back at times - like when it promised to clarify the status of the 
payment, and he had several long call waits to try and speak with MBNA about was 
happening with the transaction.
I dont agree with our investigator that the £50 MBNA offered was just for complaint handling. 
But overall, I do think it is a fair amount of compensation to reflect the unnecessary distress 
and inconvenience caused to Mr M here.
I am sorry to hear about what Mr M says about the money and airmiles he has lost in relation 
to the flight booking. However, in light of my findings above I dont consider MBNA has acted 
in such a way that means it needs to refund him for these costs as well.
My provisional decision
I direct MBNA Limited to pay Mr M £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it 
caused.
Neither party responded to my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has given me cause to change my provisional findings here  so my final 
decision is the same.
Putting things right
MBNA should put things right as set out below for the reasons given in my provisional 
findings (as set out above).
My final decision
I direct MBNA Limited to pay Mr M £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it 
caused.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman