DRN-2538984
The complaint
Mr S complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited was wrong in the liability decision it 
reached when he was considering whether to make a claim on his motor insurance policy.  
What happened
On 14 September 2020, Mr S told Admiral that another driver had entered his lane and 
caused damage to his car. He said the other driver impliedly admitted liability when Mr S 
was recording videos of the damage and the location after the accident. One of Admirals 
advisors told Mr S on 26 September 2020 that shed viewed three of the five videos hed 
sent in (along with his statement and 13 photos). She said the videos didnt show the 
accident and that shed decided liability should be split 50:50 between the parties, both of 
whom were Admirals policy holders.
Mr S thought a fair decision couldnt be made if all the evidence hadnt been seen, and he 
also objected to the same claims handler dealing with both accounts of the accident. A 
manager later advised Mr S that the industry regulator allowed insurers to deal with both 
parties to a dispute as long as it dealt with them fairly. The manager agreed with the claims 
handlers decision even though she (the manager) hadnt seen two of the videos either.
 
One of our investigators considered Mr Ss complaint. He said as the video footage only 
showed what happened after the accident, it wasnt unreasonable for Admiral not to rely on 
it. He pointed out that both parties had given Admiral a different account of events and there 
was no independent evidence. And he noted that Admiral did eventually look at the two 
videos that initially couldnt be opened, but it made no difference to the outcome.
 
Mr S said the claims handler couldnt make a fair decision if she was dealing with both 
parties. He wanted to see the rules and regulations that allowed Admiral  to do that. He also 
said the other drivers admission of liability was on the video footage. The investigator said 
Admiral had a duty to treat all its customers fairly and there was nothing to show that it 
hadnt done so. As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the policy Admiral has the right to deal with any claim as it sees fit. We only interfere if 
we think an insurer has acted unreasonably. I dont think theres anything wrong in principle 
with an insurer dealing with the two parties involved in an incident. Most large insurance 
companies will have to do that on occasion. The industry regulator is the Financial Conduct 
Authority(FCA). It requires financial businesses to treat consumers fairly, so if Mr S objects 
to Admirals practices or the way it runs its business, its open to him to contact the FCA.  
In this case, Mr S said the other driver entered his side of the road, but the other driver 
disputed it. He said just after hed turned into the road where Mr Ss car was moving forward, 
close to the junction, Mr S moved his car into his path in order to get past a parked vehicle. 
He said he braked, but it was too late to avoid a collision. 
As Mr S didnt start filming until after the accident was over, I can see why Admiral thought 
the value of the footage was very limited. Mr S had told it that the footage didnt cover the 
accident. So I dont think it was unreasonable in these circumstances for Admiral to reach a 
decision before all of it was viewed. And the photos Mr S provided show the damage to the 
cars, and that they were close to the junction, but not what actually happened.
 
Mr S says the conversation he recorded in the videos shows that the other party was at fault. 
Admiral said the recording couldnt be used, because the other driver hadnt given his 
permission. But even if it could be used, according to Mr Ss account, I think there was very 
little in the conversations for Admiral to consider in terms of liability.
 
Mr S says the other driver didnt deny that the sun was in his eyes, when Mr S raised the 
issue whilst recording  but that he also said Mr S veered out (into his path). I dont think that 
amounts to an admission of liability. There was also a dispute about who moved their car 
backwards after the accident. I dont think thats relevant to liability for the crash, but Mr S 
thinks it shows the other driver in a poor light, as he changed his mind on the matter. 
Mr S also thinks that as the video evidence shows the other driver wanted to deal with the 
damage informally, it suggests he knew he was at fault. But it isnt unusual for consumers to 
want to deal with minor damage between themselves. There was relatively little damage to 
Mr Ss car and he later decided not to make a claim on the policy. The other driver didnt 
make a claim either. That meant after reporting the incident to Admiral (but not making a 
claim) both drivers kept their no claims discount. I think thats a major reason why some 
consumers want to avoid making a claim for minor damage.  
   
Taking everything into account, I dont think Admiral had a basis for concluding that the other 
driver was fully at fault for the accident. I understand why Mr S feels that it let him down, but 
I dont think it was unreasonable for Admiral to decide that liability should be shared in the 
circumstances here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman