DRN-3614235
The complaint
W, a limited company, complains DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited (DAS)
turned down a claim it made on its legal expenses policy. W is represented by Mr W.
What happened
W is a company providing specialist restoration services. In 2019 it was approached by a
customer (Mr B) who wanted repair work carried out on items that had been damaged. Mr B
made a claim on his own insurance policy for the work. W provided a quote for the first batch
of these items and it appears Mr B paid a deposit in March 2020.
Further work on a second batch of items was agreed the following month with the insurers
agent. The first set of items was returned in May 2020 and the second set were collected at
the same time. Relations between Mr B and W deteriorated in subsequent months and in
September 2020 Mr B (through his solicitors) applied for a court order to search Ws
premises and seize the remaining items it held.
W made a claim on the legal expenses insurance policy it held with DAS for assistance in
defending that claim. DAS turned this down because although Ws policy covered contract
disputes it didnt think this claim arose from a contract W had entered into with Mr B. Its
contract was with the insurers agent. And the claim particulars said it was being brought
under tort (not under contract) which isnt something the policy covered.
Our investigator initially said the contract disputes section of the policy wouldnt cover a
claim like this at all. Having considered further submissions from Mr W she acknowledged it
might but then questioned whether Mr W was an insured person under the policy and
whether an exclusion for breach of professional duty applied to a claim from him. Mr W didnt
agree with her on either point.
I reached a provisional decision on the complaint last month. In summary I said:
First, I dont think the question of whether Mr W is an insured person under the policy is the
key issue here. The policyholder is W. And it was W which made a claim for assistance on
its legal expenses insurance policy. I appreciate Mr W was involved with the circumstances
which led to that claim being made but he isnt seeking cover for himself; this is Ws
complaint and hes simply representing it in bringing it to our service.
I think the issue here is whether or not an insured event, as set out in the policy, has taken
place. Ive reviewed the policy terms and I agree the only insured event this claim could
potentially fall within relates to contract disputes. That term covers:
A contractual dispute arising from an agreement or an alleged agreement which has been
entered into by you or on your behalf for the purchase, hire, sale or provision of goods or
services
So if a contractual dispute arose from an agreement W had entered into with Mr B for the
provision for services then that would likely fall within this term. However, DASs position is
that the contract W had was with the insurers agent. But the claim thats been made against
it was from Mr B. It isnt therefore a contractual dispute arising from that agreement.
Ive carefully considered this point. There does appear to be some evidence that the contract
for the first set of items was between W and Mr B. It appears W provided a quote to Mr B, he
agreed to proceed on that basis and paid the agreed deposit. But the claim that was
subsequently made against W (and which it wanted assistance from DAS with) related to the
seizure of the items that were still in Ws possession. The first set of items had already been
returned to Mr B prior to that taking place.
So its the agreement for the second set of items that appears relevant here. I appreciate
Ws solicitors say that contract was also between W and Mr B. But I dont think DAS acted
unreasonably in concluding that wasnt the case. I appreciate theres some conflicting
statements about this but it does appear W negotiated the terms of this agreement with the
insurers agent, the agent agreed to those terms and it made the payment for the work. And I
can see Mr Ws view was clearly that the contract was with the agent because he said so in
an email in August 2020 I invoiced you for the balance after negotiating the matter with
youmy contract is with you.
Mr Bs solicitors did suggest otherwise as part of their claim. But again they dont provide
any supporting evidence. And theyve pursued the claim in tort rather than as a breach of
contract. Its unclear to me why they would have done that if they were satisfied there was a
contractual dispute in this case (and I note they were advised by counsel). Nor have I seen
other evidence to show either a direct contractual relationship exists between W and Mr B in
relation to the second set of items or that the insurers agent was acting on behalf of Mr B in
agreeing the contract.
Of course if W has additional information which demonstrates that is the case Id expect
DAS to review matters. And if W can evidence theres a contractual dispute relating to the
first set of items Id also expect DAS to consider that. But its for W to show an insured event
has taken place. Given the available evidence I dont think DAS acted unfairly in concluding
it hadnt done that to date.
Finally, our investigator also thought an exclusion for breach of professional duty might apply
to the claim W had made. Im not sure that is the case. I dont think the nature of Ws
business carries specific professional obligations; for example theres no regulatory
framework as there would be if it was a law firm or a medical practice. However, as I dont
think its shown an insured event has actually taken place under the terms of the policy that
isnt something I need to consider further.
Responses to my provisional decision
DAS agreed with my provisional decision. Mr W provided some further comments (on behalf 
of W). In summary he said:
Mr B originally approached W in December 2019 and a quotation was provided for work. 
W issued an invoice for that work in March 2020. Some of that remained outstanding and 
he didnt believe Mr B intended to pay it; 
In relation to the second set of items W was providing services for Mr B while being paid 
directly by the insurer which would infer a contract was in place between Mr B and W. And Mr B was due to make a direct contribution in relation to additional work relating to 
the second set of items which also suggested a contractual relationship;
There was a potential conflict of interest between W and Mr B as they were both insured 
by DAS. And he queried whether the proceedings against W might have been wrongly 
issued in tort as a result of that. 
So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive said there is some evidence the contract for the first set of items was between W and 
Mr B. And Mr W has now said Mr B was supposed to pay it direct for some additional works 
in relation to the second set of items. However, the claim that was made against W (and 
which it wanted assistance from DAS with) related primarily to the seizure of items that were 
still in Ws possession. 
Ive considered the comments Mr W has made as to why he feels there was a contract 
between W and Mr B in relation to those items (and so that claim). But I explained in my 
provisional decision why I wasnt persuaded that was the case. And Mr W hasnt provided 
any additional documentary evidence in support of his position on that. As I explained its for 
W to show an insured event has taken place. Given the available evidence it remains my 
view that DAS didnt act unfairly in concluding W hadnt done that in relation to the claim it 
was asked to consider. 
If W now wants to make a claim in relation to the first set of items (the amount that remains 
unpaid for these) it will need to provide evidence of a contractual dispute to DAS, If it can 
also evidence a separate contract with Mr B in relation to the second set of items (outside of 
the agreement it had with the insurers agent) that might also be a claim DAS could consider. 
But again it will need to provide that evidence to DAS. 
Mr W has also raised concerns about a possible conflict of interest and whether that 
impacted the way in which the claim was pursued by Mr Bs solicitors. But Ive seen nothing 
to suggest Ws case handlers at DAS had any contact about this case with anyone dealing 
with Mr Bs claim (and in fact made clear this wasnt relevant to the decision they were 
reaching). And solicitors have their own professional duties to act in the best interests of 
their client and, as Ive said, were advised by counsel on the progression of this case. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask W to accept or reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
James Park
Ombudsman