DRN-3363043
The complaint
Mr D complained about advice he was given to transfer the benefits of a defined-benefit (DB) 
occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He says 
The Matrix Model Group (UK) Ltd is responsible for the advice and that it was unsuitable 
for him. He believes this has caused him a financial loss.
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to Matrix. 
What happened
Mr D says that he was advised to transfer the benefits of his OPS to a SIPP, in 2009. 
However, the crux of this complaint is whether or not Matrix is responsible for this advice.
Theres no dispute in this case that Matrix had previously given financial advice to Mr D, or 
that Mr Ds relationship with Matrix continued in the years after 2009. However, Matrix 
denied it was responsible for providing Mr D with the advice about his pension transfer. It 
acknowledges it acted as a financial adviser to Mr D over a number of years, but points out 
that it had no permissions allowing it to carry out pension transfer advice of this nature. 
So, Matrixs case is that another company, which Ill refer to as Firm X, was responsible for 
providing this pension transfer advice. 
Matrix provided some documents from the time which it says proves Firm X was responsible. 
It says that Firm X carried out a fact-find and also gave a recommendation to transfer the 
OPS. 
Matrix does, however, acknowledge that some of the subsequent investments in Mr Ds 
SIPP were recommended by it. It also accepts there were some resultant losses from these 
investments. However, it says it came to a financial arrangement with Mr D in 2016 about 
this matter. Matrix says this was in full and final settlement and so this issue has been 
resolved. Matrix reiterated this issue relates to investments made in around 2011 and not the 
original advice to transfer out of Mr Ds OPS.
Mr D doesnt agree with Matrix. He says it was responsible for all the pension transfer advice 
as well; he says he only ever dealt with Matrix and no other firm was ever involved. 
Mr D has referred his complaint to our Service and one of our investigators looked into it. 
After doing so, they said that they too thought Matrix was not responsible for the pension 
transfer advice. The investigator pointed to some documents from the time that tended to 
support this view and they recommended that we shouldnt uphold the complaint against 
Matrix, because it wasnt responsible. They also noted the other firm is now no longer 
trading.
Mr D still doesnt agree with this. He says Matrix should be held responsible and has asked 
for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at the available information and evidence, I dont consider Matrix to be 
responsible for the pension transfer advice. 
Id like to start by saying I certainly dont doubt that Mr D is being anything other than honest 
when he says he cant recall the involvement of another firm. These events took place many 
years ago and I accept remembering details of meetings and individuals is not easy.
Theres no dispute here that in 2009 Mr D was advised to transfer out of his OPS. Nor is 
there any dispute that Mr D and Matrix reached an agreement in 2016 about losses which 
stemmed from investments made in or around 2011. And Mr Ds representative has 
specifically made it clear that his complaint now refers only to the original pension transfer 
advice from 2009.
We therefore asked both parties for all their recollections and documents from that time. Id 
like to assure Mr D that Ive studied all these things very carefully and also listened to a 
number of recorded telephone calls between our Service and Mr Ds representative. 
However, everything Ive seen points to another firm being responsible for the actual pension 
transfer advice. I refer first to Matrixs comments about it having no permission to carry out 
pension transfer advice in 2009. Matrix did not have permission from the FCA to advise on 
the transfer of defined-benefit occupational pension schemes. For this reason, it had an 
arrangement in place with Firm X, where Firm X would provide advice on the transfer of the 
occupational scheme and the client would be referred back to Matrix for ongoing advice if 
the transfer went ahead.
I also note that on 2 September 2009, Firm X wrote to Mr D. I was provided with a copy of 
the letter which explained it had been asked to carry out a suitability exercise about 
transferring from Mr Ds OPS. I note the address on the letter was Mr Ds home and so Ive 
no reason to suppose he didnt receive it. There was an accompanying report with this letter 
titled Pension Transfer Analysis which I think demonstrates that Firm X, rather than Matrix, 
carried this function out. This analysis contained various comparisons between Mr Ds OPS 
and a SIPP (or other private pension arrangement). Ive also seen evidence of an invoice for 
£650 showing that Firm X had charged for this pension transfer advice. I think these things 
form a solid basis for saying Firm X was responsible for providing Mr D with this advice. 
Next, I refer to a Suitability Report, dated 12 November 2009. This report came from Matrix, 
but it makes it clear, in my view, that it relates not to the transfer advice, but to the 
subsequent investments. I think its clear enough that, in relation to the transferring aspect, 
Mr D had been dealing with Firm X. A number of references were made in the report about 
advice Mr D had been given about his pension. To help demonstrate this, I set out below 
some examples in the report of why I think Firm X is responsible: 
[Firm X] has now completed a full assessment of the options available to you with 
respect to the possibility of transferring your preserved pension benefits. (page 2)
Please note the advice given in this report does not assess the suitability of such a 
transfer, and is based upon you having already made the decision to transfer 
(page 3)
The suitability of transferring the preserved benefits from your [pension] has been 
assessed in your report from [Firm X] which should be read carefully before any 
decision is made. (page 11)
The report went on to recommend only certain investments, rather than any details of the 
pension transfer. I think these things show that Firm X provided the pension transfer advice 
and so is responsible for it.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr D. Everything Ive seen does acknowledge he had a long history in 
dealing with Matrix. But Im afraid I think that Matrix was not providing that type of pension advice in 2009  and the documentation shows Mr D dealt with Firm X specifically for the 
transfer advice. 
In conclusion, I havent seen any evidence that it was Matrixs advice that ultimately led
to Mr Ds decision to transfer out of the OPS. Because of this, I dont consider it would be fair 
or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require Matrix to pay compensation to Mr D 
or to take any further action in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I am not upholding Mr Ds complaint against The Matrix 
Model Group (UK) Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman