DRN-3959397
The complaint
Miss B and Mrs B have complained about the service provided by Lloyds Bank General 
Insurance Limited (Lloyds) following a claim for water damage under their home insurance 
policy.
For the avoidance of doubt, Lloyds includes its representatives, loss adjusters and builders.
What happened
In August 2021 Miss B and Mrs B noticed a crack in the kitchen ceiling of their home and 
contacted Lloyds to seek advice. Shortly afterwards, Miss B reported the collapse of the 
kitchen ceiling to Lloyds. Following discussion with Lloyds, it instructed a loss adjuster who 
in turn, instructed a builder to review the damage. Miss B and Mrs B subsequently engaged 
the services of a builder on Lloyds recommendation. The builder considered that the 
damage had been caused by a leaking pipe below the bathroom floor. He said hed found 
two leaks which he repaired, and he replaced all the old pipes.
Lloyds requested Miss B and Mrs B to supply a report to specify the cause of damage from 
their builder, however they sent a video recording of the leak instead. Lloyds considered that 
the water damage had been caused by wear and tear due to failed sealant around the bath 
and declined the claim. Miss B and Mrs B complained about this decision, and also about 
the way in which Lloyds had spoken to Mrs B. They wanted Lloyds to reimburse them for the 
total repair costs and also wanted their kitchen ceiling to be repaired and their kitchen 
decorated by Lloyds. However, Lloyds considered that it had provided a fair outcome.
Miss B and Mrs B were unhappy with the outcome and made a complaint to this service. Our 
investigator initially agreed with Lloyds that the damage had been caused due to sealant 
failure and was solely a wear and tear issue, so not covered under the policy. Following 
receipt of additional information however, the investigator partially upheld the complaint and 
considered that leaking pipes had contributed to the damage. It was his final view that Lloyds 
should reimburse Miss B and Mrs B for the cost of replacing the ceiling joist affected by the 
leaking pipe. 
His reasoning in reaching this conclusion was that whilst he felt that Lloyds had shown that 
the main cause of damage to the joists was the failed sealant, with water travelling along the 
joists, the builders report explained that a cracked pipe had also been leaking and this had 
affected one of the joists. He said that Lloyds hadnt evidenced faulty workmanship or 
materials and this contention wasnt supported by the builders report. He wasnt persuaded 
that Miss B and Mrs B were aware of the leak prior to the ceiling collapse. He considered 
that Lloyds should reimburse Miss B and Mrs B for the cost of replacing the ceiling joist 
affected by the leak from the pipe, with Miss B & Mrs B to provide a breakdown of costs. 
Lloyds ultimately accepted the investigators view and agreed to consider the costs for the 
one joist. It offered £300 to Miss B and Mrs B in settlement of their claim (less the excess 
amount). Miss B and Mrs M were unhappy with the sum offered and said they were 
expecting the business to cover the whole outstanding balance of around £3,300. The matter 
has therefore been referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue for me to determine is whether Lloyds applied the terms and conditions of the 
policy in a fair and reasonable manner when it declined Miss B and Mrs Bs claim. My 
provisional conclusion is that Lloyds didnt act in a fair and reasonable manner in all 
respects. Ill summarise the submissions and evidence of the parties and then provide my 
reasoning for my conclusion.
Miss B and Mrs B said that when they first contacted Lloyds to ask for assistance, the ceiling 
had no obvious signs of water damage. Lloyds told them there wasnt much they could do 
until it got worse. Two days later, they said it did get worse, and the ceiling collapsed. Miss B 
and Mrs B said that Lloyds representative who inspected the damage had a cursory look 
and determined that the leak was caused by defective sealant around the bath and was not 
therefore covered by the policy. Miss B and Mrs B then engaged their own builder who took 
down the ceiling and found two pipe leaks and then replaced all the old pipes and took out 
the bath to make sure he hadnt missed anything. Miss B and Mrs B said theyd also 
provided video evidence of the leak which they considered should have been enough to 
prove the claim. Miss B accepted that she should have contacted the loss adjuster sooner, 
but thought Lloyds wouldnt have done anything until the pipes were fixed in any event. 
Miss B and Mrs B said that theyd tried to make their home safe, and the matters fixed that 
they didnt think would cause insurance problems. Theyd paid their home insurance in good 
faith, thinking their home would be covered for such events.  As to the service received, Miss 
B thought that Lloyds had spoken inappropriately to Mrs B and that theyd both been treated 
in an appalling manner. They said that the builder spent 20 minutes talking to Mrs B like she 
was some kind of idiot for wasting his time. Miss B and Mrs B also complained that they 
were left without a shower or bath in their home for nearly six weeks, for something that they 
thought would have been a days work for a building company. Both Miss B and Mrs B had 
to go to a local gym or friends for a shower during that period and Miss B said that this 
caused stress for Mrs B and affected her health.
In terms of documentary evidence, Miss B and Mrs B produced a copy of their builders 
invoice. It recorded that hed removed and replaced damaged pipes and rotten joists. He 
said that this was due to damaged pipes running through the joists. He stated that 
workmanship or faulty materials were not to blame and that the piping had been there for a 
number of years. The total cost of materials and labour amounted to nearly £3,300.
Lloyds provided its final response to Miss B and Mrs Bs complaint in October 2021. It said 
that the photographic evidence showed the sealant around the bath to be in a very poor 
state of repair and that its builders professional opinion was that the damage had been 
caused by the failure of this sealant. It said it asked for Miss B and Mrs Bs report as well as 
the damaged pipes to validate the claim but hadnt received these. Lloyds noted that there 
was water damage found between the bathroom floor and kitchen ceiling below, and also to 
the wall between the bathroom and bedroom. It concluded that the deterioration and lack of 
sealant around the bath had allowed water to enter behind the tiles and run down the wall 
onto the floor and joists. It noted that the damage was severe and has been ongoing for 
several years. This damage would not be considered under the policy terms and conditions.
It explained that the general exclusions in the policy meant that certain damage wasnt 
covered. Such excluded damage related to general maintenance, gradually operating 
causes, faulty workmanship, poor design, defective or inherently unsuitable materials or damage caused by the failure or lack of sealant and or grout. It noted Miss Bs video 
showing a small drip of water coming from a black pipe under the bathroom floor, however 
this doesnt show a constant leak as such, just water dripping from the pipe. This drip was 
not evident at the initial visit.
Lloyds also said that the customer mentioned that her builder had initially said that incorrect 
pipes had been installed and that the damage had been ongoing for several years. It said 
that if Miss B and Mrs B had provided the information it had requested, it could have 
contacted the builder to discuss matters in more detail. As it stands the customer has not 
substantiated the cause of damage from the black pipe, the drip can only be seen from one 
side of the pipe, the blind side, we don't know if water is coming through the floor then falling 
onto the pipe, or actually coming out of the pipe. 
Lloyds expert considered that the joist in question had been damaged by water coming 
through the sealant below the shower and said Water will travel along anything horizontal 
and impervious before gravity takes effect and the water collects to drip downwards. A pipe 
is a good example of such a surface. Water seeping along a pipe does not mean that the 
pipe is leaking. Ultimately however, Lloyds appeared to accept that there was a minor 
pipework leak although it barely touches one side of the joist. It considered that the 
damage to the joist was widespread and affected both sides and the underside of the joist, 
supporting the view of a more widespread water ingress from the bathroom above, rather 
than localised damage from a slow drip.
Lloyds apologised if Miss B and Mrs B felt that its representative had been rude although 
refuted the allegation and said that hed only given a view of what was covered under the 
policy and explained this by giving examples.
Lloyds case notes show that in mid-September 2021, Miss B e-mailed Lloyds loss adjuster 
informing him that the problem appeared to relate to the pipes and asked him to attend. The 
loss adjuster instead asked for her builders report and evidence and said he wouldnt attend 
until he'd received the report. Instead, Miss B sent the video showing the leak and stated 
that work was almost complete and sent details of how much had been spent and also said 
that she would send in the builders report. Lloyds had reiterated that plumbing wasnt 
covered by the policy and advised that invoices and/or receipts would be needed, not just a 
list of what had been paid. Lloyds considered the video to be insufficient and didn't explain 
the damage above floor level and said there was no evidence of pipe repair.
The terms and conditions of the policy are the starting point for my decision. The policy does 
cover escape of water as a peril. Under the heading of general exclusions however it refers 
to gradually operating causes and wear and tear It also states Examples of wear and 
tear includefailure of sealant and/or grout
Miss B and Mrs B were adamant that all the damage to the flooring, joists, electrics, and 
ceiling below the bath had been caused by pipe leaks and that this was confirmed by their 
builder. Lloyds was equally clear that all damage had been caused by the failure of sealant 
around the bath.
Having looked at all the evidence, including the video produced by Miss B and Mrs B and all 
photographic evidence, its clear that the sealant around the bath was in an extremely poor 
state of repair. It also appears from the photographs that a plastic panel had been used as a 
repair at some point which indicates that there was recognition of an issue with the tiling and 
sealant. In the circumstances, I consider that its very likely that the condition of the sealant 
would have led to water leaking into the walls and onto the floor and causing damage below 
the floor over a long period of time. Such damage caused due to defective sealant is clearly 
excluded from the Miss B and Mrs Bs policy, and this is a standard exclusion in home insurance policies. I do consider that the evidence points to most of the widespread damage 
having been caused by water leaking due to the failure of the bath sealant, which allowed 
water to enter behind the tiles and run down the wall onto the floor and below. I also note 
that there was considerable damage to the flooring above the pipework and its more likely 
that this was caused by water leaking from the bathroom rather than from a pipe below.
Nevertheless, I do consider that water damage has been caused here by dual reasons. Miss 
B and Mrs Bs video shows water dripping from a pipe, with considerable damage to a joist 
below this slow drip. On the balance of probabilities, I consider that a pipe leak had occurred 
and that this was the predominant cause of damage to this joist. The damage appears to be 
around the pipe, and I consider that a glancing drip could indeed cause considerable 
damage over a long period of time. Miss B and Mrs B wouldnt have been aware of any slow 
leak being absorbed by the joist until the ceiling collapsed. I note that a formal written report 
wasnt produced by Miss and Mrs Bs builder as Lloyds requested. His quote and invoice 
havent been supplied on formal headed paper with address and business details. They do 
however constitute limited evidence to support the case that there was a pipe leak. I also 
accept that Lloyds initial visit didnt focus on the pipework and focused on the sealant, so 
that slow drip of the type evidenced in the video wouldnt have been noticed.
Both parties accept that the damage had been ongoing for a number of years, and on the 
balance of probabilities, Im persuaded that Miss B and Mrs B hadnt become aware of any 
pipe leak or joist damage until a crack appeared in the ceiling and the ceiling collapsed in the 
summer of 2021. Damage wouldnt therefore be excluded due to the gradual deterioration or 
wear and tear exclusions in the policy. The services approach to this is that we look at the 
policy terms and conditions and any exclusions for damage which occurs gradually. We 
appreciate that strict application of the policy terms would mean that the insurer could 
decline the claim. However, we dont consider this to be a fair and reasonable approach in 
circumstances such as these. This is because Ive concluded that Miss B and Mrs B werent 
aware of the damage happening and therefore couldnt have done anything about it sooner.
As to any suggestion that Miss B and Mrs Bs builder had initially said that workmanship or 
faulty materials were to blame for the pipework issue, I note that the pipework is likely to 
have been installed in accordance with standards of installation at the relevant time. Its 
likely that theyd been in place for many years without issue and without cracking. Theres no 
available written expert evidence to support this suggestion, and on the balance of 
probabilities, I dont consider that the exclusions in the policy regarding poor workmanship or 
materials apply here. 
Its regrettable that Miss B and Mrs B have been waiting for a final resolution to their 
complaint for 18 months and have had to live with the uncertainty and stress surrounding 
that lack of resolution. Having said this, disputes around policy terms and conditions as to 
whether damage is caused by an insured event or lack of maintenance can be complex. This 
is particularly in cased where expert reports are inadequate or miss saliant facts. I note that 
Miss B and Mrs B had asked Lloyds to come and visit the property to look at the pipework as 
work was progressing, however Lloyds declined to do so and instead required a cause of 
damage report from their builder. Its unfortunate that Lloyds didnt take the opportunity to 
investigate and report on pipework damage or to provide further support to Miss B and Mrs B 
so that the only available written evidence regarding pipework is the limited written evidence 
of Miss B and Mrs Bs builder. Miss B also appealed to Lloyds for assistance on more than 
one occasion. Ive listened to two phone calls in this respect and despite the obvious distress 
which the incident was causing, the insurers support didnt appear to be as proactive or as 
helpful as it could have been. I also note however that Miss B and Mrs B didnt comply 
with a reasonable request to produce a cause of damage report, particularly when most 
of the remedial work had been completed. In all the circumstances, I agree with our investigator that Lloyds should cover the cost of 
replacing the joist which was immediately below the pipe leak. Miss B and Mrs B need to 
supply an itemised breakdown of the costs attributable to this element of the damage before 
this can happen. This sum will be an appropriate proportion of the total invoice submitted by 
the builder for £3,313.44, and will include material, labour and installation costs in relation to 
this joist only.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Miss B and Mrs Bs complaint and I require Lloyds 
Bank General Insurance Limited to do the following in response to their complaint: -
- Settle Miss B and Mrs Bs claim for damage to the one joist affected by the pipework 
leak, within 28 days following submission by Miss B and Mrs B of a formal written 
breakdown of the proportion of the builders invoice attributable to this item.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mrs B 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman