DRN-2532025
The complaint
Mr P and Mrs P complain about the way that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax handled 
their mortgage application.  
What happened
At the end of 2019 Mr and Mrs P decided to remortgage their flat with another lender - not 
Halifax - as a buy to let. They intended to use the proceeds together with other savings as a 
deposit to buy a house with the assistance of a mortgage. They got a mortgage illustration 
which indicated that subject to a mortgage application that Halifax may be able to loan them 
£150,000. But the application didnt go smoothly. Mr P has three jobs, one of which he gets 
paid by his employer in cash after deductions for national insurance and PAYE are made. 
Halifax required confirmation of Mr Ps tax position from HMRC which Mr and Mrs P agreed 
to but believed that it was unnecessary and discriminatory.
Although Mr and Mrs P submitted their application on 26 November 2019, the application 
wasnt declined until 21 April 2020.  Halifax in January decided that it wouldnt lend more 
than £104105.00. Also, In January, after asbestos was discovered in the garage, Halifax 
required a report from a licenced asbestos contractor. When the underwriter received the 
report and reviewed the affordability assessment, the application was declined.
Our investigator initially didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. But a 
second investigator reviewed the complaint and recommended that the complaint should be 
upheld. He felt that Halifax reached its decision about affordability at the end of January and 
should have been clearer in telling Mr and Mrs Ps broker what was the maximum loan that 
Halifax would make. So, he felt that Halifax should refund the valuation fee and pay Mr and 
Mrs P £200 for their trouble and upset. 
Halifax agreed that it should have explained the affordability outcome clearer to Mr and Mrs 
Ps broker and the appeals process. So, it agreed to refund the valuation fee that Mr and Mrs 
P paid it and to pay £200 compensation for its poor service. Mr P and Mrs P disagreed 
saying in summary that Halifax should also pay their solicitors invoice and the cost of their 
independent survey.   
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read this file carefully and have considered all the matters in the file to come to my 
decision. I can see that Mr P and Mrs P are hardworking people who had a plan to move to 
what they describe as their dream home. Ive no doubt that they were very disappointed 
when this didnt work out. They hoped to get a Halifax mortgage. Mr and Mrs P got a 
mortgage illustration indicating what they could potentially borrow. This isnt a mortgage offer 
and thats made clear in the mortgage illustration but was subject to an application process.
Mr P and Mrs P were unhappy with the process particularly with the fact that Halifax wrote to 
HMRC to get details of Mr Ps income and tax. Halifax didnt require this when Mr and Mrs P 
previously applied for a mortgage with the lender. Since 2016, with the tightening up of the 
affordability criteria for mortgages, lenders have introduced noticeably stricter checks on 
items of income and expenditure. One of Mr Ps employers paid him cash after the usual 
deductions. I have noted that lenders will look to separate sources of verification of income. 
So, besides the payslip, lenders will look for verification of pay going into a bank account. 
The problem with payment in cash is that the bank account wont necessarily verify the 
payslip. So, I can understand Halifax looking to HMRC for this independent verification. I 
consider that this is the most likely explanation for Halifax doing this and not the result of a 
confusion between Mr P and his employer as Mr P and Mrs P believe. So, I dont uphold that 
part of the complaint. 
The result of the affordability assessment was that Halifax considered that the mortgage that 
Mr P and Mrs P were looking for was unaffordable. Halifax told the broker this on 24 January 
2020, but the lender seems to have given confusing information to the broker as to why that 
was - referring incorrectly to the nil valuation from the surveyor caused by the presence of 
asbestos on the property. Mr P and Mrs P say that they should have been told earlier about 
the affordability decline as it meant that their application was prolonged longer than it should 
have. Halifax has accepted our investigators opinion that there was a failure of service and 
has agreed to refund the valuation fee that Mr and Mrs P paid it and pay £200 for their 
trouble and upset which I consider appropriate. 
Mr and Mrs P have asked us to look at other costs they paid including their solicitors costs 
and the cost of their own survey of the property. But I dont believe that I can fairly require 
Halifax to pay these. As regards their solicitors costs, I have to accept that Halifax never 
promised them a mortgage and isnt responsible for them hiring a solicitor to buy the 
property. The mortgage illustration, as I say above, doesnt commit Halifax to providing a 
mortgage and Im afraid that I cant fairly require Halifax to bear the costs that Mr P and Mrs 
P incur if the mortgage application doesnt work out. That would also apply to the separate 
survey that Mr and Mrs P commissioned. 
My role is to see if Halifax is at fault and if so the appropriate compensation. I accept that 
Halifax prolonged the application process and should have engaged with Mr P and Mrs P 
earlier about the affordability assessment. My view is that the compensation suggested by 
our investigator is appropriate and, on that basis, I uphold this complaint. 
Putting things right
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax should refund the valuation fee paid by Mr and Mrs P 
together with interest at 8% per annum from date of payment. It should also pay 
compensation for their trouble and upset of £200. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 May 2021.
 
Gerard McManusOmbudsman