DRN-4084389
The complaint
Mr H complains Marsh Finance Ltd (Marsh Finance) have made incorrect entries on his 
credit file.
What happened
Mr H took out a hire purchase agreement with Marsh Finance in August 2012 to acquire a 
used car. Mr H said the agreement was voluntarily terminated in 2015.
In 2021, Mr H said he accessed his credit report and found that Marsh Finance had made an 
entry to show the account was settled in March 2021. Mr H believed this was wrong and that 
it should have shown as settled in 2015.
Mr H complained to Marsh Finance and they upheld his complaint. They apologised for the 
error, and they said they completed the necessary amendments to his credit file to show the 
account as closed and settled in March 2015.
In February 2022, Mr H checked his credit file again and noticed a further entry stating the 
account was settled in January 2022. Mr H again believed this was wrong.
Mr H contacted Marsh Finance again and referred his complaint to our service. While the 
complaint was with us, Marsh Finance replied to Mr H, upholding his complaint again and 
explained they requested the necessary amendment to his credit file.
Marsh Finance provided our service with copies of three emails from around March 2022 to 
different credit reference agencies. The emails showed they contacted the credit reference 
agencies and requested for Mr Hs file to show the relevant account as being closed and 
settled on 20 March 2015. It also showed the credit reference agency responses. 
Mr H said Marsh Finance made another entry on his credit file in April 2022 and it showed 
the account as being settled in April 2018. 
Mr H also said that Marsh Finance had reported an outdated address of his which he felt 
may have caused issues for some lenders. He said this caused issues when applying for a 
credit card.
Our investigator found that Marsh Finance needed to do more to put things right. He said, in 
summary, that he hadnt seen enough to make him think Marsh Finance had reported 
information correctly nor corrected it. Our investigator asked Marsh Finance to contact the 
credit reference agencies again to have the account entry updated and pay £150 
compensation to Mr H to resolve this complaint.
Both Marsh Finance and Mr H agreed with the investigators outcome.
Mr H later contacted our service and confirmed the £150 compensation had been paid to 
him, but the entry still remained on his credit file.
Our investigator contacted Marsh Finance and they responded confirming the amendments 
were completed when the original request was sent through. They also provided us a 
screenshot of their internal system which they said showed the amendments they made and 
that they were backdated. On the screenshot provided, the satisfied date of the account 
was recorded as 27 April 2018.
Our investigator brought this to Marsh Finances attention and asked them if there is any 
information to show that they requested to change the satisfied date of the finance 
agreement to 20 March 2015, after they agreed to his initial view.
Marsh Finance didnt respond. Mr H has since shown a copy of his credit file. It had recorded 
the end date for the account as April 2018, and it showed it was last updated in March 2023.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 30 March 2023 where I explained why I intended to uphold 
Mr Hs complaint. In that decision I said:
 
Mr H believes that incorrect information has been recorded on his credit file by Marsh 
Finance in relation to a regulated credit agreement. So Im satisfied this is a complaint we 
can look into.
Ultimately, what I need to consider here is whether there is incorrect information recorded on 
Mr Hs credit file, and if there is, whether Marsh Finance are responsible for it being recorded 
incorrectly. If I make a finding that Marsh Finance are responsible, then I need to consider 
what they must do to put things right for Mr H.
It isnt in dispute that Mr Hs account he held with Marsh Finance should be recorded as 
being settled in March 2015.
Marsh Finance has sent two final responses to Mr H, where theyve upheld his complaint 
with them and said they have made the necessary amendments to his credit file. Marsh 
Finance also agreed with our investigators outcome. So, Im satisfied Marsh Finance believe 
they were responsible for the incorrect information previously reported. However, from their 
most recent correspondence with our service, they also think they have reported the 
necessary amendments already. They have provided our service with a screenshot which 
they believe shows the amendments made.
Having reviewed the information provided, it shows the satisfied date as 27 April 2018. Our 
investigator brought this to Marsh Finances attention, and it was disappointing that they 
didnt directly provide comments on it.
I accept that Marsh Finance had contacted the relevant credit reference agencies around 
March 2022 and had requested for the correct information to be reported around the 
settlement date. But I cant see since then, and more importantly, after they had accepted 
our investigators findings, that they had contacted the agencies again to correct any 
erroneous information.
I am unfamiliar with Marsh Finances internal systems. But, it seems to be a very large 
coincidence that it has recorded on its internal systems the same incorrect date that is 
appearing on Mr Hs credit record. 
Given the information they have provided suggests their records still display the incorrect 
settlement date, Im persuaded it is likely Marsh Finance need to do more in this instance.I cant direct Marsh Finance to update its system, as I dont know how this works or if this is 
possible. But I do think it should do a review of this information and amend if possible or if 
required. If this isnt possible, or it doesnt believe this could be causing the issue, it should 
explain this before I issue my final decision.
Our investigator said Mr M should be paid £150 to reflect whats happened.
Thinking about what has happened since Marsh Finance agreed to the investigators view, 
Im considering increasing the amount of compensation for distress and inconvenience. I say 
this because Mr H has shared with our service the distress and anxiety this issue has 
caused him for over a year. Mr H has explained how he checks his credit report frequently in 
the hope that it is all sorted. He has also told our service how often this issue plays on his 
mind. Im persuaded by what he has told us, given how focussed he has been about getting 
things sorted. And Im persuaded that Marsh Finances repeated errors  requiring 
reasonable effort for Mr H to try and sort out  has resulted in some distress to Mr H. I think 
it is fair and reasonable for Marsh Finance to pay Mr H £300, in total, for the distress and 
inconvenience caused here.
Mr H has also told our service how he believes the address reported by Marsh Finance is 
outdated. If Mr H would like further clarity on this aspect, I suggest he contacts Marsh 
Finance directly as this wasnt part of his initial complaint.
I set out that I intended to uphold this complaint. And I gave both parties the opportunity to 
send me any further information or comments they wanted me to consider before I issued 
my final decision.
Responses to the provisional decision
Marsh Finance didnt respond before the deadline I set.
Mr H responded and said he accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Marsh Finance didnt respond in time and Mr H accepts my provisional decision, I see no 
reason to depart from it.
 
In summary, I think Marsh Finance needs to do more in this instance.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and instruct Marsh Finance Ltd to:
Ensure Mr Hs credit file shows accurate information in relation to his account he held 
with them* **
pay £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. Marsh Finance 
Ltd may deduct from this any compensation they have already paid in relation to this 
complaint.
*To be clear, this means it should reflect that the account was settled on 20 March 2015.** This should include contacting credit reference agencies, as well as reviewing and/or 
amending the information on its internal systems as explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman