DRN-3385439
The complaint
Miss B complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited mishandled her motor insurance 
policy.
Miss B is represented by her mother.
Where I refer to Admiral, I include employees and others insofar as I hold Admiral 
responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
On 30 September 2021, Miss B went online and used a price comparison site.  She bought 
an Admiral telematics or black box policy to start on 1 October 2021. The policy covered 
Miss B as policyholder. It also covered her mothers husband as a named driver. The 
premium was about £1,200.00 plus interest for paying by instalments.
On 10 November 2021, Admiral wrote to Miss B. It said that as part of an audit, it was asking 
for some documents within seven days. Miss B provided some but - not all - of the 
documents.
On 17 November 2021 Admiral sent a seven-day notice of cancellation of the policy. 
On 20 November 2021, Miss B went on holiday.
With effect from 25 November 2021, Admiral cancelled the policy.
On 27 November 2021, Miss B returned from holiday. Her mother sent an email to Admiral. 
Miss B and her mother had some telephone calls with Admiral.
Miss B complained to Admiral that  because of its cancellation  she couldnt use her car or 
get replacement insurance at a comparable cost.
By a final response dated 30 November 2021, Admiral turned down the complaint. Miss B 
brought her complaint to us without delay.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
Admiral had acted reasonably and in line with the policy terms regarding the cancellation. 
The investigator didnt think Admiral said anything inappropriate during the telephone calls.
Miss B disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. Her mother says, in summary, that:
Miss B had uploaded two of the documents to Admirals portal.
She doesnt believe that Admiral had checked to confirm receipt of those documents 
before it wrote the letter cancelling the insurance.
The letter was still asking for all the documents rather than just the outstanding ones.
Two weeks is not long enough for an audit.
Admiral shouldve apologised for causing the upset. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admirals policy terms included the following:
We can cancel your policy at any time by sending seven days notice in writing to 
your last known address if you fail to respond to written requests for information or 
documentation.
Thats not an unusual term.
Admirals letter of 10 November asked for documents within seven days. It was relatively 
short list including vehicle registration document (V5), drivers licences, DVLA online driving 
licence details and a utility bill or certain other evidence of home address. 
I wouldve expected Admiral to give more time  if Miss B had got in touch to say why she 
needed more time for some of the documents.
As Miss B uploaded two documents to its portal, I dont consider that Admiral needed to 
acknowledge receipt.
Admirals letter of 17 November didnt list the outstanding documents. But it had been a 
short list. So I consider that it was clear what documents were outstanding.
As Miss B didnt respond, I dont find it unfair that Admiral sent its seven-day notice. 
I accept that Miss B was abroad on holiday. And she says she didnt see the email. But 
Admiral had no reason to believe she wouldnt receive the notice. Im satisfied that Admiral 
had done enough by sending the notice by post and by email to the correct postal and email 
addresses. 
The cancellation took effect from 25 November 2021, while Miss B was away.
Miss Bs mother emailed Admiral on 28 November 2021. She said that some of the 
documents were still not available. In any event, I cant say that Admiral treated Miss B 
unfairly by declining to reinstate the policy.
From the recordings of the calls on 29 and 30 November 2021, I dont find that Admiral said 
anything inappropriate to Miss B or her rep.
Admiral removed the cancellation fee of £105.00. 
I dont under-estimate the impact of the cancellation on Miss B. But I havent found that 
Admiral did anything wrong. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to 
reinstate the policy or to change the way it has recorded the cancellation or to pay 
compensation.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Admiral Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 May 2022. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman