DRN-4145986
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that they only found out late that Skipton Building Society wouldnt 
accept their choice of solicitors. They challenged this, and expected Skipton to change its 
mind, but it didnt, and by then Mr and Mrs H had no choice but to remortgage elsewhere.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H said they were moving house, and had planned to port their existing mortgage 
with Skipton. They said theyd told Skipton about the solicitors they wanted to use, and this 
was agreed by Skipton in April. 
Mr and Mrs H said their house sale and purchase then progressed. In July, they notified 
Skipton of a change to the solicitors doing the work, and they said this was also agreed. But 
they told us that around 11 August, Skipton said it wouldnt accept Mr and Mrs Hs choice of 
solicitors after all. Mr and Mrs H said the problem was Skipton wouldnt allow the use of 
different solicitors for the purchase and the mortgage. 
Mr H said he discussed this with Skipton, saying there was no indication previously that this 
wasnt acceptable, and there werent any rules and regulations published by Skipton 
prohibiting this. Mr H complained, and said he expected Skipton would change its mind. But 
it didnt, and by the time Skipton told Mr and Mrs H they couldnt go ahead in the way theyd 
planned, Mr H said their move was then in jeopardy. So they redeemed their mortgage with 
Skipton instead, and didnt port their previous lending. Mr H said they were charged a large 
Early Repayment Charge (ERC) by Skipton, and he thought it should pay this money back.
Skipton set out the history of its discussion around legal representation with Mr H. It said in 
April, Mr H had said he wanted to use his own, named solicitor for this transaction. Skipton 
said it wouldnt work with sole practitioners, and Mr H told Skipton his solicitor wasnt a sole 
practitioner. 
Skipton said it took steps to add this solicitor to its legal panel, but it turned out the solicitor 
was a sole practitioner after all. Mr H then said the mortgage work would be completed by a 
separate firm. Skipton agreed to that, and it then agreed to a change to this firm, in July. 
But in early August, Skipton got correspondence from this firm, saying that they were only 
acting for Skipton, and the originally named sole practitioner would be acting for Mr and Mrs 
H. Skipton said it wouldnt agree to that. 
Skipton repeated that it wouldnt allow sole practitioners to represent it. And, importantly, it 
said then that if Mr and Mrs H wanted to have one solicitor working for them, but another, 
separate solicitor working for Skipton, then Skipton wanted to appoint its own firm. It wouldnt 
just take the firm Mr and Mrs H wanted it to use. Skipton also said then that if Mr and Mrs H 
wanted to have this sort of arrangement, Mr and Mrs H had to pay both sets of legal costs. 
Skipton said this meant it had explained its policy on legal representation to Mr and Mrs H in 
April. Skipton also said it had listened to the calls it had with Mr H, and was confident it 
hadnt been told before this, that Mr and Mrs H did intend to have separate solicitors. 
Skipton didnt think it got this wrong. It said it would pay Mr H £25 to apologise because it 
failed to pay the postage on a letter it sent him, but it wouldnt do any more than that.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Mr H was made aware 
of Skiptons policy in April, in an email that it sent to Mr H. And he said Skipton didnt know 
until August that the solicitors Mr H had chosen were only to act for Skipton, not also for Mr 
and Mrs H. So he said Skipton had implemented the policy it had told Mr H about previously, 
and he didnt think it did have to pay back the ERC that Mr and Mrs H then chose to pay. 
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree. They said they did get an email from Skipton on 22 April 2022, 
but they said the content of that email wasnt backed up by any of the official documentation 
that Skipton had shared with them. And Mr and Mrs H said theyd been clear about their 
intentions, when they replied to Skipton. Skipton accepted this at the time, it just changed its 
mind later. And when it did change its mind, Mr and Mrs H said they had no alternative to 
paying the ERC, and not going ahead with porting their mortgage. 
Our investigator said the offer documents werent an exhaustive list of Skiptons policies. He 
thought it was important that Skipton had made the relevant policy clear on 22 April. 
Mr H replied again, to say that if it was a requirement by Skipton to have what he now 
understood to be called dual representation, then this is something that should be in the 
mortgage offer, or associated documentation. And it wasnt. He also said he wasnt clear on 
what Skipton meant, in its email of 22 April. So he said hed understood that what he was 
doing met Skiptons requirements, and hed also understood that Skipton agreed to this. 
Because no agreement was reached, this case then came to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
The most common approach for people who are buying a new home and purchasing with a 
mortgage (whether buying for the first time or not) is for both the borrower and the lender to 
use the same solicitor. This is usually referred to as dual representation, because one 
solicitor represents both the consumer and the building society. Because this is the most 
common approach, I think its reasonable for Skipton to work on the assumption that most 
buyers will work in this way, unless its been told otherwise.
Mr and Mrs H apparently didnt want to use this approach. But I have read the emails 
between them and Skipton, and I dont think theres anything there to make clear to Skipton 
that Mr and Mrs H didnt want the same solicitor to work for both Skipton and for them. 
On 22 April, Skipton contacted Mr and Mrs H to say the solicitor theyd chosen had turned 
out to be a sole practitioner, so they would need to choose someone else if they wanted to 
share a solicitor with Skipton. Alternatively, Skipton said they could use the solicitor they had 
chosen, and Skipton would choose a solicitor to act on its behalf. Skipton also said if Mr and Mrs H wanted have two separate solicitors, then they would have 
to pay all the legal costs, for both Skipton and themselves. Although it looks like Skipton 
used the term dual representation incorrectly here, I do think the overall message was 
reasonably clear. And if Mr and Mrs H were confused or concerned about this, they could 
have asked Skipton to clarify.
I dont think there was anything in the reply Mr and Mrs H sent, or indeed in their previous 
communications with Skipton, to alert Skipton that Mr and Mrs H didnt want the same 
solicitor to work for them and for Skipton. So I dont think Skipton should have understood 
this, before the solicitor Mr and Mrs H had engaged to work solely for Skipton, contacted 
Skipton and clarified this.
Mr H says if Skipton wanted to insist on dual representation, then that should have been set 
out in its documentation. But I dont think Skipton ever has insisted on dual representation. It 
just said if Mr and Mrs H didnt want that, so if they wanted a different solicitor working for 
them who wasnt also working for Skipton, then Skipton would not agree to just use the 
solicitors that Mr and Mrs H chose for it. And it also said if Mr and Mrs H chose to incur two 
lots of legal fees, by choosing separate representation, then they would have to pay for that. 
I think Skipton had been clear on its policy here, and I dont think that this policy was the sort 
of thing that needed to be set out as part of the formal legal agreement between Skipton and 
Mr and Mrs H. I think what Skipton was doing was reasonable, when considered against the 
background that the usual approach is for the borrowers solicitor also to complete the legal 
work for the lender. 
Although I understand that Mr and Mrs H would be paying all the legal fees involved, I still 
dont think it was reasonable for Mr and Mrs H to expect Skipton to say it would accept their 
choice of solicitor, if that solicitor wasnt also working for Mr and Mrs H. Whilst Skipton hasnt 
explained the reason for this policy, I think Skipton might reasonably be concerned that, if its 
borrowers are choosing a solicitor who isnt working for the borrower too, then the motivation 
might be to keep costs down. And Skipton relies on the solicitor representing it to secure its 
rights over the property. So I dont think Skipton had to accept Mr and Mrs Hs choice here.
I also note that in August, when Mr and Mrs H realised Skipton wouldnt let them both have 
separate representation to it and also choose the firm that would represent Skipton, they did 
then have other options. They could have chosen to use the same solicitors as Skipton. Or 
they could have gone ahead, with Skipton choosing its own solicitors. Instead, Mr and Mrs H 
complained about this policy. 
I appreciate that this then caused difficulties for Mr and Mrs H when Skipton wouldnt change 
its mind. But because I think what Skipton was doing was reasonable, and that it had been 
clear about this from the start, I dont think Skipton had to change its mind. I do understand 
why Mr and Mrs H then chose to pay the ERC and redeem their borrowing with Skipton, but I 
dont think it has to pay that money back.
I know Mr and Mrs H will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman