DRN-3680027
The complaint
The executor for the estate of Mrs M complains that Novia Financial Plc (Novia) didnt tell 
her a financial advisor was appointed and that the advisor was taking fees from Mrs Ms 
investment portfolio. And she says that Novia withheld correspondence from her.
Mrs Ms daughter is the sole executor of her estate and she brings the complaint. I will refer 
to her as Miss C.
What happened
Mrs M held investments with Novia. She passed away in May 2020. Prior to her death, a 
solicitor was appointed to take care of her financial affairs.
Novias platform is advisor-led, meaning all its clients are registered to it through their 
advisor who should be in regular communication with their client. Miss C says the solicitor 
didnt tell her about the financial advisor, so she wasnt aware of their involvement.
Miss C says Novia should have told her about the financial advisor. She only found out 
about his involvement when she queried a discrepancy in the value of the portfolio once it 
had been encashed and paid to her. She then realised the advisor had continued to charge 
a monthly advisor fee after Mrs Ms death. She said that, following communication with the 
financial advisor, the fees were refunded. But that the advisor was considering legal action to 
recoup them. She says this could have all been avoided if Novia had told her about the 
financial advisors involvement when she first contacted it. 
And she says she instructed Novia to send all correspondence to her, but that Novia failed to 
send its quarterly reports and tax information, without which she couldnt finalise the estate 
administration.
Novia said it wasnt its responsibility to tell the financial advisor that Mrs M had died. And 
that, in its experience, the executor is aware of the financial advisors involvement and will 
contact them direct. And it said it had sent a transaction statement to Miss C in June 2020 
which included the advisors fees, so she should reasonably have realised there was an 
advisor involved.
Novia said it followed Miss Cs instruction to correspond with her following her mothers 
death. But that, in its experience, family members do not want to receive automatically 
generated correspondence and it was only the quarterly statements that it didnt send to 
Miss C.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think it 
was Novias responsibility to tell Miss C about the financial advisor; or to tell the financial 
advisor that Mrs M had died. And she thought Novia had followed its procedures correctly in 
its communications with Miss C.
Miss C didnt agree. She said, in summary, that:
Novias initial communication with her referred to the involvement of a financial advisor 
or solicitor and, because a solicitor had been appointed, she never considered a 
financial advisor was also involved.
Her mothers accounts should have been frozen on receipt of proof of death and no 
transactions, including advisor fees, should have been allowed.
She had requested that all correspondence was sent to her, but she didnt receive the 
quarterly statements and tax vouchers and she couldnt administer the estate without 
them.
Miss C also let us know that the financial advisor had decided not to proceed with any legal 
action.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The administration of an estate is never easy and can be very stressful, particularly when the 
executor is a loved-one of the deceased. In Miss Cs case, its clear that the process has 
been very stressful. In particular I am sorry that she has experienced difficulties with the 
solicitor appointed to take care of her mothers affairs, and that there was a threat of legal 
action from the financial advisor. This must have been very distressing at an already 
upsetting time.
Whilst I sympathise, this complaint is about Novia and my role is limited to deciding whether 
it, rather than the other parties involved, has done anything wrong. Im sorry to disappoint 
Miss C, but I agree with the investigator that Novia hasnt acted unreasonably for the 
following reasons:
I dont find Novia did anything wrong in not telling Miss C the details of the financial advisor 
linked to the account. It sent her a statement which included monthly financial advisor fees, 
and it referred to a financial advisor in its email dated 25 June 2020. I appreciate Miss C 
assumed this was the solicitor who was involved with her mothers financial affairs, but 
I cant conclude Novia should have made things clearer. In its experience, executors are 
aware of the involvement of a financial advisor. This doesnt seem unreasonable. In this 
case, things were complicated by the involvement of the solicitor. But that doesnt mean Im 
persuaded Novia needed to do anything differently.
For the same reason, I dont find Novia was responsible for telling the financial advisor that 
Mrs M had died.
Im pleased to hear the advisor fees debited after Mrs Ms death were refunded. And that the 
financial advisor has confirmed they will not be pursuing legal action to reclaim the fees. In 
the circumstances, I dont find Novia is required to take any action.
The investigator explained Novias procedure is to communicate with the executor, but not to 
bother them with automatically generated correspondence, which it retains. I dont find 
Miss Cs instruction  to ensure any further contact with regards to my late mothers 
investments are addressed to myself and that, Any mail etc should be sent to myself and 
no one else reasonably required Novia to change its usual procedure for her. And Im 
pleased that it seems that Miss C does now have all the information she needs for the 
administration of the estate.As I noted earlier, Im not unsympathetic to what Miss C has experienced. But I dont find 
Novia treated her unreasonably or unfairly, and I cant order it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs 
M to accept or reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman