DRN-2365500
The complaint
Mrs H complains that she lost money due to the exchange rate changing as a result of a 
delay in Santander UK Plc processing an international transfer she requested.
What happened
Mrs H contacted Santander in June 2019 by telephone in order to make a transfer of around 
£176,000 to her New Zealand bank account. She says that the call took a long time as she 
wasnt sure of the information they required. During the call, Mrs H informed Santander that 
shed moved address and changed her name. Mrs H was told shed have to update her 
details before any transfer could take place. She says that shed confirmed her identity and 
proved it was her account. 
Mrs H says she rang Santander numerous times over the next week and tried several times 
to do the transfer online but was informed that the amount exceeded her limit. She said she 
rang to ask for her limit to be increased but that this wasnt done and she was given no 
explanation for this. Mrs H says Santander said it had tried to contact her but she says that it 
didnt.
Mrs H says that shed been watching the exchange rate which was good when she initially 
contacted Santander on 26 June. The transfer was eventually completed on 5 July  over a 
week after her initial request  and, as a result of this delay, Mrs H says she lost around 
NZ$7,000 due to the exchange rate changing over that time.
Mrs H complained to Santander, which said that the delay in the transfer being made was 
not a result of bank error but due to Mrs H not making it aware of her change of name and 
address. It said that it agreed to consider her international transfer request with the relevant 
documentation and ID being sent and made the transfer as an exception. Santander did 
uphold part of Mrs Hs complaint on the basis that the manager hadnt confirmed Mrs Hs 
contact number at the beginning of the initial call when she complained which caused her to 
be on the call longer than necessary. It therefore compensated Mrs H with £25 for this 
inconvenience. However, it didnt uphold Mrs Hs complaint in respect of the change to the 
exchange rates. Mrs H therefore brought the matter to this service.
The investigator found that Santander wasnt responsible for Mrs H losing money due to the 
change in exchange rates as, had Mrs Hs personal details been updated from the 
beginning, it was likely that her transfer wouldve been made straight away. The investigator 
was also satisfied that Santanders internal transfer process and the time taken for the 
transfer was reasonable.
Mrs H doesnt agree so the case has come to me to make a decision. She says that she 
sent her change of details form by email on 27 June so should have been able to complete 
the transfer then, regardless of when it was put into the system  which ultimately took four 
days until 1 July. She also maintains that Santander should have increased the limits as she 
was told to do the transfer online but was unsuccessful. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator for broadly the same reasons. I know this will 
disappoint Mrs H so I've explained my reasons further below.
It was Mrs Hs responsibility to ensure that the contact details she provided were accurate 
and to notify Santander of any name, address, email or mobile phone number changes in 
accordance with its terms and conditions. The documentation provided by Mrs H indicates 
that her name and address had changed by December 2017. However, she hadnt contacted 
Santander to update these details prior to June 2019 when she called to make a large 
transfer to an account held in another country.
Santander, like all UK banks, is strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to 
meet its legal and regulatory obligations. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied Santander 
was acting in line with these obligations when it asked Mrs H to update her details before it 
could process her transfer request. Whilst Mrs H says she confirmed her details during the 
phone call, I dont think it was unreasonable for Santander to require her to provide further 
identification documentation to support this so that her details could be updated on its 
system.
Ive seen a change of details form signed by Mrs H and dated 27 June which she emailed to 
Santander at 23:52 on Thursday 27 June along with the identification documents which had 
been requested during the phone call. Mrs H sent another email to Santander attaching 
documents on 1 July. I can see that Mrs Hs address was updated on Santanders system on 
Monday 1 July, so this was within two working days of the information being sent to 
Santander (late on the previous Thursday night) and I dont think that this was an 
unreasonable length of time. 
Mrs H subsequently tried to complete the transfer online but was prevented from doing this 
due to the amount being above the limit. Therefore, Mrs H asked for Santander to increase 
the limit. Santander has said that for all online international transfers there is a limit of 
£25,000 as to how much customers can transfer in one payment. As this limit had been 
exceeded it meant the request had to be assessed by the fraud team which Santander have 
said can take up to five days. I appreciate that Mrs H is unhappy that Santander wouldnt 
increase the online limit for her when she requested this. However, Santander has a duty to 
protect its customers accounts and must meet its legal and regulatory obligations and this 
transfer was for a significant amount of money. Therefore, I think it was reasonable that Mrs 
Hs transfer request was sent to the fraud department when it was over a certain amount. 
Santander says that the payment was expedited and processed as quickly as it could be 
after Mrs Hs details were updated and verified. Ive seen evidence showing that the transfer 
request was sent to Santanders fraud department for clearance and exception on 1 July. 
This was the same day that Mrs Hs details had been updated on Santanders system. And I 
can see that the transfer was confirmed on 4 July and went through on 5 July. I dont think 
that this is an unreasonable length of time.
I've thought about what Mrs H has said about losing out on the better exchange rate due to 
the delay between her requesting the transfer and the transfer being processed. Im satisfied 
that it was because Mrs H hadnt updated her personal details that the identification and 
verification couldnt be completed to commence the transfer process when she initially 
called. And, for the reasons set out above, I've found that Santander was entitled to take the 
action it did in relation to the transfer process once this had been done and that any delay 
wasnt unreasonable, so it wouldn't be fair for me to ask it to compensate Mrs H for this.Mrs H has also complained about the customer service she received from Santander in 
terms of it not contacting her back. Whilst I accept that this could have been better, 
Santander has apologised to Mrs H and already provided £25 compensation which I think is 
reasonable. I am satisfied the Santanders service overall in processing the transfer was 
appropriate for the reasons set out above.
I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Mrs H, but I can't fairly say that 
Santander has acted unreasonably in the circumstances of this case. So I won't be asking it 
to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont require Santander UK Plc to do anything more 
to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
Rachel Ellis
Ombudsman