DRN-4128261
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained about an application to port (transfer) their Santander UK Plc 
mortgage interest rate product onto a mortgage on a new property. The application didnt go 
ahead and Mr and Mrs B want Santander to reimburse the early repayment charge (ERC) 
they had to pay when they redeemed their Santander mortgage, and arrange a £50,000 
mortgage for them.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. First of all, the history 
of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so there is no need for me to repeat the 
details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the reasons for my decision. 
In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include any information that 
might lead to Mr and Mrs B being identified. So for these reasons, I will keep my summary of 
what happened quite brief, concentrating on what I consider to be the main issues.
Mr and Mrs B had an interest-only mortgage with a balance of about £162,000 with 
Santander. It was on an interest rate product that came with an ERC if the mortgage was 
repaid before 2 April 2022. 
In April 2021 Mr and Mrs B wanted to move house, downsizing and buying a cheaper 
property. Mr B, who has dealt with the complaint throughout, says he was told by Santander 
that there would be no problem in approving them for a mortgage of between £60,000 and 
£70,000 and that there would be no need for an affordability assessment.
 Mr B explained that he would no longer be using an investment as his repayment vehicle, 
but instead would use a sale of the property for this. A decision in principle was issued for a 
mortgage of £70,000 against a purchase price of £210,000. 
On 8 June 2021 Mr and Mrs B had found a new property for £195,000, and began their 
application with Santander to port the mortgage interest rate product. Santanders 
requirements for an interest-only mortgage are that, where the repayment vehicle was to be 
a sale of the property, the bank required the property to have £250,000 equity. But because 
Mr and Mrs B were downsizing, they wouldnt meet this requirement. As a result Santander 
needed to conduct a full application.
Between 9 June 2021 and 14 June 2021 Mr and Mrs B took out personal loans totalling 
£36,500. On 15 June 2021 Mr and Mrs B sold their property for £315,000, redeeming the 
mortgage and paying an ERC. They took out another personal loan of £10,000 on 
1 July 2021 and another for £19,500 on 12 July 2021.
Santander has accepted there was a delay and that it wasnt until 30 July 2021 that the 
application was looked at. When Santander considered the application, the bank noted these 
loans had been taken out. These impacted on affordability, and also on Santanders lending 
decision  because the bank wouldnt lend for the purposes of debt consolidation.
Mr and Mrs B say that they had had no option but to take out the loans in order not to lose 
the property they wanted to buy (they completed their purchase on 24 August 2021). 
Santander acknowledged thered been some delay in the application, but was not prepared 
to allow a port of the mortgage due to these unsecured debts, as it would now be for debt 
consolidation rather than purchase of the property. Santander paid compensation of £150 for 
delay at the start of the application.
Dissatisfied with Santanders response, Mr and Mrs B complained to our service. Mr B says 
that the personal loans were taken out to buy the property. I thought this will be adjusted by 
the mortgage but then [Santander] said they [dont] consolidate loans for mortgage.
An investigator looked at what had happened but didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. She noted that three of the loans had been taken out within a week of the application 
being submitted, so wasnt persuaded that it was only due to delay on Santanders part that 
Mr and Mrs B took out these loans. 
The investigator was satisfied that Santander was entitled to look at affordability of the 
mortgage as a result of the unsecured borrowing. She thought the £150 paid for delay was 
fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and listened to the available phone calls, and its apparent that some parts 
of the evidence are less relevant to the underlying case than others. There are also a lot of 
duplicated documents and repetition of arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, 
summarised events in rather less detail than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs B were anxious not to lose their new property. Mr B says 
that, after the application was submitted on 8 June 2021 Till 30.7.21 they didnt ask, on 
anything despite my chasing of application. In the mean time we took personal loans around 
£60-70k to buy the property .
However, the timeline of events shows that three of the personal loans were taken out 
almost immediately after the application was submitted, and the others within a few weeks, 
and long before 30 July 2021. In the circumstances, Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs B were under pressure  certainly in June 2021  to take out these loans in order not to lose 
the property they wanted to buy.
Santander is entitled to set its own lending criteria. Decisions that Santander makes in 
respect of what those criteria are, its attitude to risk involved in this particular lending 
assessment, and whether it should lend and if so, on what terms are clearly discretionary 
matters for Santanders own commercial judgement that I would not interfere with. 
Santander has provided information about its lending criteria and about what was taken into 
account in its consideration of the application. Santander also explained to Mr and Mrs B the 
reasons why the application was declined in its final response letter dated 12 August 2021.
Santander was entitled to require a full assessment of the mortgage application. There was 
no longer a separate investment-backed repayment vehicle for the interest-only mortgage, 
and the equity in the property was lower than £250,000. Santander would allow porting 
where the equity was under £250,000, provided the equity buffer was not reduced further. At 
the time of the sale of their previous property, the equity was approximately £153,000. 
However, for the new property, there would only have been about £125,000 equity, and so 
this didnt meet Santanders lending criteria. 
Im satisfied that Santander was entitled to take the impact of both the personal loans and 
the equity reduction into consideration. Given this, Im satisfied the application was declined 
fairly. This means that I am not persuaded Santander is required to reimburse the ERC 
Mr and Mrs B paid on redemption of their mortgage.
Santander has acknowledged there were delays in the application, but Im not persuaded 
that the application would have been approved even if there had been no delays. At the very 
least, the loans totalling £36,500 taken out within days of the application would, in my 
opinion, have likely resulted in the application being declined. That is without the reduction in 
the equity buffer to accommodate the change in repayment vehicle, which was outside 
criteria.
So although Santander dropped the ball in relation to progressing the application, Im 
satisfied the £150 compensation paid by Santander for this delay is fair and reasonable and I 
dont require the bank to do anything further.
I know this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs B were hoping for. I am glad they were able to buy 
the property they wanted. It is open to them to apply for a mortgage elsewhere, should they 
wish to do so and they might want to speak to an Independent Financial Adviser who can 
advise them about mortgages for debt consolidation. They can find details of financial 
advisers on the Financial Conduct Authority website.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman