DRN-2735206
The complaint
Mr S complains about a credit card account he has with Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as 
Virgin Money (Virgin). Mr S complains that Virgin has only collected the minimum payment 
by direct debit each month, which has resulted in interest being charged to his account.
What happened
Mr S applied for a credit card account with Virgin in August 2018. Mr S was accepted for the 
account, and he started to use the card for purchases. 
Mr S says he thought the direct debit was set up to collect the full statement balance each 
month. But after having received a letter from Virgin in February 2020 about persistent debt, 
he realised that only the minimum payment due had been collected since the account was 
opened.
Mr S says he contacted Virgin about this a number of times, because he initially thought that 
due to the balance being so high, his account had been used fraudulently. But he later 
realised that the balance was so high because only the minimum payment had been 
collected each month and he had been charged interest on the purchases he made.
Mr S says he didnt receive any statements from Virgin, so he wasnt aware that only the 
minimum amount due was being collected. He adds that he checked his bank account 
monthly to make sure that the payments were being collected, but he didnt know that only 
the minimum amount was being taken.
When Mr S contacted Virgin about this, he says he was told that there was an error with the 
system when he applied for the card  and that the option for the full statement balance to 
be collected wasnt available. But this has since been rectified.
Virgin responded to Mr Ss complaint to say it hadnt done anything wrong. It said that it 
produced a statement for Mr S each month which shows the activity on the account, the 
balance, the amount paid that month and how much will be collected by direct debit. It added 
that the statements were available for Mr S to view through the mobile app, or online. 
Because of this, it didnt agree to refund the interest that had been applied to Mr Ss account.
Our investigator also looked into things for Mr S. But they didnt find that Virgin had done 
anything wrong. They said there wasnt a fault with the systems at the application stage and 
that the minimum payment would have been automatically selected. They said that as per 
the terms and conditions of Mr Ss account, it was up to him to check his monthly statements 
and to let Virgin know if there was anything on the statement that wasnt right. 
Ultimately, the investigator found that Virgin had done enough to let Mr S know that the 
minimum payment would be collected each month and they didnt ask Virgin to do anything 
more for Mr S.
Mr S didnt agree with our investigator. I have summarised his main points below:
As soon as he became aware of the problem in February 2020, he made a payment 
for what he thought was the total cost of the purchases. 
Mr S has never received any communication from Virgin online. And the first letter he 
received was about persistent debt. Paper statements werent offered free of charge.
Mr S doesnt find it fair that Virgin hasnt suspended the interest on the account while 
his complaint is being investigated.
He doesnt understand why the only option during the application process was to 
select for the minimum payment to be collected.
Mr S can demonstrate that all of his other credit cards are paid in full each month.
Virgin has made no effort, other than two letters, to help him or contact him earlier to 
discuss or offer support.
To settle this complaint, Mr S would like Virgin to refund all of the interest he has been 
charged on the purchases. 
Because Mr S didnt agree with our investigator, the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Virgin has sent me a copy of the screenshots of the website pages that it says Mr S would 
have seen when going through the application for the credit card. 
Theres a section on the application that asks if the customer would like to make monthly 
payments by direct debit each month  the options here are to either select yes or no. 
Theres also an information box next to the question which says:
We will set up your Direct Debit amount for the minimum monthly payment. If you would 
prefer to pay your full statement balance each month, you can change the amount you pay 
using Online Service once your Direct Debit has been set up.
I can see from the application data that Mr S selected yes to the repayments being 
collected by direct debit each month. And if hed have clicked on the information button, it 
would have been clear to him that only the minimum would be collected each month. Even if 
I accept that Mr S didnt click on this button to read the additional information, there isnt any 
indication here that if he set up the direct debit that the full statement balance would be 
collected.
The next page in the application is about setting up the direct debit. Before Mr S was 
required to put his bank details in the form, the application says:
We initially set up a Direct Debit for the minimum payment each month from the bank 
account entered above. We will inform you of the minimum payment amount and date we 
will claim your Direct Debit on your monthly statement.
We will set up your Direct Debit amount for the minimum monthly payment. If you would 
prefer to pay your statement balance each month or a fixed amount, or make payments from 
a different bank account, you can change this later using Online Service.Looking at this, I think it ought to have been clear to Mr S that the direct debit would be set 
up to collect the minimum amount due each month  and that if Mr S wanted it to collect a 
different amount, he would need to manually change this online. 
Virgin has said that it didnt receive any request to change the amount the direct debit 
collected. And it has sent us evidence to show that Mr S registered for the mobile app and 
online service  so I think he could have done this if hed wanted to. Even if Mr S couldnt 
access his account online, he could have contacted Virgin by phone to request the change. 
The application form is very clear where stating the minimum payment would be collected 
each month. And given the level of information provided by Virgin in how to change the 
direct debit amount, suggests to me that there was no error in Virgin only offering minimum 
payment at application stage. 
Mr S says he doesnt understand why Virgin wouldnt provide the option to pay the full 
statement balance each month during the application. Virgin says it made a decision to do 
this because a number of customers were making balance transfers and then accidentally 
selecting the direct debit to collect the full amount each month. This could have severe 
repercussions for some people  and so it seems reasonable to me why Virgin made the 
decision it did. Given what Ive already said, I think that Virgin made it clear as to what 
someone would need to do to change the amount the direct debit was set up to collect.
Mr S tells this service that he was completely unaware that the full statement balance wasnt 
being collected  and that hed done everything he could to rectify the issue as soon as he 
became aware. He doesnt feel that Virgin did enough to contact him, and he says he didnt 
see any of his statements. Ive thought about these things carefully, but I cant agree that 
Virgin has done anything wrong here.
The front page of the application form says:
Your card will automatically be set up with online statements. If you prefer paper 
statements, you can ask for these to be sent to your home address once your account is up 
and running.
Based on this, I think Mr S ought to have been aware that statements could be accessed 
online  and he would need to do something different if he wanted paper statements. As Ive 
said, Mr S did register for the mobile app and the online service, so I dont see any reason 
why he wouldnt have been able to view his statements. 
Virgin has also sent this service data to show that it emailed Mr S every month to remind him 
that his statement was available to view. The emails were sent to the same email address 
Mr S has provided this service, and it shows that each of the emails were delivered. So, I 
dont agree that Virgin didnt do enough to contact Mr S to let him know that his statements 
were ready to view.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ss Virgin account state that it is his responsibility to check 
the monthly statement  and to notify Virgin straight away if something showing in the 
statement isnt right. If Mr S had experienced problems in accessing the statements online, 
Id have expected him to raise this with Virgin much sooner. And in any case, even if Virgin 
hadnt reminded Mr S to check his monthly statements, I dont think its unreasonable to 
have expected him to do that anyway  given that he was actively using the credit card.
If I accept that Mr S didnt see any information from Virgin that would suggest only the 
minimum amount due was being collected each month, I still think that Mr S ought to have been aware of the issue much sooner. Mr S has said himself that he used to check his bank 
statements to make sure the payment had been collected. There were some months where 
Mr S spent more than £1,000 in a month, but the direct debit only collected £50. I think this 
ought to have alerted Mr S to the fact that the direct debit wasnt collecting the full statement 
balance.
Based on everything Ive read and been told, I cant fairly say that Virgin has done anything 
wrong here. And so, I wont be asking it to refund any of the interest that has been charged 
to Mr Ss account as a result of only the minimum payment being collected each month.
While I appreciate that Mr S has tried to do what he could to resolve the matter once he 
realised, for example, making a payment towards the purchase balance, this still doesnt 
mean that Virgin needs to do anything else or that it should have suspended the interest 
while the case is investigated. I can only order Virgin to put things right, where it has done 
something wrong. And I havent found that it has done anything wrong. 
Mr S says that he can demonstrate that he pays all of his credit cards off in full each month, 
but this doesnt lead me to believe that Virgin had done anything wrong. For the reasons Ive 
already said above, Im satisfied that there was no error in Mr Ss direct debit being set up to 
collect the minimum due each month  and I havent seen anything that persuades me that 
Mr S attempted to change this.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman