DRN-3023050
The complaint
Ms Q complains about a debt Lowell Portfolio I Ltd says she owes. She also complains
about how she is being chased for the debt.
In this decision, where I have referred to Lowell I am referring to Lowell Portfolio I Ltd.
Where I have referred to Ms Q in this decision, I am also referring to anything provided by 
her representative.
What happened
Ms Q has complained to this service about several things she says Lowell has done wrong 
while it has been the legal owners of a debt it purchased from the original lender. I issued a 
decision on this case, letting Ms Q know that this service didnt have the power to consider 
some of the issues shed raised. And I let her know that it wouldnt be appropriate for this 
service to consider some of the other points she made.
However, I decided that this service could consider the merits of Ms Qs complaint about the 
following things:
Harassment from Lowell between 2 April 2014 and 17 November 2015
Lowell assigning a number of different agencies to collect the debt on its behalf  
between 2 April 2014 and 17 November 2015.
In an email Ms Q sent to Lowell in April 2020, she has raised the below concerns, which she 
says amounts to harassment:
Using more than one debt collection agency at a time
Not notifying her of a change in debt collector
The solicitor working on behalf of Lowell was harassing her.
Going over and above trying to trace her  which she believes is stalking.
Lowell responded to Ms Qs concerns, but it didnt uphold any of her complaint that relates to 
anything that happened within the timeframe this decision is considering.
Our investigator looked into things for Ms Q, but they didnt uphold her complaint. 
Essentially, they didnt think that any of the actions of Lowell, between the specified period of 
time Ive mentioned, amounted to harassment. And they didnt find that multiple debt 
collectors had been used at the same time. 
Ms Q didnt agree, and in response made a number of points about some of the things I 
have already explained in my previous decision that this service wont be looking at. But she 
reiterated the reasons why she feels as though Lowell harassed her. 
Because Ms Q didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the 
matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Qs complaint. I know shell be disappointed 
by this decision, but I will explain my reasons for it in more detail below.
I think its important to explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information provided 
by both parties, in reaching my decision. Ms Q has sent this service a lot of information for 
me to consider during the course of her complaint. If Ive not reflected something thats been 
said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the 
crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Ms Q, but merely to reflect my 
informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I dont think 
its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question raised unless 
its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
It may also be helpful for Ms Q to note that this service is set up as an alternative to the 
courts. So, while, amongst other things, the ombudsmans considerations will take into 
account any relevant laws, rules, regulations, codes of practice and good practice, 
ombudsmans decisions are determined by what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the individual complaint.
The crux of the complaint here is Ms Q says that Lowell has harassed her. And essentially, 
not treated her fairly when it has attempted to collect the debt she owes. So, Ive looked at 
how Lowell attempted to recover the debt during the time frame Im considering.
Ms Q has confirmed that she had a debt with the original lender, and while I know she 
disputes that she should be liable to repay this, I am satisfied that Lowell are the legal 
owners of that debt. I have seen a copy of a notice of assignment letter which confirms the 
debt was sold to Lowell by the original lender. As Lowell are the legal owner of the debt, it is 
within its rights to take steps to attempt to recover the outstanding balance. But it needs to 
do this in an appropriate way.
Firstly, Ive looked at the contact Lowell had with Ms Q between the relevant dates, to 
ensure that it isnt excessive. I can see that during this period, it has sent Ms Q three letters 
and called her nine times. I dont find that three letters in over a year and a half is too much  
and after all, Lowell had a duty to keep Ms Q up to date with what was happening with her 
account, so it had a duty to correspond with her. Ive also thought about the level of calls 
Lowell made to Ms Q, while four calls were on the same day, the total across the whole 
period I have looked at is nine, I dont find this to be unreasonable. Again, Lowell were within 
its right to try and contact Ms Q about the debt, and I havent seen anything that leads me to 
believe that attempts to contact her were excessive.
Lowell has sent me a copy of the letters it sent to Ms Q. Ive looked at the contents of the 
letters and there isnt anything in them that I find to be threatening, or pressurising. In 
summary, the letters explain that there is a debt that needs to be repaid but offers support 
and the possibility of a repayment plan if Ms Q gets in contact. 
There is one letter that Ms Q has raised as being particularly mis-leading  it was sent to her 
by Lowell on 4 June 2015, but Ms Q has seen this as part of a subject access request she 
raised with Lowell. The letter states that Ms Q had a balance of £5,809.83 and said she 
could close the account for £0. Lowell say that the £0 is a variable field and so when theyve 
pulled a copy of the letter, the variable field has reverted to £0. Based on this, I dont think it 
likely that the letter was posted with the £0 offer at the time.  But even if I accept that Ms Q received the letter that said she could close the account for 
£0, I still wouldnt be minded ordering Lowell to do anything else for Ms Q. In my view, it is 
clear that this is an administrative error. And had Ms Q contacted Lowell, as the letter asks 
her to do, then I think it would have let her know this. In any event, Ive seen a letter sent to 
Ms Q shortly after this date in July 2015 confirming that she still has a balance left to repay, 
so any confusion this letter may have caused, would have been rectified at the point the July 
letter was sent.
Ive seen that Lowell has sometimes instructed debt collection agencies (DCA) to attempt to 
collect the debt Ms Q owes on its behalf. Ms Q says that there was sometimes more than 
one DCA attempting to collect the same debt at the same time. Ive looked at a copy of a 
screenshot Lowell has sent to this service, which shows the dates Lowell instructed the debt 
collectors. The information its provided shows that there was only one DCA attempting to 
collect the debt at any one time. Ms Q says that at one point she was being contacted by a 
DCA on behalf of Lowell and Lowells solicitors  this was happening towards the end of 
2015. 
The solicitors were carrying out litigation on behalf of Lowell  often a business, like Lowell, 
will do this when it is ready to start court proceedings. From what Ive seen, the DCA that 
Lowell appointed around this time started in September 2015 and the solicitors appeared to 
be acting on behalf of Lowell at this time too. So, there is an overlap of two businesses 
employed by Lowell at the same time in relation to the debt. But these firms were carrying 
out different and separate activities  one was trying to collect the debt from Ms Q, and the 
other starting court proceedings. The solicitors firm would have needed to have contacted 
Ms Q to let her know that it was starting court proceedings, and to give her the opportunity to 
resolve the matter before it went to court. So, I can understand why Ms Q might have felt 
that Lowell had two firms attempting to collect debt from her at the same, but for the reasons 
Ive explained, I dont think this is the case. And so, I cant fairly say that Lowell has done 
anything wrong here.
Ms Q has also said that she wasnt notified by Lowell each time a new DCA was appointed. 
It is important that a debtor is notified when a new company is instructed to collect debt. But 
there isnt anything in the rules which states that this has to be done by the legal owner of 
the debt, in this case Lowell. It can also be done by the DCA thats been instructed. Lowell 
has said that it had an arrangement with the DCAs it instructed, for them to inform Ms Q that 
they were acting on behalf of Lowell. But because it wasnt Lowell that sent the letters, it 
doesnt have copies of these. 
But Ms Q has also stated that she was harassed by DCAs acting on behalf of Lowell. So, it 
appears that she knew there were DCAs appointed by Lowell and based on what shes said 
about the amount of contact these firms had with her, I think it likely she would have 
received the letters that notified her it was collecting a debt on Lowells behalf. 
Ms Q has raised concerns about some of the information Lowell had obtained about her  
including contact information. Lowell has stated that when it couldnt get in touch with Ms Q 
with the information it had, it used trace systems to try and find the most up to date contact 
details. I can see that Lowell bought this account in 2010 and didnt hear from Ms Q until 
2017. It had a legitimate reason to contact her, and so I dont find that it was unreasonable of 
Lowell to use trace systems to try and get in touch with her about the debt she owed- 
especially when it hadnt been able to make contact with her for some seven years. 
I appreciate this decision will come as a disappointment to Ms Q, but based on everything 
Ive seen, I dont think Lowell has treated her unfairly.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Qs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman