DRN-4152109
The complaint
Mr J complains about the level of customer service received from HSBC UK Bank Plc.
What happened
Mr J is unhappy with the customer service he has received from HSBC highlighting issues 
such as call waiting times, online chat, and branch closures and has asked for a payment of 
at least £60.
One of our Investigators looked into what happened and explained that we couldnt dictate 
how a business operates. They also thought while there may have been waiting times on the 
telephone which caused some inconvenience this wasnt at a level where compensation was 
due.
Mr J disagreed saying he had noticed a marked reduction in service from HSBC in recent 
years, coupled with their catastrophic branch closures.   
Because an agreement couldnt be reached the matter has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J is unhappy with HSBC closing branches however this isnt something I can comment on 
as this is a commercial decision they are entitled to make. It seems that branch closures 
have caused Mr J some inconvenience however its not the role of this service to tell a 
business like HSBC what they can and cant do. 
Mr J has also said he believes a maximum time to answer the phone should be implemented 
 10 minutes as a maximum. While I can see that Mr J, and probably all customers, would 
want to reduce call waiting times this isnt something I have the power to recommend. Each 
business is free to set their own policies and procedures and this isnt something I can 
interfere with. 
When considering payments for distress and inconvenience such as Mr J was requested our 
website sets out our approach:
Were all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and a certain level of frustration 
and minor annoyance is expected. For us to make an award wed need to see that the 
impact of a businesss mistake was more than someone would expect to experience as part 
of everyday life, such as a businesss phone lines being busy.
And it goes on to say:
Using financial services wont always be totally hassle free and we wouldnt award for things 
that arent more serious than the normal nuisances of everyday life. 
Having looked at what Mr J has said, and the information from HSBC, I dont think the 
service received has been at the level where a payment is due. It seems that Mr J 
encountered some inconveniences of everyday life, the impact of which while annoying, isnt 
at the level for which we would make an award. 
Ive reviewed five telephone calls Mr J had with HSBC about a variety of topics. There might 
have been some waiting time, which is to be expected, but I think the people Mr J spoke with 
acted professionally and were helpful. I can see why Mr J contacted HSBC on each 
occasion, but I havent seen any errors that would cause me to make a compensation 
payment. 
It's clear to me that Mr J is unhappy with the service hes received from HSBC, however 
having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied hes been treated fairly 
and reasonably so I wont be asking them to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman