DRN-3977131
The complaint
Mr M brings this complaint in his capacity as director of a limited company that I will call S, 
with the consent of his co-director. Mr M says that State Bank of India (UK) Limited (SBI) 
unfairly declined a loan to the company. Mr M would like SBI to compensate the company for 
loss of opportunity.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. In addition, our decisions are published, 
so its important I dont include any information that might lead to Mr M or S being identified. I 
will instead concentrate on giving the reasons for my decision. 
Briefly, in 2022 S applied for a loan with SBI, which progressed to underwriting stage. The 
loan application was then declined. SBI explained that this was because the companys 
accounts showed that in 2021 the companys accounts were showing a loss, because 
turnover was just over £46,000 but administrative expenses were around £47,600, resulting 
in an operating loss of just over £1,600. SBI raised queries about this, but wasnt satisfied 
that there would be sufficient income generated by S to support the loan. 
It was also noted that a net profit shown in the accounts was in relation to adding a gain of 
£65,000 on revaluation of investments, rather than income generated by S. The underwriters 
said:
Prior to moving the case to fee paid our understanding was that there would not be 
an increase in admin expenses in year 2021 as it was previously mentioned the 
admin expenses for 2020 were discretionary expenses. The financial statement for 
2020 showed a profit which calculated with salary met our income criteria, however, 
the financial statement for 2021 show that admin fees have increased to £47,664 
resulting in operating loss in business.
  
The profit referred to in 2021 financial statement includes the gain of revaluation of 
investment figures  which the Bank doesnt consider under retained profit 
assessment.
Given this, SBI wasnt able to proceed with the application. Mr M challenged this, but SBI 
wouldnt change its decision. SBI clarified that, prior to receiving the 2021 accounts, SBI had 
initially used Ss financial statements and Mr Ms salary from 2020 to calculate that income 
requirements for the loan were met. 
However, the figures for 2021 were not as SBI had expected, showing increased 
administrative expenses and that Mr Ms salary was insufficient to support the loan. 
Mr M said there was a discretionary £33,000 in management fees which, when added back, 
provided sufficient profitability. However, SBI noted that Mr M was not in receipt of any 
income in the form of management fees, and the bank had been told that he had no 
self-employed income. 
As a result, SBI wasnt able to change its decision. Mr M raised a complaint, but SBI didnt 
uphold it. Mr M, on behalf of S, raised the complaint with our service. An investigator looked 
at what had happened but was satisfied that SBI had given fair consideration to the 
application, but as it didnt meet lending policy, the bank was entitled to decline it.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigator. He said that hed specifically applied for a loan that 
didnt require any income requirements, and that before the application was submitted, SBI 
didnt mention there were any such requirements. He also knew that SBI was aware that he 
wasnt able to provide audited accounts for S.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion. He said it was standard for banks 
to have an income and affordability assessment before granting a loan application. He 
remained of the opinion that SBI had not made any error or acted unfairly.
Mr M asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. These are my reasons.
The crux of Mr Ms complaint is that he believed there was no income criteria for the 
application. Despite this, the application was declined on the basis of insufficient income, 
which Mr M believes is an error by SBI.
SBIs documentation does not suggest that the bank told Mr M that it would not require any 
evidence to show that S would have sufficient income to service the loan. Indeed, this would 
make no sense, because one of the most important criterion for a loan application is that the 
applicant is able to demonstrate that they will be able to afford the repayments. Lending 
where there is no (or insufficient) income is considered irresponsible, as this would place the 
borrower in a position of having an unaffordable loan from the outset. As a result, SBI was, I 
find, entitled to assess whether S had sufficient income to service the loan it was asking the 
bank to make.
SBI is entitled to set its own lending criteria. Decisions that SBI makes in respect of what 
those criteria are, its attitude to risk involved in this particular lending assessment, and 
whether it should lend and if so, on what terms are clearly discretionary matters for SBIs 
own commercial judgement that I would not generally interfere with.
SBI has provided information about its lending criteria and about what was taken into 
account in its consideration of the application. Im entitled to treat this as confidential, 
because it is commercially sensitive. But after considering this information, Im satisfied that 
SBI reached its lending decision fairly, after taking into account all relevant factors, including 
(but not limited to) affordability, exposure to risk, and Ss specific circumstances. 
The accounts for 2020 showed that SBIs income requirement was met, but the 2021 
financial statement for the company showed that the income requirement was by that point 
not being met. The questions SBI raised about Ss accounts were, I find, legitimate, given 
the discrepancies in what the accounts showed and what Mr M was saying about £33,000 
paid out in management fees that didnt show up as income for Mr M or his co-director anywhere else. Im also satisfied that it was reasonable for SBI to disregard re-valuation of 
assets as profit, as this was notional, rather than earned, profit; it would only be an actual, 
tangible profit if the assets were sold and generated a surplus.
I appreciate that the application took several months to consider, but Im satisfied SBI was 
entitled to raise queries about the application. That demonstrates to me that SBI was giving 
the application serious consideration, and gave Mr M every opportunity to clarify the position 
on the accounts. Ultimately, however, SBI was entitled to decline the application when it did 
not meet its lending criteria.
In all the circumstances, Im satisfied that SBI gave fair consideration to this application and 
so legitimately exercised its commercial judgement when deciding whether or not it would 
lend to S. This means that there is no basis upon which I can find that SBI has treated S 
unfairly or unreasonably.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M on behalf of 
S to accept or reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman