DRN-3783112
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bapchild Motoring World (Kent) Limited didnt refund his motor warranty 
after his car was stolen.
What happened
Mr M purchased a car and an extended motor warranty from Bapchild. Bapchild were also 
the provider of the extended warranty.
Unfortunately, Mr Ms car was stolen. He asked Bapchild to cancel the policy and give him a 
pro-rata refund. But Bapchild said no refund was due in line with the terms and conditions of 
the policy.
Mr M wasnt happy with this and complained but Bapchild didnt change its stance. So, he 
brought his complaint to us.
Ultimately, one of our investigators recommended it be upheld. She acknowledged the terms 
said no refund was due, and that technically Mr M had made a claim, but she didnt think it 
was fair to not give a refund given the circumstances.
Bapchild didnt respond to our investigators last assessment on the complaint, so, the case 
has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it. Ill explain why.
Technically speaking Mr M made a claim on this policy. And with most policies, 
where a claim has been made, the policy has fulfilled its purpose. This then usually 
means there is no unused premium and when the policy is cancelled, no refund is 
due.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ms warranty say no refund is due on cancellation 
under any circumstances. But relying on that term doesnt always lead to a fair 
outcome
Here, the claim was made within the first 14 days of Mr M owning the car and having 
this policy. Had Mr M not purchased the extended warranty, hed have been covered 
by Bapchilds standard 90 day warranty. So, his claim would have been covered by 
that.
Bapchild has said that by purchasing the extended warranty, the standard warranty 
doesnt apply. But I cant see that it made this clear to Mr M or that it says such in the 
documentation. So, while technically a claim was made on the extended warranty, I 
think it would be fairer to have treated it under the standard warranty or dealt with it 
through goodwill following the sale of the car. Especially when taking into 
consideration how close the issue was to the sale of the car.
Mr Ms car was stolen and not recovered, this wasnt his choice, nor was it 
Bapchilds. But following the theft, Bapchild was no longer on risk of a claim coming 
in under the warranty. So, I think it fair to refund Mr M for the time left on the 
warranty.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Bapchild Motoring World 
(Kent) Limited to:
Pay Mr M a pro-rata refund from the date he informed them of the theft of his car to 
the end of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman