DRN-2243369
The complaint
Mrs S says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1995. The policy was added to 
Mrs Ss credit card account when she applied for the card by post.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ss case.
I've decided not to uphold Mrs S's complaint. I'll explain why.
I've seen a copy of the credit card application form which Mrs S completed. It included a 
section headed "Payment Protection Plan" in which there were equally prominent options 
to take or decline the PPI. The box is ticked to indicate that Mrs S wished to take PPI. 
I acknowledge that Mrs S believes strongly that she didnt tick the box. But Id need very 
strong evidence to persuade me that the tick wasnt inserted by Mrs S, and I cant fairly 
reach that conclusion, based purely on what Mrs S says. Ive also borne in mind that the 
premiums for the PPI would have been shown on Mrs Ss credit card statements. Im 
satisfied that it would have been clear to Mrs S from the application form that PPI was an 
optional extra. And Id have expected her to query the charges with Barclays if she 
hadnt wanted the cover. Ive seen nothing to suggest that she did so.
Taking everything into account, I'm satisfied that Barclays made Mrs S aware that the 
PPI was optional. And I think she decided to take it, knowing that she had a choice - 
although I can understand how she may no longer remember this, so many years after 
the event.
Mrs S applied for the credit card and PPI by post. So I think it's unlikely that she had any 
direct contact with Barclays' staff during the application process. And I don't think 
Barclays recommended the PPI to her. This means that it didn't have to check if the PPI 
was suitable for Mrs S. It was for Mrs S to decide whether to take the PPI, knowing what 
other means shed have had of making her monthly credit card payments if she was off 
sick, or if she lost her job. But Barclays still had a responsibility to give Mrs S clear 
enough information to decide for herself whether she wanted to take out the policy.
I've borne in mind that Mrs S has told us she'd have been entitled to six months' full pay, 
followed by six months' half pay from her employer if she'd been off sick. But if she'd 
made a successful claim on the policy for accident or sickness, it would have paid out for 
up to 12 months. Thats longer than Mrs S has told us shed have been entitled to full sick 
pay for. And it would have provided the same benefit if she'd made a successful 
unemployment claim. What's more, the policy would have paid out in addition to any 
payments Mrs S received from her employer. So she could have used those to meet 
other day-to-day expenses.
Ive borne in mind that Mrs S has told us that if shed been out of work, her husband would 
have supported her, and shed have found a job as quickly as possible. But circumstances 
can change, and I cant be sure that Mrs Ss husband would have been in a position to 
support her if the need had arisen. And although I have no reason to doubt that Mrs S 
would have sought work as quickly as possible, I think its unlikely that she could have 
guaranteed that shed find new work straight away. Having the PPI would have meant that 
she didnt need to worry about her monthly credit card repayments in the meantime. So 
taking everything into account, I think the PPI could have been useful for Mrs S.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Ive explained that Im satisfied Mrs S chose to take out the policy. 
So she appears to have wanted this type of cover, even if she's understandably forgotten 
that now, so many years later. Based on what she's told us about her circumstances at 
the time, she wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy didn't cover (for 
example, unusual working arrangements, or existing medical conditions) and the policy 
was competitively priced and apparently affordable. And since she was paying for the 
policy monthly, she could have cancelled it at any time with no further cost if her 
circumstances changed, or if shed decided she no longer wanted the cover.
Taking everything into account, I think it's unlikely that Mrs S would have made a 
different decision even if better information had been provided. On balance, I think shed 
still have taken out the policy.
I've taken account of all Mrs S's comments, including what she's said about she and her 
husband never having been out of work. But PPI, like other types of insurance, was 
designed to protect against unexpected events. And the fact that Mrs S has not, in fact, ever 
been out of work doesnt mean that she could have been sure this would be the case at the 
point when she applied for the PPI. So this doesnt change my conclusion. My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021. 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman