DRN-2825318
The complaint
Mr P complains about an application to extend the term of his interest only mortgage with 
Lloyds Bank PLC.
What happened
Mr P has two interest only mortgages with Lloyds, over his main residence and second 
home. He wanted to extend the terms of both mortgages to age 70. So he began 
discussions with Lloyds. 
Unfortunately those discussions didnt go in line with Mr Ps expectations, and he made 
various complaints to Lloyds. Our investigator explained that most of those complaints were 
out of time under the rule that requires them to be escalated to us within six months, and 
both parties accepted that. 
Therefore the focus of this complaint is on information Mr P was  or wasnt  given about 
acceptable repayment strategies. 
Mr P spoke at different times to Lloyds mortgage centre and complaints department, and to 
advisers in two different branches. 
Lloyds asked Mr P how he intended to repay his mortgage. Mr P says he wanted to know 
what he could put forward as an acceptable repayment strategy to support his application. 
Lloyds said it was for Mr P to put forward a strategy. One of the branch advisers said he 
should consult Lloyds lending policy to see what would be acceptable. Mr P says he was 
shown it on a screen in branch and advised to ask for it from customer services. 
Lloyds said it couldnt share its lending policy. It was commercially confidential and not 
something it made available to customers. Mr P complained about that, and also complained 
about how his complaints were handled. 
Some time later, after much debate with Lloyds, another adviser in the other branch gave Mr 
P a document setting out what Lloyds considered to be acceptable repayment strategies. 
Similar information was available on Lloyds website. This was the information Mr P wanted, 
and following that he completed his application for a term end. 
Mr P complained. He said Lloyds had failed to give him the information he needed to 
complete his application. He had been told different things by different parts of Lloyds and he 
thought its customer service was very poor. And he wasnt happy with how his complaint had 
been handled.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As part of the application to extend the term, Lloyds asked Mr P about his repayment 
strategy for his mortgages. 
Mr P has substantial means, and wasnt concerned about his ability to repay his interest only 
mortgages at the end of the term. He has various savings and investment vehicles, 
substantial cash savings and pensions. He said that he would have no difficulty in repaying 
the capital  but couldnt at this stage be sure exactly how he would do so. 
Lloyds wanted Mr P to specify how he intended to repay, and earmark a specific part of his 
assets to do so. 
Mr P didnt think that was necessary, or that it fitted with how he managed his assets and 
finances. He would be able to repay without difficulties, but didnt feel he could commit a 
specific part of his portfolio to doing so when there were several years still to go. 
Lloyds explained that it would need to assess his ability to repay, and that would mean 
knowing how he intended to do so, and that his plan was an acceptable repayment strategy.
That was a reasonable question for Lloyds to ask. The rules of mortgage regulation require it 
to consider how an interest only mortgage will be repaid at the end of the term. And the rules 
say that certain repayment strategies are more likely to be acceptable than others  and 
Lloyds has its own risk appetite for what it will accept and what it wont. Its not unreasonable 
that it wanted to see a definite plan, rather than an assurance that Mr P was comfortable 
hed be able to pay without specifying exactly how. 
But setting out that plan wouldnt irrevocably commit Mr P to doing that and only that  in the 
end, when the term expires, what matters is whether he repays the mortgages, not whether 
he does so using only the strategy he set out when he applied. Lloyds would not refuse 
payment because the capital comes from a different source to that Mr P originally said he 
would rely on. 
Mr P asked what Lloyds would consider an acceptable repayment strategy  so that he 
could respond to that question, allocating specific assets, in a way that would be acceptable 
to Lloyds. 
The adviser in the first branch told Mr P that he would need to see Lloyds lending policy  
which Mr P asked for. 
This led to several months of dispute. Lloyds said that its lending policy was confidential and 
commercially sensitive; Mr P said he needed to know what Lloyds would find acceptable 
before he could complete his application  and he had been advised to ask for it. I think 
there was a misunderstanding here. Its a case of crossed wires. 
Lloyds lending policy and criteria are confidential and commercially sensitive. Like all banks, 
it has criteria setting out when it will and wont lend, which are determined by its commercial 
and risk appetite and policy choices, as well as the regulatory environment in which it 
operates. These arent publicly available, and there are sound reasons for that. 
But that wasnt what Mr P wanted to see. What Mr P wanted was guidance for its customers 
on what repayment strategies it would accept for interest only lending. This information was 
available on Lloyds website, and also as a leaflet which the second branch adviser  
eventually  gave him. Once he received that leaflet, Mr P proceeded with his application. 
Mr P had been told by the first branch adviser to ask for the lending policy. This was the 
wrong description of what he wanted and needed. Had the first adviser been clearer in 
advising Mr P what to ask for, or had Lloyds thereafter tried to clarify with him what he was 
asking for, its likely things could have been resolved much sooner. But if Mr P had been less insistent on what he believed he was entitled to, matters might 
also have been resolved sooner. Mr P has made many complaints to Lloyds, and its clear 
the relationship between them isnt good. I make no comment on what happened in those 
previous complaints, as they fall outside the scope of this case. But I think that context was a 
factor in how long things took to resolve. 
And its also fair to say that Mr P could have proceeded with his application without the 
leaflet  it was his choice to design a repayment strategy around Lloyds criteria after seeing 
the criteria, rather than earmark part of his assets before making the application. And, as Ive 
explained, it was reasonable for Lloyds to expect Mr P to provide a specific plan for 
repayment. 
In the end, the terms of Mr Ps mortgages were extended. Hes remained on the same 
interest rate throughout, so theres no financial loss here. I note that Lloyds has already paid 
him £150 compensation for requesting further evidence of income when the process started 
in 2019. 
While that wasnt specifically offered for the matters Mr P complains of, taking a step back 
and looking at matters in the round, I think thats a fair and reasonable way to compensate 
him for Lloyds part in the overall time taken to complete the term extensions, and I dont ask 
it to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman