DRN-3690724
The complaint
Mrs G complains through her representative that Everyday Lending Limited trading as 
Everyday Loans (Everyday) irresponsibly lent her money on a high cost loan which she 
couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Everyday provided Mrs G with a loan of £1,500 on 23 February 2019, repayable over 24 
months at the rate of £165 a month. She started to have problems in making the repayments 
by August 2019 and started making lower repayments. The loan is still active. Mrs G 
complained through her representative in March 2022 of irresponsible lending.
Everyday said it carried out all necessary checks, including verifying Mrs Gs income, 
obtaining a credit report, and reviewing 2 months bank statements. It assessed her 
outgoings by using ONS (Office for National Statistics) data. It accepted that Mrs Gs income 
had been low before the loan application as she had been off work sick, but decided to lend 
the monies on the basis that she had now returned to work and her income had increased. 
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our adjudicator said that the results of the 
checks showed Mrs Gs total monthly credit repayments represented a significant proportion 
of her income. In these circumstances, there was a significant risk that Mrs G wouldnt have 
been able to meet her existing commitments without having to borrow again.
Everyday didnt agree, pointing out that from her credit file her total loan balance outstanding 
was £1,942, and the revolving balance (Credit, store cards or mail order) was £84. Her credit 
commitments were £177.83 which represented 20.9% of her income. It didnt agree that this 
was significant or a cause for concern.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Everyday complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs G 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mrs G would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mrs Gs ability to make the repayments under the agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that Everyday had to ensure 
that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mrs G undue difficulty or significant 
adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet repayments out of 
normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any 
other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mrs G. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
I have noted that Everyday hasnt been able to show us the credit report obtained on Mrs G 
at the time of the loan application. I have had to rely on the figures set out in its own credit 
summary. This showed that she had three loans, one of which was due for final payment. 
She did have credit cards with a total balance of £84. But she also had a mail order account, 
several debts to communication suppliers, a debt to a public utility and a County Court 
Judgment. Apart from the loans where payments were fixed, Everyday calculated 3% 
payments for the other debts. Our approach is that this should be 5% to enable the 
consumer to pay off the debts within a reasonable period. 
Recalculating those balances at 5% would mean payments of around £225. But the loan 
payment has to be added which means £390 credit commitments. The income set out in 
Miss Gs bank statements, declared on her application, and shown on Everydays disposable 
income calculation was £849. This income was also quoted by Everyday in response to our 
adjudicators view. With the assessed living costs, this would have produced a negative 
disposable income and her credit commitments would have been about 45% of her income -
clearly not affordable.
Ive noted that Everyday relied on Mrs G advising it that she had returned to work and her 
income would be about £500 more. This would still mean her credit commitments would be 
about 28-29% of her income  still high.The main issue I have with this is that Mrs G had apparently been able to sustain a very high 
level of debt repayments whilst on a much lower income. So although the pounds and pence 
calculation would have looked healthier if she had been able to continue earning the higher 
income, I think that the indicators of her position at the time of applying for the loan showed 
that it was likely not sustainable. So I dont think that Everyday made a fair lending decision.
Putting things right
Mrs G has had the capital payment in respect of the loan, so its fair that she should 
repay this. So far as the loan is concerned, I think Everyday should refund all interest 
and charges as follows: 
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan. 
Treat any payments made by Mrs G as payments towards the capital amount. 
If Mrs G has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to her with 8% 
simple interest* from the date they were paid to the date of settlement. 
But if theres still an outstanding balance, Everyday should come to a reasonable 
repayment plan with Mrs G
Remove any adverse information about the loan from Mrs Gs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Mrs G a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans to 
provide the remedy set out under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman