DRN-2738501
The complaint
Mr C has complained that esure Insurance Limited unfairly charged him an additional 
premium for his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr C had a policy with esure which renewed in October 2018. In August 2019 esure 
received an allegation that Mr C had been in an accident in September 2018. Mr C later 
confirmed the details of the accident.
esure said that if Mr C had told it about the accident before his policy renewed then it would 
have charged him a higher premium, which he'd have to pay. It initially told him hed need to 
pay it a further £322 but then said the correct figure was £414, before agreeing to the lower 
sum.
Mr C didn't think that was fair and brought his complaint to us. I issued a provisional decision 
on 1 March 2021; for ease Ive copied the relevant extract below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
was it fair for esure to charge Mr C the additional premium?
Mr Cs policy says that he needs to tell esure if hes been in an accident, even if he doesn't 
intend to make a claim. Further when esure sent Mr C its renewal proposal it asked him to 
check the information on it and tell esure if anything was wrong or had changed. The policy 
schedule said Mr C hadn't had any claims, accident or losses within the last three years. But 
that wasn't right.
Thats because Mr C had an accident in September 2018. So he should have told esure 
about that. And, if hed done so, esure would have charged him a higher premium at 
renewal. But that doesn't mean it was fair for esure to simply impose an additional premium.
Mr Cs mistake in not telling esure about the accident is known in the insurance industry as 
making a misrepresentation. And theres specific legislation - the Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA)  which sets out what insurers may do 
in such a situation. It says that insurers may:
cancel the policy; or
tell the consumer that it will settle any future claims on a proportionate basis (or apply 
other exclusions or limitations it would otherwise have applied). But if the consumer 
isnt happy with that approach, we think it's fair that they can cancel the policy 
themselves.
CIDRA doesnt allow the insurer to simply impose an additional premium as esure did. But 
we think its reasonable for an insurer to explain to the consumer theres a problem and give 
them the option of paying the additional premium in order to keep the policy going or 
otherwise to cancel the policy themselves without any penalty. But Ive seen no evidence 
that esure gave Mr C the option of cancelling his policy. So I dont think it applied CIDRA 
fairly.
Mr Cs policy has since lapsed, so esure can't offer him the option of cancelling it now. So 
Ive thought about whats likely to have happened if esure had given Mr C that option at the 
time it calculated the additional premium. And given his strong reaction to the size of the 
additional premium I think its likely that Mr C would have cancelled the policy. And that 
means he wouldn't have had to pay the additional premium. So I don't think its fair for esure 
to pursue him for that sum now.
But, if my understanding is wrong, and Mr C has already paid any part of the additional 
premium then I think esure should reimburse the amount hes paid. It should add simple 
interest to that refund at a rate of 8% a year from the date it collected it to the date it pays 
the refund.
was the scale of the additional premium fair?
For completeness, when Mr C complained to this office the focus of his complaint was on the 
size of the additional premium. And, as esure gave him two separate figures for it, he's not 
convinced that it calculated that fairly. So Ill briefly address those concerns here.
esures explained that, when it initially calculated the additional premium the underwriter that 
did so left a discount in place which Mr C was no longer entitled to. But when a second 
underwriter looked at it they removed the discount, which caused the premium to rise, 
although esure later agreed to reduce the amount it was asking for. I think esures 
explanation was reasonable.
Further Mr C said he was able to get a far cheaper quote from esure, using a comparison 
website, than its recalculated premium. I haven't seen a breakdown of how esure calculated 
the online quote; so I haven't checked if it was a like-for-like policy with the same levels of 
cover as Mr Cs existing policy, which could affect the premium. But I'm aware that its 
common for insurers like esure to treat all potential customers looking for quotes from a 
comparison site as a new customer, regardless of whether they already hold a policy. And 
insurers like esure might offer people looking for quotes on a comparison site discounts that 
it wouldn't automatically offer its existing customers. That could explain why Mr C was able 
to find a cheaper quote through a comparison site. But that's something esure is allowed to 
do. So the fact Mr C found a cheaper quote online doesn't mean the additional premium 
esure asked Mr C to pay had been calculated incorrectly.
Developments 
esure accepted my provisional decision. Mr C asked if esure had acted fraudulently. He also 
asked if he was entitled to compensation. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm going to uphold it. 
Mr C asked if esure behaved fraudulently. It's not my role to decide if a fraud has been 
committed, as ultimately thats a matter for law enforcement agencies or the courts. My role 
is limited to deciding on whether a business has acted fairly and reasonably. And, for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, Im satisfied that in the circumstances of this case 
esure didn't handle the matter fairly.
Mr Cs also asked if hes entitled to compensation. Theres no automatic entitlement to 
compensation even where, as here, a business has acted unfairly. And I think its worth 
noting again, that Mr Cs policy required him to tell esure immediately if hed been in an 
accident even if he didn't intend to make a claim himself. But Mr C didn't do that. 
Similarly, Mr C didn't tell esure before his policy renewed that hed been in an accident. And 
if hed done so then esure would have adjusted his premium to reflect that before his policy 
renewed. In other words if Mr C had done what he was supposed to do, he wouldn't have 
found himself in a position where esure was chasing him for an additional premium, even if it 
was doing so unfairly. 
I also think its worth noting that, as esure will no longer be pursuing Mr C for the additional 
premium, hes essentially had the benefit of a years insurance for cheaper than he would 
have done had he told esure about the accident. So, in the specific circumstances of this 
case, I don't think compensation is warranted. It follows that I don't intend to alter my 
provisional findings.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. Depending on whether or not Mr C 
has paid some or all of the additional premium esure charged, I require esure Insurance 
Limited to either:
stop pursuing Mr C for the additional premium; or
refund any additional premium he has paid. It should add simple interest to that 
refund at a rate of 8% a year from the date he paid it to the date esure refunds him1.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman
1 If esure pays interest and considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should also give him a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.