DRN-4221820
The complaint
Through his representative, Mr T complains that Clear Capital Markets Limited (CCM) 
enabled him to trade in investments in a small number of specific and potentially high risk / 
volatile stocks on the SVS Securities trading platform, after it advised him to transfer his 
Hartley SIPP to Intelligent Money. 
Mr T says that he was interested in ensuring that his pension was sensibly invested to give
him a good pension provision at retirement, but wasnt a high risk taker as he couldnt afford 
to take those risks with his pension. So he didnt give CCM a mandate to invest in high risk 
products. The value of the shares has fallen and the pension is unlikely to have performed 
as well as it would have done on suitable investment.
The representative also mentions that the costs of running the SIPP and trading platform 
when Mr Ts funds were so small, would neutralise any investment gains and prevent 
growth.
What happened
In 2018, Mr T was in a management position earning £36-40,000pa for this own company. 
He had a small amount of shares in Saga & Canada Life, but no other savings or investment 
experience. He was aged 54. He had an existing pension with Hartley SIPP, worth £6,776. 
(There is also a suggestion on one of CCMs fact finding calls that he also had a few 
thousand pounds in a Phoenix pension.)  
Mr Ts representative says he was made an unsolicited offer of a pension review and 
referred to CCM. The outcome of this was that they then recommended he transfer from the 
Hartley SIPP to an SVS Securities platform within an Intelligent Money SIPP in order to 
achieve better returns. The representative believes that CCM was to carry out discretionary 
management of the SVS Securities portfolio. 
This appears to be a condensed version of a longer timescale. The representative has since 
explained that Mr T has complained to a financial adviser (Quantum International) in respect 
of earlier pension transfer advice involving £20,000 from Standard Life to the Lifetime 
(subsequently Hartley) SIPP in 2015. That also seems to have begun with a cold call and 
involved discretionary fund management, but it culminated in the firm managing Mr Ts 
money (Sequant Capital) defaulting to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme). Im 
aware from this  and other  cases that Sequant and CCM then had an arrangement to 
avoid clients who were interested in (and appropriate for) share dealing services, being left 
without an adviser or broker. 
CCM says that it didnt make unsolicited contact with Mr T. Its provided details of all the 
calls it made to Mr T to onboard him as a customer, showing he was willing to take 
advantage of Sequants offer to pass his business to CCM. Whilst reference is made in 
these calls to Sequant writing to Mr T to explain these arrangements, I can see why the 
CMC thinks Mr T was cold-called. It doesnt appear Mr T had received Sequants letter at the 
time CCM first contacted him. 
CCM explained that if he wished to use its services, Mr T would need to contact the trading 
account (Saxo) to obtain the necessary information to enable CCM to take over, as CCM 
didnt have access to this. However, its also evident from the calls that Mr T went away and 
did this and confirmed to CCM that he was happy to use its services. These calls enabled 
CCM to submit an application form for an SVS Securities account within an Intelligent Money 
SIPP, which Mr T signed on 19 September 2018. On the form, Mr T has allowed trading in 
equities only, not foreign exchange, CFDs or futures. However, this would encompass 
higher-risk AIM shares of the sort he went on to purchase. Intelligent Money noted on its 
records that CCMs director was the adviser, and giving CCMs FCA registration number. 
On 5 October 2018, Intelligent Money consented to CCM having power of attorney to make 
investments on the SIPP account. Following the transfer from Hartley, the SVS account was 
opened on 16 October 2018, and received £6,626.79 on 2 November  leaving £112.50 in 
the Intelligent Money SIPP. 
CCM then completed a fact find over the phone to assess Mr Ts suitability for its services. 
All three of execution-only, advisory and discretionary were ticked, but my understanding is 
that this was only to allow future possibilities. The rest of the background (below) bears out 
that all the trades seem to have been advisory in Mr Ts case. CCM recorded that Mr T had 
£18,500 in cash savings  this includes the value of his SIPP  and £2,000 in each of 
Funds/ETFs and FTSE 350 shares. Including the value of his home and deducting liabilities, 
he had net worth of £250,700. He was prepared to use 20% of this (about £50,000) as risk 
capital on the basis that losing this amount wouldnt affect his lifestyle. 
CCM also noted Mr T had an appetite for high risk and capital growth. According to CCMs 
risk profiling this meant that he could invest up to 75% of his risk capital (about £37,500) in 
high risk products. It also stated that Mr T had a good understanding of markets, and had 
made deals worth less than £5000, less than three times per year  except in derivatives & 
bonds. Mr T was willing to consider investment on the Alternative Investment Market (AIM), 
Initial Public Offerings (IPOs), placings and so on.
CCM subsequently bought and sold shares for Mr T on its advice, including Altitude Group, 
Rowan Metals, Sirius Minerals, Management Resource Solutions, Karoo Energy and Ascent 
Resources, generally employing short-term trading of a few days to a month apart. By May 
2020 the account held:
value
Jubilee Metals Group Plc £   426.62
Prospex Oil And Gas Plc £2,132.16   
ValiRX £     27.91 
Vast Resources Plc £1,689.90   
Pounds Sterling £   589.03 
£4,865.63
CCM also appears to have made further arrangements for Mr T to continue trading after 
SVS Securities went into FSCS default. A new fact find was completed on 12 June 2020, 
with answers materially the same as the 2018 one above. Mr Ts risk capital had increased 
to £62,000.
CCM went on to sell all of the Jubilee Metals and Prospex shares in January 2021 for 
£3,510, and bought a new holding in Mast Energy for £3,947 in April that year. In July it sold 
the Vast Resources shares for £643. I havent found any other trades, but the cash in the 
account has progressively been used to pay SIPP and ITI account fees. As of 30 May 2023, 
the Mast Energy shares are worth £345, with £29 remaining in ValiRX and £160 in cash.
Mr Ts complaintWhen the representative initially complained on Mr Ts behalf, it didnt have a full 
understanding of how Mr T came to acquire these shares. It thought CCM had acted as a 
discretionary fund manager, and believed  on the basis of the paperwork to transfer to the 
Intelligent Money SIPP / SVS platform  that CCM had advised Mr T to take these steps. 
This resulted in the complaint Ive summarised above, as the representative considered the 
shares Mr T ended up in were too high risk and not cost-effective.
When CCM responded to the complaint, it argued that Mr T had made his own decision to 
use its services, and it acted in accordance with its Retail Client Profile at all times. Noting 
that it did not have regulatory permissions to advise on pension switches, it said the CMC 
was mistaken in thinking that it had done so in Mr Ts case. Although CCM holds the FCA 
managing investments permission, it also confirmed that there was no discretionary trading 
on the account  each share trade had been recommended to and accepted by Mr T.
CCM has also disputed that Mr T wanted to complain about its services at all  providing 
evidence of a number of phone calls it had made directly to him to clarify his concerns. It 
believed that this complaint had been mixed up with concerns Mr T had about the adviser 
who had originally set up Mr Ts Lifetime SIPP. A common theme in these calls was Mr T 
agreeing that CCM "...ha[d] not had a chance to do anything on his account.
As a result, CCM said that there was an absence of anything from Mr T directly indicating 
that he wanted to complain. It had suggested in these calls that Mr T reflect those wishes by 
updating his representative. As the representative is acting with Mr Ts authority and 
continued to refer the matter to this service, we proceeded to investigate it.
In response, Mr Ts representative has reasserted to this service that the complaint letter to 
CCM had been approved by Mr T before it was sent to the firm. They have since clarified 
with Mr T that his concerns about firms who acted prior to CCM are being dealt with 
separately, and he is behind making this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on 30 June 2023, upholding the complaint. I gave both parties 
until 23 June 2023 to respond to the provisional decision. Mr Ts representative confirmed 
that they had no further points to add. CCM did not respond to the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive obtained recordings of all onboarding, factfinding and trade calls CCM carried out with 
Mr T and this has enabled me to reach the following provisional conclusions. These do not 
differ from my provisional decision as neither party has given me reason to depart from that.
Did CCM advise Mr T to switch his pension from Hartley to Intelligent Money?
During the onboarding call of 14 September 2018, CCMs director made negative comments 
about CCMs experience of liaising with Mr Ts existing provider, Hartley. He noted that all 
the other SIPP providers Sequant had been using were forthcoming and easy with allowing 
access, but Hartley was unresponsive. He went on to say that he was suggesting that clients 
move SIPP providers from Hartley to Intelligent Money.
Although it appears that the call cut off at some point whilst CCM was explaining this, after 
redialling Mr T confirmed he had heard the comments about Intelligent Money. The director reiterated that it would actually be cheaper for Mr T to move to Intelligent Money in the long 
run, as their annual fee was only £150.
The FCA gives guidance on what constitutes the regulated activity of advising on 
investments in its handbook at PERG 8.24. The advice must relate to a specific rather than a 
generic investment, but its clear here that it was discussing a SIPP with Intelligent Money in 
particular. And in my view, the discussion related to the merits of Mr T transacting with that 
SIPP provider, which is the other main determinant of whether advice is being given.
I realise CCM may seek to argue that its director was only providing information as to what 
Intelligent Moneys fees were, and to highlight that this was a firm CCM could work with 
successfully  in order to break an impasse where Mr T had been left with Hartley on the 
departure of his previous broker. As FCA makes clear at PERG 8.28.2(1), simply giving 
information without making any comment or value judgment on its relevance to decisions 
which an investor may make, is not advice.
However irrespective of his intentions, which arent a relevant consideration here in my view, 
its evident that the director did more than just this - and strayed into giving advice. I say this 
with reference to PERG 8.28.2(3) and (4):
(3) Regulated advice includes any communication with the customer which, in the particular 
context in which it is given, goes beyond the mere provision of information and is objectively likely 
to influence the customers decision whether or not to buy or sell.
(4) A key to the giving of advice is that the information:
(a) is either accompanied by comment or value judgment on the relevance of that information to 
the customers investment decision; or
(b) is itself the product of a process of selection involving a value judgment so that the 
information will tend to influence the decision.
In this case Im persuaded that references to Intelligent Money being cheaper than Hartley, 
and allowing trading to take place that currently couldnt with Hartley, did constitute a value 
judgement that Mr T should transfer his pension  or at the very least was intended to 
influence Mr Ts thought process that he should do so. That leads to the conclusion that 
CCM was likely acting in breach of its permissions not to advise on personal pension 
schemes. 
From what its said (and from what I can see now on the FCA register), CCM only appears to 
have had permission to advise on other types of non-pension investment, such as shares. 
But as CCM as a firm is in this services jurisdiction, and we have jurisdiction over any 
regulated activities a firm carries out, this doesnt affect my ability to consider Mr Ts 
complaint. And when doing so it is fair and reasonable for me to hold CCM to the standard of 
a competent firm providing pensions advice, with the appropriate permissions to do so. 
Its also irrelevant in my view that when some of the Intelligent Money / SVS documentation 
was completed late, on 5 February 2020, Mr T signed an application that acknowledged 
CCM hadnt advised him on the pension transfer. That advice had already been given and 
Mr T had already acted on the advice. Indeed, one reason for completing this documentation 
may have been for CCM to attempt to distance itself from pension advice it was aware it 
should not have given.
Was the advice to switch pensions suitable?
COBS 9.2.2R in the regulators handbook sets out that in order to make a suitable 
recommendation a firm must have a reasonable basis for believing that the transaction  
meets the clients investment objectives; is such that he is able financially to bear any related 
investment risks consistent with his investment objectives; and is such that he has the necessary experience and knowledge in order to understand the risks involved in the 
transaction.
CCM could easily have found out from Mr T that the pension benefits in his Hartley SIPP, 
already small at that time due to prior losses, had only ever started out at £20,000 a few 
years earlier. That, in combination with only a few thousand pounds in a Phoenix plan, 
wasnt on track for having a comfortable retirement  and at age 54 Mr T was behind what 
would generally be considered to be an appropriate level of saving.
His pension was for its own defined purpose  providing benefits in retirement  and I dont 
think CCM paid sufficient regard to the fact that he could ill afford to lose any more of it by 
making similar high risk investments to those hed done previously. I say this noting that 
irrespective of Mr Ts willingness to sign up for CCMs services and consider the share offers 
it was making to him, FCA-regulated firms have overarching obligations to conduct their 
business with due skill, care and diligence (Principle 2), or pay due regard to their 
customers interests or information needs (Principles 6 and 7). Sometimes the suitable 
course of action is different to what the client thinks they need - and a firm is expected to 
take steps to protect a client from, for example, wanting to (or appearing to want to) take 
more risk than they should.
During its onboarding call of 11 September 2018, Mr T told CCM that Someone did a 
pension review, I was advised to go into a SIPP, someone on the end of the phone has been 
dealing with it ever sinceIm dealing with about 12 companies here and I dont 
understand an awful lot of it to be honest Seem to be an awful lot of people involved in 
running the thing. A week later, he said that in September 2016 hed had £18,500 in his 
dealing account, but Sequant had bought a lump ofpharmawhich got suspended on the 
German stock exchange and the value disappearedsome sort of laundry problem.  
Sequant had been buying and selling on a regular basis to try and make back what he lost.
Im aware from other cases this service has received that losses of this degree with Sequant 
were not uncommon, and Mr T wasnt the only client who mentioned this to CCM. There was 
alternative recourse, such as through a complaint, to recover losses from inappropriate 
trading. So I think CCM should have proceeded very carefully when faced with a client who 
had seen an already small pension fund decimated further, was saying he didnt understand 
an awful lot of how things worked, but believed further trading could potentially recover his 
losses. Although he wasnt expressly saying he thought hed been wrongly advised 
originally, its fair to say Mr T didnt seem confident that he was in the right arrangement  
and indicated that he had just followed what someone had previously advised him to do.
I dont have details of Hartleys charges, except that CCM said at the time these exceeded 
Intelligent Moneys. So we know they were more than £150pa, which is already 2.2% of the 
£6,739 transferred across from Hartley. The charges for the SVS account, and CCMs 
trading fees (up to 1% of equities/bonds and 5% of placing stock, but with minimum 
monetary amounts) were in addition to this. So, it appears the account with Saxo Mr T 
already had previously, plus the extra layer of charges to Sequant, would have played its 
own part in how his portfolio had reduced from some £20,000 to under £7,000.
I therefore consider that a competent pension adviser should have questioned whether Mr T 
had been given the right advice originally to move to a SIPP. In effect, he would have 
needed a very high attitude to risk, in order to make the sorts of investments producing 
sufficient returns to overcome this high hurdle rate of charges. For him to suitably be doing 
this, and consistent with COBS 9.2.2R, he would likely be a very engaged investor who 
understood the substantial risks involved in trying to grow a pot that was this small in such a 
relatively high charging environment. He would need to be prepared to accept that the £7,000 he had remaining could be all but eradicated from one further misjudged investment 
decision, because no limit was set on the size of the trades CCM might make.
Im not satisfied Mr T was this sort of investor, as it looks to me that he was entirely reliant 
on advice in respect of his pension. And its difficult to see how someone whose SIPP was 
the majority of their pension provision, and which was clearly an insufficient amount at that 
stage to plan for retirement on, could be expected to accept the very high risk of investing all 
of it in AIM shares, including about 50% in a single share. The logical advice which would be 
given by a competent adviser to all but the most adventurous individual, would be to move 
their arrangement back to a lower-charging environment  ideally one without fixed costs at 
all  such as Mr T used to have with Standard Life.
CCM carried out the main part of its fact finding in a phone call which took place on 7 
November 2018, which was after it had given the advice Ive deemed above to switch 
pension providers that September. I consider this should have been the other way around, 
so that CCM could take into account what Mr Ts attitude to, capacity for and understanding 
for risk meant for the intended purpose (share dealing) that the transfer was intended to 
achieve.
Ive considered the fact that CCM did record Mr T as having a high attitude to risk, as this 
might appear to run contrary to his representatives claim that he was not a risk taker. In the 
fact finding call, CCM asked Mr T whether he was low, medium or high risk - explaining that 
the difference between the three categories was whether one was more concerned about 
limiting losses than achieving returns, both equally, or the other way around.
Mr T answered that he was high risk, but I dont think the scale being used had enough 
categories to establish whether he was not concerned about limiting losses to any great 
degree at all, or just slightly more concerned at achieving returns than limiting losses. A 
single high risk category could potentially have covered anything in between. I dont think 
this was a sufficient assessment to establish whether Mr T truly understood and accepted 
the risk of putting the main part of his pension provision entirely into single AIM or similar 
shares. In any event, that should be regarded by an adviser in my view as a very high risk 
proposition. As there wasnt such a category on CCMs scale, this in effect brought an 
inappropriately wide range of clients, including I think Mr T, into scope for this type of share 
dealing activity.
CCMs fact find established that Mr Ts risk capital was about £50,000  as a result of 
including the value of his home in his net worth, and then establishing that he was prepared 
to risk 20% of that net worth. I think this assessment was flawed. Normally, the value of 
ones main residence isnt generally included in such assessments (for example when 
assessing if someone meets the legal criteria of being a high net worth individual).
Thats for good reason, as I cannot envisage how Mr T could be expected to put his own 
home at risk. Only about £22,500 of assets other than his home were noted on the fact find 
(although from listening to the phone call this seems to include his pension and mistakenly 
counts his estimate of £2,000 total in shares twice). Either way, I think CCM should have 
seen the illogicality in his answer that his lifestyle wouldnt be affected if he lost £50,000, 
when he would most likely have to remortgage his home. 
What this answer did however ensure is that the 75% of the £50,000 risk capital that CCM 
deemed Mr T could invest in high risk products (because of his agreement to take a high 
risk) significantly exceeded the £7,000 in his SIPP. Because Mr T didnt set an upper limit 
for a single share purchase, this could potentially mean close to £7,000 could be invested in 
a single share, although I appreciate CCM didnt increase the risk to quite this degree. But it 
would certainly result in the majority of Mr Ts pension provision being insufficiently diversified. This was not assisted by Mr Ts only other assets being either in cash or, to a 
lesser extent, in shares.
If it turned out, as I think it should, that Mr T was potentially somewhere between medium 
and high risk (and certainly not very high risk), I dont think a competent adviser would have 
recommending put all of his pension into single AIM shares. Mr T was educated to A level 
and didnt work in the financial industry. And there were tell-tale signs as to his level of 
understanding of what taking a high risk would actually mean. When he was asked about his 
level of understanding of financial matters he gave an answer of good to limited, which the 
adviser then upgraded to good on the fact find. 
Some further questions the adviser was asking Mr T were designed to capture whether he 
had previous experience of carrying out trades personally: Mr T answered that he had traded 
fewer than three times a year in ETFs, large and small capitalisation shares. But he 
explained that hed only bought the large cap (in Standard Life Aberdeen and Saga) 
personally  the others were ones Sequant had bought for him. 
These appear to have been traded on a discretionary basis by a broker whose activities had 
already been called into question, so I dont think CCM should have been confident that Mr T 
understood the risks involved in shares on the alternative markets that CCM was going to 
recommend. This was also too cursory an assessment to comply with COBS 9.2.2R, given 
that (apart from the Standard Life and Saga shares) Mr T had until that point been reliant on 
others to recommend or select deals for him). Asking Mr T to confirm he agreed that he 
understood those risks at the end of the call (as CCM did), didnt make it so, or make the 
advice it went on to give on specific shares suitable for him.
What should CCM have done instead?
CCM gave Mr T advice to switch pension providers, apparently in breach of its permissions. 
And Ive concluded that advice wasnt suitable for him. I appreciate that if, strictly, CCM had 
refused to get involved with Mr T at all, a question might arise as to how he would have 
exited the holdings he was in under Sequant (which CCM helped him to close down), in 
order to invest more appropriately. However in my view thats the wrong starting point. 
It wouldnt have been consistent with CCMs regulatory obligations to act in Mr Ts best 
interests (COBS 2.1.1R) for it to abandon him, having identified that he had been sat in an 
disproportionately high-charging pension in inadequately-diversified high-risk and alternative 
assets for the previous few years. It had already undertaken (with his agreement) to look into 
what sort of investments would be suitable for him.
Its possible that, based on what hed bought personally in the past, Mr T might have had a 
better understanding of and remained receptive to CCM buying large cap shares for him on 
the conventional markets. But CCM didnt do this. Mr Ts representatives portrayal of his 
attitude to risk suggests that, too, would have been inappropriate  and given the small size 
of Mr Ts pension, Im inclined to agree. I think some balancing element of other asset 
classes, such as bonds  and a wide spread of diversification in those shares and bonds  
was likely to be more appropriate for the purpose of this investment to support Mr T in 
retirement.
In my view, managed funds that better achieve the right level of diversification for a small 
pension pot, and which are typically available in conventional pension plans such as Mr T 
previously had with Standard Life, would have been more cost-effective for him. These could 
still have been geared to taking between a medium and higher risk if desired, by having a 
greater proportion of shares to bonds.If that wasnt a line of business CCM was prepared to get involved in, then having 
established that Mr T didnt have the right sort of arrangement for his long-term pension 
planning I consider there would have been an obligation on CCM to refer him to another 
advise. Or for it to recommend he got advice or guidance himself, perhaps from a 
government body such as the Pensions Advisory Service. Had CCM done any of these 
things, I think that would have set Mr T on the path to investing in a more cost-effective 
arrangement.
Would Mr T have followed the suitable advice CCM should have given him?
Although in my view Mr T should not have been trading in AIM and similar stocks through 
CCM at all, I expect that CCM might argue that Mr Ts willingness to continue with the 
services it was offering him means that he might have gone on to trade in some other way, 
perhaps with another party. To do this Ive listened to the advisory trading calls.
Typically, CCM would set out to Mr T in an initial call what shares were being offered to the 
market to gauge interest  and then send him further details by email to be discussed in the 
follow up call. I can see that Mr T was engaged with the information CCM sent him, and 
made some comments or asked questions based on the information hed read in the follow 
up call. 
For example hed taken a view on how long he was likely to need to hold the Rowan metals 
shares (6-12 months) to see a profit, based on what hed read about the companys plans to 
begin mining for copper. This prompted a further discussion where CCM explained they 
intended to trade out of most of the shares more quickly than this, as soon as a short-term 
profit could be realised (whenever positive news emerged from any of the parallel ventures 
the company had ongoing). CCM then said they would be aiming to take the same approach 
with lots of other companies over time.
Mr T evidently understood what CCM was telling him and accepted its advice to proceed on 
that basis. But I dont think this is the same as saying he understood all of the risks involved. 
I think he would have been aware that this involved more risk than, say, the large cap shares 
he owned outside his pension, as the warnings which were read out to him at the outset 
would have alerted him to further risks. But I havent found that Mr T took control of the 
discussions. 
Ultimately, Mr T acted on CCMs advice. And importantly, he didnt receive the right advice. 
CCM hadnt addressed the impact that the frequency of trading and multiple layers of 
charges could have on the likely profits Mr T would make, if they were only aiming to realise 
modest short-term gains (on average, because gains couldnt of course be guaranteed). If 
CCM had explained to him instead that he was more likely to be able to sustain (and 
increase) the value of his pension by investing in low-cost funds  and addressing what he 
had lost through Sequant separately  I think on balance he would have followed that 
advice, just as he followed the advice CCM did give him.
Mr T hadnt received what I would consider to be suitable advice on his pension for several 
years, had sustained significant losses as a result. And there are some indications in the call 
recordings that hed started to wonder whether this was working, as I mentioned above. As a 
result, I dont think he could have afforded to disregard the suitable advice CCM should have 
given him. I think he only proceeded to switch to Intelligent Money and carry on trading 
because what was the only option CCM offered. 
Whether or not CCM was in a position to recommend a more suitable pension plan or 
investments itself, I find it unlikely on balance that Mr T would have made the same high risk 
investments if CCM hadnt advised him to make them. And Im satisfied that he would have followed advice to invest his pension more conventionally, either through CCM or after going 
to any other adviser or guidance service CCM could have recommended.
Putting things right
My aim in awarding fair compensation is to put Mr T back into the position he would most 
likely have been in, had CCM not encouraged him to make large trades in AIM and other 
similar shares within his pension. There isnt a single identifiable investment or investments 
Mr T would have made instead of CCMs portfolio. 
I think the FTSE Private Investors Income Total Return Index is a reasonable benchmark to 
use as a proxy for the investments Mr T might have made instead, as it reflects the typical 
mixture of assets someone who was willing to take a moderate level of risk (but not the high 
risks involved in CCMs proposals) would have made. 
Ive had regard for Mr Ts moderate term to retirement at age 54, meaning that he could 
afford to take this degree of risk even though he was reliant on these funds (and would need 
to add to them) for his retirement provision. Ive also taken into account the overly broad 
delineation between CCMs high and medium risk descriptions and Mr Ts low level of 
investment understanding and experience, meaning in my view he was closer to the medium 
than the high risk investor he said he was at the time. His representatives comments 
correspond with my view.
This doesnt mean Mr T would have invested exactly in line with this index, which is a 
composite of about 60% in shares and 40% in bonds. But Im satisfied that its a reasonable 
benchmark to use as a proxy for the range of investments he might have made had it not 
been for CCMs advice.
What should Clear Capital Markets Limited do?
To compensate Mr T fairly Clear Capital Markets Limited should:
Compare the performance of Mr Ts investments with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
If there is a loss, it should pay into Mr Ts pension plan, to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. This payment should allow for the effect 
of charges and any available tax relief. CCM shouldnt pay the compensation into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If CCM is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Ts pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr T wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Ts expected marginal rate of 
tax at his selected retirement age. Its reasonable to assume that Mr T is likely to be a 
basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. 
As Mr T would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr T in a clear, simple format.
Portfolio
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start
date")To ("end
date")Additional
interest
SVS 
Securities 
subsequently 
ITI Capital Shares in 
Mast 
Energy, 
ValiRX & 
residual 
cashFTSE Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index2 November 
2018Date of 
my final 
decision8% per year simple 
from the date of my 
final decision if not 
settled within 28 
days of receipt of 
Mr Ts acceptance
Since Mr T invested, the share prices of Mast Energy and ValiRX have fallen significantly. 
But Im persuaded that Mr T only has these shares as a result of CCMs advice. My 
understanding is that CCMs objective was to hold on to the residual amount in these 
investments for the medium to long term. That has led to the position for Mr T to worsen, as 
it currently stands.
If the shares cannot readily be sold on the open market, I require CCM to purchase them 
from the portfolio as part of the compensation and include the amount it pays into the 
portfolio for the shares as part of its value. If CCM is unable to purchase the shares and they 
cannot readily be sold on the open market, CCM must treat the shares as having a nil value 
when valuing the portfolio.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If CCM considers that its required by
HMRC to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr T how much it has taken off. 
It should also give Mr T a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr T asks for one, 
so he can reclaim the tax on this interest from HMRC if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ts complaint and require Clear Capital Markets Ltd to calculate and pay him 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Gideon Moore
Ombudsman