DRN-2505231
The complaint
Miss F is unhappy that Moneybarn Limited gave her incorrect information about direct debit 
payments under her conditional sale agreement with them.
What happened
On 4 September 2019, Miss F was supplied with a car through a conditional sale agreement 
with Moneybarn. The agreement was for £7,250 over 60 months, with monthly repayments 
of £237.68. 
The original payment date under the agreement was the 4th of every month. Miss F 
contacted Moneybarn on 11 November 2019 about changing the payment date to the 28th of 
each month. But Moneybarn didnt explain their rules about changing direct debits  they can 
only change a direct debit up to 21 day in the future, or 10 days in the past. So, in order to 
make the change Miss F asked for, the payment that wouldve been due on 4 November 
2019 would be collected on 25 November 2019, and the payment that wouldve been due on 
4 December 2019 would be collected on 28 November 2019.
Because of this, Miss F didnt have enough money in her account to cover both payments. 
And a payment was missed. Moneybarn agreed Miss F could set up a payment plan to cover 
the missed payment.
Miss F complained to Moneybarn about whatd happened. Moneybarn acknowledged theyd 
made a mistake in not explaining what would happen, and when payments would be 
collected. As Miss F had already paid £118.68 towards the missing payment under the 
payment plan, Moneybarn agreed to waive the outstanding payment. They also corrected 
Miss Fs credit file so that it didnt show any adverse information.
Moneybarn then took the next payment plan instalment in error. They refunded this to Miss F 
and sent her a £20 gift card by way of an apology. Miss F wasnt happy with how Moneybarn 
dealt with things, and she brought her complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said Moneybarn had made an error in not telling Miss F whatd happen, and 
theyd acknowledged this. While he understood how frustrating this mustve been for Miss F, 
he also said that, had this error not happened, the December 2019 payment would always 
have been due. So he didnt think Moneybarn had done anything wrong by agreeing a 
payment plan. And, because theyd waived the outstanding amount under this plan, he didnt 
think they needed to do anything more.
Miss F didnt agree with the investigator. She said the £33 refund and the £20 gift card were 
a nice gesture however it did not cover the initial payment that I made of £118. Miss F 
thinks that Moneybarn should refund the £118, and shes asked for an ombudsman to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The basic facts of this case arent in dispute. When Miss F asked Moneybarn about 
changing her payment date, they shouldve told her this would mean the November 2019 
and December 2019 payments would be taken within a few days of each other. And they 
didnt. I appreciate that this wouldve come as a shock to Miss F and having to sort this out 
wouldve been both frustrating and annoying for her. 
But, for me to say that Moneybarn should refund the December 2019 payment to Miss F, Id 
have to say that Moneybarn collected a payment that Mr F wouldnt otherwise have had to 
pay. And I dont think thats the case.
Ive seen the statement of account for the period 4 September 2019 to 4 March 2021. This 
shows that Miss F made the first payment on 25 October 2019 (payment due date 4 October 
2019). Two payments were then collected on 25 and 28 November 2019, one of which was 
returned unpaid. Miss F paid £118.68 towards the missing payment on 11 December 2019, 
and Moneybarn wrote off the shortfall in January 2020.
The statement also shows that the payments continued to be collected on the 28th of each 
month, although Miss F didnt make any payments in April, May or June 2020. And the 
schedule of payments made, plus the schedule of payments still to be made, shows that 
Miss F will pay the number of payments she originally agreed to. Shes not making any 
additional monthly payments to Moneybarn as a result of the change in payment date.
I appreciate Miss Fs frustration at whatd happened, and I agree that this couldve been 
avoided if Moneybarn had explained what was going to happen, and when payments were 
going to be collected. But they didnt.
Miss F is not paying any additional payments as a result of what happened, and she would 
always have had to pay the payments due in November and December 2019 if the payment 
date hadnt been changed. So I dont think any of the payments she made  including the 
£118.68 partial payment made on 11 December 2019  should be refunded to her. And Im 
satisfied that Moneybarn writing off the remainder of this payment is sufficient compensation 
for the frustration and inconvenience Miss F suffered. So I wont be asking them to do 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Miss Fs complaint about Moneybarn 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman