DRN-1726799
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about esure Insurance Limiteds settlement of their home insurance 
claim for fire damage. 
What happened
There was an electrical fire inside Mr and Mrs Ms consumer unit/fuse board in July 2019. 
None of the sockets at Mr and Mrs Ms home were working after the fire so they called an 
electrician to inspect. He noted that the fire had caused irreparable damage to the fuse 
board and surrounding cabling. He said the fuse board would need replacing. He said the 
unknown extent of the damage to surrounding cabling was of concern and couldnt vouch 
that the cabling throughout the rest of the property remained safe. He recommended the 
property be fully rewired to current standard BS7671. 
A second electrician also attended. He noted that some of the cabling in the fuse board was 
insulated in fabric so he thought the wiring was over 50-years old. He carried out insulation 
tests and found the cables had poor insulation resistance. He thought the electrical 
installation/wiring was in an extremely poor condition due to the fire inside the fuse board. 
The electrician removed the meter tails from the fuse board so it couldnt be re-energised 
and recommended the property was rewired before installing a new consumer unit/ fuse 
board. He said he didnt recommend a new consumer unit should be fitted to the existing 
installation/wiring.
As thered been a fire and they were without any electrical supply to their home, Mr and Mrs 
M made a claim to esure. It appointed a loss adjuster to validate the claim. The loss adjuster 
told Mr and Mrs M over the phone that it was the old wiring that had caused the damage so 
there was no cover under the policy for their claim. Mr and Mrs M contacted esure and after 
a few days esure spoke to one of the electricians whod attended who confirmed there had 
been a fire. esure reopened the claim and agreed to investigate it. 
The loss adjuster visited the property a few days later. In the meantime, esure placed Mr and 
Mrs M and their family into alternative accommodation which it kept under weekly review. 
The loss adjuster noted smoke damage and melted wires within the consumer unit but no 
damage to the rest of the property. As he was unable to confirm a fire had occurred, he 
instructed a forensics expert to determine the cause of damage and esures liability was left 
pending until a report was received. The loss adjuster did report to esure that at first glance it 
appeared Mr and Mrs Ms electrics werent up to current UK regulations and that to bring Mr 
and Mrs Ms electrics up to UK standards a full rewire of the property would be necessary 
which would amount to betterment.
The forensic expert reported to esure that hed spoken to both electricians that had attended 
after the fire. He also confirmed that there was evidence of a small fire that originated within, 
and was confined to, the fuse board. He said the melting damage to the fuse terminal and to 
parts of the casing of the fuse board were consistent with electrical arcing activity occurring 
within the fuse board. Such arcing activity, he reported, was a credible source of ignition 
and was the most likely cause of the fire. But he was unable to determine the precise cause 
of the fire. 
esure said it would accept the claim but only to the extent of replacing the fuse board. It said 
it wouldnt consider the rewiring of Mr and Mrs Ms home. 
Mr and Mrs M complained. They said they couldnt find an electrician willing to connect a 
new fuse board to the old wiring and issue the necessary installation safety certificate. They 
said they had had to take out a £20,000 loan to pay to have the house rewired themselves. 
And they also complained that esure had stopped paying for their alternative 
accommodation whilst the rewiring was being completed. 
esure looked into Mr and Mrs Ms complaint but didnt think itd done anything wrong. It said 
its liability was confined to replacing the consumer unit only along with a small amount of 
wiring. It said the fact the house needed to be rewired wasnt due to the fire, it was because 
the wiring itself didnt meet current regulations. It also said it couldnt continue to cover the 
cost of Mr and Mrs Ms alternative accommodation beyond the time it would take to replace 
the consumer unit (two days). It said it was awaiting receipt of their estimate to arrange 
settlement. 
Unhappy with esures findings, Mr and Mrs M complained to this service. Our investigator 
looked into their complaint and recommended that it was upheld. She said the evidence 
showed that a new consumer unit/fuse board couldnt be fitted and safely connected to the 
existing wiring without that first being replaced, nor would an electrical safety certificate be 
issued. She said that for an effective and lasting repair to be carried out, the house needed 
to be rewired as well as the consumer unit being replaced. She said it was clear from the 
reports that without doing so it wasnt possible to safely replace the main fuse board. 
Our investigator recommended esure reimburse Mr and Mrs M for the cost of rewiring their 
house (subject to production of the necessary invoices) and to pay any additional cost 
incurred by them for alternative accommodation. She recommended interest was added to 
these amounts at 8% simple per year and that esure pay Mr and Mrs M compensation of 
£200 for the trouble and upset theyd been caused. 
esure disagreed with our investigators findings. It said what was recommended amounted to 
significant betterment when the fire damage was just to a small part of the house. It said it 
shouldnt be penalised for the fact Mr and Mrs Ms electrics werent up to current standards 
and if they had been then the repairs couldve been done without any issue. It said it was 
unfair to make it pay to rewire the whole house. It said the electrics werent unsafe because 
of the fire, they were unsafe because of their age. It said the property needed rewiring and 
that shouldve been done when the loft was converted a few years previously. It said that 
work was done without an electrical safety certificate being issued. It said any new circuit 
shouldnt have been added to the fuse board without RCD protection and if it had been then 
it hadnt been done legally. It said it was unlikely any electrician wouldve been prepared to 
touch Mr and Mrs Ms property other than to rewire it.
As our investigator wasnt persuaded to change her mind, the complaint was passed to me 
for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ms policy covers them for damage caused to their home by fire. The forensic 
expert instructed by esure found the source of ignition and confirmed that thered been an 
electrical fire within the fuse board/consumer unit. The two electricians who attended at Mr and Mrs Ms behest confirmed that the consumer unit had suffered irreparable damage and 
would need to be replaced. esure accepted the fuse board needed to be replaced. And all 
parties agree that the new fuse board isnt capable of being safely connected (such that an 
installation certificate could be issued) to the existing wiring.
Insurance policies are policies of indemnity. That means they aim to put the policyholder 
back in the position they were in just before the loss or damage happened. For Mr and Mrs 
M, that means they need to have fully functioning electrics. Replacing the fuse board alone 
wont achieve that because no electrician will install a modern fuse board and connect it to a 
50-year old wiring installation. So, the house needs to be rewired even though the wiring 
itself wasnt damaged by the fire. Installing the new fuse board without being able to connect 
it to the electrical installation wont put Mr and Mrs M back in the position they were in just 
before the damage occurred. 
I note esures point that if it paid to rewire the house then it would mean that Mr and Mrs M 
will end up in a better position than they were in prior to the damage occurring. That 
replacing their old wiring goes beyond indemnifying them and gives them more than the 
policy strictly entitles them to. I disagree that it goes beyond indemnifying Mr and Mrs M  I 
think the opposite is the case. And I do think that here its the only fair and reasonable 
solution. Before the fire Mr and Mrs M had electrics which, its reasonable to assume, 
complied with the standards of the day when they were installed. They were functioning just 
before the damage (despite their age) and thats what they should have after the damage 
too: fully functioning electrics. 
I agree that what Im asking esure to do amounts to significant betterment. I agree with it that 
a customer whos experienced the same issue but who had recently rewired their property 
and paid the same premium wouldnt be getting the same settlement. But that doesnt mean 
what Im asking it to do doesnt equate to treating customers fairly. It is only fair and 
reasonable that these customers, Mr and Mrs M, are put back in the position they were in 
(with fully functioning electrics) just before the fire occurred. To do otherwise, wouldnt be 
fair. And all customers should be fully indemnified but what form that takes will obviously 
vary from claim to claim. Sometimes that can only be achieved by betterment. 
Ive thought about esures comments about the loft conversion and the electrics that were 
run up to the loft and why the house wasnt rewired at that point in time. But they havent 
persuaded me that Im unfairly asking it to pay for Mr and Mrs Ms house to be rewired. 
esures comments about this issue are, as it says, anecdotal and some, its fair to say, are 
based on assumptions. And whilst Mr and Mrs M have told us how the electrics to the loft 
were connected and have contacted their contractor who has said the work needed was 
minor, neither partys comments about the loft have influenced the decision Ive reached. Of 
overarching importance is that Mr and Mrs M have a policy of indemnity and had fully 
functioning electrics before the fire: that is the position they are entitled to be returned to 
now. 
Mr and Mrs M have said they had to take out a loan in order to pay to have their home 
rewired and to cover the cost of their alternative accommodation once esure ceased paying 
for it. I dont think its reasonable to have expected Mr and Mrs M to have moved home 
without functioning electricity. So I can understand why they chose to stay in the 
accommodation esure had placed them in and to pay for it themselves. I can see that the 
financial worry and strain of the situation caused Mr and Mrs M some avoidable trouble and 
upset. Putting things right
Because the consumer unit wasnt capable of being safely connected to the existing wiring, 
esure should reimburse Mr and Mrs M for the cost they incurred in rewiring their home 
subject to them providing the necessary receipts and invoices to substantiate the works that 
took place. esure should also reimburse Mr and Mrs M for the cost of the alternative 
accommodation they paid for whilst the rewiring was being carried out. Similarly, Mr and Mrs 
M will need to provide esure with proof of their expenditure before it does so. 
As Mr and Mrs M have been out of pocket having paid for the rewiring and alternative 
accommodation I think esure needs to add interest at this services usual rate of 8% simple 
per year from the date they settled the invoices to the date it pays my award. For the 
avoidable distress and inconvenience esure caused to Mr and Mrs M I think it should pay 
them compensation of £200.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require esure Insurance Limited to:
Reimburse Mr and Mrs M for the cost they incurred in rewiring their home (subject to the 
provision of the necessary invoices);
Reimburse Mr and Mrs M for the cost they incurred (subject to provision of the necessary 
proof of expenditure) in paying for alternative accommodation whilst their house was 
being rewired and after esure ceased to cover the cost;
Add interest at this services usual rate of 8% simple per year to both amounts from the 
date the invoices were paid to the date esure settles my award (if esure Insurance 
Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs M how much its taken off. It should also give 
them a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate);
Pay Mr and Mrs M compensation of £200 for the avoidable trouble and upset its handling 
of their claim caused them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 October 2020. 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman