DRN-1785387
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B's complaint concerns their whole of life policy held with The Royal London 
Mutual Insurance Society (trading as Scottish Provident).  They're unhappy that following a 
review of the policy in 2019 they've been asked to significantly increase their premiums or 
accept a reduction in the policy's sum assured. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out the policy in 2004 with a sum assured of £400,000 for a monthly 
premium of £406. Indexation increases in the sum assured were applied over the initial 
years, but this was actually in error. Although Mr and Mrs B had wanted indexation, it 
shouldn't have been applied as the policy had been medically underwritten. 
A complaint was made about this issue and resolved by this service in late 2014, with the 
awarding of some compensation for the trouble and upset caused. Around the same time the 
first policy review was carried out at the 10-year anniversary. Mr and Mrs B weren't happy 
with the outcome of this and there was a further referral to this service, the outcome of which 
was that it was agreed, reluctantly on the part of Mr and Mrs B, that the policy would 
continue on with a sum assured of just under £435,000 for a premium of around £432. 
Five years later, in 2019, the second policy review was carried out and Mr and Mrs B were 
told that the monthly premiums would need to increase to just under £1,600, or the sum 
assured would need to be reduced to just over £81,000.
These significant changes prompted Mr and Mrs B to complain again. Scottish Provident 
revisited the figures and found there'd been an error. The correct amounts were a new 
premium of just over £1,100, or a reduced sum assured of just under £182,000. Scottish 
Provident offered Mr and Mrs B £250 for this mistake, but considered it had otherwise acted 
correctly in administering the policy and its reviews. 
Mr and Mrs B remained unhappy as the required changes were still significant and more that 
they'd thought would be the case. They referred the complaint to this service but our 
investigator didn't think that Scottish Provident needed to do anything more. She said that 
she understood Mr and Mrs B's frustration but felt the £250 offer was a fair offer in respect of 
the review error. She explained how the reviews worked and highlighted that as the policy 
had been set up on a 'maximum' basis, the investment element of the policy was small, 
meaning that significant changes were always a likely consequence of the reviews. 
The investigator also noted that the policy had been sold to Mr and Mrs B by a 
separate business and that it would have been the responsibility of that business, not 
Scottish Provident, to ensure the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs B and fully explained to 
them.
Mr and Mrs B didn't accept the investigator's opinion, so the matter's been referred to me to 
review.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, while I recognise that Mr 
and Mrs B will be very disappointed, I find I've come to the same conclusions as the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
Its clear that Mr and Mrs B have strong feelings about Scottish Provident's actions. And 
given the mistakes that have been made over the years I can understand why. They've 
provided detailed submissions to support their complaint, which Ive read and considered in 
their entirety. 
However, I trust that they wont take the fact that my findings focus on what I consider to be 
the central issues, and that theyre expressed in less detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of 
my decision is not to address every point raised in detail, but to set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them.
For clarity, I should make clear that I'm only considering what's happened since 2015, as the 
earlier issues have, as noted, been dealt with by this service already. So, I'm focussing on 
whether Scottish Provident was correct to review the policy and whether the outcome of the 
review (once ammended) seems reasonable.
And in doing so, I'm satisfied the policy is one for which performance reviews are a standard 
feature. The 2015 review was carried out at the right time and the revised figures are at the 
sort of level that I would expect to see on a policy that has been set up on a maximum basis. 
And as the investigator explained, it was the responsibility of the business that sold the 
policy, not Scottish Provident, to ensure Mr and Mrs B understood that it would be 
reviewed and the potential consequences. 
I appreciate that the results of a policy review can appear lacking in transparency. But it's not 
unusual to see significant changes in the required level of premium or sum assured on a 
'maximum' basis policy as the lives assured get older - particularly if investment returns 
aren't as good as predicted, as has been the case since 2004. And while I note Mr and
Mrs B's concerns, I don't think the previous issues with the policy will have greatly impacted 
the results of the review. 
I do appreciate that Mr and Mrs B have been very upset by the failures in Scottish 
Provident's administration. And I can see why the failures would undermine their opinion of 
Scottish Provident's credibility. But I think the offer of compensation is a fair one, in line with 
what I would have proposed had an offer not already been made. In respect of the main 
concern - the impact of the review - I don't think there is anything further Scottish Provident 
needs to do. I note is has offered to consider any changes that Mr and Mrs B might like to 
make it more affordable in future and that may be a useful next step. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
James Harris
Ombudsman