DRN-3595784
The complaint
Mr P, through his representative, complains that Everyday Lending Limited, trading as 
Everyday Loans, lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Using information we have from Everyday Lending, here is a brief table of the three loans 
approved for Mr P.
Loan Date opened Date closed Principal Instalments Amount 
received by 
Mr P after EL 
paid down other 
debtsHighest 
monthly 
Repayment
1 17/07/2019 10/12/2020 £1,000.00 18 months £1,000 £113.37
2 10/12/2020 12/08/2021 £2,000.00 24 months £1,891.82 £184.68
3 12/08/2021 - £3,000.00 36 months £1,208.73 £207.69
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Everyday Lending should 
put things right for Mr P for loans 2 and 3. The reason was that Everyday Lending had 
obtained and reviewed bank account statements from Mr P and for the time around loans 2 
and 3 being approved there was evidence of significant gambling transactions. 
Our adjudicator had calculated as follows: in October 2020 [Mr Ps] gambling transactions 
totalled £1365, while in November 2020 they totalled £885. Then in June 2021 they totalled 
£440, and in July 2021 they totalled £245.
Everyday Lending disagreed and Mr P agreed with our adjudicators recommendation to 
resolve the complaint. 
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think the questions 
I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Everyday Lending, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate 
checks to satisfy itself that Mr P would be able to repay in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr P would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday Lending to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ps ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday Lending had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr P undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday Lending to simply think about the likelihood of 
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr P. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint.
From Mr Ps response to our adjudicators assessment then it seems that he has no dispute 
with the outcome for loan 1. I have reviewed it briefly and agree with our adjudicator on that 
loan. And as Mr P has no issue with that outcome then I say no more about it.
For loans 2 and 3, I agree with our adjudicator and I uphold Mr Ps complaint about loans 2 
and 3. The information Everyday Lending gathered from Mr P included copy bank 
statements and copies of outstanding loans with other high cost or short term lenders (some 
instalment lenders). And its plain to see that Mr P was already in overdraft, was selling 
possessions (such as a bike for £1,000 on 23 October 2020) to reduce that overdraft, had 
multiple outstanding loans and as well as all of that he was gambling regularly and for 
substantial amounts. Examples from the account notes in December 2020 are: gambling looks high have 
warned against this in the future and risks are gambled £1,400 in one month but 
decreased month after  
And in August 2021, the account notes state much the same thing and shows me Everyday 
Lending were fully aware of the gambling and proceeded to lend in any event.
I have read that Everyday Lendings response in which it has accepted that it knew of the 
gambling at the time of the loans. And I have seen account notes and assessment 
documents where the gambling by Mr P had been noted and commented on before lending. 
Everyday Lendings response was that the level of gambling transactions were satisfactory 
and within what it considered to have been an acceptable margin. 
I disagree. The cumulative effect of overdraft debt, other loans, consolidation of loans, 
gambling, and every increasing capital sums taken with Everyday Lending over longer terms 
with higher and higher monthly repayments leads me to think that Everyday Lending were 
wrong to lend. It carried out the checks I would have expected it to have carried out but then 
failed, in my view, to analyse and apply its own responsible lending criteria to Mr Ps 
situation before approving loans 2 and 3. 
I uphold Mr Ps complaint about loans 2 and 3 and I direct that Everyday Lending Limited 
does as I set out below.  
Putting things right  what I am directing Everyday Lending to do
remove all interest, fees and charges applied to loans 2 and 3,
treat any payments made by Mr P as payments towards the capital amount of loans 2 
and 3,
if Mr P has paid more than the capital then any overpayments should be refunded to with 
8%* simple interest from the date they were paid to the date of settlement,
but if theres still an outstanding balance, Everyday Lending can use the refunded sums 
(after the 8% has been added) to offset any debts Mr P owes to it. And if still there is an 
outstanding balance, then it should come to a reasonable repayment plan with Mr P.
remove any adverse payment information about the loans from Mr Ps credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending to take off tax from this interest. It 
must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint in part and I direct that Everyday Lending 
Limited does as I have outlined above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman