DRN-3259425
The complaint
Ms D complains about the actions of Starling Bank Limited when she was the victim of a
scam in which she was tricked into sending money to one of its customers accounts.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide an 
overview of some key events here.
In April 2019 Ms D received a message through a social media platform from her friend 
asking for help. They told Ms D their online banking was not working and asked if she could 
pay a bill on their behalf. Unwittingly Ms D transferred £670 from her bank  M, to the 
account details shed been provided. The beneficiary account was with Starling Bank.
Ms D became suspicious when she was asked to make a further payment. She then saw a 
post from her friend stating that their social media account had been hacked. Ms D 
immediately reported the matter to M, Action Fraud and Starling Bank. 
M contacted Starling Bank. Following its investigations Starling Bank responded to advise 
none of Ms Ds funds remained. Ms D complained. She questioned whether Starling Bank 
had done enough to prevent her loss. She wanted to know:
- When notification of fraud had been received from M?
- How long after did Starling Bank act?
- Were funds available in the beneficiary account at the time shed reported the 
matter?
- Could Starling Bank have done more to identify fraudulent activity on the beneficiary 
account?
- Was the beneficiary account opened correctly? Were sufficient due diligence checks 
completed?
- The identity of the beneficiary account holder?
Starling Bank said that it couldnt provide further information in relation to its customers 
account due to data protection, or about its internal processes. It didnt uphold Ms Ds 
complaint.
Ms D brought the matter to our service. One of our investigators looked into things and 
thought the complaint should be upheld. She thought the activity on the account was 
suspicious and arguably matched a known method of fraud or financial abuse. And that 
Starling Bank should have identified it sooner. She recommended that Starling Bank refund 
Ms D her total loss of £670 and pay 8% interest from the date of payment to settlement. 
Starling Bank disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
I spoke to Ms D to explain, in reaching her conclusion, our Investigator had taken into 
account some considerations which fall outside our services jurisdiction  so I wouldnt be 
commenting on these. And for what I can consider Id reached a different outcome. As she 
disagreed, I issued a jurisdiction decision setting out what aspects of Ms Ds complaint I can 
and cannot consider. In short, I explained that I couldnt consider Starling Banks actions in 
relation to the opening of the beneficiary account nor any activity that took place on the 
beneficiary account before 31 January 2019 that might have warranted intervention by 
Starling Bank. 
Then on 24 January 2022 I issued my provisional decision in which I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont currently think that I can fairly instruct Starling Bank to refund the 
payment Ms D was tricked into making to one of its customers accounts. I realise this will be 
very disappointing news for Ms D  especially because Ive reached a different outcome to 
that reached by our investigator. But I will explain why I have come to this conclusion.
Firstly, I understand Starling Banks response that it was unable to disclose any information 
to Ms D about the beneficiary account holder or its internal processes felt unsatisfactory to 
her. I appreciate from Ms Ds perspective, having been the victim of a cruel scam through no 
fault of her own why she has so many questions about what happened; the operation of the 
beneficiary account; and exactly what fraud prevention steps were taken. I understand Ms D 
has also asked Starling Bank to share with her the identity of the account holder. But I do not 
consider that Starling Bank is obliged to provide detailed information about its security 
systems nor actions it took in relation to a third-party account. That type of information is not 
generally disclosed, because it includes personal data and sensitive information about a 
banks fraud prevention systems and security processes.
I can absolutely see how, to the victim of a scam, it would feel unfair that an individual who 
may have acted dishonestly and criminally is protected by privacy rights. But Starling Bank is 
required to comply with the Data Protection Act 2018 (the DPA). And if it does not have a 
lawful basis for holding and processing personal data (which includes disclosing that 
information to a third party) it will be in breach of the DPA, and the individual (here the 
beneficiary account holder) whose privacy rights have been affected may have a number of 
rights against Starling Bank. Simply because Ms D has been the victim of a scam doesnt 
entitle her to the beneficiary account holders personal data nor does it give Starling Bank a 
permissible reason to share this information directly with her. So overall, in these 
circumstances, I cant say that Starling Bank has acted unreasonably when it informed Ms D 
that it couldnt share with her the identity of the beneficiary account holder.
However, Starling Bank can, and has, shared the relevant information with this service in 
confidence to allow us to discharge our investigatory functions and has provided that which 
is necessary for the determination of this complaint. Im also limited to how much of this I can 
share for similar reasons to Starling Bank. But Ill describe what Ive seen and would like to 
assure Ms D Ive carefully reviewed everything before reaching my intended decision.When considering complaints of this nature, I can understand why, with the benefit of 
hindsight, its sometimes easy to say the recipient bank ought to have identified the activity 
on the account as fraud and shouldve done more to prevent the loss. However, I must be 
clear, when deciding this complaint, I need to think about what Starling Bank knew at the 
time  not what is known today. And where it is supposed (as is the case here) that
Starling Bank didnt do enough to prevent a loss which resulted from alleged authorised 
push payment (APP) fraud. My role is to look into the individual circumstances of the case 
and decide (within my jurisdiction to consider this complaint), based on what I have seen, 
whether it could have fairly and reasonably done more.
Starling Banks principal duty is to process payments that its customer instructs it to make 
without undue delay. However, it also has regulatory and lawful obligations to be alert to 
various risks in relation to the accounts held with it. And, more generally given the increase 
in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, as a matter of good industry practice at the 
time, it should reasonably have had measures in place to detect suspicious transactions or 
activities that might indicate fraud or financial abuse. Ultimately, its a matter for 
Starling Bank as to how it chooses to configure its fraud detection systems and strike a 
balance between allowing its customers to transact business and questioning transactions to 
confirm they are legitimate. With the above in mind Ive carefully considered whether 
Starling Bank ought to have had concerns about the operation of the beneficiary account 
meaning that it ought to have intervened before it received notification of fraud. 
I appreciate our investigator said she thought the activity on the account was suspicious and 
arguably matched a known method of fraud or financial abuse. But Ive carefully reviewed 
the beneficiary account statements and I do not agree that the activity would reasonably 
have stood out to Starling Bank as obviously suspicious or significantly outside of what might 
be expected for an account of that type where Id say it ought to have intervened before 
Ms Ds funds were paid away. Whilst I note on the day Ms Ds payment arrived there was a 
change in account operation, but this alone isnt enough to conclude fraud or 
misappropriation of funds. I say this because its also not uncommon for there to be a 
change in a persons account operation from time to time e.g. one-off sale/purchase, 
seasonality, change in personal circumstances (employment, marriage, relocation, 
inheritance). Looking at the whole picture, this was an account that had been open and 
operating normally for some time with no prior notifications of fraud. There were no other red 
flags or indicators to suggest that the activity was anything other than genuine use. There 
was also nothing notably irregular about Ms Ds payment, or the spending of those funds 
which wouldve given rise to concern here  enough for Starling Bank to interfere with the 
operation of its customers account. So taking all the above into consideration Im satisfied 
Starling Bank didnt miss an opportunity to prevent Ms Ds loss.
Time is of the essence in fraud cases. Given how quickly Ms D realised shed fallen victim to 
a scam and reported the matter to M  she naturally questions whether any funds were 
available at that point for recovery. Understandably, as M took several days to update Ms D 
that no funds remained, she questions whether M and Starling Bank acted promptly on 
receipt of notification of fraud. Ultimately, what Ms D wants to know is whether 
Starling Banks acts or omissions resulted in the beneficiary account holder spending money 
that would otherwise have been available for recovery. And here Im satisfied they didnt. As 
I can see from the account statements that Ms Ds funds had been paid away before shed 
even reported the matter to M.
I am sorry to have to disappoint Ms D. I do empathise with the situation she has found 
herself in. Ultimately, however, it was the scammer that tricked Ms D. And in this case, from 
what Ive seen there hasnt been a failing by Starling Bank which has resulted in Ms Ds loss. 
So it follows that I cant fairly or reasonably ask it to refund her.Starling Bank responded and said it had nothing further to add. Ms D didnt respond to my 
provisional decision or provide anything further for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I explained, in some detail, in my provisional decision why I thought that I couldnt uphold 
Ms Ds complaint and ask Starling Bank to refund her loss. As Ive not been provided 
anything further to consider, Ive not been persuaded to alter my conclusions on this matter. 
So overall and having considered everything provided, Im satisfied that seen there hasnt 
been a failing by Starling Bank which has resulted in Ms Ds loss.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman