DRN-2940470
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained that PJ Hayman & Co Ltd who sold and renewed their travel 
policy didnt tell them that Mrs Ms medical investigations wouldnt be covered when they made a 
claim due to the cancellation of a cruise. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M bought their annual travel insurance through the broker PJ Hayman. They 
renewed their policy in September 2018. Mrs M declared she suffered from tachycardia 
which the insurer had agreed to cover. 
Mr and Mr M decided to book a cruise leaving in May 2019. This was booked in January 
2019. However, in March 2019, Mrs M had to have surgery on her leg to remove a lump. 
Sadly, there were complications with her recovery and further surgery was required. This 
meant Mrs M was advised not to travel so they had to cancel their cruise. They made a claim 
to insurer, who refused to pay it because Mrs M had been having investigations into this 
lump on her leg since May 2017. The policy didnt pay any claim related to medical 
investigations or tests at the time of taking out a policy or booking a holiday. 
Mr and Mrs M complained to the insurer and ultimately brought that complaint to us. Another 
ombudsman issued a final decision which didnt uphold Mr and Mrs M complaint. Mr and Mrs 
M then complained that PJ Hayman had mis-sold the policy. This was because they said the 
broker had told them that they had declared Mrs Ms leg issues in 2017 and there was no 
need to declare them again until they got an appointment. 
PJ Hayman said Mr and Mrs M bought their policy on line which clearly details what needs to 
be disclosed and what happens if something isnt disclosed. It didnt think it had done 
anything wrong. Mr and Mrs M disagreed. They believed they had told PJ Hayman about the 
lump on Mrs Ms leg in 2017 and 2018 and that it told them they didnt need to declare 
anything until they had an appointment. So, Mr and Mrs M brought that complaint to us.
The investigator didnt think PJ Hayman had done anything wrong as there was no evidence 
of a phone call to it at the relevant time. Mr and Mrs M disagreed so their complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain. I also understand and 
appreciate how disappointed Mr and Mrs M will be. 
Its clear from the policy terms and conditions and indeed from the medical screening 
process that anything not disclosed will not be covered. The medical screening process 
clearly says the following:
If you have failed to disclose to us any information or change in circumstances which 
could influence the cost of your insurance or our decision to accept your insurance, 
this could invalidate your cover and mean that part or all of any claim may not be 
paid. Please see page 4 of your Insurance Certificate for details of Change in Health, 
Important Conditions Relating to Your Health and the Medical Screening Questions.
The declaration on buying the policy also says the following:
You will not be covered under Section 1 - Cancellation, Section 2 - Expenses arising 
from illness or injury, Section 3 - In-patient compensation, Section 4 - Curtailment 
and Section 5  Personal Accident for any trip where at the time of taking out this 
insurance or booking each trip, whichever is the latter, you:
1. are waiting for an operation, hospital consultation (other than for regular check-ups 
for a stable condition) or other hospital treatment or investigations, or are awaiting 
the results of any tests or investigations; or
2. have received a terminal prognosis; or 
3. travel against the advice of a medical practitioner or where you would have been if 
you had sought their advice before beginning your trip; or 
4. know you will need treatment or consultation at any medical facility during your 
trip; or 
5. are travelling specifically for the purpose of obtaining and/or receiving any elective 
surgery, procedure or hospital treatment; or 
6. are aware of a medical condition for which you have not had a diagnosis; or 
7. travel against any health requirements stipulated by the carrier, their handling 
agents or any other public transport provider.
Mr and Mrs M believe that as far back as 2017 they told PJ Hayman about the fact that Mrs 
M was waiting for a referral for the lump on her leg which at that stage, she thought was a 
varicose vein. It was this lump and its complications which caused Mr and Mrs M to cancel 
their cruise.
So, the issue is solely about whether there was evidence of this. PJ Hayman said the policy 
was bought on line and theres no trace on PJ Haymans file that there was such a call. More 
crucially there is also no such call in August 2018. PJ Hayman checked 18 calls received 
between 6 and 8 August 2017 and 14 calls received between 3 and 6 August 2018 and there 
is no call from Mr or Mrs M. Also, PJ Hayman is clear that if any call had been made there 
would have been a note of the call against Mr and Mrs Ms file and there wasnt.
Mr and Mrs M thought they had made the call from their sons house as they were house 
sitting. I asked PJ Hayman to specifically search under that phone number too and no call 
was found. At that time, they widened the date search too but could not find any calls from 
either of these two phone numbers.
Im satisfied there is no call recording and Im satisfied that if there had been, then call notes 
against Mr and Mrs Ms file would have been made.
So, whilst I do understand and very appreciate that Mr and Mrs M will be deeply 
disappointed, given this lack of evidence to the contrary, its not possible for me to uphold 
this complaint. Again, like the investigator this isnt suggesting Mr and Mrs M arent telling 
the truth. But there is no evidence for me to say PJ Hayman got things wrong and should 
have this complaint held against them. And on that basis, I have nothing else to show me 
that PJ Hayman did anything wrong.My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman