DRN-3767297
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited has rejected the claims 
that theyve made under the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Theyre being represented in their 
complaint by a legal adviser.
What happened
Ive issued provisional decisions on this complaint in which I described what had happened 
as follows:
Mr and Mrs L entered into fixed sum loan agreement with GE Money in September 
2006 to pay for a timeshare. The total amount of credit provided to them was 
£15,062.51 and they agreed to make 180 monthly payments of £224.59 to GE 
Money. The loan was repaid in July 2007.
Mr and Mrs Ls representative made a complaint to this service in February 2021 
about a number of issues, including that the timeshare company wasnt authorised to 
arrange the loan, the timeshare had been mis-sold to Mr and Mrs L and that no credit 
checks were carried out. It also referred to an overseas court judgment which 
commented on the unlawful structure of a group of companies which included the 
timeshare company.
This service forwarded the complaint to GE Money to investigate and GE Money then 
issued a detailed response. It said, in summary, that the claims were time-barred 
under the Limitation Act 1980 but the timeshare company was authorised to arrange 
the loan, and that Mr and Mrs Ls loan account was closed prior to the 
implementation of section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 2006.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr and Mrs Ls complaint should be upheld. 
He thought that it was fair for GE Money to turn down the misrepresentation claim 
that had been brought under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act as it was made 
outside of the time limits in the Limitation Act. He said that this service couldnt 
consider complaints about lending decisions which were made prior to 6 April 2007 in 
these circumstances.
Mr and Mrs Ls representative, on their behalf, has asked for this complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman. It has responded in detail and says, in summary and 
amongst other things, that:
the ombudsman service isnt required to follow the relevant law, guidance and 
practice but to reach an evaluative assessment of the merits of the businesss 
decision;
the misrepresentations by the timeshare company were fraudulently made so 
the time limit for a claim is postponed under section 32 of the Limitation Act;
the timeshare company wasnt authorised to arrange the loan; and 
the timeshare was an unauthorised collective investment scheme.
I said in my provisional decision in December 2022: 
We dont have a free hand to consider every complaint thats referred to us. Our 
rules for considering complaints are set out in the Dispute Resolution section of the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook of rules and guidance.
Mr and Mrs Ls complaint is that the claims that they and their representative have 
made to GE Money have been turned down. Those claims were made under 
sections 75 and 140A and the activity about which they are complaining is GE 
Moneys decision to turn down those claims.
Section 140A was introduced under the Consumer Credit Act 2006 and came into 
effect in 2007 but it doesnt apply to loans that started before 6 April 2007 and ended 
before 6 April 2008. Mr and Mrs L entered into the fixed sum loan agreement with GE 
Money in September 2006 and the loan was repaid in July 2007 so I dont consider 
that section 140A applies to their loan. I find that Im unable to consider a complaint 
about GE Moneys response to their section 140A claim.
For this service to be able to consider a complaint about GE Moneys response to 
their section 75 claim, that activity must have been a regulated activity at the time 
that it took place. GE Money stopped being regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority in December 2019. Mr and Mrs Ls complaint was made to this service in 
February 2021. This service forwarded the complaint to GE Money to investigate and 
it issued its final response letter in May 2021. That all happened after GE Money 
stopped being regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority so GE Moneys 
consideration of their claim at that time wasnt a regulated activity. I find that this 
service doesnt have jurisdiction to consider their complaint about GE Moneys 
response to their section 75 claim.
I sympathise with Mr and Mrs L for the issues that theyve described but, for the 
reasons set out above, I find that Im unable to consider a complaint about GE 
Moneys response to their section 140A claim and this service doesnt have 
jurisdiction to consider their complaint about GE Moneys response to their section 75 
claim.
Subject to any further representations from Mr and Mrs L, their representative and GE 
Money, my provisional decision was that Im unable to consider their complaint about GE 
Moneys response to their section 140A claim and this service doesnt have jurisdiction to 
consider their complaint about GE Moneys response to their section 75 claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive received no responses to my December 2022 provisional decision so I see no reason to 
change my provisional findings. For the reasons set out in that provisional decision, I find 
that Im unable to consider Mr and Mrs Ls complaint about GE Moneys response to their 
section 140A claim. Ive issued a separate decision on their complaint about GE Moneys 
response to their section 75 claim. 
My final decision
My decision is that Im unable to consider Mr and Mrs Ls complaint about GE Moneys 
response to their section 140A claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to accept or reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman