DRN-4266295
The complaint
Mr K complains Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt refunded two transactions totalling £2,500 that he 
didnt authorise or consent to.
What happened
Mr K has an account with Lloyds Bank with a debit and a credit card and has done so for 
over five years. Hes told us that he doesnt speak good English.
On 31 December 2022 Mr K contacted Lloyds Bank  with the help of his daughter  to say 
there were multiple transactions on his account that he didnt recognise. The transactions 
started in November 2022 and were made using his credit card details. Lloyds Bank 
refunded these payments and cancelled his credit card.
On 5 January 2023 Mr Ks contacted Lloyds Bank  again with the help of his daughter  
about a £14,250 transfer he wanted to make to a car dealer to buy a car. Lloyds Bank had 
blocked the payment as it had been flagged for a security check. Mr K confirmed that he was 
the one making the £14,250 and the payment was released.
On 7 January 2023 Mr K contacted Lloyds Bank  again with the help of his daughter  to 
say there were two more transactions on his account that he didnt recognise, namely a 
£2,000 payment on 31 December 2022 and a £500 payment on 7 January 2023. This 
complaint relates to those two payments. Both payments were made using Mr Ks online 
banking, were faster payments and were sent to the same beneficiary.
Lloyds Bank investigated the two transactions Mr K disputed. Having done so, Lloyds Bank 
said that it didnt think the transactions were fraudulent. Mr K was unhappy and complained 
about Lloyds Banks decision. Lloyds Bank looked into Mr Ks complaint and said that it 
didnt think it had done anything wrong. Mr K had complained to our service by then.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ks complaint and said that they didnt think Lloyds 
Bank had done anything wrong. Mr K was unhappy and asked to see the evidence that a 
text message needed to authorise the first transaction had been sent to his mobile phone. 
Our investigator sent that evidence to Mr K who remained unhappy and asked for his 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. His complaint was, as a result, passed on to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to several calls between Lloyds Bank and Mr K and his daughter, including the 
call when Mr K reported the two transactions that this complaint relates to. Its clear from the 
calls Ive listened to that Mr K doesnt speak good English  and that at times his daughter 
struggles to understand what Lloyds Bank is saying. This can at times be confusing  and at 
times means Mr K and his daughter are inconsistent in their responses. At one point, for 
example, Mr Ks daughter says her fathers old mobile phone was protected by a passcode  
meaning someone would need to know his passcode in order to unlock his phone  and later 
on says that it wasnt  meaning anyone could access his phone. His daughter is, however, 
clear that her fathers new mobile phone is protected by a passcode.
the calls
Lloyds Bank asked Mr K to confirm the last payment hed made when he called on 31 
December 2022 to dispute transactions dating back to November 2022. Ive listened to that 
call. Mr K confirmed the last payment hed made was for £2,000. The only £2,000 payment 
made on 31 December 2022 was the £2,000 payment that Mr K is now disputing. At no point 
during that call did he or his daughter say his mobile phone had been stolen.
Lloyds Bank asked Mr K to confirm a £14,250 payment that had been flagged for a security 
check was a payment he wanted to make when he called on 5 January 2023. Ive listened to 
that call too. He confirmed it was a payment he wanted to make  he was buying a car  and 
the payment was released. During that call Mr Ks daughter told Lloyds Bank that her father 
had a new mobile phone  a Motorola  and that he had two phones  his other one being a 
Samsung. She also told Lloyds Bank that her father didnt have both phones on him right 
then. At no point during the call did his daughter say his Samsung phone had been stolen.
Mr Ks daughter told Lloyds Bank that her fathers Samsung phone had been stolen on 27 
December 2022 when she called to dispute the two payments to which this complaint 
relates. In other words, when she called Lloyds Bank on 7 January 2023. Ive listened to that 
call too.
Im satisfied, based on what Ive already said, that the first payment for £2,000 was made 
using Mr Ks Samsung phone and that the second payment for £500 was made using Mr Ks 
Motorola phone. Im also satisfied that both payments were made using Mr Ks online 
banking and the first one was authenticated using the mobile phone that was registered with 
Lloyds Bank at the time. In other words, that a call challenge was made to Mr Ks Samsung 
phone in relation to the first transaction and successfully completed. Thats because the first 
payment involved setting up a new beneficiary. Im satisfied that Mr K confirmed that the last 
payment hed made on his account was for £2,000 when he called Lloyds Bank on 31 
December 2022. The only £2,000 payment made on 31 December 2022 was the one Mr K 
has since disputed. Im also satisfied that he didnt mention the fact that his mobile phone 
had been stolen when he called Lloyds Bank on 31 December 2022.Given everything Ive said, I dont think Lloyds Bank acted unfairly or unreasonably when it 
said it wouldnt refund the two transactions Mr K is disputing as the evidence shows both 
transactions were done:
using Mr Ks online banking; and
using two different mobile phones both of which, as far as Lloyds Bank was concerned, 
Mr K was using at the time of the transaction in question.
And because:
Mr K confirmed the £2,000 transfer was his when he spoke to Lloyds Bank on 31 
December 2022;
both payments went to the same beneficiary; and
Mr K didnt report his Samsung as stolen until 7 January 2023 despite saying it had been 
stolen on 27 December 2022, despite calling Lloyds Bank on 31 December 2022 to 
report fraud and despite his daughter telling Lloyds Bank on 5 January 2023 that he had 
two mobile phones.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman