DRN-4147576
The complaint
B, a limited company, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC blocked its account causing 
business disruption and loss and didnt deal with disputed transactions on the account.
What happened
B says that it raised a fraud claim in September 2020 and that Barclays didnt take action 
about this. It has been waiting for statement copies so it can review the transactions on the 
account. B also says that its account has been blocked since November 2021 and as a 
result it couldnt trade, and this has affected its business. The problem is still not resolved, 
and this has affected the directors health.
Barclays issued a final response letter on 31 January 2022. It said that there had been an 
issue with Bs ability to access the account online and not a block on the card. And it made a 
payment of £100 to reflect the inconvenience caused and said a colleague would be able to 
assist with the problems with online banking. It also said that once B had confirmed the 
transactions that were fraudulent then it could start the process around this.
Our investigator recommended that B be paid a further £200 in compensation as he didnt 
think that B had dealt with an IT issue quickly enough. He said that the first record of B 
stating it couldnt access its account online was on 16 December 2021. It is accepted that B 
was wrongly told that online access was blocked when the problem was an IT error. B 
complained on 6 January 2022. Barclays looked into this from 12 January 2022 and found 
that the issue then was that B had two online profiles and that this could be resolved. He 
also said that from 14 February 2022 online access was restricted because of arrears and 
not due to any technical issue. This has been confirmed by Barclays in two calls with B on 
24 June 2022. He noted what had been said about the directors health, but said this was a 
complaint from B, a separate legal entity, and so he couldnt take into account what had 
been said about the personal impact.
Our investigator said that he couldnt see that a lack of online access to the account due to 
the IT issue prevented B receiving payments and selling its stock. He was unable to quantity 
the value of the stock B had provided evidence about but in any event he didnt think 
Barclays was responsible for financial losses. 
He said he was unable to comment on the disputed transactions as Barclays hadnt yet 
looked into them. Barclays said it had sent statements, but B said it hadnt received the 
relevant ones. He told Barclays this and it said it would send that information. In a follow up 
to his assessment he also sent B a copy of the information hed relied upon.
B is represented in this complaint. Its representative said that this was a very unfair 
assessment, and it requested an ombudsmans review. B had provided video evidence that 
it still couldnt access the account online. It had only received recent statements and not 
those for 2019. Barclays actions had destroyed the business and affected the health and 
wellbeing of the director. It had closed the account for no valid reason. B insisted that it 
couldnt sell the stock online as it didnt have access to the account, and it believed the card 
had been blocked due to fraud. B lost in the order of £50,000 as a result. B thought wed 
ignored the evidence about this it had provided and said it had first contacted Barclays about 
the account problems in November 2021.
B explained the ongoing issues it was having. It had still not had all the statements it had 
requested. It had been receiving communications from Barclays saying the account was still 
open. But when it called was told that the account was closed. This communication hadnt 
stopped despite it raising the issue. B said that companies are run by real people, and it was 
unacceptable not to consider the health aspects. It referred to Barclays not showing it hadnt 
paid direct debits and had told Barclays it couldnt dealt with things when it didnt have 
access to the account. It believed that the account had been closed in November 2021 when 
fraudulent payments had been reported. It didnt think that the information provided by our 
investigator that wed relied upon was sufficient in light of all these issues and this didnt 
explain the IT error. B maintained that Barclays has misled it, and this undermined what wed 
been told by Barclays. B wanted all genuine evidence to be looked at
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need first to say that Im only going to be able to look at the complaint that Barclays dealt 
with in its final response of 31 January 2022. Further complaint issues that have since arisen 
would need to be raised by B with Barclays. I know our investigator has contacted B about 
that.
Im going to deal with the disputed transactions first. I understand that B raised this with 
Barclays in September 2020 and that some of these dated back to 2019. It seems that the 
person the director spoke to at Barclays on the phone couldnt access these on the system. 
And the director was asked to visit a branch. He says he did, and the branch was closed. He 
called back and says that he was assured the claim had been logged. But when he phoned 
in June 2021 this hadnt been done and he needed to look for the payments again and would 
call back. I dont see this was raised again until December 2021 and B has since been 
asking for a copy of the statements on the account as it doesnt have online access. While 
Barclays says it sent these B says it hasnt received a copy for 2019. 
The position is that I dont have details of these transactions and Barclays hasnt reviewed 
them. So, I wont be able to make any finding about whether any or all of them were 
authorised. I would reasonably expect B as a company to review payments on its account 
and promptly highlight any it didnt recognise. While I accept that its been trying to access 
statements to look at these again it didnt seem to keep its own records of these. B does 
need to highlight which are fraudulent so that Barclays can review them and there is nothing 
further I can now do on this aspect of the complaint.
Our investigator has set out the position regarding access to the account and I agree with 
what hes said. While B says it was contacting Barclays from November 2021 about this the 
first record of this is from 16 December 2021. And Barclays didnt look into this until B raised 
a complaint. While Barclays says that the technical issue was resolved I dont see evidence 
that B was able to log into its account again. Notably Barclays said that from 14 February 
2022 this was because the account was transferred to collections. As I referred to above Im 
not looking into that here or any further recovery action B has provided evidence about. I 
only give this information as it means that I cant reasonably find that any technical issue 
was the ongoing reason for the lack of access to the account. And that would apply to the 
videos B has provided for example of trying to access the account on a date I understand to 
be 24 November 2022.Ive also watched the videos showing the stock that B had around September 2021 and note 
that it planned to sell this up to the end of that year. I dont have a basis to find that its 
inability to access its account online was a reason why it couldnt sell that stock and have 
payments made to its account or even to arrange another means to sell it. So, I wont be 
holding Barclays responsible for that.
B was clearly inconvenienced by not being able to look at its account online. There were 
other ways to access the details including in branch or by telephone. And as I say I dont see 
the account was blocked from receiving payments. B is a separate legal entity. I fully 
understand whats been said on behalf of the director about his health issues and distress 
and dont have any reason to doubt that. But Im afraid I wont be able to recognise those in 
a complaint from B. 
Having considered what happened and taken into account our published guidelines about 
compensation I find that the recommended total compensation of £300 is fair. I know that the 
director of B will be disappointed by that given what he says has been the impact.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part, and I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to 
pay B a further £200 making a total of £300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman