DRN-3239325
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain because Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) hasnt paid a 
claim for a cancelled holiday under their travel insurance policy. 
All references to Great Lakes include the agents it has appointed to handle claims on its 
behalf.   
What happened
Mr and Mrs M held a Premier annual travel insurance policy, provided by Great Lakes. The
policy was purchased on 11 February 2020 and included an additional option of Natural
Catastrophe/Terrorism cover.
Mr and Mrs M were due to travel abroad on 21 March 2020. Their flights and 
accommodation were booked separately.
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 to be a global
pandemic. On 16 March 2020, the government at Mr and Mrs Ms intended destination
announced regulations preventing all tourists and foreign visitors from entering the country
due to the circumstances surrounding Covid-19.
Mr and Mrs M therefore cancelled their trip and made a claim under their policy with Great
Lakes for their unused costs.
Great Lakes declined Mr and Mrs Ms claim because it said the terms and conditions of their
policy only provided cover if the start date of their trip was within seven days of a pandemic
being declared on 11 March 2020. Great Lakes said, if Mr and Mrs M believed their policy
had been mis-sold, they should complain to the business who sold it to them.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs M complained to Great Lakes before bringing the matter to the
attention of our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and said she thought Mr and Mrs Ms policy
provided a narrow seven-day window within which a policyholder could make a successful
claim for a pandemic, and that this was a significant limitation on cover which should have
been brought to Mr and Mrs Ms attention. Great Lakes responded with screenshots from the
online policy sales process which it said demonstrates that the seven-day restriction of the
Natural Catastrophe/Terrorism cover was highlighted to Mr and Mrs M.
Our investigator said she didnt think the wording of the online sales journey was clear. Great
Lakes disagreed and said it had provided Mr and Mrs M with appropriate information about
the policy in line with industry guidance.
As a resolution couldnt be reached, Mr and Mrs Ms complaint was passed to me. I made 
my provisional decision about the complaint earlier this month. In it, I said:
Relevant regulatory rules (the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Principles for
Business) say;
a firm should pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
The FCAs Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) requires insurers to;
act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its
customer;
handle claims promptly and fairly.
ICOBS 6 also requires insurers to give customers appropriate information about a policy in
good time and in a way that is easy to understand. This is so the customer can make an
informed decision about the arrangements proposed. Appropriate information includes the
information that must be set out in an Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) which
gives customers an at a glance summary of their cover. This includes a summary of the
insurance cover, including the main risks insured and the main exclusions where claims
cannot be made.
Relevant regulatory guidance (the FCAs The Responsibilities of Providers and Distributors
for the Fair Treatment of Customers) says firms should consider the impact of their actions 
or inactions  on the customer throughout the lifecycle of the service being provided.
Ive looked at the documents relevant to Mr and Mrs Ms policy  namely the terms and
conditions dated October 2019. Ive also accessed and taken into account a Premier Cover
IPID of the brand Mr and Mrs M purchased, dated October 2019. Finally, Ive considered the
online sales process which Great Lakes says Mr and Mrs M would have followed when
purchasing the policy.
The relevant section of Mr and Mrs Ms policy under which this claim was assessed is set
out on page 41 of their policy terms and conditions, under the heading Sections P and Q 
Enhanced Trip Disruption, which Mr and Mrs M paid an additional premium for.
This section of the policy says Great Lakes will pay for certain non-refundable costs in the
event of the following:
If a Natural Catastrophe or Terrorism Event occurs within 20km of your Arrival Point
or Your pre-booked accommodation abroad and the start date of your trip is within 7
days from the Event Start Date
Natural Catastrophe is defined as:
Pandemic as declared by the World Health Organisation, volcanic activity, volcanic
ash, earthquake, tsunami, hurricane, cyclone, flooding of more than 50 square km.
Event Start Date is defined as:
The point in time when the Natural Catastrophe or Terrorism Event occurred as
reported in the media. This point in time will be set at our discretion.
So, in order for Mr and Mrs Ms claim to be covered under the terms and conditions of their
policy, a pandemic would need to be declared by WHO affecting an area within 20km of Mr
and Mrs Ms arrival point or their pre-booked accommodation abroad, and the start date of
their trip would need to have been within seven days of WHO declaring a pandemic on 11
March 2020.It doesnt seem to be in dispute that a pandemic was affecting the area Mr and Mrs M were
due to visit. However, Great Lakes declined their claim because the start date of their trip
wasnt within seven days of 11 March 2020 (i.e. between 11 March 2020 and 18 March
2020).
While it may not be unusual for travel insurers to apply time limits such as this to the cover
offered (and an insurer is entitled to limit its exposure to risk in this way), I think the seven-
day time limit set out under this section of Mr and Mrs Ms policy is a significant restriction on
cover. This is because a successful claim under this section of the policy would be
dependent on the date of intended travel falling within what I think is a very narrow window
of seven days.
As I think this time limit is a significant restriction on Mr and Mrs Ms policy, I think it should
have been clearly highlighted to them both in their policy documentation and at the point of
sale.
Neither the IPID which Ive accessed, nor the Schedule of Benefits set out at pages 10-13
of Mr and Mrs Ms policy booklet refers to the seven-day time limit restriction for a successful
claim set out under Sections P and Q.
I understand the IPID states that the document contains only a summary of the main cover
and exclusions and refers the customer to the full policy terms and conditions. But a
customer would need to go much further into the detail of their policy wording (to page 41) to
understand that they could only claim for a Natural Catastrophe if their planned travel was
within a particular, narrow seven-day window.
I dont think its fair or reasonable to expect customers to be required to read the terms and
conditions thoroughly from beginning to end in order to understand important issues
regarding what is and isnt covered, and I think a customer would be entitled to expect a
restriction like this to be more prominent (for example, to be in the IPID).
Great Lakes says the sales process which Mr and Mrs M would have followed when
purchasing their policy online (via a different business) highlights the seven-day time limit
restriction for a successful Natural Catastrophe claim. Great Lakes has provided
screenshots to show the following information, which was displayed below the additional
cover option of Natural Catastrophe/Terrorism at the point of sale:
 
Protect the costs of your trip should you be affected by a Natural Catastrophe like
volcanic eruptions (including volcanic ash clouds being carried by the wind)
earthquakes or tsunamis occurring within 7 days of your trip and within 20 square
kilometres of your destination
However, the above explanation doesnt mention pandemics, which I think are of a
fundamentally different ongoing nature to the one-off events of a volcanic eruption,
earthquake or tsunami which are listed. I think its likely, when Mr and Mrs M purchased their
policy, that the above information would have highlighted to them that theyd only have cover
for a one-off event such a volcanic eruption, earthquake or tsunami if that event occurred
within 7 days of their trip. However, I dont think the information clearly highlighted to them
that a claim arising from an ongoing event such as a pandemic wouldnt be covered for more
than seven days after WHO first declared it as such.
So, although Mr and Mrs Ms claim isnt covered under a strict interpretation of their policy
terms and conditions, overall, I dont think its fair or reasonable for Great Lakes to rely on
the seven-day time limit restriction to turn down their claim. This is because I dont think thisrestriction was clearly and transparently highlighted to them (either in their policy
documentation or at the point of sale). I think, if this restriction had been made clear to Mr
and Mrs M, theyd have been able to purchase alternative cover elsewhere which did cover
the circumstances they subsequently found themselves in.
In any event, Mr and Mrs M paid Great Lakes an additional premium for Natural
Catastrophe/Terrorism cover and their claim has the same components of a claim which
Great Lakes would pay if their trip had been due to start three days earlier (on 18 March
2021 instead of on 21 March 2021). So, even if I thought Great Lakes could reasonably rely
on the seven-day time limit restriction, Id be minded to direct Great Lakes to pay Mr and Mrs
Ms claim on a fair and reasonable basis regardless.
Great Lakes has pointed out that Mr and Mrs Ms trip was booked in December 2019, but
their policy wasnt taken out until 11 February 2020 (at which point Great Lakes says Covid-
19 was a dominant story in the media). I dont agree that this suggests Mr and Mrs M took
out their policy knowing there was a reasonable likelihood of a claim.
At the time Mr and Mrs M bought their policy, WHO hadnt declared Covid-19 to be a global
pandemic and the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office wasnt widely
advising against travel due to Covid-19. If Great Lakes didnt wish to provide cover for any
claims relating to Covid-19, Id expect it to have made this clear to Mr and Mrs M within their
policy documentation.
As I understand it, Great Lakes didnt introduce any restrictions on cover for events relating
to Covid-19 on this type of policy until the month after Mr and Mrs M bought their policy. If
Great Lakes considered Covid-19 to be a known event which it didnt wish to insure against
at an earlier point, then it could have chosen to introduce restrictions on the cover it was
offering before it did.
Therefore, I think it would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances for Great Lakes to
accept Mr and Mrs Ms claim under Sections P and Q of their policy.
In common with most, if not all, travel insurance policies, Mr and Mrs Ms policy only covers
financial losses which are not refundable from elsewhere. Based on the information Ive
seen, I dont think Mr and Mrs M can reasonably recover either their full flight or
accommodation costs from the relevant providers.
So, my provisional decision was that I intended to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M responded to my provisional decision and said they had nothing further to 
add. Great Lakes also responded and said it had nothing further to add. 
As neither party has made any additional submissions nor provided any new evidence, I see 
no reason to change my provisional findings.   
Putting things right
Great Lakes Insurance SE should put things right by paying Mr and Mrs Ms claim, subject to the remaining terms and conditions of their policy and add interest at 8% simple per annum 
from the date of the claim until the date the settlement is paid. 
If Great Lakes Insurance SE considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest it should tell Mr and Mrs M how much it has taken off. It 
should also give Mr and Mrs M a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint, and I direct Great Lakes 
Insurance SE to put things right in the way Ive outlined above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman