DRN-3060372
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wont refund payments they made 
after falling victim to a scam.
What happened
In 2015, Mr and Mrs P were called out of the blue by someone claiming to work for a 
company Ill refer to as company A. 
Mr and Mrs P were led to believe that company A was a foreign based acquisition company 
which was involved in a hostile takeover of another company  Ill refer to as company B. 
The caller offered Mr and Mrs P the opportunity to invest by buying shares in company B, 
saying it would provide a high return once the takeover was complete. Over the period of 
nearly 18 months, Mr and Mrs P sent payments of just over £1.37million. The initial 
payments were to invest in the takeover of company B, but later Mr and Mrs P were offered 
the opportunity to invest in the takeover of other companies being managed by company A. 
Each of the payments was made in a Lloyds branch, and there was an international transfer 
fee of £35 each time.
A list of the transactions Mr and Mrs P made are as follows:
Date Place/location Type of transaction Amount
Feb 2015 Payment to F £5,690.70
Mar 2015 Payment to B £20,367.44
Apr 2015 Payment to B £48,185.23
May 2015 Payment to B £33,270.93
May 2015 Payment to A £48,021.05
June 2015 Payment to K £22,599.27
July 2015 Payment to K £79,674.68
Aug 2015 Payment to C £141,305.72
Sept 2015 Payment to C £143,081.62
Oct 2015 Payment to C £86,646.60
Nov 2015 Payment to C £76,325.64
Dec 2015 Payment to C £58,981.86
Feb 2016 Payment to C £47,165.57
Mar 2016 Payment to D £105,207.25
June 2016 Payment to D £45,655.39
July 2016 Payment to K £75,772.92
What Mr and Mrs P say 
Mr and Mrs P say they searched online for company A and saw it was a genuine firm based 
overseas. They also searched for company B and found reference to another genuine 
company. 
They say the caller from company A provided them with a copy of their passport as proof of 
their identity, although Mr and Mrs P hadnt asked for this. And provided Mr and Mrs P with 
letters from an overseas acquisition authority, based in the same country as company A. 
These letters were addressed to the person Mr and Mrs P had talked to at company A. 
Mrs and Mrs P were also given the names of three other investors, who the caller from 
company A said had invested previously with them and been paid out. Mr and Mrs P 
contacted two of the investors who confirmed they had invested with company A and 
received returns as promised. But Mr and Mrs P say they had trouble getting hold of the third 
investor. 
Each time Mr and Mrs P made an investment they were given an invoice beforehand from 
company A. It set out the details of the company they were taking over, the number of 
shares Mr and Mrs P would receive for their investment, the share price, the return Mr and 
Mrs P would receive and details of fees payable on settlement. Mr and Mrs P say they were 
told there was a limit on the amount any bank would accept being credited, which is why 
they had to make the payments to various different accounts. 
Mr and Mrs P say they liked the man they were dealing with at company A and had no 
reason to disbelieve what they were being told about the investment. Also he told them 
company A was regulated, although they were based overseas. And that company As 
website, to them, looked really professional and gave them confidence about the legitimacy 
of company A.
Mr and Mrs P were only expecting returns after the takeovers had been completed so didnt 
have concerns during the twelve months that they were making the payments.
In August 2016 Mr and Mrs P were unable to get in touch with their contact at company A 
and found company As website had been taken down. At this point they became aware they 
had been the victims of a scam and contacted Lloyds to let them know. 
In January 2019, Mr and Mrs P contacted Lloyds again to let them know they were 
employing an investigator to track down their investment with company A. Mr and Mrs P 
believed the investigator to be legitimate and havent complained about the payment they 
made to them. But no funds were recovered for Mr and Mrs P by the investigator.
In March 2019, Mr and Mrs P contacted Lloyds again  asking them to recover their funds 
from company A. Mr and Mrs P say they are disappointed that Lloyds didnt protect them 
from the scam saying they were only alerted to the fact that they might be the victims of a 
scam when making a payment in February 2016. But at that point, they had put so much 
money in and been involved in the investment for so long so they couldnt believe they had 
been the victims of a scam.
What Lloyds says
Lloyds declined to refund Mr and Mrs P, saying theyd authorised the payments and as such 
Lloyds had followed Mr and Mrs Ps payment instructions. And that while they had contacted 
the overseas receiving banks, they hadnt been able to recover any money for Mr and Mrs P. Lloyds did acknowledge that Mr and Mrs P shouldve received a better level of service and 
paid them £150 in recognition of this.
Mr and Mrs P werent happy with Lloyds response, so they brought a complaint to our 
service.
An investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Ps complaint and upheld it in part. They 
recommended that Lloyds should refund 50% of the payments Mr and Mrs P made from 
March 2015 onwards, along with any associated charges on those payments. The 
investigator felt the payments Mr and Mrs P made were unusual and out of character once 
they made the second payment in March 2015, so Lloyds shouldve identified they were 
potentially the victims of a scam and not made the payments. However, the investigator also 
felt Mr and Mrs P shouldve done more checks based on some of the information they had 
about the investments. So, they felt it was reasonable for Mr and Mrs P to share the 
responsibility of the losses with Lloyds  which is why they only recommended 50% of the 
payments be refunded. 
Lloyds responding rejecting the investigators opinion, saying that the size of Mr and Mrs Ps 
portfolio suggests theyre experienced investors. But regardless of their experience, they had 
a responsibility to do due diligence before making an investment  which they didnt in this 
case. 
As Lloyds disagreed, the case was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As part of this Im required to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators'
rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to
have been good industry practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position is that a bank is expected to process payments and
withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account.
I accept that these payments were authorised by Mr and Mrs P, even though they were the 
victims of a sophisticated scam. So, although Mr and Mrs P didnt intend the money to go to 
scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations 2009, Mr and Mrs P are presumed 
liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider
Lloyds should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism,
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams which banks are 
generally more familiar with than the average customer.In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So, I need to decide whether Lloyds acted fairly in processing Mr and Mrs Ps payments, or
whether they shouldve done more to prevent the payments from being made.
Should Lloyds have done more to prevent the payments?
All of the payments Mr and Mrs P made were done in branch with the involvement of Lloyds 
staff, and Lloyds say a high value checklist wouldve been completed for most of them. 
Theyve provided a copy of the completed checklist for some of the transactions as well as 
notes regarding what was discussed in branch. The checklist prompts staff to be on the look 
out for customers who may be the victim of a scam, including considering whether the recent 
transactions appear to be out of character to the normal pattern of transactions on the 
account, and it provides some signs that might indicate a scam is happening.
Having looked at the previous account use of Mr and Mrs P, I dont think the first payment 
made in February 2015 was particularly unusual or out of character. It was for just under 
£6,000 and didnt clear the balance of the account. Mr and Mrs P had made numerous 
payments in the prior twelve months of between £2,000 and £5,000. Often these payments 
were to new payees, although none of the payments were to an international payee. Based 
on this I dont think the first payment shouldve flagged with Lloyds as suspicious.
But I think the second payment that Mr and Mrs P made in March 2015 for just over £20,000, 
shouldve flagged as suspicious. The payment was significantly higher than previous activity 
on their account, and it was the second sizeable international payment that Mr and Mrs P 
had made within two months. I think that if Lloyds had flagged this payment as potentially 
suspicious and asked Mr and Mrs P appropriate questions about the payment, its highly 
likely they wouldve uncovered the scam.
I think that basic questions wouldve highlighted a number of concerning points regarding the 
investment Mr and Mrs P were making, including:
Mr and Mrs P were making a payment to an overseas bank account that was held in 
a different country to where company A was based.
Mr and Mrs P had found out about the investment through a cold call from the 
scammer. They hadnt been looking for investments, they hadnt provided their 
contact information to anyone, someone had just randomly called them to offer them 
an investment opportunity.
The returns that were being promised on the investment were too good to be true. 
For the payment of just over £20,000 in March 2015, they were promised a return of 
nearly $500,000USD.
The contact at company A sent Mr and Mrs P identification documents to prove who 
he was  even though they hadnt asked for them.
From what Mr and Mrs P have told us, they werent given a cover story to provide if they 
were questioned about the payments. And Mr P says he took the paperwork he had about 
the investment in with him when he made the payments, in case the staff asked him any 
questions. Also, all of the points Ive highlighted above are common warning signs of a 
scam, which Lloyds shouldve been on the look-out for.Mr and Mrs P werent aware of investment scams, or that scammers could use the details of 
a genuine investment firm to lure investors in. They also werent aware that scammers 
create professional looking websites and often provide documentation that may look genuine 
to prove the existence of the investment opportunity. 
While I appreciate that Lloyds says some questions were asked, and there has been some 
information captured on some of the high value checklists about Mr and Mrs Ps investment 
 Im not persuaded that sufficient questions were asked, or a proper conversation was held 
with Mr and Mrs P about the details of the investment.
Lloyds referred to Mr P being questioned about the payments and confirming he was not 
being duped or coerced.  But Mr P wouldnt have been making the payment if he didnt think 
it was genuine. And its incumbent on Lloyds to look for signs that he might be and might not 
know it.
I think that had sufficient questions been asked by Lloyds regarding the investment, they 
shouldve brought to light these red flags. And, on that basis, Lloyds shouldve taken steps to 
protect Mr and Mrs P. That mayve included declining to process the payment or suggesting 
that Mr and Mrs P get independent advice before making the payment. Lloyds are the 
professionals in this matter and from what I can see the aim of their high value checklist is to 
identify victims of scams, like Mr and Mrs P. In the circumstances of this case, Im 
persuaded that Lloyds didnt act fairly in processing Mr and Mrs Ps payment without 
intervening further first. And I think that their intervention wouldve prevented Mr and Mrs P 
from sending any of the following payments to the scammer.
But Lloyds has argued that Mr and Mrs P had a responsibility to do due diligence before 
making an investment. So, Ive considered whether Mr and Mrs P have any responsibility 
with regards to mitigating their loss.
Should Mr and Mrs P have done more to mitigate their loss
Mr and Mrs P had a significant investment portfolio with an investment firm based in the UK 
Ill refer to as company D.  Mr and Mrs P withdrew most of their investment with company D 
in order to make the payments to company A. Mr and Mrs P have told us that company D 
provided them with an online account through which they were able to deal in shares and 
largely invest in Unit Trusts. They didnt use company D for investment advice and classed 
their relationship with the firm as impersonal. From what Ive seen, while I appreciate that 
Lloyds feels the size of Mr and Mrs Ps portfolio with company D (being over £1million) 
makes them experienced investors  in the circumstances of this case I dont agree. 
Everything Ive seen suggests this was Mr and Mrs Ps first time investing in an acquisition 
company. They had no real understanding of the investment they were undertaking or what 
checks they shouldve done. And there was a lack of understanding around the risks 
associated with investing with an overseas company or the obvious warning signs that 
shouldve caused them concern from the start.
So, I dont agree with Lloyds that Mr and Mrs P are experienced investors. That being said, I 
dont think Mr and Mrs P took reasonable steps or made reasonable checks prior to making 
the investment. 
I say this because Id expect a reasonable person, regardless of their experience in 
investing, to have been concerned about such high rates of return. Investing USD$30,000 to 
get a return of USD$500,000 is too good to be true, even for a high-risk investment. Also, Mr 
and Mrs P were asked to send funds to a bank account held in a different country other than 
where company A said they were operating from. Also, some of the later payments they made, were after company A offered them the chance to buy more shares due to other 
investors passing up the opportunity. With such a high rate of return it seems surprising that 
other investors would be passing the opportunity up. And Im not persuaded that the reason 
they were given with regards to the changing bank details, that banks will only accept credits 
up to a certain limit, is plausible. 
I think there were enough red flags that I would expect Mr and Mrs P, or any layperson, to 
have carried out more checks and potentially sought some independent advice before 
making this investment. 
As such I think its reasonable for Mr and Mrs P to share the loss with Lloyds. Therefore, Im 
recommending that Lloyds refunds them 50% of their losses plus any associated fees for all 
the payments made from March 2015 on, as set out in the table above. Ive recommended 
they refund from March 2015, as this is the payment that Im satisfied shouldve flagged with 
Lloyds as suspicious and they shouldve intervened. 
The level of service Mr and Mrs P received
Its unclear why Lloyds didnt set up a fraud case when Mr and Mrs P first contacted them in 
August 2016, but its unlikely to have made a difference. Mr and Mrs P sent their funds to an 
overseas bank, so its unlikely they wouldve been successful in recovering any funds even if 
Lloyds had contacted the receiving bank sooner. Unlike UK banks, overseas banks arent 
obliged to return funds in the case of a fraud claim. Also, its most likely that the scammers 
wouldve cleared the funds out of the account within hours of receiving them, to prevent their 
recall in the event that the scam was uncovered.
I can see Lloyds have already accepted that the level of service Mr and Mrs P received from 
them was below the standard they shouldve received. And having considered everything, I 
think the £150 Lloyds have already paid Mr and Mrs P is fair in the circumstances. So, I 
wont be recommending they make any further payment in that regard.
  
Putting things right
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider appropriate. If I 
think that fair compensation is more than £160,000, I may recommend that the business 
pays the balance.
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation is for Lloyds to 
refund Mr and Mrs P 50% of the payments they made to the scam from March 2015 to 
August 2016  which equates to £516,130.59 plus the fees of £398 they were charged on 
those payments. My decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mr and Mrs P £160,000 
being our limit, as well as refunding them £398 in charges on making those payments. 
Recommendation: I think fair compensation is more than our £160,000 limit, so I 
recommend that Lloyds Bank PLC pays Mr and Mrs P the balance. 
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Lloyds Bank PLC doesnt 
have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr and Mrs P can accept my decision and go 
to court to ask for the balance. So, Mr and Mrs P may want to get independent legal advice 
before deciding whether to accept this decision.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part against Lloyds Bank PLC.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman