DRN-3136372
The complaint
Mr D complains Charter Court Financial Services Limited trading as Precise Mortgages 
(Precise) insisted a second survey was carried out on his property, although it wasnt 
necessary.
What happened
Mr D says he applied to Precise, via his broker, for a re-mortgage from another lender, on a 
buy to let property that was being transferred from his name into a limited company he 
owned. Mr D says Precise instructed a mortgage valuation and this highlighted the property 
may have been subject to structural monitoring and incorrectly claimed some properties 
nearby had been underpinned. Mr D says that despite the fact he provided Precise with 
confirmation from the developers that no property on the development had been 
underpinned as the survey had suggested, they still insisted that a structural survey was 
needed. This was despite the fact Mr D says he provided the details of the developers 
engineer who was happy to discuss this with Precises appointed surveyors. Mr D says a 
structural survey was completed, which confirmed what hed already told Precise and it had 
unnecessarily cost him £660 plus the extra mortgage repayment costs, during the time it 
took to finally draw down the re-mortgage.
Mr D wants these costs to be reimbursed by Precise. 
Precise says the valuation was carried out for their lending purposes and this is used to 
confirm the suitability of the property for its mortgage purposes. Precise says they are 
guided by the information supplied by the surveyors and they acted fairly when they 
requested a further structural report given the comments made by their appointed valuer.
Mr D wasnt happy with Precises response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the information available but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt Precise were entitled to ask for a second valuation/structural report given the 
comments its appointed qualified surveyor had mentioned in the valuation report, concerning 
potential underpinning issues. The investigator didnt feel the comments from the property 
developer was sufficient in itself to satisfy Precise, given the issues raised in the valuation 
report. The investigator pointed out Precise were under no obligation to proceed with Mr Ds 
mortgage application, without satisfying itself their lending criteria had been met.  
Mr D didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I can understand it would have been frustrating for Mr D to have to go through the cost 
involved of a second valuation report on his property, when he says he had evidence it 
wasnt necessary. When looking at this complaint I will consider if Precise acted 
unreasonably when they asked for a structural survey to be carried out on Mr Ds property, 
following the initial valuation report it instructed. 
The first thing to say here is, I can only comment on whether Precise acted fairly on relying 
on the valuation report provided to them by their appointed valuers, and not whether the 
surveyor has correctly reported on the property - that is not within the jurisdiction of this 
service.  
What I can say is, I have seen the initial valuation report and the valuers instructed are 
accredited with RICS membership acting for Precise, and the surveyor carrying out the 
valuation was fully qualified, working independently. 
Mr Ds complaint centres around the need for a structural report, given hed provided Precise 
with confirmation from the developer of his property, there were no underpinning issues that 
the initial valuation report carried out, had suggested. Mr D says he also provided details of 
the engineer for the developer, who was happy to discuss this matter with Precise or their 
appointed valuer. Mr D also makes the point as the property hadnt been subject to 
underpinning, a further report wasnt necessary here. Mr D says it took several months to 
resolve the issue with an additional structural report, costing him over £600. Mr D says 
during this time he also had to pay higher monthly mortgage payments as his fixed rate 
mortgage had expired.
While I understand the points Mr D has made, its also fair to say that lenders like Precise 
rely on the comments made by the surveyor in the valuation report it instructs, for their 
mortgage purposes. Here, the surveyor raised a potential underpinning issue and it was 
deemed this matter required further investigation and concluded a structural report was 
required. While I can see Mr D provided an email, from the developer of his property, to 
reassure Precise no underpinning had been carried out on this development, thats not to 
say Precise, having previously received a professional valuation report, should then 
disregard it and rely on the comments offered by the developer. Its also fair to say Precise 
have no obligation to refer the developers engineer, to their appointed valuers here, as the 
whole point of the initial valuation was to obtain an independent assessment. Having got that 
initial valuation report, I am satisfied its only reasonable for Precise to then be guided by it, 
as they would need to be certain the security being offered to support the buy to let 
mortgage offered to Mr D, was suitable security for their lending purposes. 
I understand that Mr D feels strongly the property hadnt ever been underpinned, so the 
need for a further report wasnt warranted and this was backed up subsequently by the 
structural report carried out. I understand what Mr D is saying, but Im not persuaded by his 
argument here, as I am satisfied the only way Precise could be certain on this matter was to 
ask for a structural survey to be carried out, as the surveyor had suggested in the initial 
valuation report. While Mr D may not agree the structural report did identify, in 2017, the 
property had been subject to underpinning monitoring and this was commented on in the 
initial valuation report - so its reasonable to say Precise would need this issue to be 
investigated further. 
With this in mind, for the reasons I have already given, I am satisfied Precise were entitled to 
request for a structural report to be made available to them before they agreed to approve 
Mr Ds buy to let mortgage application. 
I do understand that it took a few weeks for the structural survey to be carried out and the 
mortgage to be drawn, but this was at a time of the pandemic. Its fair to say, many businesses faced problems that resulted in inconvenience to its customers, but I am satisfied 
this was unavoidable here given the challenging circumstances the pandemic presented.  
While Mr D will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Precise.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman