DRN-3664997
The complaint
Mr I, through his representative, complains about the advice he received in 2012 from an 
appointed representative of Openwork Limited to switch his personal pension plans to a new 
pension arrangement with a different provider. 
To keep things simple, Ill refer to the business as Openwork in the rest of this decision and 
all references to Mr I will include submissions by his representative.
What happened
In March 2012 Openwork reviewed Mr Is circumstances and objectives. At this time a fact 
find was produced which recorded the following:
Mr I was 48 years old, with one dependent child and living with his partner.
He was employed earning around £30,000 pa.
After monthly expenditures, Mr I had a surplus monthly income of £400.
He owned a home valued at approximately £165,000, with an outstanding mortgage of 
£42,000.
Mr I had £25,000 in savings which he intended to invest for himself and his partner 
rather than use this sum to reduce the mortgage. 
It was noted that Mr I had two personal pensions that in 2012 were valued at around £1,300 
(Plan A) and £7,700 (Plan B). Both were paid up, in 1993 and 2003 respectively. And both 
arrangements contained guarantees. A guarantee regarding the fund value was available 
but only if contributions continued to the selected retirement date.  And guaranteed annuity 
rates (GAR) available on a joint life basis applied to both pensions at age 66 as follows:
£83 per £1,000 of fund applied to Plan A
£50 per £1,000 of fund applied to the pre-April 1997 transfer value of Plan B (around 
£5,000); and 
£35 per £1,000 of funds applied to the post-April 1997 transfer value of Plan B 
(approximately £2,000). 
Mr Is attitude to risk (ATR) was also assessed at this time as being balanced. It was noted 
that Mr I 
would consider himself an inexperienced investor as the only investment that he has 
had in the past that contained any equity is his current pension and he has never 
considered switching funds in the past. He now knows that he is unable to switch 
funds within his current plan.
Openwork subsequently recommended that Mr I switch both of his existing personal 
pensions to a new pension plan with a different provider and invest in a balanced managed 
fund in line with his ATR. 
It set out its reasons for its recommendation in a Financial Planning Report dated 
11 June 2012. This explained that Mr Is needs when discussing his pension were to retire 
at age 66 with an annual gross income of approximately £12,000. The financial analysis 
accompanying the Report demonstrated that he would have a shortfall of around £5,500 in 
his retirement income and further contributions would be needed to meet this objective. It 
was recorded that Mr I said he might be able to make regular monthly contributions and may 
be able to invest ad-hoc amounts in the future. He also thought should future legislation 
force his employer to contribute to his plan that this would also help to reduce the deficit. 
The Report also set out that Mr Is main objective for this pension was for the funds to be 
placed in an area suited to his balanced ATR, with minimal management required from him, 
but also with the ability to switch within in a wider range of funds in the future as he was 
unable to switch funds in his current plans, which were conventional with-profits plans. He 
was looking to increase his potential returns and it was noted that a bonus had not been paid 
on his with-profits plans since 2004 and he felt that the returns previous to that were not 
very good either.  The Report said costs werent a real issue to Mr I as he wanted to get 
the best potential returns that [he] could without taking too much risk. 
In making its recommendation, Openwork explained that although charges are slightly 
higher [for the new plan] the proposed fund performance and quality is much better than the 
existing fund. And while a GAR is a valuable benefit, Openwork said that in this case, given 
the size of the fund and the potential added fund performance of the recommended pension, 
the loss resulting from giving up the GARs would be minimal, if at all.  
It was also recorded that Mr I wanted regular face to face reviews, something hed never had 
with his current pension plans.  
Mr I accepted this advice and subsequently switched his pensions to the new plan 
recommended by Openwork. 
In June 2021, Mr I, through is representative, complained about the advice. When a final 
response to this complaint was not received, Mr Is complaint was brought to this service for 
an impartial review in August 2021. 
Openwork issued its final response in September 2021 explaining that it was not upholding 
the complaint. It said the advice was suitable because it allowed Mr I the flexibility to make 
contributions, receive financial advice, switch funds according to any changes in his ATR, 
none of which was available to him on his [former] plans. And it said that 
although there were GARs on [these] plans, due to the small funds and the restrictions 
it was suitable for these to be transferred. This allowed for the potential growth which 
in turn would result in the clients objective for an income of c £12,000 p.a. in 
retirement. The spouses pension, death benefits and any indexation (which the 
[former plan] illustration states was not available at that time) was outweighed by the 
potential growth of this limited fund.
Unhappy with this response, Mr Is complaint proceeded at this service where one of our 
investigators looked into his concerns. Having done so, the investigator considered the 
advice was suitable and so she didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr I didnt agree and so his complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I have taken into account relevant law and
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and codes of practice; and what I consider to have
been good industry practice at the time.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),
I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
It is my role to fairly and reasonably decide if the business has done anything wrong in
respect of the individual circumstances of the complaint made and  if I find that the
business has done something wrong  award compensation for any material loss or distress
and inconvenience suffered by the complainant as a result of this.
The parties to this complaint have provided detailed submissions to support their position
and I am grateful to them for doing so. I have considered these submissions in their entirety.
However, I trust that they will not take the fact that my decision focuses on what I consider to
be the central issues as a discourtesy. The purpose of this decision is not to address every
point raised in detail, but to set out my findings and reasons for reaching them.
Openwork was required to follow the relevant rules set out by the regulator. All of this needs 
to be considered through the lens, so to speak, of the overarching principles for businesses 
 in particular, principles 1 (integrity), 2 (due skill, care and diligence), 6 (customers 
interests) and 9 (reasonable care).
So, amongst other things, to fulfil its duties Openwork had to know its client, act in his best 
interests, and give suitable advice.
When Mr I met with Openwork, he was looking for a way to help secure an income in 
retirement of around £12,000 per year. At the time, his existing conventional with-profits 
pensions had been performing poorly. No annual bonuses had been applied to since 2004. 
And Mr I wasnt happy with the returns hed received even before this. There was no way for 
Mr I to change his investment within his existing pension plans, nor could he restart 
contributions as a means of growing these plans as both had been made paid up for more 
than 12 months. So Mr I wouldnt be able to meet his income needs in retirement from these 
plans.
However, these plans did benefit from various guarantees including a guaranteed fund value 
at retirement (this was lost when Mr I stopped making contributions for more than 12 
months) and GARs which were lost when Mr I switched to a new pension arrangement. A 
GAR can be a valuable benefit. It might offer a very favourable annuity rate, compared to 
annuity rates that would otherwise be available. So I appreciate Mr I may now be worried 
that hes lost out by following Openworks advice. 
But although these plans represented Mr Is total pension provision, the value of the funds 
transferred was less than £8,000. And the largest guaranteed rate applied to only about 
14.5% of the total funds. I dont know what theyd be worth now if Mr I hadnt switched to a 
new pension plan. But I know that he wasnt able to contribute further to these plans and that 
no bonuses had been added for at least eight years when the advice was given. Considering 
that the GAR is calculated based on fund value, the annuity rate thats guaranteed cant be 
looked at in complete isolation; without good investment growth, this guarantee isnt quite as 
valuable.  In this case, I think its reasonable to conclude that the advice to switch to a different pension 
plan was suitable, even though this meant the loss of the GARs attached to Mr Is existing 
plans. Mr I was specifically looking to increase his income in retirement. With the 
recommended plan, there was the possibility of improved fund performance, his investments 
could be more aligned to his ATR and could change as required or desired in the future. Im 
mindful that the intention was these funds would remain invested for around 18 years, until 
Mr I reached age 66; this is not an insubstantial investment period. And he was able to make 
regular or ad hoc contributions to this arrangement which would benefit from tax relief, in 
addition to any potential investment growth.  All helping to increase the size of the pension 
fund available to him at retirement. None of this would have been available had Mr I stayed 
in his with-profits plans. And given the size of the funds benefitting from the GAR, I dont 
think it was inappropriate to recommend giving up this guarantee for the opportunity of 
increased growth and a larger fund at retirement. 
I appreciate Mr I has said hes lost out on other things as result of the switch, including death 
benefits. But Ive not been provided with sufficient evidence to persuade me that that this 
was important to him at the time of advice. Though living with his partner, Mr I wasnt 
married and was in good health, so I dont consider he was thinking of a spouses pension 
upon his death as a priority when he sought pension advice. And I note that with a term of 18 
years to retirement, it likely wouldnt have been appropriate for Mr I to have been advised to 
prioritise the benefits his partner and child would receive after death over his own income in 
retirement. Furthermore, I note that Mr I was able to nominate his partner as a beneficiary of 
the new arrangement, so Im not persuaded Mr I was poorly advised because of any loss to 
the death benefits available under his with-profits plans. 
In my opinion, the advice to transfer out of the low-risk with-profits arrangements and into a 
manged fund would not have been unreasonable as Mr I had a balanced ATR and 18 years 
to go before his 66th birthday. It is likely that there would continue to be a reduced level of 
bonuses payable on the with-profits plans so at the time of advice, it wouldnt have been 
unreasonable to expect over the 18 years to retirement that the returns from the higher risk 
managed funds would outperform the returns of the with-profits fund to such an extent that 
the value of the GAR would be outweighed. This was not guaranteed, but I think Openworks 
advice made this risk clear. 
For these reasons, I consider the advice provided to Mr I wasnt unsuitable, so I wont be 
asking Openwork to take any action. 
My final decision
As explained above, I dont uphold Mr Is complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Jennifer Wood
Ombudsman