DRN-3761964
The complaint
Miss F complains about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds settlement of a claim under 
her car insurance policy.
What happened
Miss F had car insurance with Admiral. She made a claim in April 2020 after someone 
crashed into her car whilst it was parked.
Admiral accepted the claim and repairs were carried out by their approved repairer. But 
Miss F later noticed strange noises whilst driving the car and asked Admiral to look at it 
again.
Admiral said the original repairs had been effective and there was no on-going problem with 
the car caused by the accident. But when the car was inspected at a local dealership, they 
thought there was extensive damage caused by the accident which hadnt yet been 
addressed.
Miss F made a complaint to Admiral and then to us. We concluded, in January 2022, that 
Admiral must either carry out or pay for the remaining repairs or accept that the car was a 
write-off and settle Miss Fs claim on that basis.
Admiral valued the car at £11,600 at the time of the accident (in April 2020). And they 
offered Miss F that amount to settle the claim or that amount less the amount (around 
£4,700) theyd have been able get if theyd sold the car for salvage.
Miss F wasnt happy with Admirals valuation and made a complaint to them. And when 
Admiral maintained their position on the valuation, she brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think Admiral had done anything wrong.
Miss F disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral used two motor trade guides to value the car. And the £11,600 they paid in 
settlement (less the salvage price) was the higher of those two valuations. Theres no 
suggestion Admiral got those valuations wrong.
The point Miss F makes is that Admiral were valuing the car at the time of the accident  in 
April 2020. She thought this was unfair because she had to replace the car in February 2022 
- at the earliest. This was when Admiral settled the claim after the conclusion of the previous 
investigation we carried out.
She says car prices have gone up in the intervening period. And, essentially, the delay in 
settling the claim properly was Admirals fault, given that their approved repairer had missed 
some of the damage to the car when they first carried out the repairs. If they had identified 
all the damage to the car, it would have been written off as beyond economic repair at that 
point.
Miss F provided some evidence to Admiral - and then to us  to suggest it would have cost 
closer to £13,000 to replace her car in February 2022. So, she wants Admiral to pay her 
another £1,400 to reflect the cost of replacing her car after the previous complaint had been 
resolved and the settlement paid.
Theres no dispute about what the terms and conditions of Miss Fs policy say. They say that 
if the policyholders car is written off, Admiral will pay the market value of the car at the time 
of the accident. 
Theres nothing unusual about his policy term. Its very clearly set out. And Miss F was  or 
should have been  aware of it when she took out the policy.
So, on the face of it, Admiral have valued the car in exactly the way suggested in the policy 
terms and have provided a settlement based on that valuation.
There is an argument that because of the particular circumstances in this case and the 
delays in the settlement being made, Admiral should  to be fair and reasonable  make an 
exception and not apply the strict policy terms.
I can certainly see Miss Fs point about the point in time at which the valuation of the car 
should be set. And I agree that the delays in the settlement in this case were fundamentally 
Admirals fault (or their contractors) rather than Miss Fs.
However, that argument is primarily based on the possibility that Miss F might have to pay 
more than the settlement figure to replace the car (and remembering that the point of 
insurance is basically to put you back in the position you would have been in before the 
relevant loss or damage). And it loses some force when you take into account the fact that 
Miss F took the car back into her possession and gave up the additional £4,700 or so in the 
salvage price.
I can see from publicly-available DVLA records that the car hasnt been sold. Its taxed until 
March 2023 and has a valid MOT certificate up to the middle of next year. So, Miss Fs plea 
that she has to replace the car now and cant do so because the settlement wasnt high 
enough isnt as convincing as it might otherwise be.
I also bear in mind that Admiral offered the highest of the two motor guide valuations they 
found. And that whilst there has been inflationary pressure driving the price of the car 
upwards, the car was older in February 2022 than it was in April 2020. 
Much of the evidence provided by Miss F about the cost of replacing the car in 2022 was 
from advertisements of similar cars for sale. Our view is that its not unfair or unreasonable 
for insurers to use motor trade guide valuations, rather than advertised sale prices, because 
the former reflect actual prices paid for cars.
Taking all of that into account, Im satisfied, on balance, that it was fair and reasonable for 
Admiral to have settled the claim in the way they did. That was certainly in line with the terms 
of the policy. And bearing in mind of all the circumstances, I dont think theres a persuasive 
moral argument that Admiral should make an exception in this case.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman