DRN-3966387
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited quoted incorrect figures 
concerning the amount of tax-free cash she could expect to receive from her pension.
What happened
Mrs T held a pension with Aviva. Ahead of her retirement, Aviva sent her a quote stating 
what her pension could be worth. It said Mrs T could expect to receive £55,654.75 in tax-free 
cash along with an annual income. 
Mrs T returned the forms to say how she wanted to access her pension benefits. According 
to Avivas notes, it told Mrs T in April 2022 that the figures werent guaranteed. As she didnt 
hear anything by her expected retirement date in May 2022 (and despite receiving a text 
message saying shed receive the funds within about ten working days of her retirement 
date), she called Aviva for an update. Aviva told Mrs T the tax-free cash she was entitled to 
receive was actually £34,997.75. Around June 2022 Mrs T received another quote with the 
lower amount of tax-free cash included and a revised yearly income figure. 
Mrs T complained to Aviva. In response, it said that a system error meant that the initial 
retirement quote sent to Mrs T mentioned the wrong amount of tax-free cash - £55,654.75 
rather than £34,997.75. Aviva said it had since checked the calculation and was satisfied the 
lower amount was correct. It apologised for this mistake and offered Mrs T £350 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
As Mrs T wasnt happy with Avivas response, she complained to our Service. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint and upheld it. However, he explained that he wouldnt 
be asking Aviva to reimburse Mrs T by the amount she thought shed lost. First, the call 
records showed that Aviva told Mrs T the amounts quoted werent guaranteed. So, the 
investigator was satisfied that the money couldnt be relied on until it was received. And 
whilst Aviva did, unfortunately, make a mistake in the amounts it quoted, the investigator 
didnt think it would be fair for Mrs T to benefit from that mistake. But he did agree that shed 
suffered considerable upset and worry. Taking account of that and the fact that Aviva didnt 
act as quickly as it might have done when it realised the mistake, the investigator thought a 
total of £500 (including £350 already paid) was a more appropriate amount of compensation.
Aviva accepted the investigators assessment, but Mrs T didnt. She didnt feel it fairly 
recognised the impact of Avivas mistake. She asked an Ombudsman to consider the matter 
afresh, so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Im intending to reach the same outcome as our investigator for broadly 
the same reasons. 
I can fully appreciate why Mrs T must have been very worried to find out the amount of tax-
free cash she expected to receive had reduced by over £20,000 in a matter of weeks. And 
whilst Aviva did tell her that the amounts quoted werent guaranteed, this wasnt a situation 
where the fund value dropped because of a fall in investment values. It fell because of a 
system error that had fairly severe consequences for Mrs T. And I can understand why, in 
those circumstances, Mrs T might think that Aviva should honour the original amount quoted.
My role is to try to put Mrs T back into the position (or as close to it as possible) that she 
would otherwise have been in had it not been for the mistake. Sadly for Mrs T, theres no 
evidence to suggest that she would actually have been entitled to the higher tax-free cash 
amount first mentioned. If anything, even the reduced amount seemed a little on the higher 
side to me compared to the size of Mrs Ts pension pot and HMRCs rules about the amount 
a person is generally allowed to take as tax-free cash (although there may be other relevant 
factors in Mrs Ts particular case). We asked Aviva to confirm that the revised figure is 
correct. It said its satisfied that, having checked with the relevant team, its correct. 
In any event, Mrs Ts issue is that Aviva wont honour the original (higher) amount. If I were 
to direct Aviva to do that now, Id knowingly be putting Mrs T into a better position. And that 
wouldnt be fair. 
But I do need to consider whether Aviva has fairly recognised the impact of its mistake. I 
understand that Mrs T had already spent a certain amount and made financial gestures to 
family members on the strength of the amount she expected to receive. So, I can see why it 
must have come as something of a blow when she realised shed be receiving far less than 
she expected. But I dont agree that means shes suffered an actual financial loss. 
Realistically, until the amount was received into her account, I think there was always the 
potential for it to change. But I do agree that Mrs T has suffered a loss of expectation and 
financial disappointment. That disappointment lasted for a number of weeks.
Ive thought carefully about whether the steps taken so far are enough to address the impact 
of Avivas mistake. And, overall, Im satisfied that the increased amount of compensation 
that our investigator recommended  £500 in total  does fairly recognise the impact of 
Avivas mistake. So, as Aviva has already paid £350, Im now intending to say that Aviva 
needs to pay the additional £150.
Putting things right
Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited should pay Mrs T another £150 compensation (on top of 
the £350 it has already paid) to fully recognise the worry and disappointment caused by its 
error. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited should take the steps Ive set 
out above under Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman