DRN-2022608
The complaint
Mrs E and Mr M complain because Aviva Insurance Limited has stopped providing cover for 
Mrs Es eye condition under her private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs E is insured under a group private medical insurance policy, provided by Aviva. 
Mrs E was diagnosed with a condition in both eyes in May 2017. Mrs E had surgery on her 
left eye and had a lens fitted to her right eye. Unfortunately, there were complications with 
the surgery, so Mrs E was also fitted with a lens in her left eye and was prescribed 
medication. Aviva covered some of this treatment under Mrs Es private medical insurance 
policy. 
In April 2018, Aviva told Mrs E it wouldnt cover any follow-up appointments relating to her 
right eye after July 2018. Aviva also said it wouldnt cover any follow-up appointments 
relating to Mrs Es left eye after December 2018. However, Aviva subsequently paid for a 
further consultation in September 2019. 
In October 2019, Aviva wrote to Mrs E and Mr M to say it wouldnt provide ongoing cover for 
Mrs Es eye condition. It said this was because Mrs Es policy only covers acute conditions, 
and not the long-term management of chronic conditions. 
Unhappy, Mrs E and Mr M complained to Aviva, before bringing their complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened but said she didnt think Aviva had acted 
unfairly by refusing to provide cover for Mrs Es eye condition. Mrs E and Mr M didnt agree, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mrs Es policy say Aviva will cover the treatment of acute 
conditions on a short-term basis. The policy defines an acute condition as:
A disease, illness or injury that is likely to respond quickly to treatment which aims to 
return you to the state of health you were in immediately before suffering the disease, 
illness or injury, or which leads to your full recovery. 
Chronic conditions are, generally, not covered. A chronic condition is defined in Mrs Es 
policy as:
A disease, illness or injury which has one of more of the following characteristics: -
it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations, 
check-ups, and/or tests
it needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of symptoms
it requires your rehabilitation or for you to be specially trained to cope with it
it continues indefinitely
it has no known cure
it comes back or is likely to come back
I understand the complications of the surgery were unplanned and were outside of Mrs E 
and Mr Ms control. I also understand Mrs E and Mr M say Mrs E only sees a doctor when 
there is a problem. 
But the medical information which Ive seen refers to the management of the condition in 
both of Mrs Es eyes and mentions reviews at intervals of three months and six months.
While Mrs E and Mr M might not be in favour of continually seeing doctors, theyve said they 
do not know when Mrs Es eye consultations are likely to stop, and that Mrs Es specialists 
cannot confirm when her vision is likely to be stable. 
All the evidence Ive seen points to Mrs Es condition being a chronic one which requires 
ongoing or long-term monitoring, rather than a short-term acute condition which is 
responding quickly to treatment. So, Im satisfied that Aviva is entitled to consider Mrs Es 
condition as chronic.
This means I dont think Mrs Es treatment is covered under the terms and conditions of her 
policy, and I dont think Aviva has acted unfairly or unreasonably by refusing to provide 
further cover. 
Id expect Aviva to give reasonable notice to Mrs E of its intention to classify her eye 
condition as chronic, and I think it did. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs E and Mr M, but I wont be directing Aviva to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs E and Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 September 2020.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman