DRN-3674084
The complaint
Mrs C has complained about a mortgage account with Bank of Scotland Plc trading as 
Halifax. Mrs C says that Halifax wont remove her from the joint mortgage account.  Mrs C 
also says that, after Halifax repossessed the property, the bank sold it before auction at less 
than the guide price. As a result Mrs C doesnt believe she should be responsible for the 
shortfall debt that is now owed to the bank.
What happened
Mrs C had a mortgage taken out with Halifax in November 2008, taken out jointly with her 
then husband, Mr C. In 2013 Mrs C left the property and asked Halifax to remove her from 
the mortgage account, as she was no longer living there and her relationship with Mr C had 
broken down. Halifax wasnt able to do this and the mortgage remained in joint names.
The property was rented out for several years but arrears accrued on the mortgage. Halifax 
was granted a possession order in 2018. By the time the property was taken into possession 
it had been severely damaged, which Mrs C says was done by Mr C. The property was listed 
for auction but Halifax accepted an offer before the auction. Mrs C says this was at less than 
the guide price, which has left a shortfall debt. This is now in the hands of a debt collection 
company which purchased the debt from Halifax.
On 21 September 2021 Mrs C complained to Halifax. On 1 October 2021 Halifax sent its 
final response letter to the address it held on file for Mrs C, which was her mothers address. 
Halifax didnt uphold the complaint, explaining that it could only have removed Mrs C from 
the mortgage account if Mr C had requested this and passed an affordability assessment. 
Halifax said Mrs C should contact the debt collection company to discuss the shortfall.
On 29 January 2022 Mrs C complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. As well as her 
dissatisfaction about the mortgage itself, she was also unhappy that Halifax had sent its final 
response letter to a different address from the one shed put on her complaint letter. Mrs C 
thought that Halifax was deliberately trying to stop her from complaining.
An investigator looked at what had happened but didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. He was satisfied that the property hadnt been sold at an undervalue. He was also 
satisfied that it was reasonable for Halifax to issue its final response to the last address 
recorded on file for Mrs C.
Mrs C didnt accept the investigators findings. She is adamant that Halifax is at fault and that 
the shortfall debt is entirely as a result of the banks failings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Removing Mrs C from the mortgage:  I have considerable sympathy for the position in 
which Mrs C found herself, and I completely understand why she wanted to extricate herself 
from any connection with Mr C. However, where a mortgage is in joint names, one borrower 
cant simply remove themselves from the account. This is because the borrowers have 
entered into a legally-binding contract with the lender, and signed a mortgage deed giving 
covenants (legal promises) to pay the mortgage. 
It is only possible to remove a party from a mortgage if the other borrower(s) agree to this 
and there is a joint application to the lender to remove one borrower and transfer the account 
into the name(s) of the other borrower(s), subject to lending criteria. So in this case, Mr and 
Mrs C would have needed to make an application to Halifax in their joint names, asking for 
Mrs C to be released from her covenants under the mortgage. Halifax would only have been 
able to agree to this if Mr C had met Halifaxs affordability criteria to have the mortgage in his 
sole name. 
In the circumstances, because there was no application for a transfer of equity, Halifax 
couldnt remove Mrs C from the mortgage. I understand why Mrs C thinks this isnt fair, but 
Im satisfied that Halifax hasnt done anything wrong; its simply not possible for Mrs C (who 
entered into a legally-binding mortgage contract) to say she no longer wants to be liable for 
the mortgage and place 100% liability on Mr C where neither he nor Halifax has agreed to 
this. 
Im not upholding this part of the complaint.
Sale of the property: Mrs C is unhappy that Halifax accepted an offer for the property 
before it went into auction. Mrs C says that this was below the guide price and, as a result, 
there is now a shortfall debt.
Ive looked at the auction details for the property, which are still available online. These show 
that the guide price for the property was £75,000. Independent valuers had estimated the 
property value at between £66,000 and £80,000. The property was sold for £87,000. In the 
circumstances, Im satisfied the property wasnt sold for less than the guide price. Halifax is 
required to obtain the best price possible. There was no guarantee that the property, in the 
condition it was in, would have achieved a higher price had it gone into the auction, after 
factoring in the auction fees.
Im not upholding this part of the complaint.
Change of address:  Mrs C is unhappy that, in responding to her complaint, Halifax sent the 
final response letter to her mothers address, which was the address shed given Halifax in 
2018. Notwithstanding that Mrs Cs complaint letter had been sent from a different address, 
there was no formal request for a change of address, and so Halifax didnt update the 
address on its system. However, I note that on 13 January 2022 when Mrs C spoke to 
Halifax and asked for a copy of her original complaint letter and another copy of the final 
response letter so she could sent them to our service, Mrs C said that it didnt matter 
whether these were sent to her mothers address or her current address. 
Complaint-handling isnt an activity thats covered under our rules, as its not a regulated 
activity. So although I note Mrs Cs dissatisfaction with Halifax sending the final response to 
her mothers address  and the fact that she has suffered no detriment as a result  I can 
make no further comment on this.
I know this is not the outcome Mrs C was hoping for, but after careful consideration of 
everything she and Halifax have said, Im unable to uphold the complaint. Mrs C might find it 
helpful to speak to one of the free debt advisory services such as Citizens Advice or StepChange in relation to the shortfall debt which is in the hands of a third-party debt 
recovery company. We can provide contact details for those agencies, if Mrs C would like us 
to.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman