DRN-1710194
The complaint
Mr H complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) (RSIC) declined a claim he 
made under a pet insurance policy and added additional exclusions to the policy.
What happened
In February 2018, Mr H took out two pet insurance policies for both of his dogs, L and B. 
Later, Mr H made a claim on his policy for L, and at this point he noticed that hed 
accidentally taken out different types of cover for L and B.
In November 2018, Mr H got in touch with RSIC to see if he could increase the cover on Ls 
policy to match the level of cover he had insured B for. He was told by a representative of 
RSIC that it wouldnt be possible to change the level of cover mid-term, and so he would 
need to cancel the current policy and take out a new policy with a higher level of cover. Mr H 
agreed to this, and so the new policy (with lifetime cover) started on 1 December 2018, but 
it didnt cover anything that arose within the first 14 days of the policy starting. Mr H kept the 
old policy running until the 15 December to cover anything that arose in the first 14 days.
On 20 December 2018, L needed treatment for a skin condition, which was later diagnosed 
as Atopy. And on 9 June 2019, Mr H made a claim on the policy for the treatment costs. 
RSIC declined the claim. It said that L had visited the vets just after inception of the policy 
with signs of the condition. The vets notes say that on 20 December 2018, L had shown 
signs of the condition for a few weeks prior to the vets visit.
It said that because L had showed signs of the condition within 14 days of the start of the 
policy, she wasnt covered and it applied exclusions for any condition relating to allergies, 
and any skin conditions. RSIC also applied an exclusion to the policy for any claims relating 
to the ears because L had received treatment for her ear prior to the inception of the policy. 
Mr H wasnt happy with RSICs response and so he came to this service. Our investigator 
looked into things for Mr H. He found that during the sales call for the new policy, it was 
made clear to Mr H that he would be cancelling the old policy and starting a new one. But he 
didnt think that it was made clear to Mr H that any conditions that L had visited the vets with 
previously wouldnt be covered  and the representative confirmed that the only exclusions 
placed on the policy would be for eyes and sight. Our investigator didnt think that Mr H 
would have taken out a new policy mid-term had he been made aware of this, and so he 
thought it would be fair for RSIC to pay out the claim up until the old policy would have 
expired, which was February 2019. He thought that it was fair of RSIC to retrospectively 
apply exclusions on the policy for ears, skin conditions and allergies.
RSIC responded to the investigator to say that it agreed with his assessment, but the 
amount payable was less than the excess amount and so there wasnt any redress due.
Mr H responded to say that he didnt feel the assessment was fair. This is because L was 
covered under the old policy for up to £2000 per claim, and so he should be paid the full 
treatment costs. 
Because Mr H didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the 
matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Hs complaint in part, for much of the same reasons as out investigator. 
Declined claim
Under the terms and conditions of the old policy, L would have been covered for treatment 
costs relating to the Atopy for up to £2000. This limit was based on a twelve-month period. 
And so, L would have been covered for any treatment relating to Atopy, for up to £2000 from 
February 2018 to February 2019.
I understand Mr H thinks that RSIC should pay out in full for the cost of the treatment, but 
some of the treatment costs were after February 2019, so I dont think RSIC need to 
consider these as part of the claim.
After February 2019, I think it likely RSIC would have excluded any claims relating to skin 
conditions and/or allergies anyway, and so it wouldnt have paid out on any further treatment 
for Atopy. 
I agree that Mr H wasnt told during the sales call that any conditions L might have had 
previously wouldnt be covered under the new policy. The advisor only referred to conditions 
relating to the eyes and teeth being excluded. I accept that had Mr H been given enough 
information during the sales call then he might not have taken out a new policy when he did 
 and just upgraded his existing one in February 2019. But I still dont think it would have 
made a difference to the claim being paid. 
I say this because, RSIC has shown me the claim form. This shows that treatments costs for 
Atopy would have totalled £52.85 in the twelve months from policy inception. The excess on 
the policy was £99. Because the amount claimed for is less than the policy excess, there 
isnt any redress due for RSIC to pay. 
RSIC declined the claim for Ls treatment for a skin condition on the basis that L first started 
showing signs of the condition within the first 14 days of the policy inception  and that this 
wasnt covered under the terms and conditions of the policy. Looking at the policy 
documents and the vets notes that say L had shown signs of illness for a few weeks prior, I 
agree with this. And so, I think it was fair of RSIC to decline the claim on the new policy. 
Regardless of whether RSIC ought to have paid out in the previous policy or not, I dont think 
Mr H has lost out financially as a result of this, because the claim amount was less that the 
excess and so no redress is due to be paid.
Exclusions placed on the new lifetime policy
Having looked at Ls medical history, I can see that in April 2018 she was treated for her 
ears. This was before the new lifetime policy started on 1 December 2018. 
The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) sets out the 
respective rights and responsibilities of consumers and insurers when entering into contracts of insurance. CIDRA places the consumer under a duty to take reasonable care not to make 
any misrepresentations (i.e. to say something untrue or misleading), provided the insurer 
has asked clear and specific questions. If the consumer doesnt take reasonable care to 
answer the questions accurately and this adversely affects the insurers ability to underwrite 
the proposed risk, this is treated as a qualifying misrepresentation, which may entitle the 
insurer to certain remedies depending on the nature and scope of the misrepresentation, i.e 
whether its regarded as careless, reckless or deliberate. 
After Mr H bought the life time cover policy for L, he was sent some documents. Ive seen a 
copy of the document and it says, Have you ever taken L to the vet for anything other than 
routine vaccinations?... If the answer is 'yes' to any of the above questions, please contact 
us on...
Mr H didnt contact RSIC to let them know that L had previously had problems with her ears. 
So, I dont think he answered the declaration question accurately, because he should have 
contacted RSIC to let it know. This would, in my opinion, qualify as a misrepresentation. 
Because of this, I now need to consider what RSIC would have done had it been made 
aware of Ls medical history. 
RSIC has sent me some of its underwriting guidance. This shows that where a pet has been 
treated or seen a vet for anything relating to its ears, it would apply an exclusion for any 
claims arising from ear conditions. Based on this, Im satisfied that had RSIC been made 
aware of Ls ear condition at the time it sold the policy, it would have excluded all claims for 
treatment for the ears.
CIDRA allows for an insurer to void a policy altogether (treat it as though it never existed) if 
its determined that the misrepresentation was either deliberate or reckless. RSIC hasnt said 
that Mr H had made the misrepresentation deliberately or recklessly  and I think this is fair 
in the circumstances. Ive now looked at what CIDRA would allow RSIC to do where the 
misrepresentation was careless.
In relation to careless misrepresentations, CIDRA says, If the insurer would have entered 
into the consumer insurance contract, but on different terms... the contract is to be treated as 
if it had been entered into on those different terms if the insurer so requires. With this in 
mind, I think it is fair that RSIC retrospectively apply the exclusion for any claims relating to 
ears.
In relation to the Atopy, or skin condition that Mr H now makes his claim for, I can see that L 
first visited a vet and received treatment with signs of this condition on 20 December 2018. 
The medical notes from the vet say that the symptoms had been present for the past few 
weeks.
Ls lifetime policy cover started on 1 December 2018. The terms of this policy state that L 
wouldnt be covered for any condition where she showed signs of illness within 14 days of 
the policy inception date. 
Because the notes from the vets say that L had shown symptoms of this condition for a few 
of weeks prior to the visit to the vets, Im satisfied that L showed signs of the condition within 
the first 14 days of the policy start date.
The terms and conditions of this policy allow RSIC to apply an exclusion to the policy where 
the illness occurred within the first 14 days. Looking at the underwriters information, I can 
see that where a dog is diagnosed with Atopy, it will apply an exclusion for skin allergies and skin conditions. So, I think it was fair of RSIC to also retrospectively apply exclusions to the 
policy for these things.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint about Red Sands Insurance 
Company (Europe). But given what Ive said, there isnt anything further RSIC need to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman