DRN-4086155
The complaint
Mr P complains that National Westminster Bank Plc didnt do enough to protect him from the 
financial harm caused by an investment scam company, or to help him recover the money 
once hed reported the scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mr P saw on social media that a friend had made a few thousand pounds from investing in 
cryptocurrency. Hed known the person for three years and trusted them implicitly, so he 
messaged the friend and asked him about the investment. The friend assured him the 
investment was genuine, claiming he was surprised at the money he was making.
The friend referred Mr P to a broker who seemed professional and had a social media 
account, which featured photos of her socialising with friends and family. She also detailed 
her work and what she does to help clients achieve great profits. The page featured positive 
reviews and several videos of her discussing the logistics of trading. 
The broker told Mr P she was happy to coach him on how to invest in cryptocurrency and 
that he would earn a huge daily profit, explaining she took 15% commission from the total 
profit. Mr P felt reassured by the fact his friend had recommended the broker and the fact 
she seemed professional and articulate. He wasnt put under pressure and there was no 
sense of urgency. 
The broker provided a link to FinTech via WhatsApp and instructed Mr P to open an 
account, stressing the importance of not sharing his log in details with anyone else. He had 
to go through a security process and was told he could use the account to monitor his trades 
and make withdrawals and he could see his initial deposit in the account, as well as all open 
trades the scammer had processed on his behalf.
The broker instructed Mr P to first purchase cryptocurrency through a cryptocurrency 
exchange company and then load the cryptocurrency onto her online wallet. Between 24 
January 2022 and 26 January 2022, he made five payments to two cryptocurrency exchange 
companies totalling £3,700. 
He could see his profits increasing rapidly and submitted a withdrawal request via the trading 
account. He was asked for an authorisation pin to process the withdrawal and was told to 
pay a £500 fee to verify the account and withdraw his profits. He then transferred the funds 
from the cryptocurrency exchange into his trading account, then on to a second digital wallet, 
as instructed by the scammer. The broker confirmed the funds had been received and that 
she would action withdrawal.
On 25 January 2022, the broker contacted Mr P claiming the withdrawal had been delayed 
due to unpaid fees. She said the funds had been successfully withdrawn from the trading 
account into Ms Ps bank account and suggested they had been held by the Internal 
Revenue Code', as they were asking investors to pay a transaction fee and 15% tax. 
Mr P contacted his friend via social media to question the process and was reassured that it 
was normal. The broker told Mr P hed need to pay £2,000 in fees, but he said he didnt have 
the money. He eventually agreed to pay the fees and split the payment into two payments of 
£1,548 and £451 due to limitations on how much he could transfer. The broker then told him 
to pay her commission fee of £1,000 and that there was no option for this to be taken out of 
his profits. He agreed this after more reassurance from his friend. 
When he didnt receive any money, he received a message from the broker claiming his 
account had been frozen and that he must pay £250. At this point he realised hed been the 
victim of a scam and his friend told him he hadnt been sending the messages.
Mr P complained to NatWest, but it said it couldnt refund any money because the transfers 
were to an account in Mr Ps name. It explained it places warning messages across its 
online banking facility to warn customers about scams and, before payments are processed, 
a message is displayed warning customers about scams. It explained its fraud system 
monitors activity for the latest fraud trends and if a transaction matches a known trend, a 
security check will be generated. The payments didnt match any fraud trends and were not 
deemed as suspicious, so a security check wasnt generated.
It accepted the customer service Mr P received when he reported the scam fell below a 
reasonable standard and apologised for that. And it maintained there were no blocks or 
restrictions as the payments werent suspicious.
Mr P wasnt satisfied and so he complained to this service. He said he didnt question what 
he saw on his friends social media account because he trusted him and assumed it was 
genuine. The tone of the subsequent conversations was exactly the same as previous 
interactions and he was persuaded by the professional-looking social media page and the 
fact the broker was transparent about her fees He explained he didnt have any investment 
experience so he didnt understand the sort of due diligence he should have done, and he 
said that apart from biometric checks, the payments went through without any intervention 
from NatWest. 
Mr Ps representative argued that even though the transfers were me to me, they were 
unusual, and NatWest should have intervened. They said that if it had asked Mr P about the 
payments, it would have been apparent he was falling victim to a scam and, but for its failure 
to make further enquiries, it would have been on the actual notice that he was going to suffer 
financial harm. 
They argued NatWest should have asked Mr P what the payments were for and the basic 
surrounding context and its likely hed have explained what he was doing and that 
everything had originated from a broker. And whilst the money was being sent to legitimate 
cryptocurrency exchanges, NatWest should have still provided a scam warning in light of all 
the information known to banks about the increasing number of scams associated with 
cryptocurrency. They further argued that on the one occasion Mr P spoke to NatWest, it 
failed to detect the scam and that the activity was unusual for the account, so it ought to 
have questioned what was happening. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He noted all the payments were 
to legitimate cryptocurrency exchange companies and there was nothing which should have 
caused NatWest to intervene and provide a scam warning. Mr P has asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. His representative has 
argued its well known that scammers groom consumers into setting up accounts with 
genuine cryptocurrency companies and then have move the cryptocurrency to a wallet under 
the guise of a trading platform. They have said Mr P didnt have a history of investing and 
the value of the payments is significant in comparison to his usual spending. 
Specifically, they have said NatWest should have intervened when Mr P tried to make the 
third payment of £1,549 because it was a sudden unusual change in Mr Ps regular 
expenditure and it was well known that the two cryptocurrency exchanges are used by 
scammers.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Mr P has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know he 
feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a disappointment to him, so Ill 
explain why. 
Im satisfied Mr P authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although he didnt intend the 
money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of his 
bank account, Mr P is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods 
that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, while customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006). 
Ive carefully considered the circumstances, and I am persuaded the broker was operating 
as part of a scam. But, although Mr P didnt intend his money to go to scammers, he did 
authorise the disputed payments. NatWest is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the 
victim of a scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them 
even though they authorised the payment.
Prevention
Ive thought about whether NatWest could have done more to prevent the scam from 
occurring altogether. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Ive 
seen, the payments were made to genuine cryptocurrency exchange companies. However, 
NatWest had an obligation to be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part of a 
wider scam, so I need to consider whether it ought to have intervened to warn Mr P when he 
tried to make the payments.  If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, Id 
expect NatWest to intervene with a view to protecting Mr P from financial harm due to fraud. 
Ive considered the nature of the payments in the context of whether they were unusual or 
uncharacteristic of how Mr P normally ran his account and I dont think they were. All the 
payments were to legitimate cryptocurrency exchange companies and none of them were for particularly large amounts, nor were they out of character for the usual spending on the 
account. Mr P had made a payment of £2,149 on 25 November 2021 and the largest of the 
disputed payments was £1,549 on 25 January 2022, so it wasnt not unusual. And even 
though the payments were linked to cryptocurrency investing, this doesnt mean they were 
suspicious. So, I dont think NatWest missed an opportunity to intervene.
Chargeback
Ive thought about whether NatWest could have done more to recover Mr Ps payments 
when he reported the scam to it. Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it 
will ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be 
resolved between them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of 
the scheme  so there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in 
such cases is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to 
determine whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. NatWest) acted fairly and reasonably when 
presenting (or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (Mr P).
Mr Ps own testimony supports that he used cryptocurrency exchanges to facilitate the 
transfers. Its only possible to make a chargeback claim to the merchant that received the 
disputed payments. Its most likely that the cryptocurrency exchanges would have been able 
to evidence theyd done what was asked of them. That is, in exchange for Mr Ps payments, 
they converted and sent an amount of cryptocurrency to the wallet address provided. So, 
any chargeback was destined fail, therefore Im satisfied that NatWests decision not to raise 
a chargeback request against either of the cryptocurrency exchange companies was fair.
Overall, Im satisfied NatWest took the correct steps prior to the funds being released  as 
well as the steps it took after being notified of the potential fraud. Im sorry to hear Mr P has 
lost money and the effect this has had on him, But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont 
think NatWest is to blame for this and so I cant fairly tell it to do anything further to resolve 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman