DRN-4227279
The complaint
Mr H complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) unfairly refused to transfer a large sum of money to 
an account hed opened with another bank.
Mr H wants TSB to pay him £250 compensation. 
What happened
Mr H visited a TSB branch to send a large sum of money to an account hed recently opened 
with a different bank. The member of staff wouldnt go ahead with the transfer and instead 
suggested Mr H should make the payment online. This was after someone at TSB had told 
him that the only way to transfer the money in one go was to carry out the transaction in 
branch.
Mr H says he was surprised that TSB told him to make the transfer online for £25,000 after it 
had told him the recipient details werent set up correctly.
Due to the size of the proposed transfer, Mr H had to make the payments over multiple days 
and one of the payments was referred for security checks. 
Mr H was unhappy with the way he was treated in branch, finding staff intrusive, rude, and 
defensive. Mr H was also unhappy with the complaints handling process.
TSB initially offered Mr H £50 to apologise but after considering his complaint further 
decided there had been no error so withdrew the original offer.
The investigator didnt recommend that Mr Hs complaint be upheld. He told Mr H that the 
member of staff in branch couldnt verify Mr Hs new account using the confirmation of 
payment (COP) system. As TSB branch staff had concerns that the intended recipient 
account details may be incorrect, the investigator thought it was reasonable not to go ahead 
with the transfer in branch.
Mr H disagrees with the investigation outcome and is unhappy that we cant consider his 
concerns about TSBs complaints process because its not a regulated financial activity.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised Mr Hs complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. The rules that govern this service allow me to do so. But this 
doesnt mean Ive not considered everything that both parties have given to me.
In cases like this where the evidence is inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision 
based on the balance of probabilities. That means Ill look at all the available evidence and 
decide what I think is most likely to have happened.
I can understand that Mr H found some of TSBs questions intrusive and rude but banks 
need to carry out anti-money laundering checks. So, I dont consider it was unusual for TSB 
to ask questions about where the money Mr H proposed transferring had come from. 
TSB says that it refused to carry out the transfer because it couldnt verify the beneficiary 
account details using the COP system. I can see this must have been frustrating for Mr H as 
hed checked the process ahead of time and had brought identification documents and new 
account information to the branch. I cant be sure why the new account details werent 
verified but I dont have any reason to dispute what TSB says. And Im satisfied that TSB 
has the right to refuse to make payments from a customers account in certain 
circumstances such as when it has concerns about the payment information. 
I appreciate there is a difference in recollection over what was said in branch. Mr H says the 
member of staff told him to transfer £25,000 online. On the other hand, TSB says that a 
member of staff recommended that Mr H make a £1 payment to the new account to check 
that it had arrived. 
It may have been the case that TSB told Mr H that he could transfer £25,000 online as this is 
the maximum limit allowed through mobile or internet banking. But Im not persuaded that 
TSB told Mr H to transfer this amount without first carrying out the test payment of £1. 
Particularly as Mr H says himself that he carried out the test transfer shortly after leaving the 
branch.
Its unfortunate that having tried to carry out the money transfer using the telephone service, 
TSB  held it up for fraud checks. But as I dont have reason to conclude that TSB made an 
error with this, it doesnt change the outcome of Mr Hs complaint. 
Im sorry that Mr H didnt feel comfortable going back in branch to complete the rest of the 
money transfer so ended up splitting the payments over several days. But as I dont find TSB 
made a mistake when dealing with Mr H, it follows that I dont require it to compensate him 
for the extra time it took to complete the transfer of money to his new account.  
Finally, I appreciate Mr H is unhappy about how TSB handled his complaint but the handling 
of complaints isnt itself a regulated activity. So, whilst I understand Mr Hs concern that TSB 
didnt deal promptly with the complaint and didnt then address all the issues he raised, I 
havent commented further on this point.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman