DRN-3141065
The complaint
Ms S is unhappy that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) (Amex)
suspended his credit card account on the basis of persistent debt.  
What happened
In September 2020, Amex wrote to Mr S and explained that because his credit card account
had been identified as being in persistent debt for 36 months that they would be suspending
the account and increasing the monthly payments due on the account so that the remaining
account balance would be cleared faster and would incur less interest than would be the
case at the rate that Mr S was currently paying. Mr S wasnt happy about this, so he raised a
complaint.
Amex looked at Mr Ss complaint, but they felt that their actions were consistent with
guidance published by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in regard to accounts
identified as being in persistent debt, and so they didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with Amexs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One
of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that Amexs actions were in
line with FCA guidance on this matter, and so they also didnt uphold this complaint.
Mr S remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 4 October 2021 as follows:
The FCA considers that a credit account is in a state of persistent debt if the level of 
interest which accrues on that account is such that the monthly payments made 
towards that account result in the customer paying more in interest and charges than 
they do towards paying off the capital balance on the account over a prolonged 
period.
This can often be the case where a customer is paying close to the minimum 
payment required on the account, which can result in the customer repaying the 
monthly interest that accrues but making little progress towards reducing the capital 
balance outstanding on the account - meaning that monthly interest payments at a 
similar level keep becoming due.
Because of concerns about the long-term viability of such a situation for credit 
account holders, the FCA issued new rules surrounding how a credit provider must 
manage accounts that are considered as being in a state of persistent debt. These 
rules came into force in March 2018 and include that a credit provider must send 
letters to persistent debt customers advising that their account is considered as being 
in persistent debt and explaining the level of additional monthly payment that the 
customer needs to make so that their account is no longer considered as being in 
such a state.
These letters should also advise customers of the potential consequences, should 
their account remain in a state of persistent debt, which can include the suspension 
of the account and the initiation of a payment plan designed to clear the full 
outstanding balance over a period of no more than four years.
Amex contend that they followed the FCA rules surrounding persistent debt in this
instance. They sent the requisite letters to Mr S, and while Mr S did increase his 
monthly payments, these increased payments werent sufficiently greater such that 
Mr Ss account no longer met the definition of being in persistent debt. And because 
of this, Amex suspended Mr S's account and advised Mr S of the need to clear the 
full outstanding balance owing on the account.
But the FCA's position on persistent debit isn't as routine as I've explained above, 
and in February 2020 the FCA contacted credit providers and updated its position on
circumstances such as these, and the FCA made specific reference to how a 
business should treat persistent debt 36-month ("PD36") customers - such as Mr S is 
in this instance - and also provided clarification on when a credit provider should 
suspend a customer account, and when such an account suspension isnt warranted.
For instance, regarding account suspensions, the FCA state:
"We are also concerned that some firms may be planning a 'blanket' 
suspension of credit cards for all their PD36 customers.
The PD rules only require the suspension of cancellation of cards where a 
customer:
a) does not respond to the repayment options proposed within the time 
specified by the firm;
b) confirms that one or more of the proposed options are affordable but that 
they will not make the increased payments.
We remind firms that  when they choose to suspend or cancel a customer's 
access to credit they must serve customers with a notice giving reasons for 
this, and those reasons must be objectively justified.
There is no regulatory requirement (outside of those mentioned above) that a 
card must be suspended where a customer is in persistent debt, so an 
objective justification could not rely on such a requirement."
But in this instance Mr S did respond to the repayment options proposed by Amex 
within their earlier persistent debt communication, and he did increase the level of his 
monthly payments as a result of this. As such, Im satisfied that clause (a) above 
doesnt apply here.
Additionally, its clear that Mr S didnt confirm to Amex that the increased repayment 
options were affordable for him but that he wouldnt make those payments, and again 
this is evident from the fact that Mr S did make increased monthly repayments in response to earlier communication from Amex about persistent debt. And this means 
that Im satisfied that clause (b) doesnt apply here also.
Amex have stated to this service that their decision to suspend Mr Ss account was
objectively justified to Mr S and was undertaken pursuant to a term in the account 
terms and conditions which permits the suspension of accounts.
But I find it difficult to confirm Amexs reasoning here, especially given that all the
communication issued to Mr S regarding his account suspension appears to confirm 
that the suspension of the account was undertaken on the basis that it was a 
requirement given the ongoing status of Mr Ss account as being in persistent debt  
which as per the FCA statement above, cant be considered as being an objective 
justification in this instance, given that Im satisfied that clauses (a) and (b) of that 
statement dont apply here.
Furthermore, it also must be noted that the higher payments that Mr S was making 
were reducing the balance of the account, which had reduced from approximately 
£3,550 in November 2019  when Mr S first increased the monthly payments  down 
to approximately £2,650 by February 2021. As such, Id find it difficult to accept that 
Amex were reasonably concerned that Mr S was demonstrating behaviour that might 
lead them to consider that Mr S might struggle to be able to repay the balance of the 
credit account over time.
All of which means that I dont feel that Amexs actions here in suspending Mr Ss 
account in the manner that they did on the basis of the account being in persistent 
debt can be considered as being fair towards Mr S, and it follows from this that my 
provisional decision here will be that I am provisionally upholding this complaint in Mr 
Ss favour.
My instructions to Amex, should this provisional decision be confirmed as final, will 
currently be as follows:
1. Amex must remove the suspension and all restrictions from Mr Ss account with
immediate effect so that Mr S can continue to use the account and can continue to
make reasonable payments to reduce the balance of the account as he was doing
before the account suspension, to take the account out of the status of being in
persistent debt over time.
2. Amex must make a payment of £150 to Mr S to compensate him from the trouble 
and upset this matter has caused. This payment may not take the form of a credit to 
Mr Ss Amex account unless Mr S gives his permission for it to do so.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr S and Amex the opportunity to provide any 
comments or further information they might wish me to consider before I moved to a final 
decision. Mr S confirmed that he had nothing further to add, whereas Amex didnt respond at 
all.
As such, I see no reason not to issue a final decision upholding this complaint in Mr Ss 
favour on the basis explained above, and I can confirm that my final decision will be that I 
am upholding this complaint accordingly.
Putting things right
 Amex must remove the suspension and all restrictions from Mr Ss account with immediate 
effect so that Mr S can continue to use the account and can continue to make reasonable payments to reduce the balance of the account as he was doing before the account 
suspension, to take the account out of the status of being in persistent debt over time.
Amex must make a payment of £150 to Mr S to compensate him from the trouble and upset 
this matter has caused. This payment may not take the form of a credit to Mr Ss Amex 
account unless Mr S gives his permission for it to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against American Express Services Europe 
Limited (AESEL) on the basis explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman