DRN-3135650
The complaint
Mr C complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) sought to charge him for
emergency repairs to his plumbing system. He wants RSA to compensate him for the costs
he incurred getting the repairs done, and for his distress and inconvenience. 
What happened
Mr C had home insurance with RSA. His policy included up to £200 per claim for home
emergencies.
On 22 December 2020, Mr C contacted RSA to report a leaking toilet and a fault with his
electricity.
RSA logged two claims and arranged for a plumber and an electrician to attend Mr Cs home
that day.
The plumber arrived at around 6pm and stayed for around an hour. He diagnosed that the
leak from the toilet was from a leaking thread valve. He advised that this valve would need to
be replaced and then left, leaving the toilet not flushing.
The electrician arrived at around 7.30pm and also stayed for about an hour. The electrician
identified that there appeared to be a broken earth cable in the wiring and advised Mr C to
contact his insurer. He shut off the power supply to the lighting in order to make it safe.
The following day, Mr C contacted RSA for an update. RSA told him that the plumber was
awaiting the necessary part to repair his toilet. Mr C asked if the electrician could return and
switch the power back on at his home. 
RSA declined to send the electrician back and advised Mr C that the flat needed a re-wire. 
The electrician had said that he would not switch the power back on as this would be unsafe.
On 24 December 2020, RSA advised Mr C that he would have to pay £259.66 in order for
the plumber to return to complete the repairs to his toilet. This was because the cost of
repairs would exceed his £200 cover limit.  
Mr C then contacted RSA on 30 December 2020 and asked for the original broken thread
valve to be returned to him. He complained that he felt the sum being charged to him was
unfair.
Mr C then decided to arrange his own independent repair. His contractor attended and
repaired the toilet leak, including providing the needed part, for £100.
RSA did not formally respond to Mr Cs complaint, and Mr C came to us.
Our investigator looked into this complaint and did not uphold Mr Cs complaint. He
considered that the electrician had met the terms of cover in making the electrical fault safe,
and he considered that Mr C had received the benefit of cover.
In respect of the plumber, our investigator explained that the total cost quoted by the
plumber was £459.66 and so, when the total covered by RSA was deducted, this would
leave £259.66 for Mr C to pay. He considered that RSA had been sufficiently clear about
this, and he did not recommend that RSA do anything further.
Mr C did not accept this view and asked for an ombudsman decision.
I set out my initial view in a provisional decision issued in September 2021. In that decision I 
explained that I thought Mr Cs complaint ought to be upheld in respect of the plumbing, 
because it appeared that RSAs agent had quoted for full replacement of the toilet, rather 
than just replacing the thread valve which had broken. I agreed with my colleagues view in 
respect of the electricians actions being reasonable. 
I set out that I thought RSA had treated Mr C unfairly and should reimburse Mr C for the 
costs of his own contractor who carried out the repair, and also pay to him £300 for the 
distress and inconvenience of leaving him without a functioning toilet for a period. 
Both parties have received my provisional decision and have had opportunity to provide 
comments. Neither party has provided any comments or further evidence. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no further arguments or evidence have been received to challenge my provisional view, I 
remain of that view. That is that I consider that RSA met the terms of service in relation to 
the electricians visit but did not do so in respect of the plumber. 
Mr Cs cover entitled him to a temporary repair, up to the value of £200, but Mr C was not 
provided with the benefit of his home emergency cover in relation to his broken toilet.
When the plumber quoted for a full toilet replacement, having identified that the repair
needed was replacement of a leaking thread valve, Mr C was no longer being offered the 
temporary repair he was covered for, but instead a much more substantial job of replacing 
the whole toilet. 
In my view this was not reasonable and was not clearly communicated to Mr C. The high 
cost quoted to Mr C then prompted him to look elsewhere for a private contractor to 
undertake the work, and he had to pay for this directly.
I therefore think that RSA acted wrongly in providing Mr C with an excessive quote for
unnecessary work, and did not make clear to him that this quote was for more than a
temporary repair, or that he could elect to have the temporary repair only. 
I think this caused a delay in Mr C getting his repair completed (while he was waiting for 
information from RSA) and caused him to incur a financial loss.
Putting things right
In order to put things right I think that RSA ought to reimburse Mr C for the costs he incurred 
by employing a private contractor, and also to pay to him compensation for his distress and 
inconvenience.  Bearing in mind the time of year, and that Mr C was without a flushing toilet while he awaited
a repair, I think he was likely caused substantial inconvenience and distress by RSAs error. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Cs complaint and direct Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc to: 
Pay Mr C £100 to reimburse his financial loss; and
Pay Mr C £300 to compensate him for his distress and inconvenience.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman