DRN-3970469
Complaint
Mr T is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC hasnt refunded him in full after he fell victim to 
a scam.
Background
In 2020, Mr T was researching potential investment opportunities online when he found what 
he thought was a legitimate investment with an established business. He made enquiries 
and was offered the chance to invest in a fixed-rate bond. In total, Mr T transferred £85,000 
in the belief that he was investing in a bond that would pay a return of 3.72% annually and 
would mature in three years. 
Unfortunately, Mr T wasnt dealing with an employee of a legitimate investment business, but 
a scammer. He made two payments of £30,000 and £25,000 respectively on 13 July and 
then a further payment of £30,000 on 15 July. Barclays says that a warning was displayed 
when Mr T made these payments. It says that the text of that warning wouldve been as 
follows: 
Could this be a scam? 
Have you checked that the company you're paying is genuine? You should be extra 
careful, as we've seen an increase in cloned websites of financial institutions. You 
can check the FCA website to see if there are any warning messages about the 
company you're looking to invest in. 
You should also check that any investment you're considering is through a FCA 
regulated firm, and that the spelling is exactly the same as the company you're in 
contact with. 
Be aware that fraudsters often provide an initial return on an investment to 
encourage you to provide larger amounts of money. They might also use current 
news topics, like COVID-19, to ask you to move your current investment, or invest in 
new accounts in the UK or overseas. It's best to talk to someone you trust or a 
financial adviser before investing your money and you should reject unexpected 
offers. 
Barclays said that, by the time Mr T made the third payment to the scammer it shouldve 
recognised that there was an increased risk that hed been targeted by scammers and 
intervened. It therefore refunded 50% of the total amount he lost to the scam. However, it 
didnt think it should be expected to refund the whole amount. It didnt think Mr T had done 
enough to assure himself that he was dealing with a genuine company. 
It says that he didnt complete any individual checks. It pointed out that the website of the 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), including a warning about scammers 
defrauding people by imitating the business he thought was investing with. The phone 
number that was used to call him was specifically referred to in that warning. 
Mr T was unhappy with this response from Barclays and so he referred a complaint to this 
service. It was looked at by an Investigator who upheld it. She considered Mr Ts complaint 
under the terms of the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code. The starting point 
under that code is that Barclays should pay Mr T a refund, unless one of the exceptions 
applies. In this instance, Barclays would be justified in not paying him a full refund if it could 
establish that:
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 21 December 2022. I wrote:
The starting point in law is that Mr T is presumed liable for any transaction he 
authorises. He did authorise the payments that are the subject of this complaint, 
albeit only because hed been tricked into thinking he was paying into a legitimate 
investment. 
However, thats not the end of the story. Barclays is a signatory to the CRM code. 
This code says that firms should refund its customers where they fall victim to a scam 
like this one, except in a small number of circumstances. In this instance, Barclays 
has accepted that it shouldve done more when Mr T asked it to make the third 
payment and so has agreed to refund 50% of his losses. 
I agree with the Investigator that the warning didnt meet the definition of an Effective 
Warning as described in the CRM Code and Ive come to that conclusion for broadly 
the same reasons. Nonetheless, the warning did contain relevant information and 
suggested some basic checks Mr T couldve carried out to reduce the risk that hed 
been taken in by a scam. 
Barclays has provided evidence showing how long the warnings were displayed 
when each payment was made. On the first payment, the warning was displayed for 
two seconds. However, for the second payment it was displayed for just under two 
minutes. I think its more likely than not that Mr T had the opportunity to read the 
content of the warning and process it before proceeding. The text put him on notice 
of the risk of cloned websites and recommended he check the FCA website to 
protect himself. I dont think it was reasonable for him to have proceeded with the 
second and third payment once hed read the text of that warning. For that reason, 
Im not persuaded that Mr T can be said to have had a reasonable basis for believing 
that the second and third payments were in connection with a legitimate investment. 
One of the consequences of that is that Barclays isnt required to refund him in full 
under the CRM code. 
Ive also considered the first payment. Barclays evidence suggests Mr T didnt have 
enough time to read the warning. It therefore cant have had an impact on whether it 
was reasonable for him to believe this investment to be genuine. For that reason, I 
think it needs to refund the first payment Mr T made in full. 
I realise this will be a hugely disappointing outcome for Mr T. I dont intend to 
downplay or diminish the fact that he fell victim to a cruel and sophisticated scam. 
However, I must look at the actions and inactions of Barclays and consider whether it 
has applied the terms of the CRM Code fairly. In this instance, Im satisfied its fair 
and reasonable for it to only refund 50% of the money he lost when making the 
second and third payments.I explained that I intend to uphold the complaint in part and ask Barclays to refund the 
remaining 50% of the first payment. Barclays responded to say that it agreed with the 
provisional decision.  
Mr T didnt agree with my findings and made several observations. He said that he has had 
problems with online banking in the past. In particular, he says that each time he logs in, an 
error message is briefly displayed before he gains access. He says that, given the frequency 
of such erroneous messages, a warning at the point of making a payment would 
understandably have less impact. He also questioned whether, in the light of that recurring 
technical problem, it can be known for sure that the warning was displayed.
Mr T also questioned the conclusions Id set out regarding whether the warning was 
effective. It wasnt clear how I couldve concluded that the warning wasnt effective, but still 
concluded that Barclays only had to pay him a partial refund.
Ive considered this response carefully, but Im not persuaded to depart from the position I 
set out in my provisional decision. The CRM code starts with the assumption that a customer 
whos a victim of a scam like this one should be reimbursed, unless one of the exceptions 
applies. There are two relevant exceptions that are under consideration here. The first 
applies if Mr T made the payments after he ignored an Effective Warning. 
When I use that term, the word effective isnt given its ordinary and everyday meaning. It is 
specifically defined in the text of the Code itself. A series of technical requirements are set 
out that must be met for a warning to meet that definition. I didnt find that all of those 
requirements were met in this case and, as a result, I dont think Barclays could reasonably 
rely on its warning to justify not reimbursing Mr T.
The other applicable exception is where the customer makes a payment without a 
reasonable basis for believing that  the person or business with whom they transacted was 
legitimate.
Although the warning didnt meet all the technical requirements in the code, I still think it had 
relevant information in that wouldve put the reader on notice of the risks of proceeding with 
the payment. It also set out some steps they could take to protect themselves from the risk 
of fraud. I think a customer who proceeded to make payment having read that warning would 
no longer have a reasonable basis for believing they were dealing with a legitimate business.
Mr T has pointed out that I cant know for certain that the warning was displayed. I accept 
that is the case. Barclays electronic records do suggest a warning wouldve been displayed 
and track the length of time that a customer spends at each part of the payment process, 
including the warning screen. I cant know with certainty what Mr T saw on his screen when 
making these payments. In such circumstances, I must come to a decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In this instance, Im persuaded that it was more likely than not that the warning 
was displayed. 
Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint in part. If Mr T accepts my 
decision, Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay him the remaining 50% of the first payment he 
made in connection with the scam. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 James Kimmitt
Ombudsman