DRN-3726358
The complaint
Mr D complains that esure Insurance Limited undervalued his car following a motor 
insurance claim.
What happened
Mr Ds car was stolen in April 2022, so he submitted a claim on his car insurance with esure, 
and they valued the car at £3,500.
Mr D didnt think that was enough, he said it had low mileage, a full-service history and was 
in excellent condition. Mr D said it would cost far more to replace than £3,500.
esure considered Mr Ds concerns and increased their valuation to £4,012. They said that 
was representative of the trade guides. But, Mr D still wasnt happy so he brought the case 
to our service. 
An investigator here looked into the matter, they said esures valuation was reasonable and 
explained that while adverts may appear higher they represent asking prices, and so wont 
always reflect the amount paid.
Agreement couldnt be reached, so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr D, but Im not upholding his complaint. We have a well established 
approach to considering cases like his, and because of that the insurance industry tends to 
follow it. Thats not to say they always get things right though, so we still consider each case 
on its own merits.
Mr D has explained that he had some difficulties and additional expenses resulting from the 
matter. While he has my sympathy for that I consider it to be a natural consequence of losing 
a vehicle in such a way. There is always going to be a period of inconvenience which follows 
and that can include additional travel related costs.
Turning to the valuation, I agree that esures initial figure of £3,500 was insufficient. But 
when Mr D complained about that it was increased to a level I consider to be fair. esure 
reviewed four valuation guides and their offer is in line with those. Its greater than two of 
them and lower than the other two, so esure took an average of them. I dont consider that to 
be unfair in this case.
And while Mr D explains that his car had a low mileage, a full-service history and was in 
excellent condition, I note that these factors were taken into account when the valuations 
were carried out. So, I dont think hes lost out here.
Overall, esure have provided a fair valuation for Mr Ds car.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman