DRN-3868539
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Santander UK Plc hasnt reimbursed all the money hes lost to a scam.
Whats happened?
Mr S has fallen victim to an investment scam.
He was contacted by a representative of a company Ill refer to as L and offered attractive 
returns of 5.95% on a one-year bond (the bond). On 17 August 2021, Mr S paid £30,000 to 
a company Ill refer to as SM via faster payment (the payment). L told Mr S that SM was a 
clearing agent.
Mr S subsequently discovered that L was a cloned company, impersonating a genuine 
company, and he had been scammed. He reported the matter to Santander.
Santander offered to share the responsibility for Mr S loss with him. It said that neither party 
did enough to protect Mr S from financial harm.
Our investigator thought it was fair for Santander and Mr S to share liability in the 
circumstances, but Mr S didnt agree. So, his complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on 22 November 2022. Ill set out my findings below.
Santander is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM Code), which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the 
victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Mr S has fallen victim to, in 
all but a limited number of circumstances. Santander has argued that one of the exceptions 
applies in this case. It says that Mr S made the payment without a reasonable basis for belief 
that the payee was the person he was expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine goods 
or services and/or the person or business he was transacting with was legitimate.
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Mr S had a reasonable basis for belief in this case. I 
understand that Mr S was elderly when he made the payment, and he relied on the internet 
searches his relatives carried out on L for him. I dont think this is unreasonable in the 
circumstances. The internet searches did not show anything untoward because, of course, 
the scammer was impersonating a real company which is authorised and regulated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
Ive looked at the written communication between Mr S and L and I can see that the 
scammer corresponded in a professional, knowledgeable and convincing manner. Their 
emails often included an official looking company logo, and they set out that L is regulated 
by the FCA and protected by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
The scammer took Mr S through Know Your Customer checks, and he was asked to 
complete a client registration form and provide proof of identification and address. 
Afterwards, he was given a customer number to use in all future correspondence.
I dont consider that the bonds rate of return was too good to be true, or that it shouldve 
raised Mr S suspicions. After making the payment, Mr S was given a certificate of 
investment that appears genuine, and he was provided with a copy of the relevant terms and 
conditions.
I appreciate that the payment was in favour of SM, but I can see that L told Mr S that SM 
was a clearing agent, and he says he didnt question this because he thought that L was a 
financial advisor. I think Mr S was given a plausible explanation for why he needed to pay 
SM and I can see why he accepted that explanation at face value. I dont think it was 
unreasonable for him to do so.
Overall, Im persuaded that Mr S had a reasonable basis for belief on this occasion. He was 
the unfortunate victim of a sophisticated scam. Im satisfied that he made some attempts to 
assure himself of the legitimacy of the investment opportunity, but those checks did not raise 
any red flags because of the scams sophistication. The fraud was convincing, and the 
scammer took care to follow the processes a customer might expect to complete when 
investing, to come across as professional and credible, and to provide the documentation a 
customer might expect to receive. Of course, with the benefit of hindsight, there is more that 
Mr S couldve done to protect himself. But I dont think it was unreasonable for him to 
proceed with the payment in the circumstances. And, even if he had carried out further 
checks, such as checking the FCA register, I dont think its likely he wouldve realised 
anything was amiss because the FCA hadnt published any warnings about this particular 
scam by the time the payment was made. I cant ignore that Santander doesnt appear to 
have educated Mr S about the relevant scam type either, to raise his awareness about the 
types of checks he could do to protect himself from fraud.
The payment was high value and went to a new payee. Looking at Mr S account statements 
in the months leading up to the scam, I consider that the payment was unusual and out of 
character. So, Santander ought to have identified an APP scam risk and given Mr S an 
effective warning under the CRM Code and/or intervened and asked Mr S some probing 
questions about the payment. The bank hasnt been able to provide any evidence that it did 
either, and Mr S says it didnt. As it seems most likely that Santander missed an opportunity 
to prevent the scam and Mr S loss, and Im persuaded that Mr S had a reasonable basis for 
belief when he made the payment, Im satisfied that Santander can reasonably be held liable 
for Mr S full loss.
Ive provisionally decided that Santander should reimburse Mr S full loss and pay 8% simple 
interest per annum from the date of the payment to the date of settlement.
Responses to my provisional decision
Both parties accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Mr S and Santander have accepted my provisional decision, and neither party has 
provided any new information for me to consider, I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct Santander UK Plc to reimburse Mr S full loss along with interest at 8% per annum from the 
date of the payment to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman