DRN-3836007
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc wont refund payments he says he did not
make.
What happened
Mr B holds several accounts with Barclays. He says that in April 2022 he was contacted by 
someone claiming to be from the bank. Mr B says they had various details about his 
accounts and balances, and appeared to be calling from a known Barclays phone number. 
Mr B says this individual told him that his accounts had been hacked and that two payments 
for £15,000 each had been made out of his current account to a third party  an electrician 
Mr B has previously made a small payment to. Mr B was asked to provide contact details for 
the electrician, and the scammer then contacted this person and arranged for the funds to be 
transferred to two other Barclays accounts which the electrician believed belonged to Mr B. 
These funds were then transferred out of those accounts.
Mr B flagged these transactions and Barclays investigated, but it decided not to refund the
disputed payments. It thought Mr B had authorised the payments or made them himself.
As Mr B didnt agree with Barclays decision, he asked us to investigate.
Our Investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. In summary, they
explained that they felt there was evidence to suggest that Mr B had authorised the
payments or allowed them to be made.
Mr B asked for the answer to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so the complaint has been
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as
the Investigator previously set out.
The relevant law here is the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and broadly speaking
Mr B is responsible for any payments that he has authorised (either by making them
himself or allowing someone else to) and he isnt responsible for unauthorised payments.
So, I think the key question here is whether Barclays has acted fairly in concluding that Mr B 
did authorise the disputed payments.
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mr Bs genuine account details were 
used to make the disputed payments. But the regulations relevant to this case
say that is not, on its own, enough to enable Barclays to hold him liable. So I also need to 
think about whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr B consented 
to the payments being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Barclays to conclude that Mr B
authorised the withdrawals. This is because:
- Mr B has said the scammer he spoke to did not advise him to download any software  
which could have allowed the to remotely access his phone or online banking
- Mr B has consistently stated that he did not make these payments himself
- But the data Barclays has provided shows that the payments were made from Mr Bs 
device and from an IP address he had previously made payments and logged into his 
online banking from
I acknowledge what Mr B has told us about the call he says he received, and Im aware that 
Mr B has also referred a separate complaint to our service about payments made from 
another account of his as a result of that call, which has been upheld by one of our 
investigators. But even with everything hes told us in mind, I dont consider that what
Mr B has said happened in this complaint  that a scammer made payments from his 
account without his permission  is the most plausible version of events here. The evidence 
shows that the payments were made from Mr Bs phone and from a physical location he 
regularly made payments from, and Mr B has said he did not download any software or 
similar which would have allowed a scammer to make the payment from his phone.
Regarding whether Barclays should have flagged these payments as suspicious, I agree 
with our Investigators findings. Given the way Mr B usually operated his account  with 
regular payments for much higher amounts going in and out of the account  I dont consider 
there was anything inherently suspicious about these payments that should have caused 
them to be flagged as potentially fraudulent.
Mr B has commented in detail on the regulations regarding Authorised Push Payment (APP) 
scams but those relate to circumstances where an individual has been manipulated into 
making a payment themselves. And that is not what Mr B has said happened here, so the 
APP regulations do not apply.
Similarly, Mr B has provided details of news articles about scams which he says are similar 
to what happened to him. But again, those news articles refer to the kinds of scams where 
fraudsters use social engineering to get account details from customers or to manipulate 
them into making payments themselves. But Mr B has said in this case that the fraudster 
made the payment and that he did not download any software or share any details himself, 
so the circumstances are different to those described in the articles Mr B has shared.
I also note Mr Bs concern that the funds were ultimately transferred from the electrician to 
other accounts at Barclays which appeared to be in his name. But Barclays has confirmed 
those accounts were not in Mr Bs name. And any complaint about the payments out of the 
electricians account are not something we can consider as part of this complaint from Mr B.
Overall, with everything Ive seen, I dont think it was unreasonable for Barclays to refuse to 
refund these payments to Mr B. I know this will be very disappointing for Mr B, but I wont be 
asking Barclays to refund the disputed payments to him.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman