DRN-4247896
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain National House Building Council (NHBC) settled their building 
warranty claim unfairly.
What happened
In February 2022 Mr and Mrs D moved into a six-year-old property. Some months later they 
found water to be entering though the west elevation of its roof. Later the same was found 
with the rear elevation. 
Mr and Mrs D asked NHBC to, under their building warranty policy, cover the cost of 
recovering the entire roof. But it only agreed to pay the cost, around £9,000, for the rear and 
west elevations to be recovered. 
NHBC responded to a complaint from Mr and Mrs D. It referred to a limitation in the policy to 
decline their claim for the entire roof. It said the policy doesnt cover roof coverings unless 
the damage results in entry of water into the home. Mr and Mrs D werent satisfied so came 
to this service. They have paid for the entire roof to be recovered so want NHBC to pay them 
the additional cost - around £7,000. 
Our Investigator felt NHBC had acted fairly and in line with the terms of Mr and Mrs Ds 
warranty. So he didnt recommend it do anything differently. As they didnt accept that 
outcome the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of
evidence Mr and Mrs D and NHBC provided. Instead Ive focused on those I consider to be 
key or central to the issue. But I would like to reassure both that I have considered 
everything provided.
Section three of Mr and Mrs Ds policy is the relevant part of the warranty. It says this 
section applies if there is physical damage to your home because the builder failed to build 
parts of your home to comply with the NHBC requirements.
NHBC seems to accept the builder failed to build the roof to comply with its requirements 
when installing the roof covering. 
Section three also says You cannot claim for: damage to the roof covering unless the 
damage results in the entry of water into your home.
There was evidence of water entering through the west and rear elevations. However, water 
hasnt entered the property though the remaining parts of the roof. So, based on the terms, 
the additional areas arent covered by the policy.
However, Mr and Mrs D feel it would be fair for NHBC to cover the entire roof. They say the 
same faults were found across the entire roof  so its more than likely water would in future 
have entered through the other areas of the roof. 
Ive considered Mr and Mrs Ds points to decide if a fair outcome would be for NHBC to pay 
for the entire roof. I agree its possible water may have entered through the other areas, in 
future, if they hadnt been repaired as well. But I havent been provided with anything to 
make me think that was an imminent or highly likely outcome. And Ive no reason to believe 
the west and rear elevations couldnt be provided with a lasting and effective repair 
independently of the remaining areas. 
So I cant say NHBCs decision not to cover the entire roof was unfair or unreasonable. That 
means Im not going to require it to pay for the additional areas or to do anything differently.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman