DRN-2282759
The complaint
Mr Ts complaint about Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco) relates 
to a default being registered against him without notice, and also the service he received 
from Tesco after informing them he would have difficulties maintaining his credit card 
payments.
What happened
On 9 October 2019 Mr T contacted Tesco to tell them that due to a work injury he wouldnt 
be able to make his payment. Tesco said they agreed a 30-day hold would be placed on the 
account to prevent any further action. Mr T said he expected to be back at work after two 
weeks and would bring his account up to date then, at the end of that week.
Tesco say they didnt hear anything further from Mr T and so issued a pre default letter on 
20 November, followed by a Default Notice on 3 December and a Termination Notice on 30 
December. Mr T says he never received those letters. Tesco also say they tried to contact 
Mr T by phone on the 4, 16 and 28 December but were unable to make contact. Mr T says 
he did manage to speak with Tesco in January 2020, but Tesco cannot locate that call.
Tesco said they didnt hear from Mr T so instructed their debt collection agency on 14 
January and reported the default to the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs), which they say 
they were obliged to do. As such Tesco dont believe they have done anything wrong as they 
reported factual information. 
Mr T was unhappy with Tescos final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that Tesco had acted fairly, 
reasonably and correctly and was of the view that Tesco didnt need to do anything further.
Mr T didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken account of both sides views when considering whether Tesco acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. 
Where evidence is not complete, I think about what is more likely to have happened in the 
light of the evidence which is available. 
When Mr T called Tesco on 9 October its notes record that he told them he had broken his 
ankle and was out of work for two weeks but at the end of the week he returned to work he 
would bring his account up to date. The notes show that Tesco agreed to a 30-day hold on 
his account, which is what I wouldve expected it to do and which I think is fair. Theres no 
evidence to show that Mr T contacted Tesco again within those 30 days and the account 
shows he didnt bring the account up to date.
Tesco have produced a letter correctly addressed to Mr T dated 20 November asking him to 
make an immediate payment of £373.85. That letter also provides further information about 
charges and how Mr T could pay, and that if he didnt, what would then happen in terms of 
issuing a Default Notice, Termination and reporting to CRAs. Tesco has also produced the 
Default Notice dated 3 December which is also correctly addressed to Mr T.
I do note Mr T says he didnt receive the 20 November letter and Ive no reason to doubt him 
when he says that, but equally Tescos evidence shows it was sent and properly addressed. 
Ive also taken into consideration the fact that Mr T opted to receive his statements 
electronically and so wouldve received an email every month alerting him that his statement 
was ready to view. Ive looked at the statement dated 3 December which carries the warning 
Your account remains seriously in arrears. Failure to resolve this situation will result in us 
terminating your account. The warning also asked Mr T to contact Tesco as soon as 
possible. Theres no record of Mr T doing this at that time.
Tescos notes show that they called Mr T on 4 December as well, but contact couldnt be 
made. A letter of the same date was also sent to Mr T asking him to make contact as soon 
as possible. Tescos notes also show that two further calls were made on 16 and 28 
December without success. I also see that following the termination letter being issued on 30 
December, Tesco then moved Mr Ts account to their recoveries dept on 7 January.
Mr T does state that he contacted Tesco in January and December. Tesco dont have those 
calls, so it is impossible to know what was or was not said or agreed. Mr T says there was a 
call on the 12 December and during that call Tesco agreed to place another hold on the 
account, but it is unlikely Tesco wouldve agreed to that because by that time they had 
already issued the Default Notice of the 3 December. Equally, whatever was said in the 
January call, the account had already been terminated by then.
I know Mr T has taken issue with the period Tesco say his account was in arrears and so 
Ive looked at his credit card statements. The statement dated 3 August required a payment 
on the 28 August, which was not made. The statement of 3 September shows that his 
account was in arrears as at the date of the missed payment on 28 August. The statements 
which follow continue to show the account was in arrears until the date of default on 3 
December. 
Whilst it is unfortunate that Mr T didnt receive any of the letters sent to him, he hasnt said 
he didnt receive the statement on 3 December containing the warning of the arrears and 
likely action. So, looking at the available evidence, which includes considering the telephone 
calls that were made by Tesco and not responded to, I cant criticise Tesco for first defaulting 
the account and then terminating it. 
I know Mr T has written at length about the impact of the default upon him and I do 
empathise with him, but my role is to consider whether Tesco have acted fairly and 
reasonably. Here they agreed to a 30-day hold on the account, and upon hearing nothing 
further issued letters and made telephone calls to try and resolve the account arrears. 
Hearing nothing, they then defaulted the account once it had become 3 months in arrears, 
which it had as the three months runs from the 28 August and he had missed the 
September, October and November payments. And I would generally expect to see a 
business making a report to a CRA after three missed payments. 
So, although Mr T will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say Tesco has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman