DRN-2241508
The complaint
Mr M has complained about Ageas Insurance Limiteds decision to reject a theft claim he 
made following a burglary. Mr M made a claim under his home insurance policy.
What happened
In June 2018 Mr M reported a burglary to the police and his insurer, Ageas. 
Ageas investigated the claim and wasnt satisfied with the information Mr M gave it. Ageas 
said there were inconsistencies in Mr Ms account about when he noticed the burglary had 
happened, when he reported stolen items to the police, and with the items he reported as 
stolen to Ageas.
In October 2019 Ageas made a final decision to reject Mr Ms claim. While Ageas doesnt 
dispute that a burglary occurred, it isnt satisfied that Mr M has proven his claim for losses.
Mr M asked us to look at his complaint. He felt hed answered Ageass questions and 
provided a copy of the police report. So he wanted Ageas to pay his claim.
Our investigator thought that due to the inconsistencies, Ageas decision to reject Mr Ms 
claim was reasonable. 
Mr M wants an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ageas can decline a claim if it isnt satisfied that the claim is valid. The burden of proof of a 
claim is on the policyholder. 
So Ive looked at what Ageas has taken into account, and whether I think its decision was 
fair.
Ive seen Ageass letter to Mr M dated 15 October 2019. It gives the reasons why Ageas 
declined the claim. And I think it was fair for Ageas to explore these, and to decline the claim 
when they felt the answers Mr M provided werent satisfactory.
There were a number of inconsistencies in the accounts Mr M gave between June 2018 and 
October 2019. On four occasions during this time Ageas asked Mr M to clarify 
inconsistencies in the accounts he gave in his initial call and in subsequent letters. 
In summary the inconsistencies were that:
Mr M discovered the burglary in the middle of the night. He later said he discovered 
the burglary at around 10 am after dropping his wife and son to work and school. 
Mr M gave different accounts of how many laptops had been stolen, their value, 
make and when and how they were bought.
Jewellery, followed by how much jewellery , changed a number of times in quantity 
and value. 
The police report highlighted further inconsistencies. Mr M told Ageas hed reported 
additional stolen items to the police at the time  but the report showed he called 
them at a later date to report further stolen items.
Being aware of further stolen items at a later date isnt something wed consider a concern in 
isolation. And Ive considered carefully what Mr M has said about not always being able to 
remember things and being in shock about the burglary. But putting all of its concerns 
together, I dont think Ageas decision to decline Mr Ms claim was unreasonable. 
I understand Mr M is very upset about the decision Ageas made. But Im satisfied Ageas 
properly investigated the claim. From the information available, it isnt satisfied that Mr Ms 
claim should be met. I think the actions Ageas took were fair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman