DRN-3808429
The complaint
Mrs G and Mr G complain that Sainsburys Bank Plc (Sainsburys) renewed their buildings 
and contents insurance policy automatically without notifying them. 
What happened
Mrs G and Mr G took out buildings and contents insurance which was arranged by 
Sainsburys. Then in September 2021, they noticed a Direct Debit made to Sainsburys for 
£400.09. They queried this and were told this was for their policy renewal. Mr G called 
Sainsburys and explained hed never received any notification that the policy would be 
renewed. During the call, Sainsburys emailed information about the renewal but this showed 
a renewal quote of £323.15  which was the same premium Mrs G and Mr G paid the year 
prior. Mr G asked for the policy to be cancelled but was told he would be charged 
cancellation fees  so he complained. 
Sainsburys responded and explained a renewal notice was sent which quoted a premium of 
£400.09. They said, as Mrs G and Mr G wanted to cancel their policy outside the 14-day 
cooling off period, fees and charges were applicable and in line with the terms and 
conditions. Sainsburys accepted the information Mrs G and Mr G received by email while on 
the call wasnt accurate and offered compensation of £50.  
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to   
Mrs G and Mr G and Sainsburys on 19 October 2022. In my provisional decision I said as 
follows:      
The dispute here relates to whether Sainsburys sent renewal documents to Mrs G 
and Mr G. Sainsburys say Mr G originally set up his policy online and opted for any 
correspondence to be uploaded to his online portal account. They say the renewal 
invite was issued on 16 August and an email was sent to the contact details provided 
by Mr G. Sainsburys say Mrs G and Mr G didnt contact them so the policy was 
automatically renewed and the renewal confirmation was uploaded to the online 
portal and a further email was sent on 31 August. Sainsburys have provided a copy 
of the renewal information they say was uploaded and this is headed, Well 
automatically renew your home insurance on 05/09/2021 and quotes the premium 
as £400.09. It also says Sainsburys will take the payment five days before the 
renewal date. And, it invites Mrs G and Mr G to shop around to see how this quote 
compares. 
I can see our investigator has asked Sainsburys for evidence showing the date when 
the information was uploaded to the online portal and a copy of the emails showing 
the date they were sent. Sainsburys have provided a screenshot showing a 
message which says Mrs G and Mr Gs home insurance will renew automatically and 
to check all their details are correct. It quotes the premium as £400.09 and the 
previous years premium paid as £323.15. Another screenshot shows a message 
which asks Mr G to log into the portal to check details of the cover and to call them if 
he doesnt want to renew. 
I can see that, despite several requests from our investigator, Sainsburys havent 
provided any date stamped evidence showing when the emails were sent or the 
information uploaded to the portal. Theyve provided a copy of the letter which they 
say was uploaded but this doesnt contain a date. The Statement of Fact included in 
the renewal pack says the date of issue is 16 August but, given that Mr G claims he 
didnt receive it, Im not persuaded by this information alone. In addition to this, the 
letter and Statement of Fact contain a reference number ending in *001 but the 
screenshot of the message which Sainsburys say was uploaded to the portal 
contains a different reference ending in *284. So, in the circumstances of this case, I 
would find any date stamped or audit trail information more persuasive to 
demonstrate when the emails were sent and when the messages were uploaded. 
And, given that Sainsburys havent provided this, Im not persuaded the evidence 
shows, on the balance of probabilities, the renewal information was sent to Mrs G 
and Mr G in advance of the premium being taken. 
I understand Mrs G and Mr G decided to continue with the policy given that 
cancellation would generate charges. I acknowledge Mr G says he found a cheaper 
premium for £323.15 with another insurer. I can see our investigator has therefore 
recommended Sainsburys reimburse £76.94 but I dont think thats reasonable in the 
circumstances. I say this because, firstly, Mr G hasnt provided any evidence of this. 
And, secondly, Mr G says he found this policy on 28 September but theres no 
evidence to suggest this same policy was available for £323.15 on or before the date 
of renewal of 5 September. I acknowledge that Sainsburys sent information to Mr G 
during the call which showed a premium of £323.15, but Sainsburys accept this was 
an error and I believe that is the case. I say this because the letter, policy schedule 
and cover summary all refer to the premium being £400.09  so Im persuaded this 
was the premium charged for the year.  
That said, Sainsburys accept they got things wrong when they sent Mr G incorrect 
information during the call  so the key facts about this part of the complaint arent in 
dispute. I think its right that Sainsburys should compensate Mrs G and Mr G for the 
confusion and inconvenience caused by their error. As mentioned above, I dont 
believe £323.15 was supposed to be the correct premium and I can see Sainsburys 
did later correct this error by confirming the correct premium. So, I think their offer of 
£50 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Turning to the other issue Ive upheld  relating to the renewal documents  while I 
havent seen any evidence of Mrs G and Mr G missing out on a cheaper policy, I 
think Sainsburys should pay compensation for them missing out on the opportunity 
to look for another policy. Its clear from Mr Gs call with Sainsbury, he was shocked 
when he noticed the premium had been taken without any prior notification. And, its 
clear from his correspondence that he wouldve shopped around for another policy. I 
cant say with any certainty that a cheaper policy wouldve been available but its fair 
to say Mrs G and Mr G missed out on the opportunity to at least look for one before 
their policy started and prior to the point that any cancellation charges would 
generate. So, taking this into account, I think Sainsburys should pay a further £50 
compensation in addition to the £50 already offered  bringing the total to £100.    
So, subject to any further comments from Mrs G and Mr G or Sainsburys, my provisional 
decision was that I was minded to uphold this complaint and require Sainsburys to pay 
compensation.   
Following my provisional decision, Mrs G and Mr G have responded to say they accept the 
decision. Sainsburys have responded and provided screenshots which they say show the date and time the documents and emails were issued. They say the documents are 
uploaded and emails sent as one system action and the screenshots show the date and time 
this occurred. Sainsburys say they sent Mr G an email directing him to the online portal to 
review their offer  and once logged in, Mr G wouldve seen the renewal documents. 
Sainsburys say these emails are sent directly from their system so the format may look a 
little different to how it looks on the sent items folder on a personal account. They say, once 
the policy renewed, the renewal offer is removed from the portal to avoid confusion and 
replaced with documents confirming the cover. They say, once the policy is cancelled, these 
documents are also removed to avoid confusion and replaced with cancellation documents. 
Sainsburys say, as a result, viewing the portal now will not show what was present at 
previous stages.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. So, Ive decided to 
uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in my provisional decision and copied above.
Ive looked at the screenshots provided by Sainsburys and this shows a record in the 
Diaries section of their system and describes the entry as a renewal invite. This shows the 
record was created on 16 August 2022. Another screenshot shows a record for a renewal 
reminder, but this again shows the record was created in August 2022. So, Im not 
persuaded these screenshots demonstrate Mrs G and Mr Gs renewal documents were 
uploaded in August 2021. 
I have taken into account Sainsburys comments on why their system wont now show a full 
audit trail of previous actions and stages. So, Ive carefully considered all the information I 
have together with both parties account of events. On the one hand, I have the documents 
and screenshots provided by Sainsburys. On the other hand, I have Mr G confirming he 
didnt receive the renewal documents or emails. I would therefore, in such circumstances, 
find any evidence which is date stamped to be particularly persuasive. 
The Statement of Fact does refer to the date of issue being 16 August 2021 but, in the 
circumstances of this case, Im not persuaded by this alone. I say this because Mr G says he 
didnt receive it, so Ive looked to see whether any other evidence provided by Sainsburys 
supports the date on the Statement of Fact. Sainsburys refer to their email to Mr G which 
directed him to his online portal to review the renewal documents. Theyve provided a 
screenshot of this, but this doesnt show a date and, as mentioned in my provisional 
decision, the reference number on this email doesnt match the reference number on the 
Statement of Fact. So, Im not persuaded the screenshot of the email supports the date on 
the Statement of Fact. 
I understand Sainsburys maintain their view that the renewal documents were sent and I 
also acknowledge their comments on what their system information shows. When deciding a 
complaint, I have to decide it on the balance of probabilities  that is what I think is more 
likely the case than not. In the circumstances of this complaint, and given the specific facts 
and information presented, the evidence doesnt persuade me its more likely than not the 
renewal documents were sent.      Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Sainsburys have made errors in not sending renewal information to 
Mrs G and Mr G and providing incorrect information. So, in addition to the £50 already 
offered by Sainsburys, they should pay a further £50 as compensation to Mrs G and Mr G, 
bringing the total to £100. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Sainsburys Bank Plc must take the steps in 
accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 January 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman