DRN-2593682
The complaint
Miss P complains she didnt receive the cover she paid for under her U K Insurance Limited 
(UKI) landlord insurance policy. 
What happened
The history of this complaint is well known to both parties so Ive summarised events below.
Miss P purchased a UKI landlord insurance policy. This included home emergency 
cover which was provided by a separate business (Company A).
Miss P said she received poor service when making a claim under the home 
emergency cover. Company A considered this and agreed to pay the engineer costs 
incurred and £100 compensation for the inconvenience.
Miss P also complained to UKI, saying its home emergency cover hadnt been 
provided as advertised. It said any concerns about the claim would need to be 
addressed by Company A.
Our Investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said Miss P had received the benefit 
of the cover so he didnt ask UKI to do anything further. 
Miss P didnt agree, so this case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions on this complaint as our investigator.
Its not in dispute that there were problems with the handling of the home emergency 
claim. Company A has acknowledged and addressed that complaint, which is 
separate to this complaint about UKI. 
Miss P has said shes happy with the resolution Company A has provided. But she 
has said UKI should refund her premiums as she received no benefit from the policy.
Company A has seemingly put things right for Miss P on the basis that she held the 
Landlord Insurance with UKI, of which Home Emergency cover was one element. So, 
I disagree that it has not provided her with cover. 
Miss P has alleged UKI falsely advertised cover  but her reasons for saying this 
appear only as a result of the issue with this particular claim. And I dont agree that 
problems with this claim should lead to Miss P receiving a refund of premiums. I say 
this as Im satisfied, she has received the benefit shes paid for under the policy.
Ive carefully considered all the points Miss P has made but these havent changed 
my mind for the reasons given above
My final decision
For the reasons detailed above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman