DRN-3853684
The complaint
Mr L and Mrs L are unhappy with QIC Europe Ltds handling of claims made under their 
buildings insurance policy.
Any references to QIC includes its agents. 
What happened
In the summer of 2021, Mr L and Mrs L saw signs of cracking on the outside of their house 
and rising water in their garden. They contacted QIC who arranged for a survey to be carried 
out, but they later concluded the damage to the home wasnt caused by subsidence. QIC 
opened a second claim for flooding.
QIC arranged for an off mains investigation to be carried out. After reviewing the findings, 
they declined Mr L and Mrs Ls flood claim. They said while there was flooding in the garden, 
it appeared to have occurred as a result of the rise in the water tables and this wasnt 
covered by the policy. 
Mr L and Mrs L complained. They said they were unhappy with QICs behaviour in terms of 
how their concerns were handled. They said QIC refused to investigate the source of the 
flooding, instead focusing the initial investigation on subsidence. Mr L and Mrs L also didnt 
agree the flood claim should have been declined or consider their concerns should have 
been registered as separate claims. They were also unhappy that a third claim about a fridge 
freezer had been wrongly recorded as being made by them. They said the number of claims 
impacted their ability to get a policy with another insurer, so they had no choice but to renew 
with QIC. 
QIC responded to their complaint. While they understood Mr L and Mrs Ls unhappiness the 
claims had been declined, they were satisfied they had considered the claims in line with the 
policy terms. Mr L and Mrs L referred their complaint to this service. They said to put things 
right they wanted compensation, for QIC to adhere to their own policy wording. They also 
say QIC should help them put right the damage.
Mr and Mrs Ls case was passed to an investigator. He thought QIC had acted fairly in the 
circumstances both in recording two claims and the outcome of each. As Mr and Mrs L didnt 
agree, this matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both sides are familiar with the background of this complaint which is why Ive kept the
summary brief. Ive carefully considered all the submissions made by both sides. My 
decision focuses on what I consider to be the central issues. I trust neither side will take this 
as a discourtesy, rather that its a reflection of our informal nature.
The subsidence and flood claims
Ive started by considering the largest part of Mr L and Mrs Ls complaint about QICs 
handling of this matter. And in doing so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our 
investigator. Ill set out why.
There isnt any dispute this matter has had a significant impact on Mr L and Mrs L. I was 
sorry to read of how much this matter has worried them. However, what I need to consider is 
whether QIC was entitled to decline their claims given the policy terms. For the subsidence 
claim, QIC concluded the damage being claimed for was not as a result of subsidence. For 
the flood claim, Ive included the exclusion QIC relied on:
Flood
We will cover loss of damage caused by flood
We dont cover: 
b. loss of damage to drives, patios, footpaths, terraces, gates, fences and hedges 
unless your home has been damaged at the same time and by the same cause: 
d. loss or damage caused by rising water table levels (the level below which the 
ground is completely saturated with water):
e. anything that happens gradually.
The overall finding reached after a number of inspections was there had been a build-up of 
water entering Mr L and Mrs Ls garden. However, it wasnt initially clear if the water had 
caused any damage to their home. 
A surveyor was initially instructed by QIC to determine if damage to Mr L and Mrs Ls home 
had been caused by subsidence. They set out in their report there was some historic 
cracking, and a site inspection was instructed in October 2021. 
Following this, QIC arranged for a desktop inspection to take place in January 2022. This 
considered the site inspection and drainage reports from October 2021, along with images 
provided. It concluded there were some minor defects but none of which was as a result of 
an active insured event. I find the consistent findings of these reports persuasive. Based on 
the information available, Im satisfied QIC didnt act unreasonably in concluding the damage 
to Mr L and Mrs Ls home wasnt caused by subsidence. 
The information provided to QIC in the first instance was there was flooding in the garden 
and cracking to the house. It was not immediately clear if the cracking was caused by the 
flooding, and I consider it was appropriate QIC determined whether the cracking could have 
been caused by subsidence. Its not unusual for an insurer to consider cracking to a property 
as a potential sign of subsidence. 
However, when it became clear there was no valid subsidence claim, I also think it was right 
the flood element was later considered, given the information provided. An inspection to the 
septic tank needed to be carried out to determine if that was the cause of the flooding. When 
the septic tank was found to be in working order and wasnt the cause of the flooding, the 
contractor concluded the most likely cause of the flooding was as a result in a shift in the 
natural water table, which came about as of the garden works carried out by Mr L and Mrs 
Ls neighbour. However, flood claims caused by rising water tables are excluded under the 
policy. 
I find myself more persuaded by the reports provided by QIC about the cause of the flooding 
in the garden than the information provided including the photographs provided by Mr L and Mrs L. Im satisfied identifying the rise in water tables as the cause of the flooding was a 
reasonable conclusion for QIC to have reached in the circumstances. As damage caused 
this way is excluded under the policy, Im not going to require QIC to take any further action 
in respect of Mr L and Mrs Ls claim. 
How claims were logged
Mr and Mrs L say they didnt think it was right the claim was originally logged as a 
subsidence claim when they considered any damage to their home was as a result of the 
water entering their garden. 
Ive listened to the call when Mrs L logged the claim. During this call Mrs L focused on the 
water entering the garden, but also mentioned they noticed cracking to the external walls. 
Later in the conversation, the adviser Mrs L spoke to said as their home didnt appear to 
have been obviously damaged by the flood water the policy might not provide cover under 
the flood clause. She went on to say the cracking would need to be considered under the 
subsidence clause, to determine the cause of the ground movement. The adviser explained 
the excess this action would incur, and Mrs L said she would need to think about this. The 
claim was later logged.
While I can see why Mr L and Mrs L might feel differently, I dont think QIC acted 
unreasonably here. Based on the policy terms, it wasnt immediately clear their home had 
been damaged by flooding, but it did seem that there was damage to be considered under 
the subsidence clause. Im satisfied Mrs L was given accurate and correct information during 
the conversation, and it was appropriate for QIC to initially consider the claim under the 
subsidence clause based on the information available. 
Ive also considered the comments Mr and Mrs L made about the wrongly recorded claim for 
the freezer. Im satisfied with QICs explanation this claim was logged incorrectly and was 
taken down as soon as it became aware of this. Here, Im satisfied apologising for the error 
and putting things right was an appropriate course of action to take. Im not going to require 
QIC to take any further action in respect of this issue.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr L and Mrs Ls complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2023. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman