DRN-3867497
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK Plc has turned off the rebalancing feature on his 
mortgage current account (MCA). Mr S is also unhappy that the MCA is charged at a 
different rate of interest from his main mortgage account.
To settle the complaint Mr S wants Barclays to reduce the interest rate on the MCA to the 
rate of interest applied to the mortgage and to reinstate the rebalancing feature.
What happened
Mr S has a mortgage account with Barclays, originally taken out in 2003 when Mr S 
borrowed £150,245 on a capital repayment basis over a term of 19 years. In 2007 (when the 
outstanding balance on the mortgage was about £127,000) Mr S took out a further advance 
of £148,180, on a capital repayment basis, over a term of 19 years, bringing his total 
borrowing at that time to £275,908.09. The current balance on the mortgage across both 
accounts is approximately £100,000 and approximately £172,000 on the MCA.
The mortgage comes with a related product, the MCA.  The MCA is an overdraft facility, 
which works like this: as each £2,000 of capital is repaid off the mortgage, the overdraft limit 
on the MCA increases by the same amount, due to what Barclays calls rebalancing.  This 
can be spent by the borrower, through the mortgage current account. But its not intended to 
be an additional regular income stream for the borrower; nor should it be used to make the 
mortgage repayments or be used to pay the interest on the MCA.
Borrowers are free to repay the overdraft, in part or in full, if they wish to do so, at any time. 
Customers can pay money into the MCA if they want to, and operate it in credit. If there is a 
credit balance, interest accruing on that balance can, if the customer requests it, be offset 
against the mortgage interest. But the MCA in this case isnt in credit and so it operates as 
an overdraft facility with debit interest accruing on the outstanding balance.
The overdraft also becomes immediately repayable in full when the related mortgage 
account is repaid  either when the mortgage reaches the end of its term or if the mortgage 
is repaid sooner (for example, on sale or remortgage of the property). 
The MCA operates on an interest-only basis. Interest is currently charged on the overdraft 
balance at Bank of England Base Rate + 4.49%, except where the mortgage is a specific 
offset mortgages, where interest is charged at the offset mortgage rate. (This is not that type 
of mortgage.)
In 2020, Mr S took a six-month payment holiday, as a result of the pandemic. At the end of 
the six months, he spoke to Barclays, in September 2020 when Barclays noted that Mr S 
was in full-time employment, but wasnt going to receive an annual bonus. Barclays 
discussed whether a three-month interest-only concession might help, but Mr S didnt want 
this. He said he would pay the monthly mortgage payment as well as the interest on the 
MCA. However, Mr S was told that Barclays had switched off the rebalancing feature on the 
MCA. At Mr Ss request, Barclays also transferred overpayments to the MCA from the 
mortgage account.
Mr S complained to Barclays, not only about the withdrawal of the rebalancing feature, but 
about the interest rate applied to the MCA. Mr S says it should be the same as the interest 
charged on his mortgage account.
Barclays didnt uphold the complaint so Mr S brought it to our service. An investigator looked 
at what had happened. She didnt think Barclays had treated Mr S fairly and told the bank 
that it should rework the mortgage account to show that the monthly payment had been 
made each month, and by reinstating the rebalancing facility. She also told Barclays to 
update Mr Ss credit report to reflect the reworked mortgage account and MCA, and pay 
Mr S £500 for distress and inconvenience.
The investigator decided that withdrawing the MCA reserve would be more damaging to 
Mr S than the banks duty to act as a responsible lender in line with Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) principles. So notwithstanding the long-term implications of increasing 
Mr Ss debt, the investigator didnt think Barclays had acted in Mr Ss best interests.
Mr S accepted the investigators findings but Barclays did not. In summary, Barclays said its 
actions had been necessary because Mr S was using the MCA to pay the accrued interest 
on the overdraft, and so was increasing his debt. Barclays explained that Mr S had 
exceeded his overdraft limit by £12,000.
Provisional decision of 28 November 2022
I issued a provisional decision, in which I reached the following conclusions.
I will begin by addressing Mr Ss concerns about the interest rate on the MCA. This is 
not the same as the interest rate on the mortgage; the MCA is charged at Barclays 
standard variable rate. Im satisfied that this is explained in the annual statements 
Mr S has sent us, dating back to 2003 onwards. 
Given this, Im satisfied Barclays has done nothing wrong in relation to the interest 
rate applied to the MCA. Im not upholding this part of the complaint.
I note Barclays used overpayments made to the mortgage account to cover the 
interest accruing on the MCA. Barclays is allowed to set off overpayments in this way 
in order to mitigate any deficit between the two accounts. 
Im also not persuaded the bank has done anything wrong in its decision to remove 
the rebalancing feature on the MCA. The starting point here is that the MCA reserve 
is discretionary. There is no automatic entitlement to it, and this is explained in the 
terms and conditions.
In 2012 the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, published the Mortgage 
Market Review, which in 2014 led to changes in the rules relating to responsible 
lending. Following this, Barclays reviewed generally whether allowing rebalancing on 
accounts which had the MCA was within its regulatory obligations to lend 
responsibly. 
In theory, if mortgage accounts rebalanced to increase the MCA reserve to 
correspond with capital repaid, this could have serious repercussions for some 
borrowers. By the end date of the mortgage, if the MCA had been used to its full extent, borrowers would find they owed the same amount on the last day of the 
mortgage (via the MCA overdraft) as they did on the day they took out the mortgage. 
And theyd have to repay it in full, in a lump sum.
A particular concern to Barclays was where borrowers were using the MCA as a 
regular source of extra income, rather than as a reserve which would be available to 
be drawn on only if and when it might be needed. Barclays realised that this could 
result in financial difficulties for some customers. So, to meet its regulatory 
obligations to lend responsibly, Barclays reviewed the use of the MCA across its 
accounts, and decided to cap or reduce the available amount in cases where there 
were concerns about the use of the MCA. Im satisfied that Barclays is entitled to do 
this. 
I dont think Barclays made an error in turning the rebalancing feature off, as that was 
a necessary system change to prevent Mr Ss account from showing as being in 
arrears whilst the payment holiday was in place. However, I do think Mr S should 
have been made aware before taking the payment holiday that the rebalancing 
feature would be turned off and that, once removed, it couldnt be reinstated.
The FCA issued guidance to lenders about how to support borrowers who had taken 
payment holidays on their mortgages during the pandemic. Where a payment holiday 
had been agreed, it meant that payments that would normally have been made to the 
account had not been made, and so the mortgage balance was higher than it would 
have been had the mortgage been operated normally. More interest would also be 
charged as a result, as the balance would not have been reducing whilst the payment 
holiday was in place. This meant that, if nothing else were to change, the mortgage 
balance wouldnt be repaid in line with the original agreed term.
In order to address this, lenders were required to engage with borrowers about their 
circumstances at the end of the deferral period to agree a way for the increased 
balance to be repaid. So, when thinking about how that guidance applies to Mr Ss 
mortgage, I dont think Barclays should necessarily have agreed to switch on the 
rebalancing feature at the end of the deferral period.
I can see from what hes told us that Mr S wants the MCA rebalancing feature 
reinstated. Mr S has explained that he is aware the MCA reserve has to be settled in 
full when the mortgage is repaid. However, Mr S says that, without the periodic 
increase in the MCA credit limit, he will need to find additional funds to cover the 
monthly interest charged on the MCA, more than £600 per month.
From this I understand that Mr S wants to use the MCA to pay interest on the MCA 
reserve, which is simply using the debt to fund itself. Im not persuaded that this is a 
reasonable use of the MCA, or that Barclays would be acting responsibly if it were to 
allow this to continue. The account statements show that Mr S had not been paying 
the monthly interest towards the MCA, but instead waited for the reserve limit to 
increase, using this to service the MCA. 
Barclays says that Mr S would have been sent a letter saying that the MCA was 
going to be capped. Barclays hasnt been able to provide a copy of this, and Im not 
persuaded that such a letter was sent. If it had, Mr S would have been aware of the 
situation before September 2020, but I dont think that Barclays is required to do 
anything else to put things right. 
I dont think Barclays fully explained the implications of withdrawing the MCA reserve 
to Mr S before the bank put this in place. As a result, it came as a shock to Mr S to learn that the reserve was no longer available to him. I think that, for its poor 
communication, Barclays should pay Mr S compensation of £300 for distress and 
inconvenience. But Im not ordering Barclays to reinstate the MCA reserve or to put 
any other redress in place.
Responses to the provisional decision
Barclays accepted my provisional decision and agreed to pay compensation of £300 to Mr S. 
Mr S didnt accept the provisional decision. Hes annotated my provisional decision with his 
further points, but for simplicity, I will summarise the most relevant points hes made:
his complaint about the interest rate is not that it is charged at Barclays SVR; rather, he 
thinks that the way Barclays has calculated SVR since 2007 has changed and, as a 
result, is an unfair rate of interest;
the rules introduced in 2014 only relate to Barclays obligation to act responsibly for new 
lending, rather than existing mortgages;
Barclays never expressed any concern about Mr S using the MCA as an income stream 
until he raised his complaint;
if hed known the rebalancing feature would be turned off he would never have taken any 
short-term assistance;
a secret, underhand decision to withdraw the rebalancing on the MCA made by an 
unauthorised person who no longer works for Barclays should not be allowed to stand 
due to the implications for Mr S;
the additional monthly interest he now has to find is more like £750 rather than £600 at 
the start of the investigation, but this is offset by the £1,600 monthly mortgage repayment 
and so is an actual net reduction in his borrowing each month;
it would be irresponsible if Barclays didnt reverse the position to that prior to removing 
the rebalancing feature, so that Mr S can continue to use the MCA reserve to repay the 
accruing interest on the MCA, which is not prohibited by Barclays;
if Barclays doesnt reinstate rebalancing on the MCA, allowing Mr S to use the MCA 
reserve to pay the interest on the MCA, the consequences for him will be devastating.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I am sorry to note that Mr S has recently been ill, and I hope he has now made a 
full recovery. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr S has told us. Having done so, and after giving careful 
consideration to Mr Ss further points, I am not minded to change my provisional decision. 
These are my reasons.
Interest rate: First, with regard to the interest rate applied to the MCA, Mr S has now 
clarified that his complaint about this is not that interest is charged at Barclays SVR (as per 
the terms of the contract). Rather, his complaint is about how Barclays calculates and sets 
its SVR. Mr S believes Barclays might have changed the way it sets its SVR since 2007,and 
that this has resulted in unfairness to him. 
However, this is a new issue which Mr S hasnt previously raised with us or with Barclays, 
and so I cant consider it as part of this complaint. If Mr S wants to complain about how Barclays sets its SVR hell need to raise this issue first with Barclays. If Mr S isnt happy with 
the banks response, hell be able to raise a fresh complaint with us about this issue.
In relation to the interest rate complaint which Mr S raised with Barclays on 26 April 2021 
(and which he referred to us in this current complaint), Mr S says that he believes the 
interest rate on the MCA should be the same as the interest rate as the main mortgage.
Ive looked at the documentation Mr S has sent us. The document explaining how the MCA 
works (which Mr S has labelled Doc A) says in the fourth line The money you spend is paid 
back at our standard variable rate.  Im satisfied there is no ambiguity about this.
Mr S also claims that there is no mention of the interest rate applied to the MCA on the 
annual mortgage statements. The annual mortgage statements say:
Important information
Extra borrowing drawn down from the Mortgage Current Account Reserve is charged at 
Barclays standard variable rate .
Given this, Im satisfied that Barclays made Mr S aware in 2003, and repeatedly thereafter, 
that the interest rate applied to the MCA was the banks SVR. Im not persuaded that 
Barclays led Mr S to believe that the interest rate on the MCA would be the same as the rate 
applied to the mortgage. Mr S does not have an offset mortgage, which is the only type of 
Barclays mortgage where the interest rate on the MCA is the same as the mortgage interest 
rate. 
Im not upholding this part of the complaint.
Capping of the MCA: I accept that it is not a contractual term that the MCA cant be used to 
make the monthly mortgage payment. However, Barclays policy is that it will not allow the 
use of the MCA for various purposes, including gambling, purchasing stocks and shares, 
business purposes  or to make the monthly mortgage repayment. Im satisfied Barclays is 
allowed to review the use of the MCA from time to time and decide whether or not the use of 
the account is within the terms and conditions and/or the banks lending policies and risk 
appetite as a responsible lender. This would include reviewing whether using any increase in 
the MCA reserve to service interest on the MCA is appropriate or within the banks duties as 
a responsible lender.
Mr S has provided a copy of the original terms and conditions he was given at the time the 
mortgage was taken out in 2003. These have been superseded by later terms and 
conditions from 2007. Those contractual terms state at clause 18.1 that the MCA is 
discretionary. Clauses 18.6 and 22.1 also state that Barclays may vary or withdraw the 
amount of the MCA reserve in certain circumstances, including (but not limited to) situations 
where the bank is required to comply with its obligations as a responsible lender. (These 
mirror the terms and conditions from 2003 which confirm the discretionary nature of the 
overdraft facility and the banks right to withdraw it at any time.)
Mr S says that the FCA rules relating to responsible lending dont apply to his mortgage, only 
to new lending granted by the bank after 2014. However, Barclays has an ongoing duty to 
act responsibly and so Im satisfied that the bank is allowed to review the use of the MCA, 
particularly if there are issues around affordability or use of the facility.
Barclays documentation from the point of sale also makes it clear that, if the MCA is used, 
there must be a separate repayment plan in place to ensure that the mortgage (including the 
MCA) is repaid in full by the end of the term.  Mr S has explained that his repayment strategy for the MCA will be pension funds or most likely by downsizing and selling the property. Mr S 
wants the rebalancing to continue until then, with the MCA increasing by £2,000 with each 
£2,000 paid off the mortgage. 
The rebalancing facility was turned off at the end of the payment holiday. As a result, Mr S 
no longer has access to further borrowing on the MCA. He queried this with Barclays and I 
can understand why Mr S was confused about what was happening, as the staff he spoke to 
werent able to access the information he needed. Whilst trying to be helpful, it seems staff 
relied on assumptions about the MCA when they couldnt access the information on the 
banks system, rather than giving Mr S the right information. Im also satisfied that Barclays 
didnt let Mr S know at the time it happened that the rebalancing feature had been switched 
off. 
Mr S says that, if hed known this, he wouldnt have taken the payment holiday in April 2020. 
However, the rebalancing wasnt switched off until September 2020, after the payment 
holiday had come to an end. It was in September 2020 that Mr S told Barclays that he could 
afford to make the payments to the mortgage (which had increased, due to recalculation at 
the end of his payment holiday) but might struggle to pay the interest on the MCA. Mr S had 
also told Barclays that the household income had reduced and that he would not receive his 
annual bonus. Although Barclays offered additional help, Mr S didnt want this at the time. 
However, this triggered Barclays decision to cap the MCA and switch off rebalancing. 
It is correct that the staff member who switched off the rebalancing is no longer employed by 
Barclays. However, there is nothing in the documentation to persuade me that this decision 
was unauthorised or that there was anything untoward about this. I appreciate that when 
Mr S queried the position on the MCA with Barclays, the bank staff he spoke to had difficulty 
finding out the position on the system. This was at a time when many staff were working 
from home, with access only to the operating systems they needed, rather than being able to 
access information and systems in other areas of the business. 
Mr Ss position is that he needs access to increased borrowing on the MCA in order to pay 
the monthly interest that accrues on the MCA (which I believe is in now about £171,000). 
Mr S anticipated when he discussed this with Barclays in October 2020 that, by the end of 
the mortgage term, the MCA would have increased by about another £38,000 if the account 
rebalanced by £2,000 every two months, taking into account the interest hed repay. But I 
think Mr Ss calculations at this point were incorrect.
With six years left to run on the mortgage (in October 2020), I think, given the nature of 
amortising loans (where the closer the term end, the more capital is repaid) Mr Ss estimate 
that the MCA reserve would increase by £2,000 every second month is probably reasonable 
 so £12,000 per year. With six years left on the mortgage in September 2020, this would 
mean an increase in the MCA reserve of £72,000, not the £38,000 Mr S calculated. Paying 
off the interest alone on the MCA would not reduce the balance.
Over the mortgage term Mr S has used the MCA for other expenditure, rather than simply 
the servicing of overdraft interest. Given this, there is no guarantee that if rebalancing was to 
be reinstated and the reserve was to increase by £2,000 every two months, the full amount 
of the reserve would not be utilised. Mr S anticipates an increase in the value of his property 
by the end of the term and so might see less risk to his future plans to downsize, even if he 
used the MCA to its fullest extent. This would, however, increase the risk to the bank.
Mr S argues that, by using the MCA to pay off the interest each month (which he says is now 
about £750), but paying £1,600 towards the actual mortgage, he is making a net gain. This is because (he says) his mortgage balance would be reducing, thus allowing him more funds in 
the MCA reserve to pay off the interest on the MCA. 
But Im not persuaded that it is in Mr Ss best interests (nor does it make financial sense) to 
use increases in an overdraft facility to pay the interest accruing on that same overdraft, at 
the same time as the balance on the overdraft continues to increase every couple of months, 
resulting in more interest becoming due on that facility. It is, in effect, robbing Peter to pay 
Paul, rather than making any actual debt reduction.
Therefore, in all the circumstances, I dont think it would be appropriate for Barclays to be 
ordered to reinstate the rebalancing facility. I disagree with Mr S that the FCA requirements 
for Barclays to act as a responsible lender dont apply to his mortgage or the MCA. Barclays 
is under a duty to ensure that customers do not borrow more than they are able to repay. 
In this case, I think there are legitimate concerns about Mr Ss management of his finances 
by effectively borrowing back repaid mortgage debt to service the overdraft interest  not just 
as a short-term measure, but as a long-term payment strategy. Given this, I dont think the 
bank has done anything wrong in declining to reinstate the rebalancing feature.
Im glad Barclays has acknowledged that it could have done better in terms of customer 
service. The bank should have told Mr S that it was turning off the rebalancing feature, and 
he was put to some inconvenience trying to find out what had happened with this. But I dont 
think the decision itself was the wrong one, given the overall circumstances and the way 
Mr S had used  and was intending to continue to use  the facility. It was a decision 
Barclays was entitled to make, in line with the terms and conditions on the account.
I dont uphold this part of the complaint, other than in relation to customer service.
Putting things right
I think for its poor customer service, Barclays should pay Mr S £300 compensation. This is 
for the inconvenience caused to him by not letting him know it was capping the overdraft 
facility, and for all the time he spent on the telephone trying to find out what was happening.
My final decision
My final decision is that, in full and final settlement of this complaint, Barclays Bank UK PLC 
must pay Mr S £300 compensation for distress and inconvenience. I make no other order or 
award.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman