DRN-4344480
The complaint
Mr B and Miss J complain that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) declined 
a claim they made on their home insurance policy following a burglary at their home. 
What happened
Mr B and Miss J had a home insurance policy with LV. The policy provides cover for general 
contents, clothing, electronic equipment, as well as jewellery, watches, and valuable items.
Unfortunately they were in hospital in April and May 2022. During this time there was a break 
in at their home. They reported the matter to the police and obtained a crime reference 
number. They also reported the theft to their insurer. 
Mr B and Miss J believe their keys were stolen by staff while they were in hospital and this 
allowed the perpetrator access to their home. 
Mr B and Miss J said a number of items were stolen from their property including jewellery 
and clothing. They say there was around £18,000 worth of items taken.
Mr B and Miss J say they have been badly affected by whats happened and want LV to pay 
their claim. So they complained. 
LV initially said Mr B and Miss J hadnt provided it with enough information for it to validate 
the claim. Following more details being provided LV said the information about the missing 
keys differed from that which was previously advised. It said the valuation for the ring didnt 
confirm ownership. LV also said Mr B and Miss J had added a substantial number of items to 
the claim which werent previously included. LV said the new circumstances Mr B and Miss J 
presented were considered implausible and there was no evidence to support the claim. LV 
declined the claim and said its position would remain unchanged.
Mr B and Miss J werent happy with the response from LV so referred their complaint to this 
service. Our investigator looked into things for them. He didnt uphold the complaint. He said 
its for the consumer to demonstrate that an insurable event has occurred and their claim is 
valid. So LV were entitled to validate the claim. And when Mr B and Miss J werent able to 
evidence their claim LV declined it. 
Mr B and Miss J didnt agree. They said they provided LV with all the evidence to prove the 
claim. Because they didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by assuring both parties that Ive considered all the information provided to 
me as well as testimony from both sides. But Ive commented on whats relevant to the 
outcome of this complaint. 
I appreciate Mr B and Miss J have experienced a difficult time during the course of the claim, 
and I can see this has been a stressful experience for them. Mr B and Miss J feel very 
strongly that LV have treated them unfairly. 
Having considered all the evidence Im not upholding the complaint. I appreciate Mr B and 
Miss J have been through a difficult time and this isnt the answer they wanted; I empathise 
with the position they now find themselves in. So I will explain my decision below. 
My role is not to determine whether or not a theft occurred. My role here is to look at whether 
LVs declination of the claim was fair and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
When a policyholder makes a claim for loss, the onus in the first instance is for them to show 
theres been an insured event. In this case, Mr B and Miss J need to show that, on balance, 
a theft has occurred. Since LV isnt satisfied theyve done so, it declined the claim. 
The relevant industry rules say an insurer should handle claims promptly and fairly, and it 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. So Ive thought about whether LV acted in line with 
this. 
LV has provided notes from the claim, and Mr B and Miss J have provided me with 
correspondence to and from LV as well as other supporting evidence. I can see LV has 
looked into things thoroughly; including obtaining police reports and instructed a claims 
investigation company to speak to Mr B about the claim. Where there were inconsistencies 
in what Mr B and Miss J had told it, it has raised these concerns, and sought explanations 
from Mr B and Miss J, which I think was reasonable. LV said Mr Bs version of events was 
implausible and there was no evidence to support that someone had a key to break into their 
home. There was also no forced entry into the home. And based on the evidence Ive been 
provided with, I think LV assessed the matter fairly, and came to a reasonable conclusion.
In order for Mr B and Miss J to receive a payment under the policy they will need to show 
their home was entered unlawfully. But there is nothing to substantiate that. It isnt definitely 
known how the perpetrator entered the property, what was stolen, by whom, and when this 
happened. And in the absence of any evidence I cant say its fair to ask LV to pay the claim. 
And I cant say its unreasonable for LV to decline the claim on that basis. 
Mr B and Miss J were not in the property from April 2022 and the theft wasnt reported until 
September 2022. I understand the circumstances Mr B and Miss J were in at the time, and I 
dont doubt their honesty and sincerity in reporting what happened. But it is for the person 
making the claim to show an insured event has occurred and I havent seen anything that 
persuades me that it did.
The information provided to LV to support the claim has been limited. As Mr B and Miss J 
werent at the property from April 2022 and at least May 2022, they have no clear account of 
what happened and when. When Mr B and Miss J reported the matter to the police, from 
what Ive seen, no action was pursued by them. 
Having looked at everything Ive been provided Im satisfied LV treated Mr B and Miss J 
fairly. LV had concerns about the claim and questioned them about these. LV also gave Mr 
B and Miss J the opportunity to explain the inconsistencies in the information he provided, 
and to provide additional evidence to support the claim. 
Taking all of this into account Im satisfied LV acted fairly and reasonably when declining the 
claim. My final decision
For the reasons explained above Im not upholding the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss J to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman