DRN-2574568
The complaint
 This is a complaint that AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) to Mrs M. 
AXA didnt actually sell the policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. So, Ill refer to 
it as the seller.
 
What happened
 This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1998 alongside a store credit account. 
Mrs M was sold the policy at the same time that she applied for the account.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint be upheld. AXA didnt agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. This is because, like our adjudicator, I dont think 
AXA set out clearly enough the costs and benefits of the PPI policy, when it was sold to Mrs
M. This means she didnt have the chance to make an informed choice. I think, in her 
circumstances, this would have made a difference to whether she took PPI. Her work 
benefits that she says were 6 months full and 6 months half pay along with her savings are 
likely to have made her think the cost of the PPI was not good value for her.
I think Mrs M has lost out as a result. AXA has questioned whether Mrs M would have 
received the work benefits she says she had and says it would require further clarity on 
this. But I think what Mrs M has said is a fair reflection of her circumstances. She has been 
consistent to our service about her work benefits throughout her complaint and the date of 
sale is from many years ago. So, I dont think it is reasonable on this occasion to ask her 
for further information about this. So, I uphold her complaint for the reasons I have given 
above.
Putting things right
  AXA France IARD should put Mrs M in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt 
taken out PPI.
A. AXA should find out how much Mrs M would have owed when she closed her credit 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
Premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs M owed when she closed he
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs M would have 
owed when she closed her account, from when she closed it until she gets the 
refund. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C.If  when AXA works out what Mrs M would have owed each month without PPI  
Mrs M paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mrs M paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the 
point when Mrs M wouldve owed AXA something on her credit. The interest rate 
should be 8% a year.
D. AXA should tell Mrs M what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
  For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Mrs Ms complaint. I require AXA France 
IARD to pay compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman