DRN-3576024
The complaint
Mr C complains Gladstone Brookes Limited (GB) failed to pursue a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) claim which meant hes lost the opportunity to have his claim investigated
What happened
In August 2019, Mr C instructed GB to pursue a mis-sold PPI claim with one of his lenders
Ill call H. Mr C said GB updated him through 2020 to say his claim was still being looked 
into by H. Only to be told in 2021 that his claim was closed. He complained to GB who told 
him to check with H about his claim. When he did H told him they hadnt received a 
complaint from GB, and that it was now too late to make a PPI claim.
GB said that theyd submitted Mr Cs letter of authority (LoA) to H before the August
deadline. GB said that H hadnt confirmed Mr C had PPI so theyd closed his claim.  
Mr C wasnt happy with GBs response. He said they couldnt show that theyd sent the LoA 
to H And hed evidence that hed PPI on a mortgage account with H, he referred his 
complaint to us.
Our investigator agreed that Mr C had suffered a loss of opportunity. She said there was 
evidence that Mr C did have a PPI policy but that this didnt necessarily mean he d been 
mis-sold PPI.  But she said hed lost the opportunity to find out. She asked GB to pay Mr C 
£500 to compensate him for this.
Mr C didnt agree he said that the potential PPI compensation was far higher and that GB 
should compensate him for his loss. He asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
I think its clear Mr Cs claim was closed without his mis-sold PPI claim being fully 
investigated. His dispute centres around the potential for his PPI claim with H to have been
successful. GB say they sent the LoA to H but as H didnt confirm that Mr C had a PPI 
policy theyd closed his claim.
I can see from GBs records that Mr C signed a joint LoA in August 2019 authorising GB
to act on his behalf to pursue a mis-sold PPI claim. The LoA included checks for loans, credit 
cards and mortgage. GB said the LoA was submitted to H a couple of days before the 
deadline for making such claims.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) deemed 29 August 2019 as the deadline for PPI
claims to be made. Leading up to the August PPI deadline many claims management
companies, such as GB amended their terms and conditions in recognition of the expected 
high volume of claims. And reflected that lenders could investigate any claim based on a 
data subject request. Any further information such as that provided in a PPI questionnaire 
could be used to strengthen the claim that the PPI policy was mis-sold. So, for some lenders 
the submission of a LoA was accepted as a claim for mis-sold PPI and no further information 
was needed for them to investigate the mis-sold PPI claim. This is generally referred to as 
the claim being auto converted. But its for the lenders to decide whether they will accept a 
LoA as a complaint about mis-sold PPI or whether they require additional information, such 
as a PPI questionnaire to be completed for them to investigate whether any PPI had been 
mis-sold. Any claim received after the 29 August 2019 deadline wouldnt have been 
accepted by the lender(s) unless there were exceptional circumstances for doing so.
GB use a two stage process for making PPI claims. Theres an initial check to see if PPI has 
been sold and, if it has, then a formal claim is made. GB records show a submission to H a 
couple of days before the deadline date. The submission said it was a request for 
information and had the LoA attached. It went on to ask for:
Information relating to any products which have had payment protection insurance 
policies held or previously held by ..
Information relating to all payment protection insurance policies held or previously 
held by
Confirmation of No-PPI held, if this is the case. 
Please confirm the Start Date
I think the key point to the above for this complaint is that GB asked for confirmation from H 
if there wasnt any PPI held by Mr C. From GBs records I havent seen any such 
confirmation being received. And I havent seen any evidence that GB asked  H further 
about this. Instead they appear to have accepted that there wasnt any PPI because of a 
lack of response rather than looking to get confirmation. And as Mr C has shown he did have 
a PPI policy in 2006. 
Im unable to speculate on whether a mis-sold PPI claim would have been upheld as there 
are several factors that H would have had to consider. Mr C has shown the policy was 
taken out in 2006. But I havent seen any  evidence of his paying or not paying a PPI 
premium, and I cant say whether the PPI was mis-sold or not. So, I cant know whether he 
would or wouldnt have received any redress. But I do agree that by GB could have done 
more. So, Mr C has lost the opportunity for his claim to be fully investigated. And I think GB 
should compensate Mr C for this.
Our investigator said GB should compensate Mr C the sum of £500 for loss of opportunity, 
And I think this is fair and reasonable given that Mr G has shown his claim wasnt 
speculative but that he did potentially have a mis-sold PPI claim. And I think it would have 
been upsetting for Mr C to think his claim was being investigated when it wasnt.
I know Mr C thinks GB should reimburse him the compensation he could have received if
his complaint had been fully investigated by H. But as I outlined above, I cant know if that
claim would have been successful.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr C was hoping for. And I recognise Mr C wont feel
as though this addresses his potential financial loss, or his feeling of being let down by GB.
But this decision focuses solely on the actions of GB, and what I think they should do to
recognise the error they made. Any issues Mr C has regarding the service of H have I
understand been raised separately.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Gladstone Brookes Limited to pay Mr C £500 for loss of 
opportunity to have his mis-sold PPI claim investigated.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman