DRN-3868878
The complaint
Mrs O is unhappy with the service she received from Barclays Bank UK PLC surrounding 
her request for them to locate a migrated account.
What happened
Mrs O held an account with a third-party bank which was acquired by Barclays several years 
ago. The accounts held with the third-party bank, including Mrs Os, were migrated across to 
Barclays shortly after the acquisition. 
Mrs O realised she hadnt received any correspondence for the account in question for 
several years and so contacted Barclays about it. Barclays were initially unable to locate the 
account, which had been placed into a dormant status, and suggested to Mrs O that the 
account balance may have been given to charity. 
Mrs O was asked to provide historical statements for the old account but was unfortunately 
unable to do so for some time for personal reasons. When Mrs O was able to provide 
historical statements to Barclays, while the migrated account was then found, Mrs O was 
told that it could take up to twelve weeks for the process to recover the migrated account 
balance to be completed. Mrs O wasnt happy about this, or with the general service she 
was receiving form Barclays surrounding this matter, so she raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Mrs Os complaint but didnt feel theyd acted unfairly in regard to the 
processes theyd followed. Barclays did accept that they may have unnecessarily alarmed 
Mrs O by suggesting to her that the balance of the dormant account might have been given 
to charity. Barclays apologised to Mrs O for this and made a payment to her of £70 as 
compensation for any upset or inconvenience she may have incurred. Mrs O wasnt satisfied 
with Barclays response, so she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt the response Barclays had 
issued to Mrs Os already represented a fair and reasonable outcome. Mrs O remained 
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that Barclays have acted in a non-regulatory or unlaw way. Such declarations would 
be for a regulatory body or a Court of Law to potentially make. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  after taking all the 
circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration.
In this instance, Barclays have explained that Mrs O seems to have not updated her address 
and contact details with the third-party bank before it was acquired by Barclays. This means 
that when Mrs Os account was migrated to Barclays systems, it did so with out-of-date 
address and contact information, which meant the account wasnt recognised as belonging 
to Mrs O under her correct address and which led to the creation of a separate customer 
profile for Mrs O at the old address details.
Barclays explanation here seems reasonable to me, as does Barclays continuing 
explanation that they were initially unable to locate the migrated account without a historical 
statement for that account  which would provide the sort-code and account number for the 
old account and which Mrs O unfortunately didnt provide to Barclays in the first instance. 
Additionally, given that Barclays have confirmed that they did send correspondence about 
the account to the out-of-date address they held on file  which advised that the account 
would be placed into a dormant status if no action from Mrs O was taken  Im also satisfied 
that Barclays didnt act unfairly by placing the account into a dormant status as they 
subsequently did. And Im similarly satisfied that Barclays havent acted unfairly regarding 
their need for their relevant processes to be followed, having located the account, to recover 
the balance of the account and provide it to Mrs O  which has now been done.
Im aware that Mrs O doesnt feel Barclays processes surrounding this matter are fit for 
purpose. But I dont feel that Barclays processes here are tangibly unfair. And it must be 
noted that the reason Mrs Os account followed the procedural path it did was because the 
address and contact details werent kept up to date, which was Mrs Os responsibility as the 
account holder. 
All of which means that I dont feel an unfair outcome has occurred here in regard to how 
Barclays have held and processed the migrated account. 
Mrs O is also unhappy at the service she received from Barclays while trying to locate this 
account. In their response to Mrs Os complaint, Barclays acknowledged that Mrs O didnt 
receive the standard of service that she should have at all times, especially in regard to 
being told the balance of the account may have been given to charity. And Barclays have 
apologised to Mrs O for this and made a payment of £70 to her as compensation for the 
trouble and upset Mrs O may have incurred regarding the service she received. 
Matters of compensation can be subjective. But the £70 that Barclays have already paid to 
Mrs O here does feel fair to me, given the circumstances for which it was paid. And I can 
confirm that this amount is commensurate with what I may have instructed Barclays to pay 
for the service issues Mrs O encountered, had they not already done so.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mrs O was wanting, but it follows that Im satisfied that 
the response that Barclays have issued to Mrs Os complaint already represents a fair and 
reasonable resolution to what happened here, and that therefore I wont be upholding this 
complaint. I hope that Mrs O will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the 
final decision that I have.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 Paul Cooper
Ombudsman