DRN-2237060
The complaint
Mrs L complains about poor service from Metro Bank PLC in connection with a foreign 
currency cheque that failed to clear.
What happened
Mrs L paid a foreign currency cheque into a Euro Currency Account she held with Metro. Mrs 
L endorsed the back of the cheque with the signature that matched the opening documents 
for the account. But this was different to the name that the cheque was made out to.
The cheque was returned because of the discrepancy between the endorsement and the 
name it was made out to. This created considerable problems for Mrs L, because the money 
was from the sale of an overseas property. Mrs L had to make an overseas trip to put things 
right.
Metro accepted that some of its service couldve been better. When the cheque was 
returned to the clearing bank (which acted as Metros agent), it had taken some time to 
locate and return it to Mrs L. Metro offered £250 by way of an apology to Mrs L.
When our investigator first reviewed the complaint she considered Metros offer was fair. 
She wasnt persuaded there was any risk that the money would be lost. The investigator was 
also satisfied that Metro had given Mrs L the opportunity to present the cheque again. So 
she didnt consider the bank should cover the cost of her overseas trip. 
Mrs L didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. She said Metro specialised in foreign 
cheque clearance, so she considered it shouldve realised there might be a problem with the 
endorsement. She also said shed questioned at the time whether the endorsement was 
right, and Metro had assured her it was.
Mrs L didnt consider the compensation offered properly reflected the inconvenience caused. 
She also said that the overseas bank wouldnt deal with the original cheque, so shed had to 
return overseas to sort things out.
On further review the investigator concluded Metro had contributed to the delay in clearing 
the cheque. She found that Metro was made aware of the potential problem a few days after 
Mrs L had paid in the cheque. But the cheque wasnt returned to Mrs L until almost two 
months later. The investigator said that if Metro had acted sooner, this wouldve allowed Mrs 
L to take action sooner.
The investigator said Metro should pay annual interest of 8% simple on the amount of the 
cheque, from the time it became aware of the problem until the date the cheque was 
returned to Mrs L.
Metro didnt agree with the investigators latest conclusions. It said the endorsement was in 
line with the account opening documents Mrs L had signed. The endorsement wasnt 
accepted by the overseas bank, but Metro didnt consider it reasonable for it to be held 
responsible for that. It also said there was never any guarantee that the cheque would clear.
Metro asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision for the complaint on 25 August 2020. I said Id provisionally 
decided to uphold the complaint, but for reasons that were different to the investigators. I 
also intended to award redress that was different to that suggested by the investigator. I 
wanted to give the parties an opportunity to respond before I issued a final decision.
Ive summarised my provisional findings below:
Mrs L had said throughout her complaint that when she paid in the cheque she 
checked with Metro that the endorsement was correct. Shed said Metro assured her 
it was.Metro had said the endorsement was accurate, in that it was in line with UK 
regulations for cheque endorsements. It didnt consider it should be responsible for 
overseas requirements that may be different to the UKs. Metro also suggested Mrs L 
shouldve checked the overseas banks requirements.
But I noted that in its final response letter Metro said:
I do accept we should have noted at an earlier stage that the cheque was payable 
to you under the name of [Mrs Ls name, including maiden name] but your account 
was opened in the name of [Mrs Ls married name] and your endorsement only 
includes your married name.
And in its correspondence with this service, in connection with the mismatch between 
the name on the cheque and the endorsement Metro said:
Its my understanding this should have been queried by both our store and clearing 
team at the time of receipt, which was an internal failing on our part.
I also noted that the account terms say:
4.1.3 Cheque payments
Cheques will be accepted into your account if they are made payable to the same 
name as on your account
Mrs Ls Euro Currency Account was opened in her married name. But the cheque 
was clearly made out to her in the name that included her maiden name. I thought it 
wouldve been reasonable for Metro to realise that the discrepancy between the 
account name and the name on the cheque was likely to create problems  
irrespective of the overseas banks endorsement requirements. 
I accepted that the endorsement may have been accurate for the purpose of UK 
regulations. But the cheque was clearly being drawn on an overseas account, with 
the proceeds being paid to the Euro Currency Account Mrs L had opened. And Metro 
seemed to accept it shouldve queried the mismatch between the name on the 
cheque and the endorsement.
In light of the account terms I thought it wouldve been reasonable for Metro to pick 
up on the discrepancy between the account name and the name on the cheque. 
Had it done so, or had it queried the mismatch between the name on the cheque and 
the endorsement, on balance I thought it was likely that further enquiries wouldve 
been made. And at that point I thought it was likely that a new cheque couldve been 
requested in the name that matched Mrs Ls account, or the overseas banks 
requirements for endorsing the cheque wouldve been properly established. 
I thought it wouldve been reasonable for Metro (or its clearing bank as Metros 
agent) to make those enquiries, and I didnt accept that Mrs L was required to do this 
as Metro had suggested. 
Irrespective of problems with the endorsement, Metro said there was never any 
guarantee the cheque would clear. So it didnt consider it should be required to pay 
interest. 
But having considered the particular circumstances of the case, on balance I 
considered it was more likely than not that the cheque wouldve cleared if it had been redrawn in Mrs Ls married name or endorsed in line with the overseas banks 
requirements at the outset.
But I accepted that it can take several weeks for overseas cheques to clear. I thought 
it was likely Mrs Ls cheque wouldve cleared by 2 January 2020 (being seven weeks 
after she paid it in). So I considered it reasonable for Metro to pay annual interest at 
8% simple on the amount of the cheque for the period 2 January 2020 to the date 
Mrs L eventually received the cheque proceeds.
Mrs L said that the problems with the cheque meant she had to return overseas to 
sort things out. So I could see why she might consider Metro should cover the cost of 
her flights and accommodation.
But I didnt think there was enough evidence for me to safely say that the only way 
she could obtain the cheque proceeds was to return overseas. So on this occasion I 
wasnt persuaded that Metro should cover the additional costs Mrs L had referred to. 
I recognised the considerable inconvenience Mrs L experienced as a result of 
Metros failings in this case. So I could see why she might think £250 wasnt enough 
compensation. But when I took account of awards by this service in complaints of a 
similar nature, I was satisfied that the compensation paid was fair and reasonable.
In response to my provisional findings Mrs L said shed had to make several overseas trips 
as a result of Metros failings. She referred to the expense and inconvenience this had 
caused.
Metro wanted to know when Mrs L had eventually received the cheque proceeds. It said if 
there was a delay between Mrs L obtaining a replacement cheque and paying it in, or there 
was another delay in receiving the proceeds, it would consider it unfair to have to pay 
interest as Id suggested.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely 
to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Ive taken account of everything Mrs L has said in response to my provisional decision, and I 
dont doubt the inconvenience and stress Metros actions have caused. But as I said in my 
provisional decision, I dont think I can safely say that the only way for Mrs L to receive the 
cheque proceeds was to return overseas.
So I am still not minded to ask Metro to cover the expenses she says she incurred.
Mrs L says she eventually received the cheque proceeds by bank transfer, and shes 
provided evidence to show the money arrived on 26 February 2020. I dont consider thats 
an excessive delay, and Im satisfied Metro should pay interest as I suggested for the period 
2 January 2020 to 26 February 2020.
Putting things rightMetro should pay annual interest at 8% simple on the cheque amount for the period 2 
January 2020 to 26 February 2020. This is in addition to the £250 it has paid Mrs L for the 
trouble and upset this matter has caused.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Metro Bank PLC to pay annual interest at 
8% simple on the cheque amount for the period 2 January 2020 to 26 February 2020. This is 
in addition to the £250 it has paid Mrs L for the trouble and upset this matter has caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman