DRN-2327887
The complaint
Mr M says Gracombex Ltd trading as The Money Platform lent to him irresponsibly. He says 
his finances and his personal situation were not sufficiently checked to see if he could repay 
the lending. He says he couldnt afford the repayments, partly due to the other lending he 
had, and The Money Platform wouldve seen this if it had made proper checks.
  
What happened
This complaint is about four payday loans The Money Platform provided to Mr M between 
March 2018 and September 2018.
loan 
numberdate takenmonthly 
instalmentsamount 
borroweddate repaid
1 06/03/2018 3 £500 19/04/2018
2 04/06/2018 1 £500 14/06/2018
3 25/07/2018 2 £500 19/09/2018
4 21/09/2018 1 £500 24/09/2018
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He thought that The Money Platform should 
have made better checks before approving loans 2 to 4. This would have shown that Mr M 
was in financial difficulty and so it shouldnt have lent to him. 
The Money Platform disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said: 
it made detailed checks at the time of sale that showed the loans were affordable 
it complied with the industry regulators guidelines when it approved these loans 
it questioned why loans 3 and 4 were also upheld when Mr Ms financial situation 
appeared to have improved
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
The Money Platform needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to 
make sure Mr M could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that The Money Platform should fairly and 
reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. 
These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint in part and have explained why below.
Mr M didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loan 1. Because of this I dont think 
there is any ongoing disagreement about this loan. So, I wont be making a finding about it. 
But it was part of the borrowing relationship Mr M had with The Money Platform. So, it is 
something I will take into account when considering the other loans he took.
For loan 2 Mr Ms repayment was £650 to be made around six weeks after the loan was 
started. This was a high proportion of his recorded monthly income of £2,400 and almost all 
of his recorded disposable income of just over £700. 
The Money Platform has said that as the loan term was over six weeks Mr M would be able 
to carry over some spare income from his pay the month before. This wouldve enable him 
to sustainably repay it. And so The Money Platform says it isnt right to say almost all of his 
spare income would be needed. 
I dont think this is reasonable here. This was Mr Ms second loan of a similar amount within 
a three-month period. So I dont think it was likely he was managing to put money aside to 
smooth out the repayments. And Ive not seen any persuasive evidence from the time of sale 
that this was discussed with Mr M, and the loans werent arranged on the basis that Mr M 
would have to set money aside. I dont think this loan was necessarily affordable. 
And I think The Money Platform couldve realised at that time that Mr M may have some 
significant financial problems and he might not have been just using the loans to help with a 
temporary cash flow problem. The Money Platform shouldve become concerned about 
whether it knew enough about Mr Ms true financial situation.I think that it wouldve been proportionate to review Mr Ms financial situation with particular 
emphasis on any other short-term lending. I think that it needed to verify the information it 
found out where possible. This is to make sure Mr M was in position to make the repayments 
sustainably.
Ive been provided with some further information about Mr Ms financial circumstances. I 
accept that this isnt exactly what The Money Platform couldve seen at the time. But I think it 
wouldve found out similar information if it had made proportionate checks, so I think its 
reasonable to rely on it.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate check for loans 2 to 4 would most likely have 
shown that Mr M was having problems managing his money. He had a significant amount of 
other shorter term and high cost credit outstanding when he took these loans. And this 
situation didnt really improve going forward.
I think that The Money Platform wouldve found out this information if it had made 
proportionate checks. And I think The Money Platform wouldve seen Mr M wouldnt have 
been able repay the loans in a sustainable way. So I think that it shouldnt have given loans 
2 to 4 to Mr M and I think hes lost out as a result of this. So Im upholding Mr Ms complaint 
about loans 2 to 4.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress The Money Platform should fairly pay in this case Ive thought 
about what might have happened had it stopped lending to Mr M from loan 2, as Im satisfied 
it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr M may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr M in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr M would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce The Money Platforms liability in this case for 
what Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
The Money Platform shouldnt have given Mr M loans 2 to 4.
A) The Money Platform should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr M 
towards interest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party 
where applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.B) The Money Platform should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments 
made by Mr M which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr M originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) The Money Platform should pay Mr M the total of A plus B.
D) The Money Platform should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Mr Ms 
credit file in relation to loans 2 to 4. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires The Money Platform to deduct tax from this interest. The 
Money Platform should give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax The Money Platform 
has deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Gracombex Ltd should put things right by doing what Ive said above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 January 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman