DRN-3920952
The complaint
Mrs M complains that BCS CREDIT LTD (BCS) failed to settle a finance agreement for a car 
she part exchanged with them. Mrs M says her credit file has been affected as a result.
What happened
In April 2022, Mrs M acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement that was 
brokered by BCS. The cash price of the car was £9,999. Mrs M says BCS offered her £5,500 
for her existing car which had some previous finance on it which they said theyd settle for 
her. Mrs M said BCS gave her a cheque for £131 which left them with a deposit of £1,500 in 
addition to a cash deposit of £150. Mrs M says that BCS failed to settle the existing finance 
of £3,689, on the car that she part exchanged with them.
Mrs M says that she realised it wasnt settled when she was chased for missed payments by 
the finance provider, who Ill refer to as FP1, of the agreement on her part exchanged car.
Mrs M said that BCS eventually arranged to settle the agreement with FP1 but was told by 
FP1 that due to the time taken to settle the finance the settlement figure had increased to in 
excess of £4,000.
Mrs M said she wants BCS to settle the agreement with FP1, remove any defaults on her 
credit file and pay compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mrs M says that despite contacting BCS about the issue theyve not provided her with a final 
response to her complaint. In June 2022 Mrs M brought her complaint to our service for 
investigation. 
BCS didnt provide our investigator with any information about Mrs Ms complaint. However, 
our investigator felt they were able to gather sufficient information from the finance provider 
of the newly acquired car, from FP1 and from Mrs M. Having reviewed all the information 
provided, our investigator felt that BCS didnt settle the existing finance agreement and so 
recommended that Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. Our investigator recommended that 
BCS should:
Settle the agreement with FP1 with nothing further to pay
Arrange with FP1 to have Mrs Ms credit file amended to show the agreement is 
settled and to remove any adverse information relating to it.
Pay Mrs M £300 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
BCS didnt respond to our investigators view so the complaint was referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
To decide if BCS have acted fairly here, Ive considered whether it was reasonable for Mrs M 
to expect them to settle the existing finance agreement with FP1. I also need to consider 
what impact this would have had on Mrs M, and I must therefore decide what, if anything, 
BCS should do to resolve the complaint. 
Mrs M complains about a hire purchase agreement. Entering into consumer credit contracts 
like this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied we can consider Mrs Ms complaint about 
BCS. 
Our investigator obtained a copy of the finance agreement from the finance provider for Mrs 
Ms newly acquired car. The agreement supports what Mrs M said that her car was valued at 
£5,500 and that £3,689 was to settle the existing finance with FP1, £1,500 was used as a 
deposit for the new purchase and that Mrs M was provided with a cheque for the remaining 
amount of £131. Mrs M provided us with a copy of a fairs fair document from BCS, which 
also confirms that BCS was to settle the outstanding finance on the part exchanged vehicle.
Correspondence from FP1 in July, August and November 2022 which included an arrears 
letter and default letter, confirms that the agreement for the part exchanged vehicle wasnt 
settled and remains open. So, from the evidence provided Im persuaded that it was 
reasonable for Mrs M to expect BCS to settle her existing finance, and that it was something 
they didnt do.
BCS hasnt responded to us regarding this complaint, so Im not able to say why the existing 
finance with FP1 wasnt settled. However, in the circumstances and from the evidence 
provided I dont think BCS has acted fairly. 
I think its worth noting that having reviewed the company information through the 
government companies house website, Im satisfied that BCS is still trading and therefore as 
the broker of the agreement is responsible for a complaint about the agreement they 
arranged.
Putting things right
As Ive found, from the evidence provided, that BCS hasnt acted fairly by not settling the 
outstanding finance for Mrs M, its fair that BCS should put things right for her. In the 
circumstances Ill be instructing BCS to settle the full outstanding agreement with FP1.
I think that the whole situation would have caused some distress and inconvenience for Mrs 
M, for example with the impact on her credit file and with not receiving a response from BCS. 
So, in the circumstances, Im in agreement with our investigator that £300 in compensation 
is fair and reasonable. So, Ill be instructing BCS to pay this to her.
As FP1 are not a respondent in this complaint, Im not able to instruct them to amend Mrs 
Ms credit file. BCS are unable to do so either. However, in the circumstances BCS may decide its reasonable to liaise with FP1 to have Mrs Ms credit file amended to remove any 
adverse information in relation to the circumstances of this complaint. Mrs M may also 
decide to pursue the amendment of her credit file with FP1 if she feels its necessary to do 
so.
My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances I uphold this complaint and instruct BCS CREDIT LTD to:
Settle the outstanding finance with FP1 in relation to the part exchanged vehicle
Pay Mrs M £300 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman