DRN-2791969
The complaint
Ms W has complained that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited declined a claim
she made on her motor insurance policy and then cancelled her policy after she was
involved in an accident driving home from work. Reference to Watford Insurance Company
Europe Limited includes its agents. 
What happened
Ms W took out a policy with Watford via a broker. When she took out the policy, she said she 
was working at a hotel. As the hotel was close to where Ms W lived, she said she used her 
car for social, domestic and pleasure purposes and didnt select to be insured for commuting 
 as she didnt drive to work.
During the policy term, Ms W changed jobs. She didnt change her profession, but she 
changed where she worked. The new hotel that she worked at was further away from her 
home, so because of this, she started using her car to travel to and from work.
Unfortunately, on the way back from work, Ms W was involved in an accident with another 
vehicle. She didnt think she was at fault for the accident, but the driver of the other vehicle 
(the third party) did. Ms W made a claim to Watford for the damage to her car. 
Watford declined Ms Ws claim. It said Ms W wasnt insured to use her car for commuting as 
use for this purpose wasnt listed on her schedule. And the policy terms were clear in saying 
she wouldnt be covered for using her car for any purpose other than what was listed on her 
schedule. Watford also refused to provide her with cover for the claim against her by the 
third party and said it was only what is legally termed the Article 75 insurer. It also said it was 
going to cancel Ms Ws policy and did so after giving her seven days notice.
Ms W wasnt happy and complained to Watford. She thought it wasnt fair that Watford 
wouldnt deal with her claim. And she explained the third party was now taking her to court to 
claim back the cost of the repairs to their vehicle.
Watford didnt change its decision. It maintained that Ms W wasnt covered for using the car
for any purpose not listed on her schedule, and as commuting wasnt listed, she wasnt 
covered for the accident.
Ms W remained unhappy and brought her complaint to us. And since bringing the complaint 
to us shes had to attend court. The court found that Ms W was liable for the accident and 
issued a judgment explaining Ms W needed to pay the third party £3,398.58. Ms W wasnt 
able to afford to pay this amount and suggested a payment plan. This payment plan was 
rejected by the third party and a further court date is set to arrange payment.
Our investigator looked into Ms Ws complaint and recommended it be upheld. He thought it 
was clear that Ms W was using the car for a purpose not listed on her schedule. But he didnt 
think it was fair that Watford decline her claim because of this. He thought this because, 
although he accepted Ms W should have told Watford her use of the car had changed, had 
she done so, it would have insured her to use her car for commuting at no extra cost. 
Because of this he thought Ms Ws failure to not let Watford know about her change in 
circumstances hadnt prejudiced it. So, he didnt think it was fair Watford had refused her 
claim. He recommended Watford settle the court judgment on Ms Ws behalf, and work with 
the credit reference agencies (CRAs) to get the debt and payment issues removed from her 
record. He also recommended Watford arrange or pay for the repair of Ms Ws car. But he 
didnt comment on whether the cancellation of the policy was fair.
Ms W agreed with our investigators findings. But Watford didnt and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. It said this wasnt a case of whether Ms W told it about her change 
in circumstances and use of her car. It thought it was simply a case of her using the car for a 
purpose she wasnt insured for and so maintained it didnt need to pay Ms Ws claim.
I issued a provisional decision that said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I intend to uphold Ms Ws complaint.
Ms Ws policy documentation clearly explained that she wasnt covered for using her car for 
any purpose not listed on her certificate of motor insurance. And looking at that certificate its 
clear that Ms W wasnt covered for driving her car to and from work. Based on this, following 
a strict application of the policy terms, Watford would be entitled decline Ms Ws claim. But I 
dont think that leads to a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this particular 
case.
I understand Watford dont think this is a case of Ms W not disclosing any change in her 
circumstances, but I disagree. I think this is an important factor in this complaint and isnt 
one that can be overlooked. I say this because Ms Ws circumstances did change during the 
policy term. And this change has created this situation. I dont find it reasonable to say this is 
a case of her simply using the car for a purpose not listed on the certificate of motor 
insurance. I say this because when she took the policy out, the purposes listed on the 
certificate suited her needs, and theres no suggestion this wasnt the case or that she was 
using her car for any purpose not listed on it prior to changing jobs. This situation has come 
about due to a change in Ms Ws circumstances part way through the policy year, meaning
that what was suitable for her when she took the policy out, wasnt suitable for her after the 
change in circumstances.
Ms Ws policy with Watford requires her to let it know about certain changes to her 
circumstances throughout the policy term. Im satisfied this is made clear enough within the 
documentation. Under this section it lists her changing the use of the car to a purpose not 
listed on her certificate of motor insurance as an example of something she needs to let it 
know about.
Therefore, Im satisfied Ms Ws should have let Watford know she was going to start using
her car for commuting and she didnt. But in order to decide what the fair and reasonable
outcome is in this particular complaint, Ive considered why Ms W didnt let Watford know.
And I think this was most likely an oversight on her part, as opposed to a deliberate attempt
to hide the fact she was using her car for work, for example to save money or end up having
to arrange a new policy. I say this because I accept Ms Ws testimony that it was simply
something she didnt think of. I can understand this considering all she did was change jobs
within the same profession.
Because Im satisfied the reason Ms W didnt let Watford know of this change was just a 
careless oversight, Ive gone on to consider what would have happened had she told Watford about the change, as I think this is relevant when considering what the fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint is.
Watford has said it would have insured Ms W for using her car for commuting, and that this 
change wouldnt have generated any increase in premium. This means - had Ms W told 
Watford she needed to use her car for commuting, it would have amended the cover to 
include commuting and not charged her more premium for doing so.
Bearing in mind that Im satisfied Ms W didnt tell Watford about her using her car for 
commuting due to a careless oversight, I think its appropriate to look at whether that 
oversight has prejudiced Watfords position in any way. And in this particular case, Im 
satisfied it didnt. Had Ms W told Watford about the change, its clear it would have been 
happy to continue insuring her, amend her cover to include commuting and not charge her 
an additional premium for doing so.
I understand Watford would have wanted to know it was providing this cover and this is why 
it wanted Ms W to tell it about any change in the use of her car. But when considering what 
the fair and reasonable outcome of this complaint is, I have to balance this against the fact 
that Watford are turning down a claim it would have happily covered at no extra cost had 
Ms W let it know she wanted to use her car to commute. And Im not satisfied the fair and 
reasonable outcome of this particular case is to allow Watford to refuse to insure Ms W for 
this accident when the fact that she didnt tell Watford about the change of use of her car 
had no real impact on Watford at all.
Ms W also had her policy cancelled after Watford found she was using her car for a purpose 
not listed on the schedule. And I can see why it did this. The policy terms allow it to cancel 
Ms Ws policy for a number of reasons and someone using the car for a purpose not listed 
on the schedule is, I think, a reasonable reason to cancel the policy. I can see why Watford 
wouldnt want to carry on insuring someone who had forgotten to tell it about a change in 
use, as it would be concerned about the consequences of this happening again. I can see 
Watford gave Ms W notice of its intent to cancel which is what wed expect it to do. Im 
satisfied Watford acted in line with the terms and acted fairly and reasonably when it 
cancelled Ms Ws policy.
Putting things right
Not dealing with Ms Ws claim has meant the damage to her car hasnt been repaired, so to 
put things right Watford should settle Ms Ws claim in line with the remaining policy terms. 
Had Watford provided Ms W with cover for the accident, I think it would most likely have 
accepted liability and paid the third partys claim. Had it done this, the third party wouldnt 
have taken Ms W to court. Therefore, to put things right Watford should settle the court 
judgement against Ms W and do so without recovering the cost of doing so from her.
Ms W wasnt able to pay the judgment, and as such its likely to be recorded on her credit 
file. Watford should work with the CRAs once it has settled this judgment to see if this can 
be removed from her credit file.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive provisionally decided to uphold Ms Ws complaint. To put
things right Im likely to require Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited to:
Settle Ms Ws claim for damage to her own car in accordance with the claim  
settlement terms in her policy.Settle the court judgment against Ms W following the third party claim, including any 
costs without recovering this from her.
Work with the CRAs to try and remove the court judgement and any reference of the 
debt from Ms Ws credit file. It may need to appoint a solicitor to do this and it should 
cover any costs involved.
Ms W accepted my provisional decision and made no further comment.
Watford didnt accept my provisional decision. It maintained that as Ms W was driving her 
car for a purpose not listed on her certificate, she was effectively driving her car uninsured. It 
said because of this it was only the Article 75 insurer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I appreciate Watfords reasoning, Ive already covered off why strictly 
following the terms of the policy doesnt lead to a fair and reasonable outcome in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Therefore, I see no reason to depart from my provisional 
decision. 
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Ms Ws complaint. To put 
things right I require Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited to:
Settle Ms Ws claim for damage to her own car in accordance with the claim 
settlement terms in her policy.
Settle the court judgment against Ms W following the third party claim, including any 
costs without recovering this from her.
Work with the CRAs to try and remove the court judgement and any reference of the 
debt from Ms Ws credit file. It may need to appoint a solicitor to do this and it should 
cover any costs involved.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman