DRN-1776894
The complaint
Mrs and Mr A complain about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc handled and settled a 
claim they made under their home insurance policy for storm damage. 
Mrs and Mr A are represented by a loss assessor in bringing this complaint. But for clarity  
Ill refer to all submissions as being made by them directly.
What happened
Mrs and Mr A hold a household insurance policy with RSA. They say, on 18 January 2018, 
stormy conditions caused damage to a retaining boundary wall at the rear of their property. 
Mrs and Mr A said this damage became noticeably worse in the weeks after the storm. So, 
on 26 April 2018 they made a claim under their policy for storm damage.
RSA appointed a loss adjuster to attend Mrs and Mr As property and assist it in dealing with 
the claim. The loss adjuster visited Mrs and Mr As property and instructed a surveyor, which 
Ill call E here, to carry out a survey and determine the cause of damage to their boundary 
wall.
After E inspected Mrs and Mr As property it told RSA it thought the damage had been 
caused gradually due to a lack of maintenance. This tied in with a report Mrs and Mr A had 
already presented RSA, which theyd obtained from a consulting engineer theyd 
independently appointed. This report concluded it was likely that a drainage issue behind the 
boundary wall had led to an accumulation of hydrostatic pressure, causing its damage. It 
said this was a common issue in retaining wall failures. Based on these reports RSA 
declined Mrs and Mr As claim for damage as it was satisfied the damage to their wall had 
been caused gradually, which was excluded by their policy.   
Mrs and Mr A werent happy with how RSA proposed to resolve their claim. They said their 
wall hadnt shown any signs of cracking or other defect over the years and was therefore fit 
for purpose. They also felt, as thered been heavy rain and strong winds at around the time 
the damage occurred, a storm had caused the damage to their wall. So, they complained 
that RSA wouldnt meet their claim. 
RSA investigated Mrs and Mr As concerns. But it maintained its stance that the damage 
wasnt caused by a one-off storm event as was required by their policy. It therefore didnt 
uphold their complaint about the way it had settled their claim.  
Being dissatisfied with how RSA had dealt with their complaint Mrs and Mr A referred it to 
our service. Our investigator looked into what had happened but didnt recommend 
upholding this complaint. They werent persuaded the damage to Mrs and Mr As property 
was consistent with a one-off identifiable storm event. And they thought it was, most likely, 
caused by a build-up of hydrostatic pressure. Overall, they thought RSA had dealt with Mrs 
and Mr As complaint fairly and done nothing wrong in declining their claim. But Mrs and Mr 
A disagreed and asked for their complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Ive read and considered all the 
information provided by Mrs and Mr A and RSA, but Ill concentrate my decision on what I 
think is relevant to decide the complaint. If I dont comment on any specific point its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
My role is to assess whether I think RSA made a mistake, or treated Mrs and Mr A unfairly, 
such that it needs to now put things right. And, having thought carefully about everything 
they and RSA have said, Im afraid to say that I dont think it did. I appreciate Mrs and Mr A 
will be disappointed by this outcome. But I hope they can understand the reasons behind my 
decision.
Theres no dispute that damage occurred to Mrs and Mr As boundary wall. However, theres 
disagreement between them, RSA and its appointed agents about the cause of the damage 
and the correct outcome of this claim. 
Mrs and Mr A would like RSA to cover the damage to their wall because they feel it was 
caused by adverse weather. Their policy with RSA provides cover for damage caused by a 
range of perils that might happen. These are specific one-off events and include storm, for 
example. But, for a claim to be successful, Mrs and Mr A would have to show that the 
damage theyre claiming for was caused by one of the perils listed in his policy.
As explained by our investigator, there are three conditions that need to be met before this 
service would say a claim for storm damage should succeed. Those are:  
1. Is there evidence that there was a storm around the date of the damage?
2. Is the damage consistent with what we would normally consider storm damage?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
I have re-assessed Mrs and Mr As complaint and all the evidence with these three 
questions in mind. And I should also clarify that the answer to all three questions needs to be 
yes for this service to be able to recommend that a storm complaint is upheld.
In weighing up the first question, I can see that Mrs and Mr As policy doesnt define the 
word storm. This isnt unusual. And in that scenario this service takes the view that a storm 
generally involves violent winds, usually accompanied by rain, hail or snow. So, this is what 
Ive thought about when deciding whether there were storm conditions on or around the date 
of Mrs and Mr As claim.
Mrs and Mr A have pointed to a storm that occurred on 18 January 2018 which they think 
was the date damage was caused to their boundary wall. Ive checked the weather reports 
relevant to Mrs and Mr As locality for storm conditions and these show that at the time the 
damage occurred the highest wind speeds recorded were 41 mph.
I dont doubt what Mrs and Mr A have said about there being heavy rain and strong winds at 
the time their wall was damaged. But the weather recorded doesnt meet the conditions of what our service would consider to be a storm. And this means I havent seen enough 
evidence to persuade me that storm conditions existed at around the date of the damage. 
As Ive been unable to answer question one affirmatively I cant fairly conclude that the 
damage to Mrs and Mr As boundary wall was caused by a one-off identifiable storm event 
as their policy requires. And this means I cant direct RSA to pay their claim for storm 
damage.
Overall, I think the adverse weather conditions that Mrs and Mr A experienced in mid 
January 2018 exposed the underlying deterioration of their boundary wall and caused it to 
worsen afterwards. 
Boundary walls are built to withstand adverse weather and both E and the independent 
consulting engineer Mrs and Mr A appointed have comprehensively explained in their 
reports how they think the damage took place. They both think the damage here was caused 
by a drainage issue behind the wall and an accumulation of hydrostatic pressure over a 
period of time. 
I know Mrs and Mr A disagrees with this. But theres cogent evidence that this is what 
caused the wall to crack and start leaning, which is what Mrs and Mr A noticed as the 
damage worsened. And the photographs taken by both E and Mrs and Mr As appointed 
consulting engineer support this. I cant ignore that evidence and I havent seen anything 
that contradicts the content of the reports that have been provided to our service. 
RSA told Mrs and Mr A the damage being claimed for is excluded under their policy, as it 
looks to have happened gradually over time. Ive carefully considered the terms and 
conditions of their policy and can see it does exclude damage of this nature. This is in 
common with most home insurance policies because insurance is intended to cover the 
unforeseen. And something wearing out or requiring maintenance isnt unforeseen. 
In the overall circumstances, Im not persuaded RSA made an error in attributing the cause 
of the damage here to a gradual cause. As thats something that isnt covered under the 
terms and conditions of Mrs and Mr As insurance policy I cant fairly ask RSA to approve 
their claim. 
I know Mrs and Mr A will be disappointed with this decision. I know they feel very strongly 
about the issues raised in this complaint. And I appreciate the reasons why they brought 
their complaint to our service. But for the reasons outlined Im satisfied RSA has acted fairly 
and reasonably. So, I wont be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 September 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman