DRN-2724541
The complaint
Ms V is a sole trader. She complains that American International Group UK Limited (AIG) 
unfairly declined a claim under her business protection insurance policy.
What happened
Ms V holds a business protection insurance policy with AIG. She made a claim on that policy 
to cover her losses arising from her business closure as a result of the national 
Government-imposed lockdown in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
AIG declined the claim as it said COVID-19 isnt covered under the terms of the policy. Ms V 
didnt agree. She said she thought the wording of the policy, specifically the wording for 
Notifiable Diseases, meant that her claim should be covered.
Ms V complained to AIG but it explained that, although her policy would provide cover in the 
event of certain diseases causing closure, COVID-19 wasnt one of the named diseases. 
Ms V wasnt happy with its response so brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator considered Ms Vs complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said 
that, while he sympathises with Ms Vs situation, he didnt think there was cover available 
under the policy. Ms V didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Ms Vs business, but I wont be upholding her complaint. Ill explain why. 
Ms V is looking to claim on her business protection insurance policy. These types of policies 
offer protection from risks common to business but there are a range of business protection 
insurance policies on the market covering a range of different risks. When considering 
whether AIG acted fairly in declining Ms Vs claim, the starting point is to consider the 
specific policy she took out. 
Having reviewed Ms Vs policy, I dont think there are any terms which provide cover for the 
closure of her business as a result of the Governments response to the national pandemic. 
However, I would like to explain why I dont think the parts of the policy which appear most 
relevant provide cover.
Ms Vs policy included cover for Notifiable Diseases. The policy wording was amended by an 
endorsement which states that it would provide cover for business interruption as a result of 
An outbreak of any Notifiable Disease occurring at the Premises or which is attributable to 
food or drink supplied from the Premises, or occurring within a one mile radius.
The policy provides a definition for Notifiable Disease, which sets out a list of specified 
illnesses that are covered under the policy. However, COVID-19 isnt on that list.
I realise that COVID-19 wasnt something AIG would have known about when the policy was 
drafted, but there are other policies that were on the market that do provide cover for the 
pandemic  usually policies that cover all notifiable diseases, which are set out and updated 
on a Government defined list. In contrast, Ms Vs policy sets out a specific list of illnesses 
which are covered by the policy. And having reviewed the policy wording, there is nothing 
which implies that it provides cover for other illnesses, including any new illnesses which 
might emerge. So I think the purpose of the policy is to provide cover in the event of the 
specific illnesses listed and I dont think the policy can or should fairly be interpreted as 
covering any illnesses that arent specified in the list set out in the policy.
Ms Vs policy also provides cover for loss resulting from Damage or Denial of Access. 
However, I dont think anything in that wording extends to damage caused to the business 
itself by way of a specified illness or disease such as COVID-19, or even a Government-
imposed act. Rather, these terms refer to physical damage or loss and I havent seen 
anything to indicate that COVID-19 caused damage to property  so I dont think these 
sections cover Ms Vs claim.
Ms V has referred to the Financial Conduct Authoritys test case. Her policy has a list of 
specified diseases in the policy wording and this kind of policy wasnt the subject of the test 
case, so her comments dont change my decision. And while Im sorry to hear about the 
financial impact the Government-imposed lockdown had on Ms V, having taken all of this 
into account and having considered the remaining terms of the policy, I dont think AIG acted 
unfairly in declining her claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman