DRN-3900239
The complaint
Miss R complains that State Bank of India (UK) Limited (SBI) have failed to refund over 
£340,000 she lost as part of an authorised push payment (APP) scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again in detail here. In brief summary, Miss R made payments totalling over £340,000 
between February 2019 and September 2019 from her SBI account, which she says has 
been lost as part of an APP scam.
Miss R says she believed she was paying a building companys business account after 
receiving invoices for work she was having completed on her property. She thought the 
building company was passing the money along to the various suppliers involved in the 
works. However, Miss R discovered she was instead paying the personal account of the 
building companys director (whom Ill refer to as J) who was only passing part of the 
money onto the suppliers and keeping the majority for himself.
Miss R complained to SBI as she says it should have checked the payments and told her 
they were going to a personal account rather than to the company she thought she was 
paying. However, SBI declined to refund the payments as Miss R had authorised them.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Rs complaint. She didnt think any intervention by SBI 
would have prevented Miss R from making the payments, as there would have been little to 
suggest she was being scammed at the time given that work was being completed on her 
property. Miss R disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that although I have only set out the key points, I have 
read and considered everything thats been provided. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided not to uphold it for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Miss R authorised the disputed payments she made to J from 
her SBI account. The payments were requested by her using her legitimate security 
credentials provided by SBI, and the starting position is that banks ought to follow the 
instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as 
instructed. 
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank 
has a duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams, so far as 
reasonably possible. If in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which 
ought reasonably to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it 
might be liable for losses incurred by its customer as a result.
Miss R has shown that J has since been prosecuted for fraud. So, Ive considered 
her complaint on the basis that he was operating a scam, although this isnt 
immediately, clear as J did pass some of her money on to the relevant suppliers and 
work was being carried out on her property up to a certain point. Miss R therefore 
received part of the services she had contracted for. I also note that she is taking 
separate civil action against J, meaning its arguable that this matter ought to be 
viewed as a civil dispute rather than a scam (as it may create a risk of double 
recovery is SBI were to also be held liable for her loss). However, even accepting 
that Miss R has been the victim of a scam here, I still dont think SBI would be liable 
to refund the money. Ill explain why. 
I accept its arguable that SBI should have intervened and questioned Miss R about 
the payments she was making from her account in light of the size and frequency of 
the transactions. However, even if SBI had intervened and asked further probing 
questions about the nature of the payments Miss R was making, Im not persuaded it 
would have likely stopped her from proceeding or have ultimately prevented her loss. 
I say this because she had an agreement with a legitimate construction company, 
and work was being carried out on her property by that company, so she would not 
have known that anything untoward was unfolding if SBI had questioned her about 
the payments.
Miss R says that SBI ought to have alerted her to the fact that she was paying the 
directors personal account rather than his business account. But the Confirmation of 
Payee system was not in place at the time she made the payments, so I would not 
have expected SBI to have been able to alert her to this fact at the time. Even if the 
bank was able to tell Miss R she was paying J rather than his company, Im not 
persuaded it would have stopped her from making the payments. I dont think it 
would have appeared particularly unusual that she was paying the director, as she 
had an agreement with him and his company for the completion of works. Indeed, the 
reference Miss R used for the payments was Js name rather than the company 
itself. I can also see from the breakdown provided that some of the money Miss R 
paid was passed on to the relevant suppliers to settle their invoices. So, if SBI had 
intervened and said she was paying the director, there is no way she would have 
known at that time that he was misappropriating the funds she was paying him.
Therefore, even if I were to accept that SBI ought to have intervened, I dont think it 
could fairly and reasonably be held liable for her loss in any event, as Im not 
persuaded any such intervention would have likely prevented Miss R from making 
the payments. Works were being carried out on her property, and there would have 
been nothing significant that would have alerted either SBI or Miss R to the fact that 
she was potentially being scammed. Therefore, I dont think SBIs failure to intervene 
could reasonably be considered as the proximate cause of Miss Rs loss in these 
circumstances, as it seems likely she would have proceeded to make the payments 
irrespective of any intervention by the bank.
Ive also thought about whether SBI could have done more to recover the funds after 
Miss R reported the alleged fraud to the bank. I can see that SBI sought to recover 
the money, but no funds remained in the beneficiary account by the time Miss R had 
reported the matter. SBI are also under no obligation to consider refunding the 
money under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code either as it is not 
signed up to the Code. I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Miss R, and Im sorry to hear about 
the money she has lost. But I wont be asking SBI to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman