DRN-4046103
The complaint
Mr D and Miss S complain about how Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) handled a 
claim under their home insurance policy for water damage to their property.
References to Fairmead include their agents who handle claims.
What happened
In November 2021 there was an escape of water at Mr D and Miss Ss property, which they 
discovered when decorating their sons bedroom, finding damaged floorboards under the 
carpet. They thought the leak came from the bathroom next to the bedroom, although there 
was no visible leak. They contacted Fairmead to tell them about the incident and lodge a 
claim. Fairmead appointed a firm (B) to assess the damage and handle the claim. B sent a 
surveyor to the property four days after notification of the incident. 
Bs report concluded the escape of water was likely to have originated from the bathroom 
suite, causing damage to the wall adjacent to the suite and the floor, as well as to the wall 
and floor of the adjoining bedroom. Shortly after, Mr D and Miss S engaged a plumber, who 
identified the cause of the leak and fixed it.
Fairmead then asked Mr D and Miss S to obtain two estimates from contractors to repair the 
damage from the leak, which they would consider as part of their assessment of the claim. 
At the time they were prioritising claims from storms that had occurred recently, which also 
meant they wouldnt have been able to appoint contractors to carry out the work within a 
reasonable timeframe. Following clarification of the process for obtaining estimates in 
January 2022, Mr D and Miss S sought contractors to provide estimates of the work required 
(based on a scope of works prepared by B). In the meantime, Fairmead put the claim on 
hold (February 2022). They re-opened the claim in April 2022, when Mr D and Miss S 
provided quotes from two contractors. 
The quotes were initially considered by B, who thought them too high. Unhappy at what had 
happened, the length of time taken to deal with their claim and how it had been handled, Mr 
D and Miss S complained to Fairmead in May 2022. In their final response issued later in 
May, Fairmead accepted Mr D and Miss S had received a less than desired level of service 
and apologised. They noted the sequence of events from the notification of the incident in 
November 2021, through to quotes provided in April 2022, and review by B. Fairmead said 
theyd raised a payment for £9,547.72 (net of the policy excess of £250) based on one of the 
quotes provided by Mr D and Miss S. They confirmed VAT would be paid on receipt of a 
VAT invoice when work was completed. 
Mr D and Miss S then complained to this service. They said the leak was fixed in December 
2021, but thereafter there was no progress with the claim until they complained to Fairmead 
in May 2022. Theyd continually contacted B for updates. They said the episode significantly 
affected them and their family. Particularly their son, who was vulnerable, having to sleep on 
a mattress on the floor with damp and mould. It also affected their sons routine, impacting 
him significantly. They accepted Fairmead acted promptly to settle their claim when they 
complained, but their issue was how B handled the claim. They thought their sons sleeping 
situation had been overlooked and they wanted compensation for six months of upheaval 
and disruption. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He noted Fairmead had apologised and settled the 
claim at a quoted figure. It was also fair to settle the claim by a cash settlement, as storm 
damage claims were taking priority and Fairmead wouldnt have been able to arrange for 
contractors to carry out the repair and reinstatement work in a reasonable timeframe. It was 
also reasonable for Fairmead to review the quote from Mr D and Miss Ss contractor and to 
challenge where they thought they were too high. Receiving the quote in April 2022 and a 
settlement in May 2022 was reasonable. But he didnt think Fairmead considered the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr D and Miss S. He thought Fairmead should pay 
them £150 in compensation.
Mr D and Miss S disagreed with the investigators conclusions and asked that an 
ombudsman review the complaint. 
In my findings, I concluded Fairmead acted reasonably in making a cash settlement and 
challenging the quotes from Mr D and Miss Ss contractors. And while there was delay while 
the quotes were provided to Fairmead, I concluded there was some delay attributable to 
Fairmead.
Given this, particularly the time between the quotes being provided and Fairmead settling 
the claim based on one of the quotes, I didnt think an apology for their service not being to 
standard was sufficient to put things right. So, I concluded Mr D and Miss S did suffer 
distress and inconvenience that was, to a degree, avoidable.
I also considered the impact on Mr D and Miss S, in particular the nature of their sons 
vulnerability. I was persuaded the impact on their son would have been greater and more 
significant because of his vulnerability and I didnt doubt what Mr D and Miss S told us. In 
turn, I thought the distress and inconvenience to Mr D and Miss S would have been more 
significant. So, I thought a higher award for distress and inconvenience would be fair and 
reasonable. Given all the circumstances of the case, I thought £250 would be reasonable.
Because I came to a different conclusion to our investigator on the amount of compensation 
for distress and inconvenience that would be reasonable, I issued a provisional decision to 
give both parties the opportunity to consider matters further. This is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Id first want to reassure Mr D and Miss S that Ive considered very carefully what theyve 
told us about their son and the nature of his vulnerability. I appreciate how the incident and 
the situation following the leak would have impacted on him. I also recognise the consequent 
impact this would have had on Mr D and Miss S. Ive borne this in mind when deciding 
whether Fairmead have acted fairly towards Mr D and Miss S.
In considering the complaint, the key issue is how Fairmead (and B in their role assessing 
and handling the claim) have dealt with matters from the incident through to Mr D and Miss 
Ss complaint to Fairmead. Mr D and Miss S are unhappy at the time taken to assess and 
settle the claim (which Fairmead confirmed theyd settled in their final response) and, 
specifically, the impact on them and their vulnerable son, sleeping on a mattress on the floor 
with damp and mould. They say their sons vulnerability meant his routine was significantly 
affected, causing him additional stress. Which in turn, significantly affected them. 
Ive considered carefully what Mr D and Miss S have said about how the claim was handled 
(by B in particular). Ive also considered what Fairmead have said, including their apology and acknowledgment that Mr D and Miss S received a less than desired level of service, and 
the evidence and information available, including their claim notes and Bs case notes. 
Having done so, I think Fairmead need to do more to put things right. Ill set out why Ive 
come to this conclusion, and what Fairmead need to do.
In coming to this conclusion, Ive seen Fairmeads claim notes recording the customer (Mr D 
and Miss S) might be vulnerable, given indicators from the notes themselves. This suggests 
Fairmead should have been aware of this aspect, which Id expect them to consider when 
dealing with the claim. However, I cant see any indication in Fairmeads claim notes or Bs 
case notes (or other evidence) this was considered, or any specific action taken in response. 
And while they accepted the quote from one of the contractors this was only after Mr D and 
Miss Ss complaint (and Bs challenge to the quotes), some six weeks after Mr D and Miss S 
provided the quotes. 
Ive also considered Fairmeads actions in seeking to settle the claim based on quotes from 
Mr D and Miss S. As an approach, this is allowed for in the policy terms and conditions and 
is one of the options commonly used to settle claims. Fairmeads point that they were 
prioritising storm claims at the time (and that they would have found it difficult to appoint 
contractors to carry out the work within a reasonable timescale) isnt unreasonable. Bs case 
notes indicate Mr D and Miss S were made aware of this and were asked to provide quotes.
 
Following clarification of what Fairmead expected from the quotes (at the start of January 
2022) the evidence and information indicates no substantial action until Mr D and Miss S 
provided the two quotes at the beginning of April. Given Fairmead had asked for quotes 
(which I dont think unreasonable) and provided clarification on what they required, I cant 
hold them responsible for the time taken until they were provided with the two quotes.
Given these points, particularly the time between the quotes being provided and Fairmead 
settling the claim based on one of the quotes, I dont think an apology for their service not 
being to standard is sufficient to put things right. And while the quotes from Mr D and Miss S 
werent provided until April 2022 (for which I cant hold Fairmead responsible) that it was 
subsequently accepted only after Mr D and Miss D complained indicates a delay in settling 
the claim for which Fairmead (including B as their agent) are responsible. So, Ive concluded 
Mr D and Miss S did suffer distress and inconvenience that was, to this degree, avoidable.
Ive also considered the impact on Mr D and Miss S, in particular the nature of their sons 
vulnerability. Im persuaded the impact on their son would have been greater and more 
significant because of his vulnerability and I dont doubt what Mr D and Miss S have told us. 
In turn, I think the distress and inconvenience to Mr D and Miss S (which is what I consider) 
would have been greater and more significant. Given this, I think a higher award for distress 
and inconvenience would be fair and reasonable. Given all the circumstances of the case, I 
think £250 would be reasonable.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, its my provisional decision to uphold Mr D and Miss Ss 
complaint. I intend to require Fairmead Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mr D and Miss S £250 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Fairmead Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it Mr D and Miss S accept my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.Mr D and Miss S responded to say they understood the reasoning in the provisional decision 
but were disappointed. They didnt have written evidence to support things theyd been told 
by the original surveyor and subsequent appointed contractor from Fairmead regarding their 
ability to quote more quickly than their independent contractors. The reason for raising this 
issue was that in their view, it was the reason their son did not have a proper place in their 
home. So, in their opinion, the delay attributable to Fairmead began in December 2021.
Fairmead responded to say they had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Fairmead have acted fairly towards Mr D and Miss S.
Ive considered the response from Mr D and Miss S. I recognise their view, but it doesnt 
change my conclusion that Fairmead acted reasonably in seeking to settle the claim based 
on quotes from contractors approached by Mr D and Miss S. And that Fairmead prioritising 
storm claims at the time (and so would have found it difficult to appoint contractors to carry 
out the work within a reasonable timescale) isnt unreasonable. So, while I understand Mr D 
and Miss Ss view, I havent changed my view that Fairmead arent responsible for the time 
taken for Mr D and Miss S to provide quotes. 
Ive also thought about the second point Mr D and Miss S make, about their son not having a 
proper place in their home. I appreciate the difficult circumstances with their son, particularly 
given his vulnerability and the impact this would have on Mr D and Miss S. This was why my 
provisional decision came to a different view about what would be a fair and reasonable level 
of compensation for distress and inconvenience (that a higher sum was appropriate). I still 
feel thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the case.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Mr D and Miss Ss complaint. I 
require Fairmead Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mr D and Miss S £250 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Fairmead Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it Mr D and Miss S accept my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Miss S 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman