DRN-2572683
The complaint
Mr R complains that Society of Lloyds refused to cover his claim and is trying to recover the 
costs its paid on a third party claim from him. Mr Rs daughter Ms S is helping him with his 
complaint. 
What happened
Mr R took out a taxi policy with Lloyds covering several vehicles. When required, Mr R has 
added, changed or removed vehicles and drivers under the policy. Mr R took the policy out 
through an independent broker.
In March 2020 a driver of one of Mr Rs cars, Mr N was involved in a collision with another 
car. However, Mr N wasnt insured under the car he was driving. He was insured under a 
separate vehicle under Mr Rs policy. 
While Lloyds was investigating the claim, the broker told Lloyds that Mr N had a driving 
conviction which he hadnt told Mr R about. So when Mr R added Mr N to his policy, he said 
Mr N didnt have any motoring convictions, which was incorrect.
Lloyds said it added Mr N to the policy under the car details provided by Mr Rs broker. So it 
said it hadnt done anything wrong. But Lloyds also said that if Mr R had told it about Mr Ns 
conviction, it wouldnt have provided cover for Mr N at all, irrespective of the vehicle. 
So Lloyds removed Mr N from the policy he was named under. And it told Mr R it wouldnt 
meet the claim for damage to the vehicle Mr N was driving. As it was obliged to deal with the 
third party claim under the Road Traffic Act, it said it would look to recover the third party 
claim costs from Mr R. And as it was dealing with a third party claim, it said no refund was 
due  and the policy continued for the remaining vehicles and drivers.
Mr Rs daughter Ms S brought his complaint to us. Mr R said it wasnt a deliberate attempt to 
deceive Lloyds as Mr N hadnt told him about the conviction. Mr R said its unfair that he 
should have to pay the claim costs of the third party.
Our investigator thought Lloyds had acted correctly.
Mr Rs daughter didnt agree and would like an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that both Lloyds and our investigator has made reference to the relevant law in this 
case as being the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 
(CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a 
reasonable consumer. 
However, as this is a commercial insurance policy, the relevant law in this case is The 
Insurance Act 2015. Ms Rs daughter is aware of this as this is the Act she referred to in her 
complaint to us on behalf of Mr R, and her view that Lloyds hasnt complied with it. 
Although there are some differences between CIDRA and The Insurance Act 2015, in Mr Rs 
circumstances, they are broadly the same. So it hasnt made a difference to the outcome 
and Ill explain why.
The Insurance Act 2015 says that before a contract of insurance is entered into, the insured 
must make to the insurer a fair presentation of the risk  known as the duty of fair 
presentation  which means:
(a) disclosure of every material circumstance which the insured knows or ought to know, or
(b) failing that, disclosure which gives the insurer sufficient information to put a prudent 
insurer on notice that it needs to make further enquiries for the purpose of revealing those 
material circumstances.
The Insurance Act says that if the consumer breached their duty of fair presentation, and this 
had an effect on the policy, the way the insurer can respond depends on whether the breach 
was careless or deliberate or reckless.
The relevant law for both consumer and commercial policies arises from the Marine 
Insurance Act 1906. It placed a duty of utmost good faith on the parties. So insured parties 
were required to disclose every circumstance they knew, or should have known, which 
would influence an insurer in deciding whether to underwrite a risk or what premium to 
charge.
When considering what a customer ought to know, we think a policyholder should take 
reasonable steps to check any information available to them and consider if theres anything 
they ought to disclose to an insurer. 
Mr Rs policy with Lloyds says the following: 
Your responsibilities
Your premium is based on the information you gave at the start of the insurance and
when it is renewed. You are responsible for the information you or your appointed
representative has provided to us You should ensure that the information provided
is, as far as you know, correct and complete. If you have failed to give us complete
and accurate information, this could lead to us changing the terms of your policy,
refusing your claim or insurance not being valid.
"Page 21 - Misrepresentation
Where we identify misrepresentation, non-disclosure, fraud, or any attempt to gain
an advantage under this insurance to which you are not entitled, we will apply, at our
absolute discretion, one or more of the remedies listed below:.
-Reject or pay only a proportion of your claim"
I understand Mr R says Mr N didnt make him aware of the conviction  and Mr N has 
provided a letter confirming this. So theres no dispute that this information wasnt disclosed 
to Lloyds. Mr Rs broker informed Lloyds shortly after the claim and explained that the 
conviction had only just come to light from Mr N. But I think Lloyds made it clear  as does the Insurance Act  that it was Mr Rs 
responsibility to make a fair presentation of the risk when he added Mr N to the policy. 
Lloyds said it wouldnt meet the claim for two reasons: that Mr N wasnt insured to drive the 
car involved in the collision and secondly it wouldnt have offered cover had it known about 
Mr Ns driving conviction. 
The broker accepted responsibility for the error in the vehicle it asked Lloyds to insure Mr N 
to drive. So Lloyds isnt responsible for the brokers actions. And I can see from the policy 
schedule that Lloyds sent it showed which car Mr N was covered to drive. I therefore think 
Lloyds first reason for not meeting the claim was reasonable as Mr N wasnt named under 
the policy to drive the vehicle involved in the collision.
Lloyds has provided information to show us that it wouldnt have provided a policy for Mr N if 
it had known about the driving conviction. So even if the broker had provided the correct car 
details when asking for Mr N to be added to the policy, the outcome would have been the 
same.
I understand Ms S is unhappy that Lloyds hasnt shown that it wouldnt have entered into a 
contract on any terms  as the Insurance Act 2015 says. She says it has just told Mr R that 
this is the case.
An insurers underwriting criteria is commercially sensitive, so it cannot be shared with 
customers. But we can ask an insurer to provide this information to us so that we check its 
treated its customer fairly when applying it. Im satisfied from the information Lloyds has 
provided that it has applied its underwriting criteria correctly in this case. 
As Im satisfied Mr Rs breach is a qualifying one, the next point to consider is whether the 
breach should be treated as careless rather than deliberate or reckless. Ive looked at the 
actions Lloyds can take in accordance with the Insurance Act.
Mr R has a number of vehicles and drivers under the policy. So Lloyds didnt avoid the 
policy. It removed Mr Ns cover from the incorrect vehicle hed been added to and it said it 
wouldnt cover the claim. I think Lloyds took a proportionate remedy and its actions were fair 
and reasonable here. 
Lloyds has dealt with a claim from a third party which it is obliged to do under the terms of 
the Road Traffic Act as the last insurer for the vehicle involved. But as the policy didnt cover 
Mr N, Lloyds can look to recover the costs of the third party claim from the policyholder, Mr 
R. 
So I think Lloyds second reason for not providing indemnity for the claim was reasonable.
I appreciate that Mr R is concerned as to the amount of the claim and says he cannot afford 
to repay it. I think its reasonable for Lloyds to consider a repayment plan with Mr R. But I 
think Mr R correctly owes this sum. 
Taking everything into account, I think Lloyds has acted reasonably, in line with The 
Insurance Act 2015 and the policy. I realise Mr R will be very disappointed, but this means 
Im not asking it to do any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman