DRN-4256678
The complaint
Mr W complains that Santander UK Plc had issues with their One Time Passcode (OTP) 
system for two weeks and they gave him poor customer service. 
What happened
Mr W says his OTP did not work for two weeks which meant he couldnt buy anything online 
or go away on holiday, but he received all other text messages on his mobile. Mr W says 
that he tried to contact Santander about this, but he spent a long time to get through to them. 
He says he was promised a call back, but they didnt ring him on his landline which he asked 
them to. Mr W says he has also had issues with branch staff laughing at him, running away 
from him and general poor service from them. Mr W made a complaint to Santander.
Santander partially upheld Mr Ws complaint. They originally paid him £30 compensation and 
they said they had been issuing the OTP using his registered contact details. They said they 
had not been able to identify any issues on their side that would prevent these codes from 
being received. They said that Mr W had since changed to email OTP. They said the branch 
recollection was that a member of staff Mr W approached was not serving customers, but 
was observing another colleague, resulting in another colleague trying to help Mr W. 
Santander said they recognise that his request for a call from their complaints team on his 
landline was not received and instead he received a message on his mobile which he 
wanted to avoid using, which meant Mr W had to call them back. Santander also said a 
manager tried to ring him, but having failed in their attempt, wrote to Mr W instead. 
Santander increased the £30 compensation to £100. Mr W brought his complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ws complaint. He said there was no evidence to suggest 
the OTP wasnt issued to Mr W. And now Mr W has opted into email OTP. He said the 
compensation Santander paid him for the customer service issues was fair. Mr W asked for 
an ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In summary he said 
he couldnt buy anything online for two weeks due to the OTP issue, there was no option for 
OTPs to be emailed, he waited in for hours on two separate days when Santander had 
promised to ring him on his landline, he said a member of staff at the branch had lied about 
what happened and he said questions about things such as inheritance have been 
repeatedly unanswered by staff.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive only summarised Mr Ws complaint points. And Im not going to 
respond to every single point made by him. No discourtesy is intended by this. Our rules 
allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to be able 
to reach what I think is a fair outcome.
Ive looked into the OTP issue. Santander have confirmed that there were no known issues 
regarding OTPs in all of 2022. Ive looked at their internal system and I can see that they 
had sent Mr W OTPs via text message during the time Mr W says he was unable to buy 
things online. But I have no reason to doubt that Mr W didnt receive the OTP messages. But 
as Santander have proved these were sent, Im unable to hold them responsible for any 
network or phone issues Mr W has experienced. I know he says he received all other 
messages, but here, I can see that Santander had sent him the OTPs. Santander did offer 
to look into this further if he gave them his network provider. So Mr W may wish to do this if 
he wants Santander to look into this further.
Ive read what Mr W has said about what happened in the branch. And he has had 
unanswered questions from Santander. Ive also read a testimony from a staff member at 
the branch of what they say happened. The two versions of what happened are completely 
different. I asked Santander if they had Closed-Circuit Television available of Mr Ws branch 
visit, but they confirmed that it was not available anymore due to the time thats passed. So 
unfortunately Im unable to see what happened here. As my role is impartial, then without 
any actual evidence of what happened here, Im unable to place more weight on one 
testimony over another. Mr W may wish to seek independent financial advice on the types of 
questions he told us he asked Santander, as the staff may not be able to give advice on the 
type of questions he says he asked them, but this would need to be a decision Mr W would 
need to make by himself.
Ive considered what Mr W has said about an email OTP not being an option listed. Ive 
looked at Santanders internal procedures and this is only to be used on an exceptions 
process. So this is why Mr W was not able to select this. But due to Mr Ws issues receiving 
a text OTP, they made an exception to move him onto email OTPs. So Im satisfied that 
they did try to help him here, and they made no error by not listing this as an option when 
this is not their default method of sending OTPs.
But Santander have let Mr W down on occasion. They did not follow his instructions of 
ringing him on his preferred method of contact, and he told us he had waited in for hours 
over two days expecting a call. This would be distressing for him when he didnt receive the 
call on his landline. He was also inconvenienced by having to ring them back even though 
he had made Santander aware of the long call times he had experienced previously. 
So it is only fair that Mr W was paid compensation for the poor customer service. Ive 
considered whether the £100 for what happened is fair. Im satisfied that it was. I say this 
because it is in line with our awards for what happened here. Im satisfied it recognises Mr W 
has experienced distress and inconvenience as a result of the poor customer service that 
Santander gave him. So it follows I dont require them to do anything further. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman