DRN-3042703
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in 
1998. Mrs S says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which include Mrs Ss 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here. The 
policy excluded backache unless particular symptoms were diagnosed by a doctor. It also 
excluded mental health issues unless they arose from particular causes.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mrs Ss representatives disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or additional points but repeated complaint 
points and arguments theyd previously made. Mrs S also requested a decision.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ss. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Ss complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
Mrs S says the PPI was just included with her card. But her postal application form for 
the card had an Additional Information section with boxes for her to mark to say either 
yes or no to the cover. On Mrs Ss form, which she signed to take the card, the yes 
box is marked  and I think she wouldve known to mark the no box instead if she didnt 
want the cover. Also, nothing on the form said the PPI had to be taken. Overall, I think 
Capital One made it clear Mrs S didnt have to take the PPI and she chose to take it. 
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs S - so it didnt have to check the PPI was 
right or suitable for her. But it did have to give her enough clear and timely information so 
she could decide for herself if it was right for her.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found she chose to take it, and I think it unlikely she wouldve 
done so without at least a broad understanding of the cover it provided, so it looks to me 
like she wanted this type of cover.
Mrs S has told us of two separate health issues, ten years apart, with which she missed 
up to six weeks of work each time. She couldnt claim for absences if due to a health 
issue already existing or known at the start  and back pain claims were excluded unless 
particular specific symptoms were diagnosed by a doctor. But taking into account all that 
has been said about these in the course of this complaint, including all Mrs S has told us, 
and bearing in mind these happened around 19 years and nine years before the sale, on 
balance what I have doesnt make me think these wouldve been significant enough in 
Mrs Ss thinking that her decision to take the policy wouldve changed had she been told 
more at the sale about the exclusion for pre-existing conditions or the back pain terms. 
Also nothing about Mrs Ss job or employment wouldve made it hard for her to claim.
With the above in mind, I dont think the cover was fundamentally wrong for Mrs S and, 
looking at her limited work benefits and lack of other means, it seems like the benefit 
wouldve been useful for her if something went wrong. From what shes told us, it also 
looks like Mrs S was able to afford the payments and, looking at the policy benefit and 
what Ive said above, overall I think it likely the cover was similar enough to what its 
likely Mrs S thought she was buying, from the information she had. So I dont think she 
wouldve have declined it had Capital One done more in terms of the information it gave.
While the policy also contained limitations or exclusions on claims relating to mental 
health conditions, in light of Mrs Ss circumstances at the time of sale and despite its 
limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong for her, as Ive said 
above. So I think she wouldve still thought she had some good reasons to take it.
Overall, I consider Mrs S wouldve still taken the PPI. It was sufficiently close to what its 
likely she thought she was getting and, given her circumstances, I think it couldve provided 
a useful benefit at what couldve been a difficult time if shed lost her job or become too sick 
to work. And, in those circumstances, I think she wouldve taken the policy in any event.
Mrs Ss representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; that these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and that the duty of utmost good faith meant Capital One should have disclosed the poor 
value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact on the 
chances of claiming.
Mrs Ss representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Ss individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Ss particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint. For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this 
complaint. This means Capital One doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my final decisionOverall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs S to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 December 2021. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman