DRN-4509728
The complaint
G has complained about Accelerant Insurance Limiteds decision to turn down its claim 
under its Small Commercial/SME Package Cover insurance policy for damage to its 
premises caused by a fire. 
G is represented by Mr M, who is a director. 
Gs claim was dealt with by a loss adjuster appointed by Accelerant. But Ive referred to 
Accelerant throughout this decision for the sake of ease.
What happened
Gs fish and chip shop was damaged by a fire and Mr M made a claim under its policy. 
Accelerant investigated the claim and eventually turned it down on the basis G had breached 
a policy condition, as it thought this was material to the claim, i.e. if G hadnt breached the 
condition the fire wouldnt have started and caused damage to Gs premises. Mr M said the 
original statement hed made about what had happened was wrong and that G had not 
breached the relevant policy condition. Accelerant wouldnt alter its position and Mr G made 
a complaint. Accelerant still wouldnt alter its position, so Mr G asked us to consider Gs 
complaint. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and said she was satisfied Accelerant was 
entitled to turn down Gs claim. Mr G isnt happy with the investigators view and has asked 
for an ombudsmans decision. Hes said he wasnt present when the shop was shut prior to 
the fire and made a wrong assumption about the end of night procedure that was followed. 
And hes pointed out that Accelerant has never actually spoken to any of the staff that were 
there at the time. Hes also mentioned the Fire Brigade report said the fire started 
accidentally. Finally, hes pointed out that our investigator didnt speak to the staff who were 
there on the night the fire occurred.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules, and 
other industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Gs complaint.
Its clear the fire at Gs premises started accidentally. And Gs policy covers damage caused 
by fire to its premises. But it has the following condition: all oily or greasy waste and cloths 
are kept in metal bins with metal lids and removed from the Premises at the end of each 
day. According to Mr Ms initial account of what happened the fire started in a bin of scraps 
which had cold batter poured over it. And Im satisfied if this was the case it would mean 
G had breached the abovementioned condition and that Accelerant would be entitled to 
reject its claim. This is because, in my opinion, scraps constitute greasy waste. 
Ive noted what Mr M has said about his initial account of what happened turning out to be 
wrong. But I think Accelerants decision to rely on his initial account was reasonable in the 
circumstances. I say this because it seems Mr M only altered the account after he became 
aware there may have been a possible breach of the abovementioned condition. And it is fair 
to say that in most circumstances the initial account given by someone without full 
knowledge of the implications is most likely to be what actually happened.
And  having had Mr Ms initial account, I dont think it would have made any difference if 
Accelerant had spoken to the staff who were on duty when the shop closed prior to the fire. I 
say this because Accelerant was entitled to assume that what Mr M had said originally was 
correct. And after the claim had been turned down, any staff would most likely have 
appreciated the implications of confirming what Mr M had said initially was correct. So, it 
would have been difficult for Accelerant to accept their testimonies as unbiased and 
independent. I do of course appreciate it is possible that Mr M was mistaken about what 
happened originally. But I am considering whether Accelerants approach was reasonable 
bearing in mind what he said originally. And I think it was. 
I would not have expected our investigator to speak with the staff concerned, as our role is to 
consider whether what Accelerant did was appropriate, not re-investigate the claim. 
In summary, while I appreciate how difficult it must be for Mr M in view of the loss to G, Im 
satisfied Accelerants decision to turn down Gs claim was in line with the policy terms and 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Therefore, I dont think it unreasonably rejected it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not to uphold Gs complaint about Accelerant Insurance 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2024.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman