DRN-3789490
The complaint
Mr L complains about the way Vitality Health Limited administered his personal private
medical insurance policy.
What happened
In April 2020, Mr L took out a Personal Healthcare plan, which was sold by a broker and
underwritten by Vitality. The policy was taken out on a moratorium basis.
Mr Ls policy renewed in April 2022. Later that month, Mr L asked to add Countrywide cover
to his policy, rather than the consultant select cover he already had. This would have
attracted an additional monthly premium of around £9.50. Mr L later ran an online quote for a
new customer with Countrywide cover and discovered it was cheaper than the price hed
been charged. So he asked Vitality to match the price.
Vitality told Mr L that it had offered him its best price and was unable to lower it. It explained
that Mr Ls premium had increased in line with its pricing structure since hed taken the policy
out.
Mr L was unhappy with Vitalitys decision and he cancelled his policy. He was refunded the
premium hed paid for April 2022 (and he was also repaid the premium through his banks
direct debit guarantee). Mr L raised other concerns with Vitality. In particular, that hed had
difficulties accessing its online GP service, meaning that hed had to pay privately for a GP
appointment; that hed had difficulties accessing its online services; and he felt discriminated
against as he didnt have the necessary electronic devices to track exercise and potentially
earn reward points. He added too that he was unhappy with Vitalitys complaint process.
Vitality said that if Mr L had been experiencing issues in accessing the online GP or its
membership services; it wouldve expected him to call in. But it had no record of him doing
so. It said that it wouldve been advised to Mr L that he needed a device to track exercise
when he took out the policy but in any event, he had still been able to do a health check
without having to exercise. And it said he couldve downloaded an app to track steps. Vitality
also told Mr L that it wouldnt pay the costs of his private GP appointment or prescription, as
it said primary care costs werent covered.
Mr L remained unhappy with Vitalitys position and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ls complaint should be upheld. He didnt think Vitality
needed to charge Mr L the same price as it would charge a new customer. And he thought
Vitality had followed its own complaints process.
Mr L disagreed with our investigator and he didnt think all of his complaint points had been
addressed. So the complaints been passed to me to decide.
I understand Mr L feels that this policy was mis-sold to him and hed like me to consider this
issue. However, the evidence Ive seen from both parties indicates that Mr L took out this
policy through a broker. This means that Vitality isnt legally responsible for the sale of this
policy or for anything that happened at the point the policy was sold to Mr L. And therefore, I
cant consider the policy sale as part of this complaint. If Mr L feels the policy was mis-sold
to him, then hell need to make a complaint to his broker before we can potentially look into
any mis-sale complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on 29 September 2022. In my provisional decision, I 
explained why I didnt think Vitality had treated Mr L unfairly. I said:
First, Id like to reassure Mr L that while Ive summarised the background to this complaint
and his detailed submissions to us, Ive carefully considered all hes said and sent us. I
havent commented on each point hes made within this decision though and nor do our
rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues. Broadly,
these are: the price of the policy; IT issues; Mr Ls claim and Mr Ls access to Vitalitys
reward points scheme. Ill consider each in turn.
Should Vitality have reduced Mr Ls premium?
It might be helpful if I explain how we look at complaints like Mr Ls. We dont generally tell
insurers how they should calculate risk or what price they can charge to cover that risk.
Vitalitys entitled to decide whether or not it wants to offer insurance cover for a particular
risk (in this case, claims relating to Mr Ls health). And if it does, what price it needs to
charge for that.
So Vitality will have assessed the risk of Mr L needing to make a claim when he took out the
policy and then at each yearly renewal afterwards. If it thinks the risk has gone up (for
example, because the risk-profile has increased or because health care costs have gone
up), then it may need to put up the premium.
So in complaints like these, what I look at are the factors the insurer has applied to calculate
the premium and whether its done so fairly. This is so that I can be satisfied that Mr L has
been treated in the same way as any other Vitality customer in similar circumstances and
hasnt been singled out in any way.
The evidence indicates that at the 2022 renewal, Mr Ls price was higher than the 2021
policy price. And then, when he enquired about enhancing his cover, he was quoted a
further price increase. Its clear he was able to find the same cover cheaper with Vitality as a
new customer and so I can understand why he was concerned that he may have been
overcharged.
Vitality explained the reasons why Mr Ls policy was more expensive than the price it would
charge a new customer. First, it referred to its ABC pricing structure, which was set out on
Mr Ls membership certificate. Vitality said the renewal price would be calculated taking into
account the sum of the following three factors:
A - Age, As it is more likely you will need to claim as you get older, your premium will rise
each year to take account of this,
B - Base rate increase This is the change in the cost of providing healthcare, taking into
account the charges made by hospitals and other providers, as well as advances m areas
such as medical technology and drugs,
C - An adjustment for the Claims you have made, and your Vitality status. This is the part of
your renewal price that you can control.
As Mr L had held a policy for two years, his premium had increased to take account of his
becoming two years older and to take account of base rate increases over the previous two
years. It isnt clear whether Mr L had previously made claims on the policy. But Im satisfied
that Vitality calculated Mr Ls 2022 premium in line with the ABC approach, whichnecessarily wouldnt and couldnt apply to a new customer.
Additionally, Mr L took out the policy on a moratorium basis. This meant that any pre-existing
conditions hed had in the five years before taking out the policy would be excluded.
However, if Mr L had remained trouble-free for two continuous years after his policy began,
pre-existing conditions could become eligible for cover. As such, if Mr L hadnt required
consultation, treatment or medication for his pre-existing conditions between April 2020 and
renewal in April 2022, these conditions would no longer have been excluded from cover and
he could potentially have made claims for them. A new customer underwritten on
moratorium terms in April 2022 wouldve automatically had pre-existing conditions excluded
for at least two years after the policy start date. This means Mr Ls policy was providing him
with a higher level of private medical cover than a new moratorium policy wouldve done.
Looking at these factors in the round, I dont think Vitality calculated Mr Ls premium unfairly
and nor do I think it needed to reduce his price.
IT issues
Mr L says that he tried to use the online GP service and log into Vitalitys membership zone
but had difficulties in doing so. He says that the system froze. I dont doubt that experiencing
technical issues whilst trying to make use of Vitalitys online services was frustrating for Mr L.
Vitality felt that if Mr L had experienced issues with its online services, it wouldve been
reasonable for him to contact it by phone or by email. Considering everything, I think
Vitalitys position here is reasonable. If Mr L was unable to make use of the services he
expected to be available, Id have expected him to make reasonable attempts to contact
Vitality through other means to try and resolve these issues. But Vitality says theres no
record that Mr L tried to contact it to discuss these problems. And so it seems to me that it
wasnt given an opportunity to look into Mr Ls concerns or put things right. Therefore, I dont
think I could fairly direct Vitality to pay Mr L any compensation for this particular point.
Should Vitality pay Mr Ls claim?
Mr L said that as he wasnt able to contact Vitalitys online GP, he had to see a private GP
and pay for that consultation, together with the costs of a private prescription. He feels that
Vitality should cover these costs.
Vitality said that private GP costs outside of its own private GP network arent covered, so it
turned down Mr Ls claim. Ive thought about whether this was a fair conclusion for Vitality to
draw. Mr Ls policy schedule says that he was covered for:
Up to 2 face-to-face consultations with a private GP on Vitality's Private GP network, for
only £20 per consultation.
Page 20 of Mr Ls policy terms and conditions sets out the following terms:
There is no benefit available for the fees of a private GP that is not a Vitality GP, or a GP not
in our private GP network
We also don't pay for private prescriptions issued by anyone other than a Vitality GP or a
private GP in our network.
I think Vitality has made it sufficiently clear that it wont pay for private GP costs or private
prescriptions if the GP isnt part of its network. It doesnt appear that the GP Mr L saw was
part of that network and so I think it was fair for Vitality to conclude that Mr Ls private GP
and prescription costs werent covered.If Mr L incurred any other private medical costs while he was covered by the Vitality policy,
its open to him to submit a claim for those costs to Vitality for it to consider.
Activity trackers
Its clear that Mr L feels strongly that he was discriminated against because he didnt have a
device with which he could track his activity and therefore potentially earn reward points.
However, Vitality has explained that Mr L didnt need a specific device to track his physical
activity. It was open to him to download an app onto his phone, which would fulfil the same
function. While Mr L might not have known about this option, Vitality says his broker ought to
have told him about it. And while Mr L says he couldnt earn points through a health check,
as this wasnt available in his region, I havent seen persuasive evidence that this was the
case or that this wouldve prevented him from obtaining reward points in line with the
scheme. So I dont think Vitality treated Mr L unfairly and nor do I think it needs to offer him
any compensation.
Complaints process
Mr L feels strongly that Vitality ignored his requests for his complaint to be progressed in a
specific way. I can see that Mr L did have concerns about the way his complaint would be
put forward and that he wished to speak to a manager. I should be clear that I have no
power to tell a business what complaints processes it should have in place  thats the
regulators role. But its clear to me that Vitality did follow its own complaints process when it
dealt with Mr Ls complaint and it met the relevant timeframes set out in the regulators rules.
Vitality addressed Mr Ls complaint points and while he didnt agree with its findings, I dont
think this indicates that Vitality treated him unreasonably. Mr L was also given the option of
making a complaint to us in line with the regulators rules, which he has been able to do.
Overall then, I currently think Vitality has treated Mr L fairly and reasonably. I dont think I
could reasonably tell it to refund any of Mr Ls premiums. And indeed I note that despite
effectively refunding Mr Ls April 2022 premium twice, it agreed not to require Mr L to pay it
back its overpayment. Based on all Ive seen; I dont think there are any reasonable grounds
upon which I could direct Vitality to do anything more.
I asked both parties to provide me with any additional evidence they wanted me to consider.
Vitality had nothing more to add.
Mr L didnt accept my provisional findings. In summary, he said:
- The broker had gone out of business at the time of renewal in March/April 2021, so 
he contacted Vitality directly to take ownership of the contract. But Vitality hadnt 
mentioned the rewards scheme etc. and so he felt hed been mis-sold the new 
contract;
- Hes never made a claim with Vitality;
- He provided a screenshot to show that hed raised the issue he was experiencing in 
contacting an online GP with Vitality, but it hadnt responded. So he felt he was 
entitled to claw back his costs;
- He provided evidence which he feels shows that Vitality will beat the price of other 
providers or upgrade existing policies.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr L, I still dont think Vitality treated him 
unfairly and Ill explain why.
Mr L says that he took ownership of the policy renewal, as his broker had gone out of 
business. I agree with Mr L that at each policy renewal, a new contract of insurance is 
formed between a policyholder and an insurer. But it remains the case that the initial policy 
between Vitality and Mr L was sold by a broker. And the broker was responsible for what 
took place at the time of sale. The broker would also have been responsible for ensuring Mr 
L was provided with the policy paperwork, setting out the main policy features, terms and 
conditions. As Mr L was happy to renew with Vitality, I think its likely he was aware of at 
least the main benefits of the policy.
I appreciate that Mr L doesnt appear to have made a formal claim with Vitality. My reference 
to a claim was in relation to the private GP and prescription costs Mr L asked Vitality to 
reimburse him. As I set out in my provisional decision, external virtual private GP and 
prescription costs simply arent covered by the terms of Mr Ls policy. 
Mr L has provided me with a screenshot of an email which shows that he did contact Vitality 
about the issues hed experienced in booking a virtual GP appointment, although this isnt 
dated. So I accept that Mr L did try to contact Vitality to resolve things. However, I note that 
within the email, Mr L said: 
Because of (the issues hed experienced) I have had to use another online virtual GP and 
would ask how Vitality would propose to reimburse me for this.
As such, it seems to me that Mr L had already made use of another virtual GP service and 
incurred costs before getting in touch with Vitality about the issue. This means that while 
Vitality may not have responded to Mr Ls email when it shouldve done, I dont think hes 
suffered a financial loss as a result of its failure to do so. I dont doubt that it wouldve been 
frustrating for Mr L given he says that Vitality didnt respond to his query. But I think its 
decision not to ask Mr L to repay the duplicate premium refund for April 2022 it paid him 
wouldve represented fair compensation for any such mistake. 
Ive looked closely at the screenshot Mr L has sent me, which sets out things policyholders 
may wish to consider about Vitalitys products. It isnt clear where this screenshot came from 
and its possible this was information the broker gave Mr L. It doesnt appear to me to have 
been written by Vitality. One paragraph says:
On switch terms, they will offer to beat any other recognised health insurance providers 
policy cost by up to 10% and match or upgrade the level of cover you have in place.
This paragraph refers to prices Vitality can offer on switch terms. A switch is when a 
policyholder transfers an existing policy from another provider to Vitality. That isnt what 
happened here. Mr Ls policy was renewed. His first contract with Vitality began in April 2020 
and at renewal in April 2022, Mr L wasnt switching from another provider  he was 
remaining with Vitality. So such a price match wouldnt apply to the terms of Mr Ls renewal.
Overall, I remain satisfied that Vitality has treated Mr L fairly and reasonably. And so Im not 
telling it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman