DRN-1593934
The complaint
Mrs N complains Erudio Student Loans Limited have failed to defer her loan and have 
unfairly terminated her account.
What happened
In September 2017 Mrs N said she completed and sent back a form to continue deferring 
her student loan - around 10 days before the deadline.
In November 2017 Mrs N received a letter from Erudio thanking her for an email, saying her 
loan had been terminated and she would now have to repay the loan in full. Mrs N wrote to 
Erudio around two days later to inform them shed deferred the loan  so they must have 
made an error. Mrs N said she didnt receive a response from Erudio, so she assumed the 
error had been corrected.
Erudio wrote to Mrs N in June 2018. They said a review of her account showed they needed 
to re-issue some notices that were missed or incorrect in order to be compliant with 
regulatory requirements. Mrs N says she also received several letters on Erudio headed 
paper dated before they took over her student loan. 
In October 2018 she was contacted by a third party acting on behalf of Erudio, regarding the 
full amount being owed on the account. Mrs N contacted the third party and said the account 
should be in deferment and she didnt receive any communication from Erudio until the loan 
terminated. A complaint was later raised with Erudio.
Erudio said they didnt receive Mrs Ns deferment until November 2017, which was past the 
deadline, and the post mark on the envelope shows it was sent a couple of days before. 
Erudio said she had existing arrears on her account in September 2017 and when her 
deferment ended her monthly payments then became due. Erudio says it sent Mrs N a 
notice of default in September 2017, shortly after the deferment deadline, asking her to 
contact them. But as they didnt hear from her, and her arrears amounted to around four 
months, the account was terminated. Mrs N was unhappy with Erudios response, so she 
brought her to complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend we uphold Mrs Ns complaint. They were satisfied Mrs N 
hadnt returned the form to Erudio by the deadline.
Mrs N disagreed. She said the account had been in deferment for around 17 years - so 
couldnt be in arrears. She said she signed, dated and posted the form on 9 September and 
the form has been tampered with to change it from 9 to a 19. She didnt agree the 
envelope provided by the business belonged to her.
Mrs N said Erudio acted fraudulently sending her letters dated before they took over her loan 
in 2013. She said her loans were due to expire under forgiveness rights as they were almost 
over 20 years old and this could be the reason for Erudios actions,
The complaint has now passed to me to make a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs N has made a number of detailed points. Ive considered all of them but Im going to 
focus my decision on what I see as the central issues to this complaint. I dont intend this as 
a discourtesy, rather it reflects the informal nature of our service and my role in it. 
Mrs N said her account couldnt be in arrears as the loan had been in deferment for around 
17 years when Erudio terminated it. But I can see from Erudios system notes Mrs N accrued 
arrears as a result of late deferments prior to 2017 and Mrs N and Erudio were in contact 
with each other about the arrears in June 2016 and October 2016. I can also see Erudio sent 
Mrs N notices of arrears in June 2016, November 2016 and May 2017- and her arrears were 
also included in a letter they sent to her in August 2018. So, I think Mrs N should reasonably 
have been aware of the arrears on her account. 
Ive seen the deferment application Erudio sent to Mrs N in July 2017. The covering letter 
says if the application wasnt received by 19 September 2017, was rejected or if Mrs N 
chose not to defer her loan, her monthly repayments would become due the day after the 
deadline  and if no payment was received arrears would accrue on the account.
Erudio said they didnt receive Mrs Ns application until 10 November 2017 and have 
provided an envelope stamped as being sent on 8 November 2017. I can appreciate Mrs Ns 
comments about the envelope Erudio provided. The envelope is stamped but theres nothing 
on the envelope alone to identify it as sent by Mrs N, so I can see why shes questioned its 
relevance. But Erudio have provided me with a copy of the deferment application Mrs N 
completed. It includes her details; her signature and I can see the application is dated 19 
September 2017  the day of the deadline. So, I think its more likely the application was 
sent after the deadline. 
Mrs N has said she signed the application 9 September 2017  and the date must have 
tampered with to show 19  but shes not provided any additional information to support this 
and I havent seen anything to suggest Erudio tampered the form. So, Im not persuaded the 
date is incorrect.
As Erudio hadnt received Mrs Ns deferral before the deadline her monthly payments 
became due. As this wasnt met Erudio sent her a notice of default in September 2017. It 
informed her what would happen if she didnt contact them  her account would be closed, 
and the full balance would be due. She didnt contact Erudio, this meant she accrued more 
arrears and they closed her account. I can also see all correspondence has been sent to the 
correct address, so I think its more likely than not these letters were sent to her.
Ive thought about what Mrs N said about Erudio acting fraudulently. Erudio provided a copy 
of the letters they sent to her in June 2018 and I can see they cover from October 2017 to 
the date they wrote to her. Erudio said the letters pre dating them taking over the loan were 
sent to Mrs N following a review of her account in 2015. Erudio said they identified some 
statutory notices hadnt been sent to Mrs N under the previous loan provider, so they were 
resent and this work was completed in conjunction with them. I can see why this might 
have caused Mrs N concern to receive these letters, but Ive not seen anything that suggests 
Erudio acted fraudulently or unreasonably in doing what it did.Overall having considered everything, Im not persuaded Ms N returned her deferment form 
before the deadline. Following this, I dont think Erudio have acted incorrectly in defaulting 
and terminating her account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2020.
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman