DRN-2492935
The complaint
Mr H says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy with a credit card. 
What happened
Our adjudicator who looked at this case said the complaint about the PPI being mis-sold 
shouldnt be upheld. 
However, Mr H has already received some money back for the commission Barclays 
received from selling her the PPI. Mr H still thinks he was mis-sold the PPI in the first place 
and disagrees with the adjudicator. The complaint has been passed to me for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint about the mis-sale.
These events took place a considerable time ago and records show that, as an existing 
Barclays credit card customer, Mr H applied to upgrade his card in 1996.
We have a copy of the postal form he used, and I can see there is a yes and no option 
about having PPI with the new card. Mr Hs form had a tick in the yes box. 
I also think Mr H would have known that he didnt need to have PPI with his card if he didnt 
want it. This is because there was an option on the form not to take it and it also seems Mr 
H had been operating his previous card since 1976 without PPI. 
So taking all this into consideration, I think it was more likely that Mr H consented to the PPI 
policy.
As this was a postal application, its unlikely to have been an advised sale. So, Barclays 
duty was limited to providing clear enough information for Mr H to make his own decision.
I certainly can see ways in which the form could have been clearer. But I also think some 
additional written information about the rules and terms of the PPI would have been attached 
to the application form. And even if I accept Barclays could and should have done more, I 
still dont think this would have changed what Mr H went on to do.
This is because the evidence shows Mr H wanted the cover and would have seen he had a 
choice. He was eligible for it and not affected by any of the main exclusions we tend to see 
in these types of policy. I also see that the cost was around 69p for every £100 outstanding 
on the card, which I think would have been affordable for him.
I note Mr H already had some protection against sickness with his job (up to 3 months with 3 
months savings as well). But Im afraid this doesnt necessarily mean the PPI wasnt of use. 
The policy would have paid out 10% of his outstanding credit card balance for up to a year if 
hed needed to claim and this wouldve been in addition to any other means he had at that 
time. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr H but I think the evidence shows he chose the policy himself and 
would have known it wasnt something he needed to have. This means Im not upholding his 
mis-sale complaint.
Barclays has already paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because when the policy 
was sold, it expected to get a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium). It should have told Mr H about that. Because it didnt, that was unfair.  To 
put that right, it has already paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC has already paid him for the commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman