DRN-2630505
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy that Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, didnt cancel Mr As 
debit card when he reported it as lost.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Halifax didnt cancel Mr As card when he called to report it as lost. This meant the 
card remained active for around ten days after it shouldve been stopped.
Mr A had to call Halifax when his new card didnt arrive within the expected 
timescales. So, I accept he has been inconvenienced. I also think he wouldve been 
concerned to hear that his card hadnt been cancelled, as there was a potential for it 
to be misused.
Halifax rectified their mistake by cancelling the card immediately. There werent any 
unauthorised or fraudulent transactions on the account. Theyve apologised, passed 
feedback to the adviser and paid £50 compensation. Theyve also given 
reassurances to Mr and Mrs A that any fraudulent activity due to their error would be 
covered. I think these were reasonable steps to take in this situation. 
Mr and Mrs A would like more compensation. They feel this is a serious issue and if 
there were any unauthorised transactions or fraud on the account, it wouldve cost 
Halifax more than £50. But I cant consider what may have happened. Its important 
to point out that in reaching my decision on how much compensation is fair, Ill focus 
on the impact of the issue on Mr and Mrs A rather than the potential cost to Halifax.
I agree Mr and Mrs A were caused some worry and inconvenience, but they havent 
suffered a financial loss. And having given careful thought about the impact on them, 
I think £50 in recognition of the trouble and upset caused is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr and Mrs A are going to be disappointed with my decision, but Im satisfied 
Halifax have resolved this complaint fairly and dont need to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs As 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman