DRN-2588300
The complaint
Miss K complains that a car she acquired with the assistance of finance from Oodle 
Financial Services Limited isnt of satisfactory quality.  
What happened
Miss K entered into a hire purchase agreement with Oodle on 4 May 2019 to buy a used car. 
The car was 5 years old and cost £8,425. Miss K exchanged a car and the shortfall on that 
finance was included in the credit agreement. Miss K borrowed £10,700.81 in total.
At the point of purchase the car had covered just over 31,000 miles. Shortly after Miss K 
took delivery of the car, she reported that the car was losing coolant. The supplying garage 
booked the car in and looked for evidence of a water leak. The coolant was topped up and 
the car was inspected on a ramp. No water leaks were found, and the car was returned to 
Miss K.
Miss K says she was told when she collected the car to keep topping up the water and no 
leaks had been found. Miss K said she continued to drive the car and top up the water 
regularly. Miss K said that she regularly had to top up the car but otherwise there were no 
issues. Miss K says that the problem became gradually worse and she was needing to top 
up the car more often. 
In September 2020 Miss K took the car to a local garage to inspect the brakes and she 
asked it to investigate why she was topping up the car so often. The garage identified that 
there was a water leak which had gradually worsened and caused issues with the sealed 
gasket and engine timing cover.   
Miss K complained to Oodle in September 2020 that the car was not of satisfactory quality 
when it was supplied to her as she said that the water leak had been present at the point of 
sale. Miss K said Oodle said that Miss K needed to provide evidence that the fault was there 
at the point of sale because she had owned the car for a significant period and had travelled 
approximately 9,000 miles since sale. 
Miss K provided a report from her garage which set out the current problems with the vehicle 
but did not express an opinion about whether they were present at the point of sale. Oodle 
telephoned the garage to request this information and the mechanic was unable to confirm 
whether the issues were there at the point of sale. In these circumstances the complaint was 
rejected. 
Miss K wasnt happy and brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator thought that 
the complaint should be upheld. They spoke to the mechanic who inspected the car and it 
was confirmed that the fault was likely to have been present at the point of sale. It is likely to 
have developed over time and become gradually worse, but the repair would always have 
been needed and Miss K did not make the issue worse by driving the car. Our Investigator 
thought that Oodle should pay for the repair and refund Miss K the monthly repayments she 
had made on the car from the point of failure to the completion of the repair together with a 
further £100 to reflect the trouble and upset caused.  
Oodle didnt agree and replied to say in summary that Miss K has failed to demonstrate that 
the issue was there at the point of sale and that given the length of time she had owned the 
car and the miles she had been able to travel it was clear that the fault could not have been 
present at the point of sale. Oodle also enclosed the dealerships comments on the 
investigators view which stated that the car could not have been driven with this fault for this 
length of time. 
As the parties didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for a review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Oodle, as the supplier of the car, was jointly responsible with the dealership for ensuring that 
it was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss K - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age and 
mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it.
The car that was supplied to Miss K was five years old, had been driven for around 31,000 
miles and had a price of £8,425. Satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that 
the components within the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but 
exactly how long that time is will also depend on a number of factors. Clearly, it can be 
reasonable to expect an older car to have more faults and require replacement of items 
more often than a brand-new car.
There was clearly an issue with the car at the outset which resulted in Miss K reporting that 
the car was using coolant. Miss K returned the car for an investigation, but no leak could be 
found. It appears that as no repair was undertaken Miss K continued topping up the coolant 
and the fault got progressively worse.
By the time the car was inspected in September 2020 the car had covered around 9,000 in 
about sixteen months. This is not an excessive number of miles. 
An independent inspection of the car concluded that the car did have a leak, which had been 
present for some time. It was noted that this leak would have been difficult to identify. The 
mechanic who inspected the car said that the repairs the car now needs would always have 
been required.
In these circumstances it seems likely to me that the water leak was there and developing at 
the point of sale. Miss K reports that she returned the car for repair because it was losing 
coolant and she has had to regularly top up the car with coolant on a weekly basis. Miss K 
reports that this has become worse but there have been no issues with performance or 
driving the car that would have alerted her to this issue.
Ive considered the comments of the dealership and noted that the car has passed a MOT. 
However, this doesnt mean that the water leak was not present and given the nature of the 
leak it isnt surprising that it wasnt noted on an MOT inspection. As Miss K was regularly 
topping up the car it seems that this problem has not been evident until it was inspected in 
September 2020. 
On balance Im persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss K.
As the fault is capable of repair, I agree with the investigator that it would be fair for the repair to be paid for by Oodle. I dont think it is fair for Miss K to reject the car as Oodle has 
not had the opportunity to repair the car. But as Miss K has not been able to use the car 
since September, I dont think she should have to pay the instalments on the agreement 
whilst she has been without the use of the car.
Putting things right
Oodle Financial Services should pay for the car to be repaired. It should refund Miss K all 
the monthly repayments made under the agreement from September 2020 until the car is 
repaired. It should also pay Miss K £100 to reflect the trouble and upset caused.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I direct Oodle 
Financial Services Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman