DRN-4065870
The complaint
Ms K complains that Wise Payments Limited (Wise) wont refund the money she lost in a 
scam.
What happened
Ms K says she saw an advert about investing with a company Ill refer to as L on a social 
networking site. She left her details and received a call and then messages from an advisor 
who persuaded Ms K to invest. Ms K was told that she needed to open an account with Wise 
and says that she allowed the advisor from L to move funds from her Wise account using a 
remote desktop application.
Miss K made the payments in the table below to an international account:
GBP account
Date Amount
13/07/21 £7,000
22/07/21 £6,050
26/07/21 £950
26/07/21 £1,000
28/07/21 £2,500
29/07/21 £3,000
31/07/21 £1,200
04/08/21 £3,470
11/08/21 £1,780
Euro account:
Date Amount in 
euros
09/08/21 3,000
17/08/21 2,300
19/08/21 2,870
23/08/21 2,650
26/08/21 1,863
27/08/21 1,511
31/08/21 2,190
The final payment of €550 was to a named individual in a different country.  
Ms K received a withdrawal confirmation which said that £90,832 had been paid to another 
of her accounts with a different bank but this wasnt the case and the advisor stopped 
communicating with Ms K. 
Ms K reported the scam to Wise in February 2022. Wise referred to its account terms and 
conditions and didnt agree to reimburse Ms K. In particular, Wise relied on terms that said 
payments cant be cancelled or recalled, that it cant get involved in disputes and that it isnt 
responsible for losses that arent foreseeable. Wise attempted to recall the majority of the 
payments from the international bank they were sent to but was unsuccessful. It was unable 
to do anything about the final payment because of where it was sent. In recognition of the 
fact, it didnt issue a final decision letter promptly though, Wise credited Ms Ks account with 
£75. 
Ms K wasnt happy with Wises response and brought a complaint to this service. 
Wise told this service that it hadnt received any previous reports about the recipient 
accounts and that all but one of the payments appeared to go to an external international 
account in Ms Ks own name. Wise also pointed to the fact that Ms Ks account was used in 
the manner expected of such an account  for cross border and cross currency payments. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. In 
summary, she said that the account was opened for the purpose of making the payments 
and Wise had no reason to be concerned about them. In any event, even if Wise had 
intervened, the investigator didnt think it would have made a difference as Ms K didnt tell 
another bank the real reason for the payments. 
Ms K didnt agree with the investigators findings. In summary, she said:
- The fact the account with Wise was newly opened doesnt absolve Wise of its 
responsibility to protect her. 
- The payments were unusual. Ms K referenced good industry practice and FCA 
guidance. 
- Wise ought to have known she was dealing with a scammer and the risk of harm was 
foreseeable. It was the first time Ms K had used cryptocurrency and Wise, as the 
expert, should have warned her of the risks involved. 
- An intervention from Wise would have made a difference and shed have ceased to 
make payments. 
The complaint has now been passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry that Ms K has lost so much money in a cruel scam. I need to decide whether it 
would be fair and reasonable for Wise, in all the circumstances of this case, to be held 
responsible for this loss. Overall, Ive decided that it wouldnt and will explain why. 
Wise is an electronic money institute (EMI) and not a bank so isnt subject to the same 
expectations set out in guidance and regulations as a bank when it comes to fraud 
prevention. Wise should execute payment instructions without undue delay. And as a 
starting point there is a presumption that liability for authorised payments is on the payer, 
even where it might have been made as part of a scam. 
I think Wise might be liable for reasonably foreseeable losses if, in breach of its duty of care, 
it fails to act on information which ought reasonably to alert a prudent authorised payment 
institution to potential fraud or financial crime by, or against, its customer. But I dont think 
Wise has failed in its obligations to Ms K in this case. Ms K opened the account with Wise on 9 July 2021 and only used it to make the scam 
payments. When she opened the account, she told Wise the purpose of the account was to 
pay for goods or services abroad. She then made multiple international payments. Wise 
specialises in international payments and the payments were in line with the reason Ms K 
gave to open the account, so there wouldnt have been anything concerning to Wise about 
making international payments. 
I note Ms K has referred to the fact she was making cryptocurrency payments, but I cant 
see anything which suggests Wise should have known this. All payments were international 
payments and all but one were to an account which was seemingly in Ms Ks own name. Ive 
not seen any evidence to suggest Wise knew or ought reasonably to have known the payee 
account was involved in fraud and Wise has confirmed to this service that it hadnt received 
any reports about the recipients of Ms Ks funds. 
I consider Wise ought reasonably to have given a general scam warning when Ms K made 
the first payment of £7,000 though  given its value. Ive asked Wise if it gave Ms K any 
warnings and it has confirmed that as it didnt think there was a scam risk no warnings were 
given. But Im satisfied that even if Wise had given Ms K a general scam warning it wouldnt 
have made a difference in this particular case. I say this because Ms K transferred the same 
amount from her bank account to her newly opened Wise account before making the £7,000 
transfer. Her own bank had concerns about the payment and went an awful lot further than 
providing a generalised scam warning as I think Wise should have done but Ms K 
nevertheless continued with the transfer. 
Ms K lied to her bank about the payment reason when she transferred £7,000 to Wise. I 
understand Ms Ks bank werent satisfied with the responses Ms K gave to their questions 
and invoked the Banking Protocol. Ms K was then able to convince the police she wasnt 
acting under the instructions of a fraudster and the transfer was made. So Im not persuaded 
that a generalised scam warning from Wise would have broken the spell and prevented Ms 
K from making further payments. In the circumstances, I cant fairly hold Wise liable for Ms 
Ks loss. 
Subsequent payments were of lower value and didnt fit the usual pattern of scam 
transactions. They were also nearly all to a payee that became established so were unlikely 
to cause Wise any particular concern  especially given that the account was new. But 
again, even if Wise had intervened it seems to me that its unlikely the loss could have been 
prevented  for the reasons I have set out above. 
Taking into account good business practice and what I deem to be fair and reasonable, Wise 
is generally expected to assist its customers in recovering funds lost in a scam. Wise has 
done so but has not been able to recover any funds. So I think Wise has acted reasonably. 
There was a delay in issuing a final response letter to Ms K, but Im satisfied the 
compensation already paid in respect of this is fair. 
Overall, whilst Im sorry to hear of Ms Ks loss, I cant reasonably ask Wise to refund her.
My final decision
For the reasons stated, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman