DRN-1446887
The complaint
Miss J complains that Capital One (Europe) plc treated her unfairly when it defaulted her 
account. She also complains that Capital One (Europe) plc didnt provide her with the help 
and support she needed when she experienced financial difficulties.
What happened
Miss J had a credit card account with Capital One. She says she borrowed £200 on the card. 
She says Capital One blocked her card and told her she had to pay the whole balance. So, 
she made a payment to the account but Capital One didnt lift the block on her card. She 
says she told Capital One she was experiencing financial and personal difficulties at this 
time. 
Miss J says Capital One didnt treat her fairly. She says it defaulted her account and 
recorded the default on her credit file. She says shes had to pay it a lot more than she 
borrowed, and it has refused to remove the default from her credit file. She says this is 
impacting on her ability to get credit. She complained to Capital One.
Capital One investigated her complaint. It said it had sent her several letters about missed 
payments on her account including a default notice in July 2019. She hadnt responded to 
the default notice and the account was defaulted at the end of August 2019. But it agreed to 
ask its Specialist Support team to review the default due to her circumstances.
The Specialist Support Team reviewed her file. It said her account shouldve been put into a 
specialist arrangement in October 2018 for three months. So, it agreed to refund interest and 
charges for those three months. The refund was £75.79. But it didnt agree to remove the 
default from her credit file.
Miss J wasnt satisfied and so she complained to our service. Our investigator looked into 
her complaint. He said Capital One had accepted that it shouldve referred her account to its 
specialist team in October 2018. It had agreed to refund the interest and charges for three 
months. He thought this was fair and reasonable. 
He said that Miss J made a payment in January 2019 which brought her account back within 
her credit limit. At that time Capital One had stopped all its collections activity. It was only 
when no further payments were made that it had taken further action. It had sent a Default 
Notice in July 2019 and she hadnt responded. Miss J had made a payment after the date 
set out in the default notice. So, he didnt agree that it should remove the default from her 
credit file.
Miss J didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss J says Capital One hasnt treated her fairly. She says shes had personal and financial 
difficulties. Im sorry to read about the difficulties Miss J has experienced.
I can see that Miss J took out the credit card in June 2018. The statements of account 
indicate that shes made two payments to the account  in January 2019 and September 
2019. So, theres been a history of missed payments on the account. Ive looked at what 
Miss J has told us about the reasons why this happened. Ive also considered the actions 
Capital One took when responding to what Miss J told it.
Miss J says she went abroad shortly after opening the account. Due to problems with her 
telephone she says she didnt receive any messages from Capital One about the missed 
payments. She says it wasnt her fault that she didnt get the messages. She hasnt said that 
these missed payments were due to financial difficulties. And she didnt raise the issue about 
financial difficulties with Capital One until October.
I can see that Miss J did speak to Capital One in August 2018 and again in September 2018. 
So, despite the issues with her telephone Im satisfied there was contact between her and 
Capital One in the period after June 2018. And I think she was aware of the missed 
payments. I can see that she did tell Capital One in September and again in October that 
she would make a payment. But she didnt make a payment until January.
The terms and conditions for the account make it clear that when payments are missed 
charges are payable. So, I dont think Capital One did anything wrong when it applied those 
charges to her account in the period up to October 2018.
Capital One has acknowledged that Miss J did tell it about her financial difficulties in October 
2018, but it didnt do anything at that time to assist her.
After she told it about her financial and personal difficulties we wouldve expected it to treat 
her positively and sympathetically. Capital One has accepted that it didnt do everything it 
should have done when Miss J spoke to it in October 2018. Its acknowledged it shouldve 
placed her account into a specialist arrangement at that time. But it says it would only have 
done that for three months. So, its agreed to refund the interest and charges it applied in 
October, November and December 2018.
It is the case that Miss J was able to bring the account up to date in January 2019. And, 
Capital One cancelled its collection activity at that time. So, I think its fair and reasonable 
that its agreed to refund the charges and interest for the period after she contacted it until 
the date when she brought the account up to date. 
I can see that in December 2018 Capital One wrote to Miss J to say it had permanently 
removed the card. The letter explained that the reason for this action was because there was 
a risk she wouldnt be able to repay it what she owed. The letter also said that this action 
would help Miss J since she wouldnt be charged any missed payment or over limit fees. It 
would also reduce the amount of credit she had access to.
Given the circumstances where no payments had been made since the account had been 
opened I think this decision was fair and reasonable. I can also see that no charges were 
applied to Miss Js account after the date of the letter. 
As Ive mentioned above, wed expect Capital One to treat Miss J positively and 
sympathetically after she told it about her financial difficulties. But, that doesnt mean its 
required to write off all charges and interest applied in line with the terms and conditions. I can see that, after refunding the interest and charges from October to December 2018, 
Miss J was still required to repay interest and charges for the period from June 2018 until 
September 2018. For the reasons set out above, I think Capital One didnt do anything 
wrong when it applied those charges. And, no charges were applied to her account after the 
card was removed in December. Interest continued to be applied after December. I note that 
the rate of interest is the rate which Miss J agreed to when she accepted the terms and 
conditions. 
Ive also considered whether Capital One took any other action to assist Miss J before it 
defaulted her account and registered the default with credit reference agencies.
Miss J contacted Capital One again at the end of January 2019 and in February 2019. At 
that time, she was unhappy that Capital One had stopped her using her card. She thought 
that since the account had been brought back up to date she should be able to use the card 
again. Capital One didnt agree. 
I can see that when it stopped the card in December 2018 it told her that its decision was 
permanent. Its also the case that if it hadnt done that then Miss J wouldve been able to 
start using the card again. And, that couldve resulted in further financial difficulties. So, on 
balance, I think it was right not to change its decision about stopping the card.
In March 2019 Capital One wrote to Miss J. It told her it was important that it understood her 
circumstances. It said it was willing to agree ways to assist her and mentioned the possibility 
of a payment plan. 
Having read the letter sent in March 2019, I think its content was positive and sympathetic. 
Miss J contacted Capital One again in June 2019. By that stage she hadnt made any further 
payments to the account. Capital One continued to send her monthly statements and other 
notices about the arrears on the account.
Ive listened carefully to the call on 17 June 2019. During that call Miss J makes it clear that 
she doesnt want a payment plan. She says shes not going to pay any interest or charges. 
Shes willing only to repay the rest of the capital sum shed borrowed. She says she knows 
this may affect her credit file but, given her circumstances, she doesnt agree she should 
have to pay any charges or interest. 
Capital One told her during the call that the charges and interest were valid and it required 
her to set up an arrangement to clear the balance on her account. But Miss J didnt do that. 
She hadnt made any payments at all since January 2019. And Capital One told her it didnt 
agree that she should only repay any capital outstanding on the account.
In July 2019 Capital One sent Miss J a notice of default. The notice set out the amount she 
was required to pay by 26 August 2019. It also said that if this amount wasnt paid the 
account would be defaulted and credit reference agencies would be informed. So, I dont 
think Miss J wouldve been in any doubt about the action she was required to take or the 
consequences if she didnt make a payment. She didnt make a payment by 26 August 2019 
and so the account defaulted.
Given the circumstances, I think Capital One gave Miss J reasonable opportunity to carefully 
consider the situation and to agree a payment plan with it. 
I can see that she made a payment to settle the balance in full on 15 September 2019. But 
that was after the date set out in the notice of default. So, I dont think Capital One did 
anything wrong when it recorded the default with credit reference agencies.Ive also thought about whether Capital One wouldve done more if her account had been 
referred to its Specialist Support Team in October 2018. It says it would only have put a 
specialist arrangement in place for three months. 
I can see that she brought her account back up to date in January 2019. She didnt make 
any further payments until September. And, she wasnt willing to set up a repayment plan to 
clear the arrears on her account  even though Capital One had suggested this to her. So, 
having considered this, I dont think it would have made a difference to the outcome, even if 
the referral to the Specialist Support Team had been made in October 2018.
Capital One has refunded fees and interest charged in October, November and December 
2018. It also didnt charge any fees after December 2018. And, it wrote to Miss J in March 
2019 inviting her to contact it to agree a repayment plan. So, taking everything into account, 
I think it acted fairly and reasonably. 
Im also satisfied that Capital One didnt do anything wrong when it defaulted the account 
and recorded the default with credit reference agencies. So, I dont require it to remove the 
default or to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint against Capital One (Europe) plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2020.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman