DRN-3612739
The complaint
Ms C complains about what happened when she asked Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) to 
redeem the secured loan and mortgage on her property. She said it repeatedly failed to 
confirm both securities would be released, causing great stress and jeopardising her sale.
What happened
Ms C owned a property which provided security for two separate amounts of lending with 
BoS - a business loan and a residential mortgage. Ms C said she had agreed a sale on the 
property, and was due to complete at the end of March 2021, just in time for the buyer to 
benefit from a reduction in stamp duty. Ms C asked BoS to confirm that both charges on her 
property would be removed, and to set out redemption amounts for both the loan and the 
mortgage. But she said BoS repeatedly failed to provide the information she and her solicitor 
needed to progress the sale. Ms C said her sale was delayed, and almost fell through. 
Ms C told us about the stress this had caused to her, and a family member who lives with 
her. She also told us about all the trouble shed been put to, in order to set things right. Her 
buyer had incurred extra costs as a result of missing out on the reduction in stamp duty. And 
her lawyer had to do a considerable amount of extra work, in order to resolve the issue for 
her. Ms C thought BoS should compensate her, but also her buyer and her lawyer. 
BoS accepted that the service it had provided was below the standard it aims for. It had 
given Ms C conflicting information. BoS was sorry that things had gone wrong, and it paid 
Ms C £250 for that. It also said if she had incurred any extra costs, it would consider paying 
these for her, so it asked her to pass on details of what she had paid her lawyer for. 
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. She has confirmed that this case 
falls within our jurisdiction, and I understand that BoS no longer contests this. 
Our investigator said there was no dispute that things had gone wrong here. BoS was first 
asked for redemption figures on 17 March 2021. So that gave BoS a reasonable amount of 
time to provide the requested figures for both accounts secured on the property. And BoS 
was aware of the urgency. But it didnt provide this information until late April 2021. Our 
investigator noted that BoS evidence showed just how many times Ms C and her lawyer had 
contacted BoS to try to resolve this. 
Our investigator clarified for Ms C that our service cant make payments of compensation to 
third parties. So we arent able to make an award to Ms Cs buyer, or indeed to her lawyer. 
Our investigator said we could consider any additional charges that Ms C had incurred, but 
Ms C has confirmed that her lawyer had shouldered the burden of this additional work, and 
had not passed the costs on to her. 
Our investigator said shed taken into account the amount of time Ms C spent trying to 
resolve this issue, and all the concerns she had that the delay would cause her sale to fall 
through. Bearing that in mind, our investigator said that a payment of £250 wasnt enough, 
and she recommended this be increased to a total of £500 including the £250 already paid. 
Ms C didnt think that this amount reflected the level of distress, time and effort that she was 
put through during her dealings with BoS, not to mention the loss incurred by the buyer and 
Ms Cs own lawyer. Ms C has always said that she is really complaining on behalf of herself, 
her lawyer and the buyer. But our investigator explained that neither her buyer or her lawyer 
were eligible to complain about the actions of BoS, and so our service isnt able to make 
awards to them. 
Ms C wanted her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so the case was passed to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
Id like to pause before I consider the appropriate award in this case, to say that although I 
have not set out in detail the mistakes made by BoS (because BoS has accepted its failings) 
I have considered the evidence supplied by Ms C and BoS in full. So I can see just how 
frustrating this has been for both Ms C and her lawyer, with BoS repeatedly failing to provide 
a joined up response to allow Ms C and her lawyer both to understand how much money 
needed to be paid, and to be confident that both charges on her property would be removed 
once the full payment was made. 
The sale of a property is always stressful, but this one, particularly so. I can well understand 
why Ms C has been so upset by these events.
Ms C said she wasnt the only one who was affected by this. And she wanted to complain 
not just on behalf of herself, but also the other parties she considered had been affected  
namely her lawyer, and the buyer. I understand that the buyer had to pay a large amount of 
additional duty because of the delay, and that Ms Cs lawyer has shouldered the burden of a 
very considerable amount of additional work, which she hasnt charged Ms C for. 
Unfortunately, as our investigator set out, the rules of our service do limit the people who can 
complain to us. Ms C can do so, as she was a customer of BoS. But her lawyer and the 
buyer dont appear to have a relationship with BoS which would allow our service to consider 
a complaint from them. And our service cannot compensate third parties, as part of Ms Cs 
complaint. So were not able to make awards to all the people Ms C told us were affected, or 
to increase the award made to Ms C to take account of the effect on other people. 
Ms C has confirmed that she didnt have to lower her sale price because of BoS delays, and 
that she hasnt faced additional legal costs because of this. So I have to think about whether 
a payment of £500 in total (which BoS has agreed to make) is the right amount to provide a 
fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. And I think that, once we bear in mind that 
our service isnt able to provide compensation for any losses incurred by persons other that 
Ms C, or make payments to third parties for distress caused to them, then the amount our 
investigator suggested does provide a fair and reasonable outcome for the parts of this 
complaint that our service is able to address. 
I understand that BoS has already paid Ms C £250, so Ill allow it to count that amount 
towards my total award. My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc must pay Ms C a total of £500 in 
compensation. Bank of Scotland plc can count towards that total, any amount of 
compensation it has already paid for this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2022. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman