DRN-4206293
The complaint
Miss R is complaining that she couldnt deposit money into her eToro (UK) Ltd trading 
account, resulting in substantial losses.
What happened
Miss Rs been trading stocks, cryptocurrencies, and indices with eToro since April 2020. In 
June 2021 she was invited to be one of the early users of a new program, called eToro 
Money. She started using it straight away and was able to deposit and withdraw money 
instantly without any problems. 
On the morning of 4 October 2021, Miss R had three buy positions open, all linked to the 
NASDAQ100 index. The index had been falling and Miss R had been extending the stop 
loss on each position over the preceding few days. On 4 October 2021, she wanted to 
further extend the stop loss. She transferred £2,000 to her eToro Money account and tried to 
move it on to her trading account. The funds showed as debited from eToro Money but 
werent credited to her trading account. Miss R contacted eToro  firstly through the 
customer service team and then through her account manager. But she couldnt get an 
explanation as to what had happened or how to sort it out. Later that day, the price of the 
index fell below Miss Rs stop loss limits and all three positions closed at a loss.
On 7 October 2021, a customer service representative told Miss R theyd experienced a 
temporary issue with the platform and her funds had now been credited to her trading 
account. She complained saying shed suffered considerable losses because the funds 
werent available to her to cover her stop losses. 
By 13 October 2021, Miss R hadnt had a response to her complaint. She was expecting 
eToro to reinstate her positions and by this time the NASDAQ100 was climbing. Because 
she couldnt sell the buy positions at that point, she opened a sell position to hedge them. 
When the index continued to climb, this position also reached its stop loss limit and closed at 
a loss.
eToro didnt reinstate Miss Rs positions or uphold her complaint. They said they werent 
responsible for Miss Rs losses - she could have used other methods to pay money into her 
account, or she could have closed other positions to cover her stop losses. eToro offered 
Miss R $100 as a goodwill gesture but Miss R declined. She said her account manager 
hadnt given her adequate advice and there was no guarantee that other payment methods 
were working. She added that shes a member of eToros Platinum Plus Club which is 
supposed to mean she gets an exceptional level of service and is assisted in making good 
decisions.
Miss R brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Rs 
complaint  she said eToro didnt guarantee that payments to the trading account would be 
instant, and said it was Miss Rs responsibility to ensure there was enough money in the 
account to support her trades. Miss R asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint  so 
its come to me.
I issued a provisional decision on 17 April 2023. I said:
eToro have admitted there was a problem with transfers between eToro Money and the 
eToro trading platform which is what held up Miss Rs money. So I havent looked 
further into what the problem was  instead Ive considered how eToro handled it.
Miss R was used to her transferred funds being available immediately  and this is also 
what the eToro Money promotional information says. So it was reasonable for her to 
expect the money to be available in her trading account. And its understandable that 
she was concerned that it had disappeared from her eToro Money account without 
appearing somewhere else.
Over the course of the day, Miss R tried to get answers as to where her funds were from 
eToros customer service team and then from her account manager. At 9.30am the 
customer service team said they would get back to her shortly and at 11.15am her 
account manager said the money was showing as pending and he would chase it up for 
her. But she didnt hear anything from either.  By 3.30pm, she told her account manager 
she needed the money urgently to extend her stop losses. She said she could see 
eToro Money was down for maintenance and asked explicitly whether she could transfer 
the money to her account through PayPal. The account manager replied, saying he 
would continue to chase. He didnt answer Miss Rs direct question as to whether 
another payment method would work, and he said: please let me know if you happen to 
get stopped out. 
Im inclined to say eToro should have explicitly told Miss R that eToro Money was down 
for maintenance, and that she should try making a direct payment to her trading 
account. Shed made PayPal payments to her trading account without any problems 
before she started using eToro Money so its likely this would have worked. Im also 
inclined to say the account managers invitation to Miss R to let him know if she got 
stopped out implied that eToro would remedy any losses caused by the problem. 
In their response to Miss Rs complaint, eToro said it was Miss Rs responsibility to 
ensure she had enough funds in her account and that she could have done this by using 
a different payment method or to release funds from other open positions. But they 
didnt tell her this when she was urgently trying to avoid her stop losses closing. Miss R 
didnt want to transfer more money in while she had no idea what had happened to her 
first deposit and had been given no assurances about subsequent payments. And she 
wasnt inclined to close any of her positions in order to extend the stop loss as this 
would have crystallised losses on those positions. 
On this basis I think it was reasonable for Miss R not to take any further actions. eToro 
were aware there was a problem with eToro Money but didnt communicate this to Miss 
R. They didnt give her clear information  and it was this that led to Miss Rs stop 
losses being closed. It follows that Im inclined to say eToro should compensate Miss R 
for the losses she sustained as a result.
Putting things right
The first thing to check is whether Miss R could have avoided a stop loss if the money 
shed paid into eToro Money had been available in her trading account. Miss R had 
three positions open at the time she transferred her funds into eToro Money on 
4 October 2021. Im aware Miss R opened two further positions on 4 October 2021  but 
shes told us these were opened in response to the first stop loss closure. So theres no 
need to take these two positions into account when calculating the aggregate stop loss 
she could have achieved with additional funds.
eToro have told us that if Miss R had successfully deposited £2,000 shed have been 
able to move the stop losses on the three open positions to 14,363. The lowest price reached that day by the index was 14,381.95  so this move would have been enough 
to prevent the positions being closed. Miss Rs trading history shows that shed been 
repeatedly extending the stop loss on these three positions so Ive no reason to doubt 
shed have done the same again with those funds.
So if eToros systems hadnt failed, Miss Rs £2,000 deposit would have gone through 
and shed have been able to avoid the closures. And if eToros customer service 
representatives or account manager had given her clear information at the time, she had 
a further £5,000 available so could have used a different payment method to transfer the 
money in and prevent the closures.
It follows that I think eToro should put Miss R in the position shed have been in if shed 
had access to the funds to extend her stop losses. Weve asked Miss R what she would 
have done had the positions not been closed. She said shed have waited for the market 
to turn and held the position until she reached around 10% profit on each position. She 
said shed then have reinvested the funds to open another buy position and held that 
until it reached 10% and extended the stop loss on the sell position that she was using 
to hedge the buy positions. She added that shed have repeated this pattern until the 
market turned downwards again at which point shed have stopped reinvesting in buy 
positions and held the sell position until it was in profit before closing it.
Ive thought about Miss Rs testimony and looked at her trading history, as well as the 
price history for the index she was trading. The NASDAQ100 index gained around 15% 
over the next month or so and if Miss R had held her positions until the market reached 
its peak her gains would have been huge. But thats not in line with Miss Rs testimony 
or her trading history. Miss Rs trading history supports her testimony that shed have 
held the buy positions until she made a 10% gain. Shes traded extensively and closed 
many positions around this level of gain. These positions were unusual in that Miss R 
had historically held positions for only a few hours or occasionally a few days, whereas 
each of these three positions was open for over a week. However, Miss R had extended 
her stop loss repeatedly and paid significant amounts in overnight fees to keep these 
positions open so Im persuaded shed have kept the positions until they became 
profitable. Im persuaded its reasonable to ask eToro to compensate Miss R as if shed 
made a 10% profit on each of these three positions instead of the significant losses she 
did make.  
I appreciate Miss R says shed have then reinvested the proceeds and continued the 
pattern. And I can see that shes followed this strategy at times in the past. But its 
difficult to say when shed have taken the view that the market would fall and stopped 
doing so. Or there may have been other factors that would have stopped her from 
investing the proceeds. So I dont think its reasonable to ask eToro to compensate Miss 
R beyond an initial 10% profit on her buy positions. 
In addition to the buy positions, Miss R opened a sell position to hedge her buy 
positions. Miss R then had to extend her stop loss on this position several times 
because the index continued to climb. She received eToros final response on 2 
November 2021  and the sell position closed soon after. Im persuaded she wouldnt 
have opened this sell position if things hadnt gone wrong and shed been able to extend 
her stop losses on the buy positions  shed have been able to trade her buy positions 
as she wanted so wouldnt have needed to hedge them. So Im inclined to say eToro 
should refund all of Miss Rs losses on the sell position. 
Ive also thought about the impact this has had on Miss R and what level of 
compensation is appropriate for the distress and inconvenience shes suffered. I think 
its fair to say it was foreseeable that Miss R would make significant losses as a result of 
her funds not being available in her trading account. The level of losses Miss R sustained was life-changing and meant that Miss R had to cancel holidays and retract 
her resignation from her job. Whilst I can only consider what would have been 
reasonably foreseeable  which doesnt include Miss R retracting her resignation, its 
clear eToros mistakes had a significant impact on Miss R.
Whilst trading these types of products is generally risky and large losses can be 
sustained, Miss R had previously managed her trading in such a way as to sustain only 
much smaller losses at any given time. So its fair to say Miss R suffered a significant 
shock when initially suffering the losses, which would have been further compounded 
when she realised eToro werent going to reinstate her positions or compensate her for 
her losses. Shes since lived with the distress of that financial loss, for around 18 
months. Miss Rs been clear that its had a significant impact on her mental health. 
Taking everything into account Im inclined to say eToro should pay Miss R £800 to 
compensate her for the distress caused.
Miss R broadly accepted my provisional decision after some clarification but eToro didnt. 
They agreed to refund Miss Rs losses on the three buy positions and pay her the amount 
shed have made if shed closed those positions at a 10% profit. They calculated these 
figures at $25,735.05 and $2,192.50 respectively. They also agreed to pay the £800 Id 
recommended as compensation for distress and inconvenience.
But they didnt think they should refund the loss Miss R made on the sell position. I had 
further correspondence with both parties on this aspect of the redress and Ill set out their 
comments and my decision below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As noted above, Miss R opened the sell position on 13 October 2021 because she was 
expecting the buy positions to be reinstated and wanted to hedge them. I said in my 
provisional decision that she wouldnt have opened this position if things hadnt gone wrong, 
so eToro should reimburse her the loss she made. 
In response, eToro said they dont reinstate positions retrospectively so Miss R shouldnt 
have expected them to  but I explained that Miss R wouldnt have known that. 
eToro then said that Miss R had opened the original three trades at an average rate of 
15,357.75. If she was assuming theyd be reinstated, it would be at that opening rate. But the 
sell position she opened was at 14,774.80  effectively locking in a loss of around $16,500. 
eToro said this $16,500 that she was effectively locking in should therefore be deducted 
from the total loss on the trade when calculating Miss Rs compensation.
I put this to Miss R. Whilst she could understand eToros point she said she would only have 
sustained this $16,500 loss if shed closed all positions simultaneously at the moment she 
opened the sell position. She said she thought it would be fair to assume shed have held 
her sell position long enough until she could close if safely at a minimum of 10% profit or to 
break even. Shed have been able to extend her stop loss to do this by reinvesting the profit 
from her buy positions.
Ive carefully considered all these arguments. Im persuaded Miss R wouldnt have opened 
and held this position if it wasnt for the issues in gaining access to her funds. It follows that 
eToro should pay the full loss on the sell position, an amount of $30,823.77. My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im upholding Miss Rs complaint. eToro (UK) Ltd need to pay her: 
the losses she made on the three buy positions that were open at the time she paid 
money into eToro Money;
the amount shed have made if shed closed the buy positions at a 10% profit;
the loss she made on the sell position she opened on 13 October 2021; and
£800 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience theyve caused.
The losses in relation to trading can be refunded to her trading account but the £800 for 
distress and inconvenience needs to be paid to a bank account of Miss Rs choosing.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman