DRN-4388139
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that Santander UK Plc hasnt returned all the money he lost to a scam.
Whats happened?
Mr T has fallen victim to a purchase scam. In December 2022, he sent £1,800 via faster 
payment to buy three pairs of designer shoes from a seller hed come across on a popular 
social media platform. But the items he paid for were never received and the seller has now 
ceased contact with Mr T and blocked him on social media. 
Mr T raised a fraud claim with Santander. At that time, £1,022.63 of Mr Ts funds remained in 
the receiving account  and this amount has been returned to him. Santander has declined 
to reimburse the remainder of Mr Ts loss under the Lending Standards Boards Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM Code). 
Mr T asked this Service to consider a case against Santander. Our investigator looked into 
things and didnt think that Santander had done anything wrong in this instance. Mr T asked 
for an ombudsmans final decision, so his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision will focus on Santanders actions in its capacity as the sending bank. If Mr T 
wishes to complain about Santander in any other capacity, then he should do so directly in 
the first instance.
Santander is a signatory of the CRM Code, which requires firms to reimburse customers 
who have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Mr T 
has fallen victim to, in all but a limited number of circumstances. Santander has argued that 
one of the exceptions applies in this case. It says that Mr T made the payment without a 
reasonable basis for belief that the payee was the person he was expecting to pay, the 
payment was for genuine goods or services and/or the business or person he was 
transacting with was legitimate.
In thinking about whether Mr T had a reasonable basis for belief, Ive considered what steps 
he took to reassure himself about the legitimacy of the transaction, and whether it was 
reasonable for him to proceed with the payment.
Mr T has said that the shoes were advertised as new and priced at £600 per pair. He 
thought the price was competitive, and only slightly cheaper than could be found elsewhere. 
But from my own research, Ive seen that £600 is about 61% of the retail price for the shoes. 
I accept that sometimes, items are sold for less than the retail price to obtain a quick sale. 
But I think that £600 was a very good price for the shoes  I consider it too good to be true  
and I wouldve expected Mr T, or anyone else, to be put on guard, and to have taken steps 
to protect themselves from financial harm before handing any money over. 
Mr T says that hes purchased goods advertised on social media platforms before without 
issue. Hes also said that the sellers advertisement for the shoes was shared by a mutual 
friend, so he believed the advert was genuine, and that a friend of his had bought and 
received shoes from the same seller.
From the evidence Ive seen, Im persuaded that the seller was operating a scam, and that 
they were tricking their victims into sending payment for items they didnt have in their 
possession or didnt intend to hand over. So, Im not convinced that a friend of Mr Ts bought 
and received shoes from the same seller in absence of any evidence to the contrary  which 
Mr T hasnt been able to provide. I dont think its reasonable to rely on previous successful 
transactions with different sellers as evidence of the legitimacy of a transaction, or mutual 
connections. Particularly in light of the very low price here, I think Mr T ought reasonably to 
have taken extra care before making the disputed payment. For example, he could have: 
requested an explanation for the low price.
asked to see the shoes in person and/or asked for more photos of the shoes.
checked the sellers independent reviews.
asked to pay an initial deposit rather than the full price straight away and/or bought 1 
pair of shoes to start with.
asked to pay for the shoes via a more secure method of payment than bank transfer.
Overall, I dont think I can reasonably conclude that Mr T had a reasonable basis for belief 
on this occasion. So, Im not persuaded that Santander shouldve reimbursed his loss 
because of any obligation under the CRM Code.
Given the nature and value of the payment Mr T made and considering Mr Ts account 
activity in the months leading up to the scam, I wouldnt have expected the bank to have 
identified an APP scam risk. So, Im not persuaded that Santander ought to have taken any 
further action to prevent the scam. And Ive seen that the bank took reasonable steps to 
recover Mr Ts funds when he raised a fraud claim with it, and the funds that remained in the 
beneficiary account to recover have been returned to Mr T.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2023.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman