DRN-1593114
 
The complaint
Miss C says Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk) irresponsibly 
lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about one instalment loan Money Boat provided to Miss C in September 
2018. The loan was for £400 and it was to be repaid in four monthly instalments, the highest 
being £149.97. From what I can see, there is still an amount outstanding for the loan. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Cs complaint and couldnt say the loan shouldnt have 
been given. Miss C disagreed. She said she was in financial difficulties at the time and 
sufficient affordability checks werent made. And so the complaint was passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Money Boat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss C 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Money Boat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Money Boat was required to establish 
whether Miss C could sustainably repay her loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Cs complaint.
Money Boat asked Miss C for information about her income and expenditure and it carried 
out credit checks. Miss C said she earned £1,641 a month. She said her monthly outgoings 
were £800. I cant see anything untoward in the credit checks Money Boat carried out that 
should have prompted further checks. 
I think Money Boats affordability checks for this loan went far enough. This was Miss Cs 
first loan with it and I think its affordability checks were proportionate and sufficient. 
Miss C thought better checks should have been made. But given the loan amount, what was 
apparent about Miss Cs circumstances at the time and her history with Money Boat, I dont 
think it wouldve been proportionate to ask her for the amount of information needed to show 
the lending was unsustainable. There wasnt anything in the information Miss C provided or 
the information Money Boat shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been 
proportionate to start verifying what Miss C was saying. From the information Miss C 
provided, the loan looked affordable so I cant say Money Boat as wrong to have approved 
the loan. 
I was sorry to hear about Miss Cs financial difficulties. I would remind Money Boat that when 
a consumer makes it aware of financial difficulties, we expect it to respond in a positive and 
sympathetic manner. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 14July2020.
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman