DRN-3983153
The complaint and background
Mr K complains that Revolut Ltd will not refund money he lost to an investment scam. For 
the purposes of this decision, all reference to Mr K includes his representative. 
This complaint concerns eight payments Mr K made using his Revolut account in early 2022. 
Mr K was instructed to pay a total of approximately €27,500 by what he thought was a 
genuine investment company, which Ill call L. 
L convinced Mr K that, if he deposited, it would use his capital to trade profitably on options 
such as forex, gold and stocks using its platform. In order to tender the investments, L 
directed Mr K to first send money from his Revolut account to two cryptocurrency exchange 
platforms. These platforms converted the fiat money into crypto, and then the funds were 
sent onwards to L. 
However, it turned out that Mr K had been scammed by L  there were in fact no trades or 
investments made at all. In truth, Mr Ks money was lost once it was sent to L. Rather than 
being placed for investment, the funds were captured by scammers and what Mr K was 
being presented with was fabricated trades on a superficial platform that L had created in 
order to facilitate a scam. 
When Mr K raised his losses with Revolut, it declined to reimburse him. Revolut maintained 
this position when Mr K raised a complaint. So, he brought the dispute to this office. One of 
our investigators ultimately considered that Revolut ought to have intervened with the third 
payment in the series of transactions, and that this wouldve prevented Mr Ks loss from that 
point onwards. Mr K agrees with this. 
Revolut does not agree. It submits that Mr Ks Revolut account was neither the starting point 
nor the end of the payment journey for each of the transactions. Where money was 
transferred into the account from a separate holding Mr K has elsewhere, and the funds 
were sent to an account again in Mr Ks name with the two crypto platforms, Revolut asserts 
that it should not bear sole liability for the loss incurred. 
Because Revolut is not in agreement, the matter has been escalated to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, its clear this case centres around Mr Ks concern that Revolut ought to 
have prevented the payments he instructed it to make. To that end, Ive focused on whether 
its fair and reasonable that Revolut allowed these transactions to go ahead without first 
making proportionate enquiries with Mr K. 
The starting point is whether Revolut had grounds to intervene or even stop the payment 
instructions on the basis of suspected fraud. Revolut is an authorised electronic money 
institution (EMI), providing payment solutions for consumers like Mr K. In accordance with 
the various principles of good industry practice it agrees to follow, Revolut should be on the 
lookout for suspicious activity and endeavour to protect consumers from the risk of financial 
harm posed by fraud. 
Looking at the contested transactions with this in mind, Im not convinced that the first two 
payments were unusual or concerning to the extent that I would expect Revolut to have 
carried out an intervention. They were not so unusual as to amount to a significant deviation 
in the way the account was normally run.
Conversely, when Mr K instructed the third transaction, I find that Revolut should have taken 
steps to enquire with him about the nature of what he was doing. This outlay marked the 
second remittance to the same exchange platform in quick succession on the same day; and 
Revolut is aware that successive payments to the same payee on the same day can often 
be indicative of fraudulent activity. 
In disbursing this second payment, it took the overall value of expenditure for that day to a 
significantly higher level than recent times for the account. This transaction therefore 
represented a trigger for Revolut, as paying this amount over the course of a matter of 
hours marked a considerable deviation from how the account was typically managed. Whats 
more, Revolut was on notice that both these payments were to a crypto exchange platform, 
which demonstrated a sudden change in the typical expenditure type for Mr K. 
All things considered, Im satisfied there were enough triggers of unusual or uncharacteristic 
activity when this third payment was initiated in the sequence of transactions. In my 
judgment, Revolut could and should have realised that something didnt look quite right at 
this point  and that further enquiries would be appropriate before proceeding. 
Accordingly, having concluded that Revolut ought to have intervened with this particular 
payment, next I need to determine what difference (if any) such an intervention wouldve 
made. This is otherwise known as causation. In order for me to require Revolut to refund 
the disputed payments on the grounds of causation, I would need to be satisfied that it 
stepping in wouldve prevented the loss here.
Ive thought carefully about whether the kind of questions that I believe ought fairly and 
reasonably to have been asked by Revolut would have made a difference. While it is not up 
to this office to dictate which questions should be asked, I believe Revolut couldve, for 
example, asked how Mr K had been contacted, whether he parted with personal details in 
order to open a trading account, whether the investment opportunity was advertised on 
social media and whether any third party had control of any of his computer devices. I say 
this because, these are all typical features of cryptocurrency scams. 
Here, its common ground that all of these hallmarks were in play  and I see no compelling 
reason to think that Mr K would have been anything but honest about this if asked. Im 
persuaded that Mr K would have openly disclosed that this had all started with seeing L 
advertised on Facebook, which had led to its agent(s) having an ascendancy over his 
computer to the extent that it had a dominant degree of control of how and when he was 
making payments. Suffice to say, Revolut wouldve been presented with a scenario that strongly aligned with 
common features of known cryptocurrency scams. Under these circumstances, Im 
persuaded that, if bank staff had sought to establish further details about this third payment, 
it seems highly likely that the scam would have been exposed there and then, thereby 
preventing any further losses. Mr K would not have lost the payment and he also wouldnt 
have been persuaded to send the subsequent payments that were lost thereafter.
In light of this, I find it fair to require Revolut to return the third payment and those that 
ensued. Also, it should pay interest on this sum from the dates of payment to the date of 
settlement to reflect the fact that Mr K has been deprived of these funds. Because the 
payments were ultimately funded by transfers from Mr Ks savings account with another 
provider (which were taken out of holding before being sent to his Revolut account), the 
interest should be applied at the rate of the originating savings account.
I have also weighed up whether Mr K should bear a deduction in this award considering his 
acts/omissions and the impact this had on the loss incurred. But its clear that at the time of 
making these payments he believed L to be genuine. There was a lack of compelling 
information about L that I could reasonably expect an inexperienced investor like Mr K to 
have found within the public domain at the material time. 
Moreover, the persuasive and sophisticated techniques employed led Mr K to trust L and the 
information it was feeding him. I'm therefore satisfied there was no contributory negligence 
on this occasion, as Mr K was simply the unwitting and blameless victim of clever fraudsters. 
Revolut was the professional in financial matters: Mr K was an unsuspecting layperson.
Finally, I turn to Revoluts representations. In summary, it contends that other payment 
institutions were involved in the facilitation of this fraudulent investment scheme; Mr Ks 
money came from an account he holds with a bank before being deposited to Revolut, and 
then it was held (even just temporarily) in accounts again in his name with the two separate 
crypto platforms. To put it another way, Revolut has insisted that it should not be entirely 
responsible when at least two other firms were involved with accounts Mr K possesses. 
I acknowledge this argument and have thought carefully about its merits. However, I do not 
agree that, in the individual circumstances of this case, Revolut should not be held liable for 
the loss its consumer endured. I say so because, I judge these losses to have been 
reasonably foreseeable despite the payments, on the face of it, not leaving Mr Ks control. 
The crucial difference between Revolut and the other businesses in the payment journey 
was that Mr K was instructing payments to go to exchange platforms which had the sole 
purpose of converting fiat currency to crypto assets  its my understanding that this service 
is all that the two firms offer. 
Whereas, when Mr K paid money to Revolut from his bank account(s) with another provider, 
the purpose of the remittance could have been for any number of reasons  at that point he 
was merely moving money between accounts held in his name with no clear intention or 
purpose. 
Similarly, Im also not convinced that the two crypto exchange platforms being paid had 
grounds to be disconcerted about receiving payments from a consumer, as this is precisely 
what would be expected. Besides, there is a lack of compelling evidence that Mr K had 
sufficient control of these accounts to safely say the money paid there remained in his 
possession, or that he couldve stopped the funds being moved onwards had precautionary 
steps been taken.   In contrast, at the time of sending funds to these two platforms from Revolut, as an EMI with 
real-time payment screening technology, Revolut had constructive if not actual notice that   
Mr K intended to purchase crypto. Or, at the very least, had some involvement with this 
particular digital asset and was conducting his payments in an uncharacteristic fashion. 
This is important, because, as early as mid-2018 (i.e. nearly four years prior to these 
contended payments), official powers published warnings about cryptocurrency scams. 
While UK consumers are permitted to buy and sell crypto, there has been a considerable 
increase in the frequency of scams whereby this digital currency is an integral part. Its fair to 
say that both the authorities and members of the industry governance panel have repeatedly 
warned of the risks this poses and the need to try and tackle it. 
Indeed, by way of example, both the UK regulator and Action Fraud have given forewarning 
of the increase in scams featuring payments that are seemingly safe as their course is to an 
account in the consumers own name  yet, there is an illicit scheme sitting behind this, 
which ultimately results in a loss for that account holder. 
As I see it, Revolut was the only party that had this insight and the technical ability to identify 
that these were likely payments for crypto investment together with a good enough 
understanding of how these types of scams work to have been able to identify the risk of 
harm from fraud here. Consequently, I find it fair and reasonable that Revolut cover Mr Ks 
losses in light of its failure to act. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require 
Revolut Ltd to:
Refund the disputed payments from (and including) the third payment onwards; plus
Pay interest on the disputed payment amounts at Mr Ks savings account interest 
rate(s) from the dates of loss to the date of refund (less any tax properly deductible).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman