DRN-2438722
The complaint
Mr T complains about five missed payments reported to credit reference agencies by 
Moneybarn Limited (Moneybarn) in respect of a conditional sale agreement (agreement) 
he has with it.
What happened
Moneybarn has reported to credit reference agencies that Mr T missed payments in respect 
of his agreement with it in the following months.
December 2018
March 2019
April 2019
May 2019
September 2019
After Mr T complained to it, Moneybarn issued two final response letters (FRL) saying it 
didnt believe it had done anything wrong in reporting what it had to credit reference 
agencies. The first FRL, dated 2019, addressed the first four entries (December 2018 to 
May 2019) and the second FRL, dated 10 April 2020, addressed the fifth entry 
(September 2019).
Mr Ts complaint was considered by one of our investigators. In summary he came to the 
view that Mr T had complained too late to our service about the first four entries and 
Moneybarn had done nothing wrong in recording what it had done in respect of the fifth 
entry.
In January 2021 I issued a decision concluding that our service only had the power to 
consider Mr Ts complaint about the fifth entry recorded with credit reference agencies by 
Moneybarn and not the first four. And that I would go on to consider the merits of this 
complaint in due course. Ive now done this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I can confirm that Ive come to the same view as the investigator and for the 
same reasons. There is also very little I can usefully add to what has already been said.
Based on what both parties have said and submitted Im satisfied that:
In early-August 2019 Mr T was one month in advance on his agreement payments.
In mid-August 2019 Moneybarn tried to collect Mr Ts August 2019 payment but this 
was unsuccessful because the direct debit mandate had been cancelled by Mr T. 
However, this didnt put the agreement into arrears due to Mr T being one month in 
advance on his agreement payments in early August 2019.
In mid-September 2019 Moneybarn tried to collect Mr Ts September 2019 payment 
but this was unsuccessful because the direct debit mandate had been cancelled by 
Mr T. This put the agreement one month in arrears.
In late-September 2019 Mr T made the September 2019 payment by card and 
reinstated his direct debt.
I understand that having made his September 2019 payment only two weeks late, Mr T is of 
the view that its unfair his credit report shows a missed payment in respect of the same. But 
as explained by the investigator, if the failure for the payment is as a result of something the 
consumer did or failed to do (for example to reinstate a direct debit) then a business is 
entitled to report that payment as being missed however quickly its made good.
So, taking everything into account here, I dont think Moneybarn has done anything wrong in 
reporting what it has to credit reference agencies in respect of Mr Ts September 2019 
agreement payment.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman