DRN-1333488
The complaint
Mr D complains that Acromas Insurance Company Limited hasnt completed the repairs 
required to his car under his motor insurance policy and hasnt given him information about 
the repairs made.   
What happened
Mr Ds car was taken for repairs but he was unhappy that some repairs werent done. 
Acromas instructed an independent engineer to assess the repairs. He thought some repairs 
had been made, but recommended that the vehicle be dismantled to check further work. He 
thought the repairer should invoice for work done and provide photographs to support this. 
Acromas said the repairs had been a through a quality check and it was satisfied with them. 
Mr D wanted a copy of the engineers report and details of what repairs had been done. He 
also wanted a review of his premium when the claim was closed.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She provided Mr D with 
a copy of the engineers report and the repairers invoice. She thought the engineers report 
established that Mr D was right to be concerned about the repairs. She thought Acromas 
hadnt responded to Mr Ds letters or request to review his premium. She thought Acromas 
should pay Mr D £150 compensation for the trouble and upset this caused and provide him 
with a single point of contact. She thought it should carry out the engineers 
recommendations. Acromas agreed to provide a breakdown of the completed repairs from 
the repairer, but this wasnt forthcoming.
Acromas replied that it disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans 
review, so the complaint has come to me for a final decision. It later said the repairer hadnt 
completed a quality check on the repairs but it was unable to get a report on this due to the 
current lockdown.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has raised concerns about possible fraud against Acromas and the way that Acromas 
responds to complaints in general. The investigator has already explained that these arent 
matters that we can consider. She has provided details of the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority, for him to raise concerns about the general practices of Acromas.
But I can consider how Acromas, the underwriter of Mr Ds policy, handled his claim and his 
complaint.
Mr Ds initial concern was about the repairs made to his car. The investigator has already 
explained that this service doesnt assess whether repairs have been carried out correctly as 
this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and engineers. 
Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has considered 
all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision about the repairs.Mr D raised his concerns about the repairs carried out to his car in December 2018. 
Acromas initially told Mr D that the repairs had been quality checked by a qualified engineer 
at the repairers. But it later agreed to put Mr Ds mind at rest and it instructed an 
independent engineer to assess the repairs. I think this was fair and reasonable as its what 
Id expect if there was any dispute over the quality of repairs.
The engineer produced his report in June 2019, six months after the accident and the 
repairs. He made detailed comments on the repair work he could see. And he recommended 
further actions, including dismantling the car for further inspection and obtaining detailed 
invoices from the repairer.
From what Ive seen, Acromas now agrees that the correct quality checks werent carried out 
on the repairs to Mr Ds car. This came to light after the independent engineer requested 
information from the repairer. The repairer said it would arrange for its quality check to be 
done in August 2019. Acromas chased this in November 2019, after the investigator issued 
her view. Acromas told us in April 2020 that it hadnt received the report and couldnt now 
chase it due to the current lockdown.
So Mr D has now been waiting 18 months to find out what repairs were carried out to his car. 
Acromas provided an invoice from the repairer, but the work done wasnt confirmed by the 
independent engineer. I cant see that Acromas had made any attempts to implement the 
recommendations of its independent engineer.
Acromas has said that the current lockdown means that it cant press the garage for the 
required report. But I dont think this is reasonable as it had since August 2019 to obtain the 
report. Not all garages are currently closed. I think Acromas should now implement the 
recommendations of its independent engineers report to provide Mr D with the information 
hes requested.
Mr D has been pressing Acromas for information about his premium for some time. From 
what I can see, this hasnt been provided and Mr D said hes been passed from agent to 
agent without a result. I think Acromas should appoint one agent as a point of contact for Mr 
D and provide him with the information hes asked for about his premium.
Mr D has been waiting a long time for his claim to be settled and for answers to his 
questions. I think Acromas could have done more to resolve these matters earlier. The 
impact for Mr D has been worry and inconvenience. The investigator recommended that 
Acromas should pay Mr D £150 compensation for this. I think thats fair and reasonable as 
its what Id require in similar circumstances.  
I understand that Mr D has had to wait a further six months for Acromas to provide the 
report, but I cant see that this has caused him further loss. Its not our role to punish 
businesses, so I dont require Acromas to increase his compensation.   
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr D, I think Acromas Insurance Company Limited should:
Implement the recommendations of the independent engineers report to 
satisfactorily complete the repairs to Mr Ds car and provide him with a report on the 
work done.
Provide Mr D with one named point of contact to address his concerns about his 
policy premium and the repairs to his car.
Pay Mr D £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of 
his claim. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Acromas Insurance Company 
Limited to carry out the actions set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2020.
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman