DRN-3146875
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way that Cabot Credit Management Group Limited (Cabot) 
pursued him for repayment of a debt which wasnt in his name. Mr M wants Cabot to pay 
more compensation than it has offered.
What happened
Cabot says that in September 2020, it obtained Mr Ms telephone number from an external 
agent which had in turn been supplied the number by a credit reference agency (CRA). 
Cabot called Mr M several times in relation to an outstanding debt.
Mr M wasnt willing to share his personal details with Cabot as he didnt know if the calls 
were genuine. After Mr M complained to Cabot, it offered to pay him £25. 
Once Mr M brought his complaint to this service, Cabot increased the offer of compensation 
to £100. The investigator thought that this was fair.
Mr M disagrees with the proposed outcome. He explains that his job involves antisocial 
working patterns, so he doesnt maintain traditional office hours. Although Mr M only 
answered three of Cabots calls, he says the unanswered calls had a big impact on his 
wellbeing.
Mr M says he tried to block the calls as he was concerned that a scammer might be trying to 
contact him. Mr M says he told Cabot that he didnt have any outstanding credit so they 
couldnt be looking for him. He says he has a right not to be harassed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear about the distress that Mr M has felt because of Cabots attempts to 
contact him about a debt that doesnt belong to him. 
I should explain that this service doesnt supervise, regulate, or discipline the business that 
we cover. My role is not to punish or penalise businesses for the way in which they conduct 
their business  thats the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).  
My role is to look at the problem faced by the consumer, and in this case, decide if Cabot 
has done anything wrong. If it has, we try and put the consumer back in the position they 
wouldve been if the mistakes hadnt happened. And we may award modest compensation if 
we think its fair and reasonable. 
Im aware of Mr Ms complaint about the CRA and appreciate his frustration with the 
situation. Its agreed that Mr M has nothing to do with the debt that Cabot is collecting. But 
overall, I dont find that Cabot was wrong to use the number that it was given for Mr M. 
Cabot was given Mr Ms telephone number by a third party which had obtained it from the 
CRA. And Im satisfied that Cabot checked where the number had come from after Mr M 
complained. So, my decision focusses on how Cabot treated Mr M once it started to call him. 
Although Mr M told Cabot that the debt was nothing to do with him, I can see why it wouldnt 
have accepted this without further information or evidence. I can understand Mr Ms 
reluctance to share his details with Cabot when it called. But without knowing these, Cabot 
felt it couldnt discuss the account further. Once Mr M gave Cabot his details during a 
discussion around 10 March 2021, it was able to confirm that he didnt owe the debt it was 
chasing. 
Cabots records indicate that between 13 February 2021 and 10 March 2021, it made about 
nine calls to Mr M  three of which were answered. The calls were all made after 9:30 am 
and no later than 4 pm and most were spaced out by a few days at a time. So, although 
upsetting to Mr M because Cabot had the wrong person, I cant say the contact was 
excessive or harassing in nature. I appreciate that due to Mr Ms work patterns, he wasnt 
always available during traditional working hours. But I cant see that he made Cabot aware 
of this at the time.
Its possible that Cabot could have given Mr M a better explanation of why the security 
measures were necessary. Cabot couldve also suggested an alternative way for Mr M to 
verify himself, such as asking him to give part of his address. And it mightve been more 
helpful for Cabot to try and find out why the CRA had linked the telephone number to the 
third-party debt rather than leaving it to Mr M to find out why. But Im satisfied that Cabots 
improved offer to pay £100 compensation adequately reflects the impact that these shortfalls 
had on Mr M. Particularly as Cabot wasnt aware of Mr Ms working patterns and he wasnt 
left out of pocket financially. 
Mr M has been in contact with his MP who has received a letter from the communications 
regulator  OFCOM. This says that Mr M was right not to disclose personal information to an 
unfamiliar caller, particularly those who withhold their number and are asking him to carry 
out an action which might have financial consequences. Mr M confirms that Cabot didnt 
withhold the numbers, but it used different numbers making it hard to block all the calls. 
As I explained above, this service isnt a regulator and I cant punish Cabot. If Mr M remains 
concerned about Cabots actions, he can of course raise these further with the FCA or 
OFCOM. But for all the reasons Ive given above, I dont consider Cabots behaviour was 
unreasonable or excessive, so I dont require it to pay more compensation than it has 
already offered.
My final decision
Cabot Credit Management Group Limited has made an offer to pay £100 to settle Mr Ms 
complaint and I think this is fair in the circumstances. So, my decision is that if it hasnt 
already done so, Cabot Credit Management Group Limited should pay Mr M £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman