DRN-3588978
The complaint
Mr F has complained that Indigo Michael Limited (trading as Safety Net Credit (SNC)) gave 
him a facility he couldnt afford. He says, he had to take out payday loans to be able to afford 
the repayments. 
What happened
Mr F approached SNC for a Safety Net facility in September 2017. This was a running credit 
account where a consumer could either request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would 
be deposited into their bank account once their account balance fell below a safety net 
amount of the customers choosing. Mr F was not advanced a payday loan. 
Mr F was initially given a facility with a £200 limit in September 2017. His limit was then 
increased on five separate occasions taking his credit limit to £510 by February 2018. 
SNC has told the Financial Ombudsman Service that as of April 2022, Mr F still owed it 
£647.93.
An adjudicator looked at Mr Fs complaint and she thought SNC shouldnt have granted the 
facility. She said SNC had overestimated Mr Fs income because it had included transfers 
from a third party. As a result, he couldnt afford to take on the facility because his outgoings 
exceeded his income. 
On top of this, the adjudicator could see that Mr F was borrowing from a high cost credit 
provider and she could see in the transaction data there were a number of unarranged 
overdraft fees and unpaid transactions fees. 
SNC disagreed with the assessment. In summary, it said: 
The payments visible from a third party should be included in Mr Fs income. 
These payments were received each month and were for regular amounts. 
The adjudicator went back to SNC and explained why its comments didnt change her mind. 
SNC responded and asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint but it did also say it 
didnt believe the payments being received from the third party were loans  as the 
adjudicator suggested - given the references the payments received under were, for 
example food. 
SNC then provided a summary of the incoming and outgoing payments to that third party  
which showed the credits were usually greater than the debits to the third party  but this 
also shows the amount Mr F received from the third party fluctuated from anything between 
£100 to over £1,100 per month between June 2017 and May 2018.
 
As no agreement could be reached the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the facility was provided. 
To start with, Mr F wasnt given a payday loan. Instead he was provided with a credit facility 
where there was an expectation it would be repaid within a reasonable period of time. 
Interest is charged on any balance at 0.8% per day for the first 40 days following a 
drawdown. After 40 days, a consumer will pay no further interest on that drawdown. 
I think it would be helpful for me to start by explaining that SNC gave Mr F this facility when it 
was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and the relevant regulatory rules in 
place at the time were set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) section of the 
FCA Handbook of rules and guidance. 
Overall, the guidance didnt require SNC to carry out any set level of checks, but it did 
require its checks to be proportionate and any checks had to consider a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent and when the borrowing was due to be repaid. Put 
simply, the lender had to gather enough information so that it could make an informed 
decision on the lending.
Throughout the lifetime that Mr F had the facility SNC maintained read-only access to his 
bank statements, in order for it to allow SNC to monitor Mr Fs finances and to allow it to 
carry out additional affordability assessments. 
Finally, Mr Fs expected repayment would be calculated to be 5% of the amount due plus 
any interest, fees or charges. But, a minimum amount of £20 would be expected to be paid. 
Therefore, when Mr Fs facility was approved for £200 SNC needed to satisfy itself that Mr F 
would be in a position to make the repayment of around £20 each month by carrying out a 
proportionate check. 
In this case, SNC had a fairly good idea of Mr Fs income and expenditure because it had 
read only access to his bank statements for 90 days preceding the facility being granted. It 
then used an algorithm to establish what Mr Fs income and expenditure was, and after 
completing this check, in this case, SNC was satisfied that Mr F could afford the minimum 
repayment towards the facility.  
It also carried out a credit search before the facility was granted. Ive considered the 
summary of results SNC has provided, and, I dont think these results would, on their own  
have led SNC to either decline the application or prompt it to have carried out further checks 
into Mr Fs situation before the facility was approved. 
So, SNC may have reasonably believed based solely on the income and expenditure it 
established from the transaction data that Mr F may have been able to afford his 
repayments. However, there were other indicators within the bank transaction data that has 
led me to conclude that Mr F couldnt afford the facility.  
Having reviewed the transaction data from his bank statements, I agree with the adjudicator, 
that the facility wasnt affordable and knowing this SNC shouldnt have granted it to Mr F. 
Firstly, Mr F, as part of his application told SNC that he received around £600 per month in 
salary and was paid every other week. Looking at the transaction data, the two full months that SNC had access to  July and August 2017 showed he received  from his salary 
£357.80 in July and £432 in August 2017. 
So, I think it is fair to say that Mr F received a modest income, and SNC has already 
explained that it knew from the credit checks that he had around £2,600 of existing credit 
commitments. I think knowing this it ought to have thought very carefully about whether it 
approved this facility for Mr F given the modest monthly income he received. 
However, in this case, SNC has argued that the money he received from the third party 
provided him with an additional income which made the facility affordable. The adjudicator 
said, in her view it was likely to be money that had been lent to Mr F and therefore needed to 
be repaid. 
Ive thought carefully about this, because SNC is correct in as much as if these credits are 
counted then it would provide Mr F with additional income and additional means in which to 
meet his repayments. 
So, what Ive done is review the amounts received from the third party and then what I can 
see being debited to them  as can be seen in the transaction data. Ive done this because if 
Mr F was receiving and paying roughly equal amounts then that would, in my mind show that 
it couldnt really be classed as income because hed have to transfer out that amount of 
money. The consequence of that would be a reduced income to be in line with the salary he 
received, which is mentioned above. 
In July 2017 Mr F received around £408 from this third party, however, after reviewing the 
debits he returned £613 to the third party. So at least, in July, he paid back more than he 
received. In August 2017 he received over £1,100 of bank credits from the third party and 
debited over £700.
To me, its clear the amounts he couldve received from the third party can and did fluctuate, 
but equally, there is an attempt from the debit transaction data that some or all of this was 
retuned during the course of the month. 
So, whether the money he received was a loan and or to supplement his living costs it is 
clear from the data that some or all of the funds were being returned over the course of the 
month. So, while it may not be unreasonable to count some or all of the transfers received, it 
would also be fair to include the debits as well. 
Overall, I think its fair to say that Mr Fs income was modest and the credits received from 
the third party either did very little to boost his income or actually meant Mr F was transferred 
more out of his income. This has led me to conclude, that the facility wasnt affordable given 
the other expenditure that I can see and which is detailed below. 
Also, given the credits fluctuate its very difficult to conclude how much extra money Mr F 
may or may not have had access to each month. While I thank SNC for providing me with a 
breakdown of the credits and debits received from the third party until May 2018, I dont think 
in this case it actually helps. After all it is the transaction data for the months leading up to 
the facility being approved which Ive focused on because this is what SNC needed to 
consider to determine where he could afford the repayments. There is also evidence throughout the 90 days of transaction data SNC had access to that 
Mr F was regularly using and repaying a high cost short term loan provider. In August 2017 
for example, he made repayments to this lender towards three outstanding loans totalling 
£165. On top of this, in this month he also received new loans to the value of £450.
To me, this constant need for new borrowing from a high cost short term lender, as well as 
showing that he had, at times, at least three loans running concurrently, would not only have 
taken up a fair amount of Mr Fs modest income but also, in my view shows that Mr F was 
likely already having problems managing his finances. I say this because he was in need of 
further credit over the 90 days which suggests that he was using these loans to fulfil an 
ongoing need rather than using them to cover a short term cash flow problem. 
On top of this, I can also see payments for what I believe to be car insurance, a gym 
membership and then living costs for things such as petrol and food. Given the modest 
income and the fluctuation in money being paid and received from the third party and the 
evidence of high cost short term credit (and the amounts being paid towards the lending) 
ought to have led SNC to conclude that Mr F couldnt afford the facility  as he was already 
over stretched. 
Overall, given what Ive seen in the transaction data Im upholding Mr Fs complaint, in full 
and I dont think SNC shouldve approved the facility.  
Putting things right
Mr F has asked, in order to put things right that SNC should write off the balance of the debt, 
but I dont think that would be fair. But what SNC cant do, given Ive concluded the 
complaint should be upheld is have charged interest on any of the drawdowns. So, what 
SNC needs to do is ensure that Mr F hasnt been charged any interest for using the facility. 
However, should a balance remain, than it is fair and reasonable for SNC to try and recover 
any outstanding debt. I have therefore seen no reasons to depart from the well-established 
approach the Financial Ombudsman Service takes when putting things right for these sorts 
of facilities. 
SNC shouldnt have approved the facility for Mr F and Ive outlined below what it needs to do 
in order to put things right for him. 
A) Remove all the unpaid interest, fees and charges from the outstanding balance.
B) Treat all payments Mr F has made towards his account since the start as though they 
had been repayments of outstanding principal.
C) If at any point Mr F wouldve been in credit on his account after considering the 
above, SNC will need to refund any overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on these payments, from the date they would have arisen, to the date the 
refund is paid.
D) If there is an outstanding principal balance, then SNC can use any refunds calculated 
as part of C to repay this. If a balance remains after this then SNC should try to 
agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr F. If SNC has previously written-off any 
principal, then it shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up only of principal it 
has already written-off. I would remind SNC of its obligation to treat Mr F fairly and 
with forbearance. 
E) SNC should remove any adverse payment information recorded on Mr Fs credit file 
about this facility from the start.*HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give 
Mr F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Finally, if Mr F asks, I think its fair and reasonable for SNC to provide a breakdown of the 
compensation calculations. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Fs complaint in full.
Indigo Michael Limited should put things right for Mr F as directed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman