DRN-3970142
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with a cancellation charged by Atlanta Insurance Intermediaries Limited 
(trading as Insurance4CarHire.com), for cancelling a car hire excess policy. 
What happened
Mr M purchased a car hire excess insurance policy. The policy provided cover from 3 
February 2022, for a period of one year, and was to cover the geographical area of Europe. 
Mr M said that in August 2022, he needed to make a mid-term adjustment of his policy, so 
that the policy also covered the USA. Mr M said he went through Atlantas website to do this 
and was quoted for the upgrade. But when he went to proceed with the transaction the 
system then told him it wasnt possible to carry out the transaction  and he would need to 
purchase a new insurance policy if he wanted to make this sort of change.
This was surprising to Mr M. Hes explained that he had this same policy for a number of 
years  and there had been times when he needed to make mid-term adjustments of the 
coverage area before and been able to do it. So, he considered that it was unfair to stop him 
for doing this now, without him being informed of the chance in policy in relation to mid-term 
adjustments.
Mr M raised his concerns with Atlanta. As Atlanta wasnt the insurer of the policy, it didnt 
make the decision to stop mid-term adjustments. But Atlanta noted that it had been correct 
to tell Mr M he would need to purchase a new policy. Atlanta also offered Mr M £19.45, 
which it said was a pro-rata refund of premium, less a £10 service fee.  
Mr M did purchase a new policy, as he needed cover for the USA. But he didnt agree the 
above was fair. 
Atlanta maintained its position on the matter. As Mr M remained dissatisfied, he referred his 
complaint to this service for an independent review. 
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They didnt 
consider it was unfair for Atlanta to take a service charge and said the policy terms did 
explain this would happen. 
Mr M didnt agree. Because Mr M didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. So, I dont require Atlanta to do 
anything differently in relation to the service fee. 
I appreciate that Mr M will be disappointed with the outcome of this complaint  its clear he 
feels strongly about the matter. But Id like to reassure the parties that I have considered all 
information provided when coming to my decision. And have explained my decision below.
It is however important to note that this case is only in relation to Atlanta  and its charging 
of the service fee. I understand Mr M is also dissatisfied the insurers decision not to allow 
mid-term adjustments to alter the area of cover on the policy. As this is something the 
insurer is responsible for, not Atlanta, Ive not considered those concerns as part of this 
complaint. 
Ive thought about whether Atlanta acted fairly when it processed the cancellation of Mr Ms 
policy. And Im satisfied it did.
Mr Ms policy details the following:
Cooling off period and Your right to cancel Your Policy
()
If the Period of Insurance has begun, the Policyholder can cancel at any time after the 14-
day cooling off period and they will receive a pro rata refund of any premium less any 
customer service charge for the remaining Period of Insurance providing they have not 
made and do not intend to make a claim.
Mr Ms demands and needs statement also explained the above. So, Im aware that Atlanta 
would provide a pro-rata refund, on behalf of the insurer. And would take its customer 
service charge from this refund.
Atlanta did provide Mr M with the pro-rata refund on the insurers behalf. And, in line with the 
policy terms, it did keep a customer service charge for its work. I dont think thats unfair. It 
isnt unusual for an insurance intermediary, such as Atlanta, to charge for its services. I 
would however expect the charge to be reasonable and proportionate to the work carried 
out. 
Atlanta has provided a screenshot of what Mr Ms premium was made up of. And that 
included the £10 service charge. I dont think thats an unreasonable or disproportionate 
charge for administering the policy. So, I dont find Atlanta did anything wrong in charging it. 
As I dont think Atlanta did anything wrong in charging the customer service fee, and that 
figure is reasonable, I dont require Atlanta to do anything differently in relation to this 
complaint. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Atlanta Insurance Intermediaries Limited (trading as Insurance4CarHire.com) to do anything 
differently in respect of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman