DRN-1830641
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the settlement offer Aviva Insurance Limited has made for his car after 
it was written off.
What happened
Aviva valued Mr Ss car at £3,000 after it was written off. It paid Mr S this amount in 
settlement of his claim (minus his excess), as well as £150 for some personal belongings.
Mr S complained to Aviva about the valuation. Aviva didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. But it 
said thered been unnecessary delays in its handling of Mr Ss claim, so it offered him £300 
in compensation  which Mr S accepted.
 
Mr S brought his complaint about the valuation to us. The investigator who looked at it didnt 
uphold it. He thought the value Aviva had offered was reasonable and recognised the 
approach followed by the motor industry.
Mr S has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
Mr S has also recently raised another issue with us connected to his claim. Hes bringing a 
new complaint to us about it. So I wont be looking at it in this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. I know this will disappoint him 
but I hope the reasons Im about to give help him to understand why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
My starting point is Mr Ss car insurance policy. This says if Mr Ss car is lost, damaged or 
stolen, the most Aviva will pay is its market value at the time of the loss. The policy goes on 
to say the market value is the cost of replacing Mr Ss car with one of the same make, 
model, specification and condition.
I should say my role here isnt to place a value on Mr Ss car. Instead, its to decide if Avivas 
settlement offer is within a fair and reasonable range. We think the fairest way for an insurer 
to decide the market value for a car is to look at the main motor industry guides (Glasss, 
CAP, Cazana and, on occasion, Parkers). We think these are persuasive because their 
valuations are based on nationwide research and likely sales figures. The guides dont have 
access to actual retail selling prices but use advertised prices and auction prices to work out 
what likely selling prices wouldve been.  
Ive looked at the valuation report Aviva got from the engineer who assessed Mr Ss car. It 
says the engineer assumed the car was in good pre-accident condition. It gives three 
mileage-adjusted valuations  from Glasss (£2,220), CAP (£2,309) and Parkers (£2,800). 
The engineer added in £350 for some of the extras on Mr S car. And the report says he also 
researched the market place looking for similar vehicles to confirm the guide figures are a 
realistic representation of the market. The case file Aviva sent us includes adverts for similar 
cars that range from around £2,800 to £3,900. And I understand Mr S, who says his car was 
in immaculate condition, sent Aviva adverts for similar cars selling for substantially more 
than these prices.
Our investigator also got valuations from the motor industry guides. The mileage-adjusted 
valuations he got were: Glasss: £3,340, CAP: £2,309 and Cazana: £2,932.
Establishing the pre-accident replacement cost of a car isnt an exact science. Its usually 
possible to find adverts for cars for sale at a much higher figure than someone would 
actually have to pay if they shopped around, as Mr S has done here. Ive noted Mr S says 
his car was a special classic car and in mint condition. And I can see he told Aviva hed 
spent significant amounts of money on the car in the preceding year  including (among 
many other things) getting new tyres, a new battery and a full service. But these things are, I 
think, more likely to maintain the value of a car than increase it. 
So, based on our research, and looking at what Aviva has done, Im satisfied the amount 
Aviva has assessed to settle Mr Ss car is fair and reasonable, takes into account the 
specification of Mr Ss car and is in line with the terms of his car insurance policy. 
Ive taken into account all of Mr Ss comments on this complaint but they dont change my 
conclusions. I understand Aviva has already paid Mr S its settlement amount of £3,000 
(minus his excess as well as the compensation and personal belongings payment Ive 
already mentioned). It follows that I dont think Aviva needs to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman