DRN-3921069
The complaint
Mr M complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) mishandled his claim 
on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a sports utility vehicle, made in about 
2006 by a well-known manufacturer of vehicles for use on and off the road.
Since at least late August 2013, Mr M had the vehicle insured on a comprehensive policy 
with RSA.
In mid-March 2022, Mr M reported to RSA that hed lost the keys to the vehicle. After a few 
days, RSA supplied a courtesy car.
RSAs repair garage said it would take 10 months to supply a replacement key.
In late June 2022, RSA said the vehicle was a total loss. RSA said the pre-loss value had 
been £2,385.00 and the salvage amount would be £620.00. RSA asked Mr M to return the 
courtesy car and he complained to RSA about that. Mr M didnt agree the pre-loss value.
In mid-July 2022 Mr M sourced a replacement key in a few days. 
By a final response dated 20 July 2022, RSA said it would pay for the courtesy car until 7 
July 2022. RSA offered Mr M £40.00 for the four days he spent without a courtesy car at the 
beginning of his claim.
In late July 2022, Mr M and RSA agreed a pre-loss value of £3,200.00, with a deduction of 
£928.00 for salvage value. RSA paid the balance and Mr M kept the vehicle.
In mid-August 2022, Mr M told RSA hed sourced a replacement key. He also complained 
that hed had to pay for the courtesy car from 30 June 2022 rather than 7 July 2022.
By a final response dated 15 September 2022, RSA turned down the complaint. It said that 
Mr M hadnt responded to its requests for details of the repair and for the car hire invoice.
Mr M brought his complaint to us in mid-December 2022.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. The investigator 
thought that RSA had responded fairly to the complaint.
Mr M disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
He used his vehicle to tow a trailer for work. So he asked RSA to provide a courtesy 
vehicle similar to his. RSA supplied a small car that wasnt suitable for his needs.
RSA said his vehicle was repairable.
He doesnt accept that RSA explored other avenues to source a key.
RSA took too long to decide that his vehicle was a total loss.
Before he accepted RSAs final offer of £3,200.00, he contacted a garage. It told him 
it could supply a key within a few working days. It did so and he has sent us the 
invoice dated mid-July 2022.
He wasnt aware that RSA would register his vehicle as a write-off, decreasing its 
value.
He had to pay for an MOT test.
He is out of pocket.
RSA caused his vehicle to be off the road from mid-March to early September 2022.
He is not well. 
RSA has caused him stress.
The investigator sent RSA the invoice dated mid-July 2022. RSA said Mr M didnt mention 
that he had a key when it settled the claim as a total loss and he agreed the valuation on 25 
July 2022. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im sorry to hear that Mr M has been unwell and undergoing treatment.
From the MOT history of his vehicle, I see that it passed an MOT test in early March 2021.
For the year from August 2021, Mr M renewed his policy. From what Mr M and RSA have 
each said, he hadnt paid for the optional extra of the Guaranteed hire car upgrade. So 
RSA only had to provide a small hatchback and only while Mr Ms vehicle was being 
repaired, not if it was a total loss.
Mr M has shown us evidence that he taxed the vehicle for the year from 1 March 2022. 
However, the MOT history doesnt record any test on Mr Ms vehicle when it was due in early 
March 2022. And he couldnt have used his vehicle on the road until he got another MOT 
certificate. When Mr M made his claim in mid-March 2022, his car was already off the road, 
and I dont hold RSA responsible for that.
In my view, the incident and the need to make a claim were bound to cause Mr M some 
inconvenience and distress.
He was entitled to no more than a hatchback courtesy car. So I dont consider that RSA 
treated Mr M unfairly by providing a car that was smaller than his vehicle and not suitable for 
towing a trailer.
I accept that in early June 2022, RSA sent Mr M a text saying that his vehicle was 
repairable.
RSAs policy terms allowed it to decide whether to wait for repair or whether to treat the 
vehicle as a total loss.I consider that RSA made reasonable enquiries about replacement keys. I keep in mind that 
the claim was for lost keys for an older vehicle and the estimated wait was of ten months. In 
that context, I dont consider that RSA treated Mr M unfairly by saying that his vehicle was a 
total loss. 
RSA took about three and a half months to reach that decision. Thats longer than I wouldve 
expected. 
However, RSA provided Mr M with a courtesy car for almost all of that time. Indeed, RSA 
provided a car for a couple of weeks after it decided the vehicle was a total loss. So I dont 
find it fair and reasonable to direct RSA to pay Mr M compensation for the time it took to 
reach its decision that the vehicle was a total loss.
Mr M still hasnt provided an invoice or other documentary evidence that he paid for the hire 
car between 30 June and 7 July 2022. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct RSA to 
reimburse him for any such cost.
From what Mr M has said, and from the garage invoice, Mr M knew in mid-July 2022 that he 
had sourced a blank key at a cost of about £167.00 before he accepted the total loss 
settlement in late July 2022. I can understand that Mr M feels that he is out of pocket for the 
£167.00. But RSA paid the pre-loss market value (less the salvage fee). So I dont find it fair 
and reasonable to direct RSA to reimburse him £167.00 in addition.
As Mr M accepted the total loss settlement, I dont consider that RSA treated him unfairly by 
recording his vehicle as a total loss. I accept that this will depress the value of the vehicle.
The MOT history shows that Mr Ms vehicle passed an MOT test in early August 2022. That 
mustve been overdue since before the claim in March 2022. So I dont hold RSA 
responsible for the cost of the test. 
Mr M contacted RSA again in mid-August 2022. 
Whilst I accept that Mr M has found the claim stressful, I dont consider that RSA treated him  
unfairly. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct RSA to pay compensation or to do any 
more in response to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman