DRN-3880795
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) cancelled his car
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr J purchased a car insurance policy with Advantage. During the policy application, Mr J
said he had nine years no claims discount (NCD). After Mr J purchased the policy,
Advantage contacted Mr J to ask for proof of his NCD.
Mr J sent a copy of his NCD to Advantage, however they said this was already being used
on a separate policy with Advantage, so couldnt be applied to the new policy at the same
time.
If Mr J had said he had zero years NCD rather than nine when taking out the policy, it would
have been £124.53 more in premiums. So, Advantage debited this amount (with an
additional £30 admin fee) from Mr Js bank account. Mr J was unhappy with this, so he
completed a chargeback successfully via his bank. Advantage tried to take the amount
again, but as they were unable to, they cancelled Mr Js policy.
Mr J was unhappy with Advantage and approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things and upheld the complaint. She said that she accepted
there was an overlap in the periods Mr J was trying to use his NCD across two policies. But
she said the first policy wasnt renewed and Mr J should have been able to use his NCD on
the second policy at that point, so she said Advantage shouldnt have cancelled his policy.
Therefore, the investigator said Advantage should remove records of cancellation from
internal and external databases, refund the cancellation fee and pay Mr J £100
compensation.
Advantage didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
I reached a slightly different outcome to our investigator, including what Advantage needed 
to do to put things right. So, I issued a provisional decision, to give both parties an 
opportunity to comment on my provisional findings before I reached my final decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im issuing a provisional decision. Ive reached broadly the same outcome as our
investigator, but for some additional reasons. And Ive provisionally reached a slightly
different outcome on what Advantage needs to do to put things right. So, Im issuing 
a provisional decision to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my 
provisional findings, before I reach my final decision.
Mr J already had an insurance policy with Advantage when he took out an additional 
policy for another vehicle to start on 2 August 2021. Ill call the original policy, policy 
A. And the second one taken out to start in August 2021, policy B.
When purchasing policy B, Mr J said he had nine years NCD, and this generated the 
price applicable with that discount, which Mr J went ahead with. After the purchase, 
Advantage contacted Mr J to ask for his NCD proof.
Mr J submitted his proof of NCD showing nine years. However, this was from policy 
A which was still live at that time and not due to end for another month  on 
4 September 2021. As the NCD were already in use on a live policy, Advantage 
reduced policy Bs NCD to zero, which generated an additional premium of £124.53 
plus a £30 administration fee.
Advantage then took that additional amount from Mr Js bank account. Mr J was 
unhappy with this, so he completed a successful chargeback via his bank. Advantage 
again tried to take the amount, but as this couldnt be collected, Advantage cancelled 
Mr Js policy on 29 November 2021.
However, at the point the policy was cancelled on 29 November 2021, policy A had 
already ended (on 4 September 2021). So, the NCD were no longer in use on policy 
A and free by this point to use on policy B.
I agree with Advantage that the NCD were already in use when Mr J first incepted 
policy B in August 2021. So, I dont think they acted unreasonably in reducing the 
NCD applied to policy B to zero at that point, as they were already in use on policy A. 
However, I dont entirely agree with the actions taken by Advantage following that, or 
that they were fair or reasonable.
Mr J said he had nine years NCD when he was actually already using them (and the
information he was given at point of sale said they couldnt be used if they were 
already being used elsewhere). Therefore, Mr J should have said he had zero NCD 
when taking out policy B. In the event of a qualifying misrepresentation during a sale, 
accepting it was careless, an insurer has certain remedies under the relevant law  
the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). The 
remedies in CIDRA in a situation such as this where this is no claim and an insurer 
would have charged a higher premium is to proportionately settle future claims, or to 
cancel the policy with reasonable notice.So, Advantage werent entitled to collect the premium as that wasnt a remedy 
available under CIDRA. Instead, Advantage could either have proportionately settled 
future claims, or cancelled the policy with reasonable notice. Wed only agree it 
wasnt unreasonable to take the premiums if this is something Mr J had explicitly 
agreed to with Advantage, outside of the relevant law which applies  CIDRA  and 
after Advantage had fully explained everything to Mr J.
Whilst technically Advantage could have cancelled the policy under CIDRA (but not 
on the basis they couldnt collect premiums from Mr Js account) they would need to 
with reasonable notice, and we would expect Advantage to allow Mr J the opportunity 
to do so in the first instance, before Advantage went ahead and did so. But this 
wasnt something that was discussed with Mr J. Instead, Advantage cancelled the 
policy when it couldnt collect a premium, which it shouldnt have been collecting 
without agreement in any event.
However, regardless of this, policy A actually ended 33 days after policy B was taken 
out. The NCD were free to use on policy B at that point. But Advantage didnt 
recognise this, despite them being the insurer for policy A. So, Advantage should 
have been aware that policy A had ended. Instead, Advantage went ahead with the 
action they took in trying to debit the premium  incorrectly, and eventually cancelling 
Mr Js policy.
In addition, there was only an overlap in the NCD being used elsewhere of 33 days. 
So, it would only have been 33 days which the higher premium was applicable for. 
Instead, Advantage  incorrectly  tried to take an additional amount based on 365 
days at the higher premium. The correct additional premium for that period would 
only have been around £11.26, rather than £124.53 (after removing the £30 admin 
fee) which Advantage was incorrectly trying to take.
So, whilst there was a short overlap where the NCD was being used on both policies, 
the additional premium for this period only was minimum, and certainly not the 
amount that Advantage (incorrectly) attempted to deduct from Mr J, which then 
ultimately resulted in the cancellation of his policy.
Advantage has said that the vehicle on cover under policy A is showing on the Motor
Insurance Database as insured elsewhere. Our investigator looked into this point 
when raised by Advantage. That vehicle has been transferred to a family member of 
Mr J, who is insuring elsewhere, in their own name, without the use of Mr Js NCD 
from policy A. So, Im satisfied that the NCD was free to use by Mr J on policy B 
when policy A ended  and consequently the only period they werent able to be 
used was the first 33 days of policy B.
Advantage has also said Mr J has another policy elsewhere so they say he cant 
have the NCD to use in any event. However, this is a completely different policy for a 
different vehicle with its own separately accrued set of NCD. And Advantage 
accepted this when Mr J took out policy A, and they accepted the separate NCD 
were free to use then  which then should have been able to be used on policy B 
when policy A ended.With this in mind, I dont think the actions Advantage took here were fair or 
reasonable. Ultimately Advantage shouldnt have attempted to deduct the premium, 
the premium they tried to take also was far greater than what it should have been as 
the NCD were available to use 33 days after policy Bs start, and the cancellation 
shouldnt have followed from that based on Advantage not being able to collect that 
amount (as that amount wasnt due or an appropriate remedy available to Advantage 
under CIDRA).
When the policy was cancelled, Advantage charged Mr J time on risk based on the 
incorrect policy premium pro-rata. This is because it was based on the premium Mr J 
had already paid, plus the amount Advantage  incorrectly - said was due (£124.53 
plus a £30 admin fee) for the year divided by the days on risk - plus a cancellation 
fee.
However, as I say, the NCD were available to use when policy A ended. So, the pro-
rata at the higher amount should only have been from start to this point, and the pro-
rata should have been for the lower amount from policy As end to point of 
cancellation of policy B on 29 November 2021. So, unless anything changes as a 
result of the responses to my provisional decision, Ill be directing Advantage to 
recalculate the pro-rata amount Mr J owed and to refund him the difference with 8% 
simple interest from date of cancellation to date of settlement. I also note that the £30 
admin fee was already refunded so doesnt form part of the pro-rata charges.
As I dont think the actions that were taken, which ultimately ended with cancellation 
of the policy, were reasonable, Im also minded to say Advantage should be covering 
the £45 fee associated with the cancellation of Mr Js policy which was also deducted 
from his refund amount. 8% simple interest should also be added to this amount from 
date of cancellation to date of settlement. Im also minded to direct Advantage to 
remove any records of policy cancellation for non-payment internally and externally.
Mr J has said he no longer has this vehicle (as he has transferred it to his family 
member) so he doesnt need insurance cover for it anymore. Therefore, Advantage 
also need to provide Mr J with his proof of nine years NCD, in case he needs it for 
the future.
In addition, our investigator said that Advantage should also pay Mr J £100 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused as a result of what 
happened. Im also minded to conclude this amount is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. So, unless anything changes as a result of the responses to my 
provisional decision, Ill also be directing Advantage to pay £100 compensation.
Therefore, I was minded to uphold the complaint in part and to direct Advantage to:
Recalculate the pro-rata refund amount based on the higher and lower premium
when the NCD was and wasnt in use on another vehicle
Add 8% simple interest from date of cancellation to date of settlement
Cover the £45 cancellation fee that has been deducted from the refund, with 8%
simple interest added from date of cancellation to date of settlement
Remove all records of cancellation for non-payment from internal and external
databases
Provide Mr J with his nine years NCD proof
Pay Mr J £100 compensationThe responses to my provisional decision
Mr J responded and accepted the provisional decision.
Advantage responded but they didnt agree. They said under CIDRA 2012 a consumer must 
take reasonable care not to provide mis-information. They said Mr J had input nine years 
NCD when it was already in use on another vehicle  and the website said it couldnt be 
used on more than one vehicle. They said that when Mr J sent proof of his NCD, this is 
where they discovered it was already in use and they adjusted the premium accordingly. 
Advantage recognised that I said in my provisional decision that collecting the premium 
wasnt a remedy under CIDRA. But they say if a claim had been made there would have 
been a shortfall in the premium paid which means there would be a shortfall in the claim 
settlement. And they say this would have outweighed what the difference in premium would 
have been, so Advantage say they cant agree their approach of taking the additional 
premium was unreasonable. They say they arent able to proportionately settle a claim which 
hasnt occurred, and this is why they charged the premiums, so Mr J wouldnt have been in 
that position if there was a claim in the future.
In addition, Advantage said Mr J was unhappy with the premium being charged, and there is 
no evidence to show Mr J would have cancelled the policy if they had given him that option.
Advantage has also said that this service is effectively saying they should have allowed Mr J 
to use the NCD on two vehicles at the same time, but that wouldnt be treating other 
customers fairly. They say that whilst I had said the NCD were available to use when the 
original policy ended, that is besides the point and they question how they could know or do 
that when the process is automatic. They say Mr J completed a chargeback for the 
additional premium they collected and as they couldnt collect it again, this is why the policy 
was cancelled.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive carefully thought about the provisional conclusions I reached and the responses. 
Having done so, my final decision remains the same as my provisional decision, and for the 
same reasons.
Firstly, I should clarify that Advantage has said that my provisional decision effectively says 
Mr J should be able to use his NCD on two vehicles at once, but that wouldnt be treating 
customers fairly. However, this isnt what Ive said here, and this is why Ive considered the 
misrepresentation and what should have happened had Mr J declared the correct amount 
when taking out the policy. Ive then gone on to consider the remedies under the relevant Act 
applicable in cases of misrepresentation. And Ive also taken into account the NCD being 
unavailable and then available in what Advantage needs to do to put things right - so I 
havent said Mr J can use his NCD on two vehicles at the same time.
But to be clear, the relevant Act in this scenario and case is The Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance 
contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
The first point for me to consider is whether Mr J failed to take reasonable care not to make 
misrepresentation. I agree that he did as the NCD were already in use on another vehicle 
(for a short period of overlap) and the sales process told Mr J they couldnt be used on more 
than one vehicle. So, I accept Mr J failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when he said nine years rather than zero (at that specific point).
The next question I need to consider is whether it is what CIDRA describes as a qualifying 
misrepresentation. That is, would Advantage have done anything differently had they known 
the correct information. Had Mr J said zero NCD a higher premium would have been 
charged by Advantage. So, Im satisfied there was a qualifying misrepresentation.
And it is for Advantage to show the misrepresentation was either deliberate or reckless, and 
if they havent, then it is treated as careless. Im not persuaded here that Advantage has 
shown Mr Js qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless  so Im satisfied it 
should be treated as careless.
Under CIDRA, there are a number of remedies an insurer can take in the event of a careless 
qualifying misrepresentation  and here, where a higher premium would have been charged. 
These include both if a policyholder is in a claim situation or not. Mr J wasnt in a claim 
situation. So, in summary, the applicable remedies under CIDRA for the position Mr J was in 
were:
Proportionately settle future claims
Terminate the contract with reasonable notice to the consumer
These remedies, for the situation Mr J was in, dont include taking the additional premium 
that would otherwise have been charged. But that is what Advantage did - without Mr Js 
agreement. 
Instead, under CIDRA, Advantage could either proportionately settle future claims or cancel 
the policy with reasonable notice (but our service would expect a consumer to be given the 
opportunity to cancel the policy first). But this wasnt an option given to Mr J. So, Im satisfied 
that Advantage acted outside the remedies available to them under CIDRA by taking the 
additional premium. 
I would only agree it wasnt unreasonable for Advantage to take the premiums if this was 
something Mr J had explicitly agreed to outside of the relevant Act which applies  CIDRA  
and after Advantage had fully explained everything to Mr J including the options and 
available remedies.Instead, Advantage took a premium they werent entitled to under the relevant Act or 
remedies which applied. Mr J then did a chargeback, and Advantage then cancelled the 
policy when they were unable to re-debit the premium. But for the reasons explained above, 
Advantage shouldnt have been trying to collect the premium in any event. 
So, I dont think Advantage acted fairly or reasonably, or in line with the remedies available 
under CIDRA.
As I explained in my provisional decision, when Advantage tried to re-debit the additional 
premium (which wasnt an option under CIDRA), the NCD were no longer in use on another 
vehicle. So, they were free to use on the policy in question here.
Therefore, the additional premium would only have been applicable for the first 33 days, as 
the nine years NCD would have been available for the remaining eleven months of the 
policy. So, the amount Advantage were trying to collect wasnt the right amount either. And 
Advantage were the insurer of the previous vehicle, and this was evident from the NCD proof 
Mr J sent  which also outlined the end date of that policy. So, Advantage were aware that 
the NCD were no longer in use when the original policy expired and after they tried to re-
debit the premium and cancelled the policy.
With the above in mind, I dont think the actions Advantage took here were fair or 
reasonable. Ultimately Advantage shouldnt have attempted to deduct the premium (under 
CIDRA). The premium they tried to take was also far greater than what it should have been 
as the NCD were available to use 33 days after the policy start. And the cancellation 
shouldnt have followed from that based on Advantage not being able to re-debit that amount 
(as that amount wasnt due or an appropriate remedy available to Advantage under CIDRA).
My views on what Advantage needs to do to put things right remain as outlined in my 
provisional decision, and for the same reasons already explained, so I wont repeat that in 
full here.
To summarise, the time on risk charged at cancellation was based on the incorrect pro-rata 
amount, as Advantage didnt take into account Mr J had nine years NCD to use for around 
eleven months of the policy. So, Advantage need to recalculate the pro-rata time on risk 
charge based on the higher premium amount when the NCD was in use elsewhere, and the 
lower premium amount when they were free to use, until the point the policy was cancelled. 
8% simple interest also needs to be added to any refund due from date of cancellation to 
date of settlement. 
Advantage also need to cover (refund Mr J) the £45 cancellation fee deducted from the pro-
rata refund. 8% simple interest also needs to be added to this amount from date of 
cancellation to date of settlement.
In addition, as outlined in my provisional decision (and for the same reasons), Advantage 
also needs to remove any internal and external records of policy cancellation due to non-
payment, provide Mr J with his nine years NCD proof and compensate Mr J £100.My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part and direct Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited to:
Recalculate the pro-rata time on risk refund amount based on the higher and 
lower premium when the NCD was and wasnt in use on another vehicle
Add 8% simple interest* from date of cancellation to date of settlement
Cover the £45 cancellation fee that has been deducted from the refund, with 8%
simple interest* added from date of cancellation to date of settlement
Remove all records of cancellation for non-payment from internal and external
databases
Provide Mr J with his nine years NCD proof
Pay Mr J £100 compensation
*If Advantage Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr J how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr J a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman