DRN-2543705
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Os complaint relates to the decision of UK Insurance Limited (UKI) to decline 
their claim made under a home insurance policy. They state that the damage was caused by 
a storm.
What happened
In May 2020, Mr and Mrs Os home suffered damage to soffit and fascia boards. Mr and Mrs 
O have said that this occurred during very high winds which were coming from a different 
direction to the usual prevailing winds. They made a claim to UKI.
UKI appointed a loss adjuster to assess the claim. Based on the photographs submitted by 
Mr and Mrs O, the claim was initially accepted by UKI, and Mr and Mrs O obtained quotes 
for the repairs. But the loss adjuster then wrote to them and stated the claim was being 
declined.
Mr and Mrs O challenged this decision. Following a telephone call, UKI stated that it would 
be accepting the claim, on the basis that the wind speeds were in the region of what would 
be considered storm force. But a day later UKIs decision was altered again, and Mr and Mrs 
O were informed that the claim was being declined because the winds were not storm force. 
UKI also stated that the fascia shouldnt be particularly susceptible to wind, and that this 
indicated it had a pre-existing condition. It offered Mr and Mrs O £50 to reflect that it had 
altered its position on the claim.
Mr and Mrs O brought a complaint to this service. They considered their claim had been 
declined unfairly, and they were also unhappy with the service they had received.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. His view was that the evidence did not 
indicate that there had been storm force winds at the time of the claim. Consequently he 
considered that UKI had fairly declined the claim. He also considered that the £50 
compensation offered for poor service was reasonable.
Mr and Mrs O disagreed with the investigators findings. They highlighted the decision made 
by one of UKIs staff to overturn the initial declining of their claim. That member of staff had 
said it was harsh to decline the claim, and had noted there was a wind speed reading of 
51mph from one weather station in the region.
Mr and Mrs O also reiterated that the wind had been coming from an unusual direction at the 
time the damage occurred. They have suggested that the way their house and neighbouring 
houses are situated can lead to a wind tunnelling effect, channelling it to make it stronger.  
They consider that the fascia, and the rest of their property, was in excellent condition.
Mr and Mrs O have questioned why the policy does not define storm. In their view, this 
prevents the policyholder from making an informed decision about which insurance policy to 
choose.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Initially I should address the comments that Mr and Mrs O have made about the absence of 
a definition for storm in their policy. I note what theyve said about the impact this might 
have had on their decision to take out the policy.
I should explain that this complaint relates to the decision of UKI to decline Mr and Mrs Os 
insurance claim. If Mr and Mrs O consider the absence of a definition for storm might have 
affected their decision to take out the policy, that would relate to concerns that it was mis-
sold to them. An allegation that the policy was mis-sold has not been investigated as yet, 
and would need to be made against the business that sold the policy, which might not be 
UKI.
If Mr and Mrs O wish to pursue a complaint that the policy was mis-sold for this reason, 
initially they will need to approach the business responsible for the sale to allow it to 
respond. But under this complaint, I will therefore not be considering whether the policy was 
mis-sold.
Mr and Mrs Os claim was considered under the cover provided by the policy for storm 
damage. When considering whether an insurer has fairly dealt with a storm claim, this 
service generally looks at the following questions: were there storm conditions at the time of 
the event claimed for, is the damage sustained consistent with storm damage, and was the 
identified storm the main cause of the damage? Where we conclude that all three apply, we 
would normally expect an insurer to cover the claim.
As Mr and Mrs O have highlighted, the policy does not define the word storm. When a word 
is not defined in an insurance contract, it is generally given its normal meaning. In the 
absence of a definition, my view is that it is reasonable to consider a storm involves violent 
winds (often accompanied by rain, sleet or snow).
Our investigator ran weather reports for the days leading up to when Mr and Mrs O observed 
the damage claimed for. On the day that the damage occurred, a weather station in the local 
area recorded gusts up to 46mph. Mr and Mrs O have highlighted the comments made by 
the member of UKI staff that they spoke to regarding a wind speed reading of 51mph from 
one weather station. But looking at the weather report records that UKI obtained, that 
reading appears to have been from five days prior to the date the damage happened.
Mr and Mrs O have identified the date that they witnessed the damage being done to the 
soffit and fascia boards, and have given a detailed description of the exact events that 
occurred. It seems to me that when assessing this claim for storm damage, its reasonable 
that UKI would pay particular attention to the wind speeds recorded on that particular day. 
As confirmed above, the gusts recorded at a local weather station on that day were up to 
46mph.
Mr and Mrs O have highlighted that the direction of the winds on that day was unusual, 
compared to the prevailing direction that they usually experience. They have also provided 
photographs of the road in which they live to support their contention that the actual wind 
speeds were probably higher on the day of the incident due to a tunnelling effect.
I have carefully considered the comments made by Mr and Mrs O in this regard. However, 
my view is that there is insufficient evidence to show that the recorded wind speed at the 
local weather station cannot be relied on as a measure of the gusts at this time in the vicinity 
of Mr and Mrs Os property. Consequently my view is that it was fair for UKI to use the 
46mph reading when assessing whether there were storm conditions on that date. Looking at the evidence provided, I consider UKI acted reasonably when it concluded that storm 
conditions were not occurring at the time that damage was sustained. My view is therefore 
that it was reasonable for UKI to decline the claim for storm damage.
I note that Mr and Mrs Os policy also included cover for accidental damage to buildings. But 
there are exclusions under this cover, including damage caused by wear and tear. When 
assessing the claim, UKI suggested that there was a pre-existing condition with the fascia. 
Mr and Mrs O have stated that the fascia was in excellent condition. There is limited 
evidence that has been provided about the fascias condition when it became detached from 
the property. But overall, based on the evidence presented and taking into account the policy 
exclusion for wear and tear, it seems that the claim would not be payable under this section 
of the policy.
UKI accepts that it caused Mr and Mrs O difficulties by altering its position about whether the 
claim was being accepted or not, and it paid £50 compensation to reflect this. Its clear that 
UKI could have handled this matter better, and changed its position on the claim on several 
occasions. However, taking into account that UKI confirmed its final position on the claim 
after a comparatively short period of time, on balance I consider the compensation offered to 
be reasonable.
Although I appreciate Mr and Mrs O will be disappointed with my findings, my conclusion is 
that UKI acted fairly when it declined to cover the damage claimed for.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2021. 
John Swain
Ombudsman