DRN-2766248
The complaint
Mrs R has complained that when I GO 4 Ltd arranged a further van insurance policy for her 
in 2020 its premium had significantly increased.
The correspondence from I GO 4 is branded in the name of a well-known motoring 
organisation. But as I GO 4 is the company that provides the service Mrs R is complaining 
about I will refer to it, rather than the motoring organisation throughout this decision.
What happened
Mrs R has held policies administered by I GO 4 since 2016, those policies have renewed in 
April each year. In 2019 Mrs Rs annual premium was around £482, paid in monthly 
instalments of around £44. In 2020 the insurer of Mrs Rs 2019 policy was no longer offering 
to insure her. I GO 4 found a policy from a different insurer for an annual premium  
including fees of around £3,088. Mrs R paid for this premium by monthly instalments of 
around £280.
In July 2020, after Mrs R had paid her fourth monthly premium instalment, she contacted 
I GO 4 as shed only just realised how much her monthly payments were. She later 
cancelled her policy and complained. I GO 4 accepted it hadn't acknowledge her complaint 
as quickly as it should have, so it waived a £75 cancellation fee and paid Mrs R a further £25 
compensation to address the impact of that. But it didn't think it had done anything wrong 
with regards to renewing Mrs Rs policy.
Mrs R brought her complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. He didn't think 
I GO 4 had done anything wrong. Mrs R didn't agree so her complaint's been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
In bringing this complaint Mrs Rs made a number of detailed points. But I don't intend to 
address each and every one of those in this decision. Instead I will focus on what I see as 
being the key outstanding issues following our investigator's assessments of her complaint. 
Each year, around three weeks before renewing Mrs Rs policy, I GO 4 sent her an email in 
which it told her that: her policy was due to renew; what the premium and monthly 
instalments for the coming year would be; and that it would go ahead and automatically 
renew unless Mrs R contacted it. Until 2019 Mrs R was happy to accept the renewal 
premium offered, so she didn't contact I GO 4 and the policy renewed. I GO 4 then emailed 
her again to confirm the policy had renewed.
I GO 4 followed the same process in 2020. It sent Mrs R an email around three weeks 
before her policy was due to renew, it told her that it could offer a policy for an annual 
premium of around £3,088, with instalments of £280 a month. It said it would renew on that 
basis unless Mrs R contacted it. Mrs R didn't contact it and the policy renewed. I GO 4 then 
emailed her confirmation that the policy had renewed.
Mrs R said that because of a computer problem she hadn't seen I GO 4s emails. So she 
hadn't noticed that the renewal premium would increase so dramatically. And she said she 
hadn't agree to renewing it. But I don't think that means I GO 4 has done anything wrong. 
As I've said above the process was the same in 2020 as it had been in previous years. That 
is I GO 4 sent Mrs R an email informing her that her policy would renew. It hadn't sent that 
renewal notification by post in previous years and had no reason to do so in 2020. I haven't 
seen any evidence that Mrs R told I GO 4 that she wouldn't be able to see its emails. And 
I don't think there was any way for I GO 4 to anticipate that Mrs R wouldnt be able to read  
those, especially as that method had worked successfully in the preceding years. Nor have I 
seen that Mrs R had told I GO 4 that she was unhappy with the policy renewing 
automatically. So I don't think there was any reason for I GO 4 to change its renewal 
notification process in 2020. And, as with the previous years, I GO 4s process was such 
that, by not contacting it Mrs R was in effect authorising it to renew the policy at the premium 
quoted.
Its clearly very unfortunate that Mrs R couldn't access her emails. But theres no suggestion 
that was because of anything I GO 4 did or didn't do. And Mrs R should have been aware 
that her policy was due to renew in April 2020, so she could have contacted I GO 4 if she 
hadn't seen her renewal notification. But she didn't do so. 
Mrs R doesn't believe that I GO 4 couldn't find her a cheaper premium, particularly as she 
was able to find one herself. But it might help if I explain that I GO 4 is a broker not an 
insurer. So it arranges policies and might help with their administration. But it's not 
responsible for providing the cover itself, or for calculating the premiums. The responsibility 
for those actions lies with the insurers which underwrite the policies it sells. And, generally, 
brokers like I GO 4 won't work with every insurer on the market but will have a panel of 
insurers that they search through in order to find their customers the best deal available for 
them from that panel. And that means that there may be other insurers who will offer 
cheaper premiums that I GO 4 doesn't have a business relationship with. And I understand 
that I GO 4 offered Mrs R the cheapest policy it could find from the insurers it does work 
with. So I don't think the fact that Mrs R found a cheaper policy elsewhere means that I GO 4 
didn't offer the most attractive premium it could find for her.
Similarly Mrs R said that the insurer of her 2020 policy wouldn't ask for such a high premium. 
But Ive seen that the premium I GO 4 charged Mrs R was based on the insurers premium, 
together with interest and fees, which under its agreement with Mrs R it was entitled to 
charge. So I don't think I GO 4 unfairly inflated Mrs Rs premium. 
Mrs R said that anyone could see that the price I GO 4 was asking for was daylight 
robbery. As a result she thinks it should refund her £240  which is around the sum she 
thinks shes been overcharged  from each monthly instalment payment she made in 2020. 
But while it's clear that the rise in Mrs Rs premium was dramatic, I GO 4 wasnt responsible 
for that. And I'm aware Mrs R had made a claim the previous year that might have affected 
her premium and no claims discount entitlement. Further, her previous insurer no longer 
wanted to offer her a policy. So I GO 4 offered her the cheapest policy it could find. And 
Mrs R had the opportunity to decline to renew the policy if she didn't want it. It's not I GO 4s 
fault that she didn't see the renewal notifications in order to be able to do that. It follows that I don't think I GO 4 did anything wrong in renewing the policy as it did. So I'm not going to 
instruct it to take any further action.  
I understand Mrs R has experienced some challenging personal issues recently. So 
I appreciate my decision is likely to add to her worries at an already difficult time. Thats an 
unfortunate knock-on effect of my decision. Its certainly not my intention to add to Mrs Rs 
troubles. And I hope she understands that I must come to my conclusions based solely on 
what is fair and reasonable to both Mrs R and I GO 4 in the circumstances of the complaint, 
and I mustnt be swayed by the difficult circumstances shes experienced recently.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman