DRN-2872811
The complaint
Mrs L feels that Barclays Bank UK PLC approved her for a loan that was unaffordable for her 
at that time.
What happened
In November 2019, Mrs L applied for a personal loan with Barclays for £22,000. The loan 
application was approved, and Mrs L was issued with the loan with a repayment term of 60 
months.
In 2021, Mrs L raised a complaint with Barclays on the basis that she didnt feel that the loan 
had been affordable for her at the time that she applied for it. Specifically, Mrs L felt that 
Barclays shouldnt have considered money that was given to her by her grandson on a 
monthly basis as part of her assessed monthly income.
Barclays looked at Mrs Ls complaint, but they felt that theyd assessed the affordability of 
the loan for Mrs L correctly, so they didnt uphold Mrs Ls complaint.
Mrs L wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that Barclays hadnt acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in how theyd assessed the affordability of the loan for Mrs L, so 
they also didnt uphold this complaint.
Mrs L remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mrs L applied for the personal loan her stated intention for needing the money was to 
enable her to pay off other existing debts and to lower her total monthly credit repayment 
amount.
And Mrs L did use the loan funds to pay off or reduce other credit balances that she held. 
And its evident from this that Mrs Ls monthly credit repayment expenditure was reduced by 
approximately £373 per month as a result.
As such, it seems clear to me that Mrs L benefitted financially from this loan, and Id find it 
difficult because of this to consider that the provision of the loan to Mrs L by Barclays had 
caused any financial detriment to Mrs L. And I say this because if Mrs L hadnt been given 
the loan by Barclays then her financial position would have been worse by approximately 
£373 per month.
Im aware that Mrs L feels that Barclays shouldnt have considered money that she received 
from her grandson on a regular basis as forming part of her income when they assessed the 
affordability of the loan for her. 
However, Barclays have been able to demonstrate that Mrs L had been receiving the 
monthly payments that her grandson sent her consistently for several years at the time of the 
loan application, so Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for Barclays to have 
considered this money as income for Mrs L when assessing the affordability of the loan for 
her, and to have subsequently deemed the loan to have been affordable for Mr L.
All of which means that I find it very difficult to conclude that Barclays have done anything 
wrong her in regard to their approving this loan for Mrs L, and it follows from this that I wont 
be upholding this complaint or instructing Barclays to take any further action at this time. 
I realise that this might not be the outcome that Mrs L was wanting here, but I trust that shell 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman