DRN-1772505
 
The complaint
Mr K complains that PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender, lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Using the information provided by Mr Lender this loan table briefly summarises the lending.
loan date amount repaidhighest 
scheduled 
repayment
1 18/11/2016 £300 28/02/2017    £196 
2 14/04/2017 £300 25/08/2017    £161 
3 26/02/2019 £500 17/06/2019    £191 
Mr Lender in its final response letter to Mr K set out some details of the way it approached
the lending applications and it made a modest goodwill offer to Mr K which he rejected. He
brought his complaint to us. I understand that the goodwill offer has been withdrawn. 
Our adjudicator did not think that Mr Lender should put things right for Mr Ks complaint.
Mr K disagreed and the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
In my provisional decision (PD) which I issued on 20 February 2020, the outcome was that I 
thought that each of the loans ought to be upheld. I was not satisfied at the level of detail 
received from Mr Lender about the credit searches carried out at the time the loans were 
approved. My provisional findings are set out in a separate section of this final decision so 
that all the reasoning is given there.
Since that PD, Mr Lender has sent an additional summary. I wrote to Mr Lender asking for 
the full credit search results so that I could assess this thoroughly. I have received an 
example of a credit search result document to demonstrate the layout of such a set of 
results. And it has forwarded to me and the credit bureau search reference details and has 
suggested that one option for me to obtain the actual sets of results for Mr K is to apply to 
the credit bureau directly. 
my provisional findings from 20 February 2020
Before lending money to a consumer, a lender should take proportionate steps 
to understand whether the consumer will be able to repay what they are borrowing in a
sustainable manner without it adversely impacting on their financial situation. A lender 
should gather enough information for it to be able to make an informed decision on
the lending. Although the guidance and rules themselves did not set out compulsory checks, 
they did list several things a lender could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key element was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to take into account a 
number of different things, including how much was being lent and when the sum being 
borrowed was due to be repaid.
Mr K has sent to us his detailed submissions and I can see that he thinks Mr Lender ought to 
have carried out thorough and comprehensive checks from the beginning. The idea behind 
the creditworthiness assessment advocated by the Financial Conduct Authority and its 
predecessor the Office of Fair Trading was that proportionate checks were expected. So, it 
was not the case that every lender from the first application was expected to carry out some 
sort of full and complete financial assessment. And I appreciate that Mr K may look back and 
explain that he thinks this ought to have been done, but that is not what was expected early 
in a lending relationship.
Mr K has sent to us a series of previous ombudsman published decisions relating to short
term payday lending, banking and cases involving revolving credit. Not all are the same
product as those taken by Mr K  instalment loans - and so are not wholly relevant. And we
approach each complaint on its own individual merits and its own circumstances.
For Loans 1 and 2, I would have expected the checks proportionate to the loans early in the
relationship to have included Mr Lender knowing Mr Ks income and expenditure. It appears
that Mr Lender did have details of his income and expenditure and carried out a credit
search. I have received a summary of the results. Mr Lender explained in its final response 
letter to Mr K that the credit search it did, revealed this: Your credit report matched you to 
the address provided via the electoral roll and there was no evidence of IVAs or Bankruptcy 
on your credit file. There were no accounts registered as having defaulted or being in 
delinquent status within three years prior to your application dates.
Mr K does refer to his credit situation and is concerned that more was not discovered about
it at the time the loans were approved. I can see from the records I have that in Mr 
Ks applications he gave his income, some expenditure figures, and that he had other credit
commitments. For this last item he gave figures ranging from £400 to £450 a month. Mr K
has sent me a detailed spreadsheet and a table to demonstrate the other outstanding short 
term loans he had at the time he took these loans with Mr Lender. I have seen his personal 
credit file.
For Loan 1 Mr Lender has explained to us: We took into consideration other short term
loans with this application. [Mr K] told us that they were repaying £400.00 towards other
short term loans and this still left them with a disposable income of £513.00. It is 
the instalment repayment figure which is used to see if it was affordable not the principal 
sum borrowed. So for Loan 1, as the highest scheduled repayment due was £196 then it 
would have appeared affordable to Mr Lender.
For Loan 2 Mr Lender said and did similar things. It explained the figures Mr K had given to it 
and calculated that Mr Ks disposable income was £293.00 after his spend on expenditure
and other credit commitment cost (about the same as before). Mr Lender has also said that
it asked Mr K if he was going to use the loan for gambling to which Mr K had replied No.
But I am not satisfied with the summary of Mr Lenders credit file results for November 2016
and April 2017 (Loans 1 and 2 application dates). These appear as a small table with 
the minimum of information. Having asked Mr Lender for the full set, we were told they 
were available but difficult to obtain and difficult to read. So, it does appear to me that Mr 
Lender did have more information than I have been given.
So, although it is not usual for me to do this, I have reconstructed what Mr Lenders credit
search was likely to have found. I have used Mr Ks own research and notes, his personalcredit file and what we know about Mr Ks financial situation in general. From all of this
I have been able to see that at the time Mr K applied for Loan 1 in November 2016, he had
at least six other payday or instalment loans outstanding, all with high-cost short-term
lending businesses. Mr K thinks its more, but I can see from his personal credit file that two 
were taken out the same day or the day before Mr Lender approved Loan 1. And so, I do not 
think it likely Mr Lender would have been able to have found out about those: they were 
approved too close in time to have registered with credit bureaus even if using the up-to-
date versions.
The six other loans open before Loan 1 had payments due on them which added up to about 
£800 in a month. So although Mr K had declared credit commitments of £400 to £450 this 
was about half of the true picture.
For Loan 2 I have carried out a similar exercise with Mr Ks information and his credit file and 
it seems that around 14 April 2017 he had 6 outstanding high-cost short-term loans, two of 
which were for high sums. The combined monthly repayments were around £1,000.
Although the rules surrounding responsible lending do not prescribe credit searches are
done before lending, if they are carried out then its incumbent that the results are factored 
into any lending decision. As I have not obtained the full credit search results, I cannot say 
for sure what Mr Lender may have seen. But on what I currently have it seems likely that the 
results would have shown many outstanding loans. I think that it 
demonstrated unsustainable borrowing. Mr K lost out as the Mr Lender loans were 
approved.
So, I am planning to uphold Mr Ks complaint about Loans 1 and 2 unless Mr Lender
produces full records of the credit bureau search results to show me what information it had
at the time of approval and the content may alter my view.
After the significant break between Loan 2 and Loan 3 then I think that the lending
relationship started again when Mr K applied for Loan 3. I would have expected the checks
proportionate to this application, the first in the new lending relationship, to have included
knowing Mr Ks income and expenditure. Mr Lender had that information and the additional
credit search result I have seen it obtained was like the earlier ones.
I have carried out a similar exercise for this period leading up to February 2019 when Mr
Lender approved Loan 3. The picture is similar and the monthly repayments due on the five
outstanding loans I can see amounted to over £800. So, I am planning to uphold Mr Ks
complaint in relation to Loan 3 unless Mr Lender produces full records of the credit bureau
search results to show me what information it had at the time of approval and  it may alter 
my view.
My final decision - what Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. We have set out our general
approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance
and good industry practice - on our website.
I refer to the provisional findings in my PD set out in the earlier section of this final decision. 
Mr Lender has sent to me new summaries of the credit search results it did in 2017 and 
2019. But they do not take this much further and, having asked for additional and more 
detailed search results, but not got them, I fall back on my provisional findings in relation to 
the credit situation for Mr K at those times. The evidence I have from Mr K is more comprehensive and the information I have from Mr 
Lender is brief and I know that more detailed reports are available. In the absence of the 
latter I have relied on the former. I do not think it is for me to track down that information from 
the credit bureau directly - I was hoping Mr Lender would be able to provide it. And I am 
relatively sure that the credit report information from Mr K and the credit bureau information 
Mr Lender has told me it used, originate from the same source - albeit in different forms - 
one for business and one for personal use. 
I have made my decision on what I have got. I uphold Mr K's complaint.  
Putting things right
I direct that Mr Lender does as follows:
 refund any interest and charges already paid by Mr K;
 apply 8% simple interest per year to any interest and charges refunded from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*;
remove any adverse payment information about the loans from Mr Ks credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest and it must
give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr K's complaint and direct that PDL Finance Limited, 
trading as Mr Lender, does as I have outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2020.
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman