DRN-3065728
The complaint
Mr P complains that he hasnt received the service he should have done in his dealings with 
Halifax. He says he was treated badly when he visited a Halifax branch and wants 
compensation.
 
What happened
On 23 March 2020, Mr P visited his local Halifax branch to deposit two foreign cheques. He 
says he was abused by another customer and thought that Halifax should have had security 
present or other bank staff should have intervened. He also says he has experienced 
previous issues when depositing foreign cheques and had received compensation for this. 
He says he had been a customer of Halifax for 40 years and asked why Halifax withdrew 
banking facilities from his wife, Mrs P even though she wasnt party to the incident. 
Halifax issued a final response on 25 May 2020 and a further letter dated 22 June 2020. It 
said that having investigated the incident in branch its staff had acted reasonably by asking 
Mr P to leave and that Mr Ps refusal to leave led to the escalation of the situation and the 
closure of his accounts. It noted the actions of another customer but said this happened 
quickly and was a police matter and that its staff shouldnt put themselves in danger.
It said that Mr Ps accounts had been closed by the branch manager due to the issue and 
that it was allowed to do this.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She considered the accounts of the incident in 
the branch and didnt think that Halifax had acted unreasonably. She thought it reasonable 
that Halifax contacted the police when the incident happened and noted that Halifaxs 
safeguarding policies meant that staff shouldnt get involved in these situations. She thought 
Halifax had followed its guidelines and didnt think there was evidence that Mr P had been 
discriminated against or treated unfairly.
Regarding the account closure, she noted that Halifax could in certain circumstances close 
accounts without notice and that this happened in the case of Mr Ps accounts, including his 
joint account with Mrs P. She said Halifax had followed its procedures and so didnt think she 
could say it had done anything wrong. She noted Mr Ps comments about issues paying in 
foreign cheques but said that in this complaint, the cheques Mr P was trying to pay in when 
the incident in branch occurred were confirmed as being processed in branch that day. 
Mr P didnt agree with our investigators view. He said that his complaint should have been 
responded to on the day it happened, and he had to raise his complaint twice. He also said 
that he didnt receive a receipt for the foreign cheque payments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint includes both Mr P and Mrs P as the accounts closed include a joint account. 
However, the issue was experienced by Mr P and so it is his experience that this decision 
mainly addresses. I also note that our investigator has set out what this service can and 
cant consider and it is in that context that this decision has been issued.
Mr P has raised several issues about the service he has received from Halifax. The key part 
of this complaint stems from an incident that happened in branch in March 2020. I have 
looked at the statements provided by Mr P and the bank staff about this incident. It was 
clearly an upsetting experience for Mr P but based on the evidence I have seen, I do not 
think I can say that Halifax staff did anything wrong. The reports suggest that Mr Ps 
behaviour at the time wasnt acceptable and while bank staff tried to calm the situation it 
escalated quickly with another customer becoming aggressive towards Mr P. While I 
appreciate Mr P feels bank staff should have done more to help him, I do not think the staff 
did anything wrong. The police were called, and the staff supported Mr P after the event until 
the police arrived. They explained that the situation happened very quickly, and they tried to 
get the other customer to leave things, but he wouldnt. I wouldnt expect a bank staff 
member to get involved in a situation that would put them at risk. Halifax has provided a 
copy of its safe guarding policy and this, combined with the other evidence, supports my 
view that Halifax staff didnt do anything wrong in this situation.
Mr Ps accounts were closed without notice. While notice is usually provided of an account 
closure, there are certain circumstances in which accounts can be closed without notice. In 
this case the branch manager decided to close the account due to Mr Ps behaviour on 23 
March. While I appreciate Mr Ps comments that he was a long standing customer of Halifax 
and that the closure also affected joint accounts with Mrs P, based on the statement of the 
events of 23 March, and noting that Halifax can close accounts without notice when it 
considers a customer is acting inappropriately, such as in a threatening manner, I do not find 
that Halifax did anything wrong by taking this action.
Mr P has said that his foreign cheque deposits werent processed properly and so he didnt 
get confirmation of the deposit and that statements of the accounts were promised but didnt 
arrive until a long time after the account closure. I can see that Mr P wanted to get 
confirmation of his cheques being deposited. A letter was sent dated 9 June 2020 with this 
information, but Mr P wanted confirmation sooner. While I understand why Mr P wanted this 
and I note his concerns about how the deposit of the cheques was handled, I do not find I 
can say that he was disadvantaged in any way because of this. He would have been aware 
of the amounts he was depositing, and he was provided the funds from his account on 
closure which would have included these amounts. He was then provided account closure 
statements. So while I note his comment about the timing, I do not think this is something I 
would require Halifax to pay compensation for.
Overall, I can see that Mr P experienced an upsetting incident in March 2020 when he 
visited the branch and that this then resulted in further action being taken. However, based 
on the information I have received I do not find that Halifax has done anything wrong by 
taking the action it did and I do not require it to do anything further in resolution of this 
complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc trading 
as Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman