DRN-2805328
The complaint
On behalf of his mother, Mrs A, Mr A complains that an equity release mortgage was mis-
sold to his mother in 2008 by Aviva Equity Release UK Limited.
What happened
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
Our decisions are published, so its important that I dont include any information that might 
lead to Mrs A being identified. So for these reasons, although I confirm Ive read and taken 
note of everything, I have not included every detail of the complaint in this decision.
Briefly, in January 2008 Mrs A was given advice by Aviva about an equity release mortgage. 
Mrs A subsequently applied for, and took out, a lifetime equity release mortgage, which 
completed in March 2008. Mrs A borrowed £15,000 against a property valuation of 
£200,000, at a fixed interest rate of 6.89%. The maximum drawdown facility was £74,000. 
The mortgage lender was also part of the Aviva group, albeit a completely separate 
company.
In common with this type of mortgage, no monthly repayments were due under Mrs As loan 
agreement. Instead, interest rolled up on a compound basis and the total balance of capital 
and interest repayable either on Mrs As death, or if she left the property to go into long-term 
care. If the mortgage was repaid early, there could be an early repayment charge. The 
circumstances in which this would apply were set out in the documentation.
In May 2020, Mr A discovered Mrs A had taken out the equity release mortgage. He was 
unhappy at the amount of interest accruing on the loan, and it was repaid on behalf of Mrs A 
in August 2020.
Mr A complained to Aviva that the mortgage had been mis-sold to Mrs A. He was concerned 
that Aviva had taken advantage of Mrs As vulnerability, and that the information Aviva had 
recorded about Mrs As circumstances hadnt been accurate. 
Aviva didnt uphold the complaint, so Mr A raised it with the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He was satisfied 
that Aviva had followed the correct sales process and that Mrs A had been given advice 
about the loan by her own solicitors. The investigator was also satisfied that Mrs A had been 
given advice and documentation showing how the interest would increase over the term of 
the loan.
Mr A didnt agree with the investigator. Hes made several points, which I summarise below.
it is not Mrs A who has brought the complaint, but him, on behalf of Mrs As children;
at no time did he say that Mrs A didnt know the interest rate she would be charged;
it is true to say that Mrs A didnt even care if the interest rate had been 50%, because 
she was desperate for the cash;
the childrens complaint is that Aviva agreed to lend this money and so should have had 
a duty of care where elderly people are concerned;
Mrs A signed the forms, but he cant believe Aviva didnt think something wasnt right 
about Mrs A wanting to borrow the money;
Aviva should have realised something was wrong when Mrs A tried to borrow more 
money shortly after completion;
he has concerns about how Mrs A came to instruct the solicitors who acted for her;
he doesnt think the legal advice Mrs A was given was independent;
although its noted in the suitability letter, the Key Facts Illustration (KFI) fails to mention 
that the advisor thought Mrs A should use her savings rather than take out a mortgage;
it is not until page 3 of the KFI that the details of the mortgage are given, when it should 
have been on the front page;
the KFI should not have had a tick in the box showing that Aviva was recommending the 
mortgage; rather, it should have been the second alternative, which is that Aviva wasnt 
recommending the mortgage, but instead was providing information in response to 
answers given by Mrs A;
the family believes that the shortcomings in the KFI represent a mis-selling of the 
mortgage to Mrs A;
the family no longer has any complaint about the rate of interest  their initial comments 
about this were due to the shock that someone was paying such a high rate of interest;
why did no-one at Aviva consider or care about the possibility that Mrs A was being 
coerced or threatened into getting funds, or take any steps to verify that she was not 
being blackmailed or subjected to physical threats against her or her family? These are 
all reasons why someone would want to get hold of large sums of money.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill make some general observations before dealing with the specifics of the complaint. Were 
not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police financial businesses internal 
processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses and customers. In doing that, 
we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference from anyone else. Im aware Mr A has very strong views about the nature of the product at 
the heart of his mothers complaint, but I have no regulatory function. All I can decide here is 
whether Aviva recommended a mortgage that was suitable for Mrs A, based on her needs 
and circumstances in 2008.
Under our rules, Mrs A is a consumer, and so meets the definition of an eligible 
complainant set out in our rules. The rules say that a complaint may be brought on behalf of 
an eligible complainant by a person authorised by the eligible complainant or authorised by 
law. Mr A has brought the complaint as his mothers representative, with her consent.
But I must explain that, although Mr A is representing his mother, it is Mrs A who was Avivas 
customer at the time of the events complained about. Mr As role is limited to bringing 
Mrs As complaint on her behalf, in the same way that other consumers might instruct a 
solicitor or accountant to represent them in a complaint. But this does not entitle Mr A to air 
his own grievances about Aviva, because he is not its customer.
 
I note from the detailed correspondence that Mr A has expressed his own concerns about 
what he perceives to be Avivas failings  and I do not doubt his strength of feeling about 
this. But because Mr A is not Avivas customer, this final decision is limited to consideration 
of Mrs As complaint about Aviva. 
Mrs A hadnt complained about the mortgage previously, and it seems that it was only when 
Mr A looked closer at Mrs As finances in May 2020 that a complaint was raised with Aviva. 
So in this final decision I have looked at the sale of the mortgage. Without a specific 
complaint from Mrs A about it, I have considered generally whether Aviva did anything wrong 
when it arranged this mortgage for Mrs A.
Mr A has confirmed that the initial concerns about the interest rate are no longer an issue, so 
I wont comment any further on that.
This mortgage was arranged pursuant to the Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (MCOB. The mortgage was also covered by the rules of what was 
then known as the Safe Home Income Plan (now the Equity Release Council). The FCA and 
the Equity Release Council are (and have always been) aware that there is potential years 
down the line for family members to find out their parents had taken out an equity release 
mortgage without consulting them first. 
This  and the fact that equity release mortgages are sold to elderly customers  is why this 
type of mortgage is (and always has been) subject to such a robust and rigorous sales 
process, with the need for borrowers to have advice from a financial adviser, as well as from 
an independent solicitor. (In this case, the financial adviser worked for Aviva, and sold only 
Aviva products. There is nothing untoward about this, as it was disclosed at the outset.) The 
fact that Mrs A was 80 at the time of the transaction doesnt give cause for concern. This 
particular product, with its strict selling standards, is intended precisely for elderly customers.
The advice given by Aviva was based on the information given to it by Mrs A after the 
advisor went through a detailed series of questions. The documentation is 
contemporaneous, which means it was compiled at the time Mrs A spoke to Aviva in January 
2008. In the circumstances, I am entitled to treat the paperwork as an accurate record of 
what Mrs A told Aviva in 2008.
Im satisfied the documentation provided to Mrs A about the mortgage explains how it 
worked, and that Mrs A also had advice from her own solicitors. The solicitors confirmed to Aviva that theyd explained the terms of the mortgage to Mrs A, as well as the implications of 
entering into the loan. If the solicitors had had any concerns about Mrs As ability to 
comprehend what she was doing, they were under a duty to inform Aviva and stop the 
mortgage from being completed. But it appears that neither Aviva nor Mrs As solicitors had 
any concerns in this regard.
Ive noted what Mr A has said about the KFI. This document is set out in the regulators 
prescribed format, with separate sections covering relevant information. Aviva is required to 
provide information to customers that comply with the regulators requirements. So although 
I note Mr A doesnt like the format of the KFI, or the order in which the information is 
provided, it has to be set out in that way to comply with FCA requirements.
Mr A also says that Aviva should have ticked the section to show no advice was given. If that 
had been done, then it would not have been possible for Mr A to complain about the 
suitability of the advice given to Mrs A to take out the mortgage. So if Mr As argument is that 
Aviva didnt give advice, only information, then his other argument that the advice Aviva 
gave was unsuitable is bound to fail. But the KFI shows that advice was given, so Mr As 
argument here is a moot point.
Im satisfied the advice given to Mrs A was based on answers she provided to Aviva about 
her wishes, needs and circumstances. Mrs A was clear about why she didnt want to use her 
existing savings (because the interest provided her with an income). Mrs A also said that she 
wanted to abide by her late husbands wishes to keep the capital she inherited from him 
intact. In the circumstances, Mrs A was entitled to make her own decision to reject the 
advisors recommendation to use her own savings first. Mrs A also explained that she 
wanted to keep her plans private from her family, and again this is a decision Mrs A was 
allowed to make.
Mr A has questioned whether Aviva had a duty of care to Mrs A  in relation to verifying what 
her spending plans were and following up on this to make sure she kept to those plans. Mr A 
also argues that Aviva had a duty of care to ensure that Mrs A wasnt being coerced, 
blackmailed or threatened, or that she wasnt raising the money to pay to someone who was 
threatening violence to a member of her family  in other words, to make sure Mrs A wasnt 
raising the money in order to pay a ransom to criminals.
If Aviva had had any concerns about Mrs As mental capacity, or suspected that she was 
being coerced by a third party to take out the loan, then the loan wouldnt have gone ahead. 
There are occasions when a customer is being coerced  usually by a family member  to 
borrow money. But these are extremely rare occurrences and the evidence here suggests 
that Mrs A was fully aware of what she was doing. There is no evidence to suggest she was 
being threatened or coerced, either by an unknown third party or by someone close to her. 
Being an independent person with agency to act as she wished, Mrs A was entitled to decide 
to not use her savings and to take out the equity release mortgage, and to do to this without 
telling her family about it. The reasons Mrs A gave for wanting the money were entirely 
plausible. It wasnt Avivas job to check up on Mrs A or police her spending to make sure 
shed used it as shed said she was going to. I think that would be considered to be a breach 
of Mrs As privacy and grossly intrusive on her right to spend her own money as she chose.
The request for an additional drawdown of £10,000 in late May 2008 was made to the 
lender, rather than the advisor who sold the loan. As I explained above, this was also an 
Aviva company, but a discrete business in its own right, separate from the advisor who arranged the mortgage. The terms of the loan dont allow a further drawdown for three years 
after completion. This was explained to Mrs A by the lender.
In relation to the solicitors, Ive noted what Mr A has said. Not all solicitors give advice about 
equity release mortgages, so there is nothing untoward about Aviva recommending a 
solicitor who can provide this advice. This is a specialist mortgage and so expert advice is 
required to be given. That is likely what happened here, and there is nothing sinister about it, 
nor anything that gives me cause for concern. But these were Mrs As solicitors (the lender 
had its own solicitors who acted for it on the mortgage) so if Mr A has any concerns about 
the solicitors, hell need to contact them. The solicitors arent covered by the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
I can understand that it was a shock for the family to discover in 2020 Mrs A had taken out 
this mortgage in 2008. As Ive said above, Mrs A explained to Aviva that she didnt want her 
family to know about it, as is her absolute right. For the reasons given, Im satisfied, from the 
evidence at the point of sale, that the advice and recommendation were suitable and the 
mortgage wasnt mis-sold. This means that I have concluded Aviva hasnt done anything 
wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman