DRN-3940532
The complaint
Mr P is complaining that Paragon Bank Plc didnt increase the interest rate on his Instant 
Savers Account (ISA) in line with a higher rate on a new product it offered.
What happened
Mr P is unhappy that he learnt Paragon had introduced new ISA products giving higher 
interest rates than it was providing on his account. He complained to Paragon that it didnt 
increase his interest rate in line with these accounts and hes earning less interest than he 
could have done on the new account. He doesnt think its fair that he has to move accounts 
to benefit from this. He highlighted he had a variable interest rate. So he thinks the natural 
assumption is that Paragon would vary his rate in line with other products it offered. And he 
thinks its unfair and unethical that it didnt do so.
Paragon didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint so Mr P referred it to this Service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold it either as he said Paragon wasnt required to change the interest rate on 
Mr Ps account in line with new rates offered. And he said Mr P had opted out of marketing 
material, so Paragon wasnt required to send details of new products.
Mr P didnt agree with the investigator. He said, while Paragon may have acted within the 
terms of the account and the letter of regulations, he maintains its actions were unfair and 
unethical. So he asked for an ombudsman to consider this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why. 
I recognise Mr P thinks Paragons actions are unethical and unfair, but I dont agree. Its 
common industry for businesses to introduce new products onto the market  sometimes 
with enhanced interest rates etc to look to entice new customers. But there isnt anything 
that requires banks to match existing rates to a new product. That said, it must treat 
customers fairly and it shouldnt put barriers into place  subject to any limitations on an 
individual account  to prevent consumers from moving their accounts to a new product to 
benefit from higher interest rates. 
Paragon set out that Mr P was entitled to open an account with the higher interest rate and 
internally transfer the funds in the existing account to take advantage of the higher rate. I 
appreciate Mr P doesnt think he should have to do so, but I cant say that Paragon has 
acted unfairly in this case.
I note Mr P thinks that Paragon is being misleading if the interest rate isnt truly variable as it 
suggests. But having a variable interest rate doesnt mean that Paragon must always vary 
the rate in line with its highest rate. A variable rate simply means that the rate can change. 
And Paragon will vary the rate  both up and down  in line with various internal and external 
factors. 
Ultimately, while I acknowledge Mr P feels strongly that Paragon has acted unfairly, I cant 
say that it has.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman