DRN-4255706
The complaint
Mr T complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed to make a bank payment in line with his 
instructions. And that HSBC is withholding some of his money. 
What happened
On 24 March 2023 Mr T attempted to make a bank payment from an account he holds with 
HSBC  Ill refer to here as account D, to another account he holds with another bank. Mr T 
also has another account with HSBC which Ill refer to here as E.  During the call he was 
told the payment had been made. But when he checked the account he holds with the other 
bank, the money hadnt arrived. So, he called HSBC to find out where his money was. 
After having a few conversations with HSBC, it denied all knowledge of the payment which 
caused him distress and inconvenience. Mr T says HSBC made him feel like a liar so he 
made a complaint. HSBC reviewed the complaint but said it hadnt made an error here. Mr T 
remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that although HSBC 
couldve handled the calls better, the payment Mr T made from D hadnt gone through. And 
when Mr T called HSBC to query why, he gave the call handlers the account number for E. 
So, HSBC answered his queries based upon the account number provided by Mr T for E, 
which was overdrawn, so no payments had been made. So, she didnt think Mr T was 
entitled to compensation here. 
Mr T disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said he called on 24 March 2023 
to pay funds out of D but that wasnt done. And the way HSBC dealt with the matter and the 
complaint caused him distress and inconvenience. So, HSBC should return his money and 
he should be entitled to compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr T feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
Mr T was naturally worried when the payment from D to the other account he held outside 
HSBC hadnt arrived. HSBC has said this payment was stopped for further checks. But after 
it was unable to speak to Mr T about the payment the funds were returned to his account 
and a letter was sent to him confirming the funds had been returned. HSBC then said a 
payment was made from D to the other bank in April 2023.  
Its not unusual for some payments to be stopped for further checks  and that doesnt mean 
there was a banking error. After considering the points Mr T has raised, the main issue for 
me appears to be that he was giving the account number for E to HSBC when he was calling 
to query the payment he sent. So, when he was asking HSBC where the payment was the 
call handlers couldnt see that a payment had been made from the account details Mr T was 
giving them. So, I dont think HSBC has intentionally set out to frustrate Mr T here. I think 
there was a misunderstanding when discussing which account the payment was made from. 
I agree with the investigator that some of the calls couldve been handled better by HSBC 
and I agree that doesnt automatically mean Mr T should be compensated. As Ive said 
above, I think this was an unfortunate situation caused by a misunderstanding. 
Mr T believes HSBC has withheld some of his money from his accounts following the 
payment he tried to make from D in March 2023. But I dont agree and havent found any 
evidence to suggest HSBC has withheld any of his funds unfairly. 
I realise this will be a disappointment for Mr T, but based on what Ive seen, I dont think the 
complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman