DRN-3470932
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about poor service from an appointed representative of Openwork 
Limited when they asked for mortgage advice. They say this resulted in financial loss and 
ask for compensation.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C contacted Openwork in September 2020. The fixed rate product on their 
existing mortgage was due to expire on 31 October 2020 and they wanted to re-mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs C also looked at potential mortgages themselves, and took advice from another 
broker. They told Openwork they were able to find better rates than Openwork had found for 
them. At the end of September 2020 Openwork said it could waive its fee and lock in the rate 
Mr and Mrs C wanted, and Mr C says he told it to do this.
Mr and Mrs C say Openwork didnt tell them it couldnt lock in the rate without further 
information from them. Before theyd provided the information, the product Mr and Mrs C 
wanted was withdrawn by the lender. They had to take out a product with a higher interest 
rate. Mr and Mrs C say Openwork also caused delays with their re-mortgage. 
In summary, Mr and Mrs C say due to Openworks delays, misleading information and poor 
service, they had to find a mortgage themselves, they missed out on the rate they wanted, 
and were on their lenders standard variable rate (SVR) between 1 and 20 November 2020, 
when the re-mortgage completed.
Our investigator said while Openwork hadnt been clear when it said it could lock-in the rate 
immediately, it asked for the required information the next day. Given that Mr and Mrs C had 
said they were also taking advice from another broker, it was reasonable for Openwork not 
to chase them. And the overall time taken by Openwork to process their application was 
reasonable. Our investigator said Openwork had waived its brokers fee (of £150) and offered 
£150, which was fair and reasonable for the inconvenience caused.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree. Mr C said hed negotiated the fee waiver and this wasnt 
compensation. He said Openwork lied repeatedly, used misleading language and caused 
delays by not responding to an email from the lender for two weeks.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs C provided background and explained what happened and why theyre unhappy 
with the service from Openwork. They say they lost out due to Openworks errors and 
delays, and ask for compensation. Id only find it fair to require Openwork to pay 
compensation for Mr and Mrs Cs financial loss if it results from its errors. So while Ive 
considered everything Mr and Mrs C have told us, this is what Ill focus on.
I should also say that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
First, Mr and Mrs C say Openwork caused delays that meant they were on their previous 
lenders SVR between 1 and 19 November 2020. 
Mr C says they contacted Openwork in ample time to get the re-mortgage in place. Mr and 
Mrs C say any delays in September 2020 were due to Openwork failing to offer them the 
best rates, which led to them also taking advice from another broker and looking for rates 
themselves. Openwork says new rates became available during September 2020, and 
delays were due to the time taken by Mr C to respond to emails. 
Mr and Mrs C chose a lender and rate and told Openwork theyd go ahead with this on 29 
September 2020. It was just over a week later when they provided information to Openwork 
so that it could proceed. Openwork says the information provided wasnt complete, such as 
the list of credit commitments, and this also delayed matters. 
The lender issued a mortgage offer on 10 November 2020. The re-mortgage completed on 
20 November 2020. 
Openwork accepts it made an error when it didnt respond promptly to a request from the 
lender for information about the repayment vehicle. Its reasonable to assume the mortgage 
offer might have been issued a few days earlier if it hadnt made this error. But I dont think 
its fair for Mr C to say this caused a two-week delay, or that its the only or main reason their 
re-mortgage didnt complete until 20 November 2020. I think there were a number of reasons 
for this, including the time taken by Mr and Mrs C to decide whether to proceed with 
Openwork and to provide information to Openwork. It seems completion was delayed by 
having to wait for a redemption statement from Mr and Mrs Cs lender. Openwork wasnt 
responsible for any delay with the redemption statement being requested or issued. 
Mr and Mrs C were of course entitled to take advice elsewhere, look at the market and 
decide what to do. But I dont think its fair to say that Openwork was responsible for the time 
they took to do this. I think, once Mr and Mrs C said they wanted to go ahead and provided 
the necessary information, Openwork dealt with their application within a reasonable 
timeframe.
Second, Mr and Mrs C say they missed out on the product rate they wanted due to 
Openwork misleading them that the rate was locked in. 
Mr C emailed Openwork on 29 September 2020 saying another broker had found a 1.24% 
tracker rate, asking if Openwork could do better. Openwork replied: If you like, I have most 
of your information on file and can lock in the rate for you immediately. Please let me know if 
you would be interested in me progressing with this. It offered to waive its fee.
Mr C spoke to Openwork later that day and agreed to go ahead. Openwork couldnt secure 
the rate without further information from Mr and Mrs C. Openwork says it told Mr C this on 
the call. Mr C says it didnt make this clear. 
Openwork sent an email to Mr C on 30 September 2020 saying: In order to get everything in 
place can you send over: Most recent payslip. Most recent bank statement. Summary of any 
credit commitments.
Mr and Mrs C provided the requested information on 7 October 2020. Unfortunately, the 
lender had by then withdrawn the product. Mr and Mrs C say they thought the rate was locked in and they had time to provide the information. 
It would have been clearer if Openwork had said in the email that it needed further 
information in order to secure the rate. Its unfortunate there isnt a recording of the phone 
call when Mr C asked it to go ahead with this, especially as the parties dispute what was 
said. But Openwork sent an email the next day asking for information to get everything in 
place. Mr and Mrs C didnt respond until 7 October 2020  not even to ask if the rate was 
secured for them, or for how long. 
Mr and Mrs C told Openwork theyd already provided information to another broker who 
could have secured the rate for them on 24 September 2020. If so, Id have thought theyd 
have known what was needed to secure the rate. Its not clear why Mr and Mrs C didnt 
proceed with the other broker on 24 September 2020, rather than delay and risk losing the 
product  especially as they say they were unhappy with the service theyd received from 
Openwork. Mr and Mrs C wanted the re-mortgage to complete at the beginning of November 
2020. Yet they waited until 29 September 2020 to contact Openwork again, and another 
week before sending it the information it asked for.
It doesnt make a difference to my decision about the outcome whether or not Openwork 
chased Mr and Mrs C for the information. They were aware of what they needed to provide, 
and that they wanted to re-mortgage at the beginning of November 2020. Either Mr and 
Mrs C could have provided the information sooner and chose not to. Or they werent able to 
provide the information sooner. In the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly find that 
Openwork made an error that was the only or the main reason for Mr and Mrs C missing out 
on this product. It follows that I dont think its fair to require it to pay compensation for this.
Mr and Mrs C also say Openwork failed to offer the best rates and they had to find a suitable 
mortgage themselves or via another broker. Ultimately though they decided to proceed with 
Openwork and take out the mortgage it recommended. 
In the circumstances, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Openwork to pay 
compensation for the additional interest Mr and Mrs C paid to their lender while on its SVR, 
or for any additional interest or other costs due to missing out on a product with a lower 
interest rate.
Openwork waived its brokers fee, as it agreed with Mr C. It offered £150 as a goodwill 
gesture. In the circumstances, I think this is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman