DRN-3248872
The complaint
Miss N complains (through a representative) that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out
appropriate affordability checks. Had it done so, then Miss N wouldnt have been provided
for her loans because she was in a cycle of borrowing.
What happened
Our adjudicator partly upheld Miss Ns complaint. Morses didnt agree with the adjudicators 
opinion. The complaint was then passed to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending not to uphold 
Miss Ns complaint. A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings 
follow this in italics and form part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Miss N took five loans between October 2018 and February 2021 Ive included some of the
information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £300.00 26/10/2018 30/05/2019 33 £15.00
2 £400.00 30/05/2019 27/11/2019 33 £20.00
3 £500.00 27/11/2019 29/06/2020 34 £25.00
4 £500.00 29/06/2020 05/02/2021 34 £25.00
5 £500.00 05/02/2021 outstanding 34 £25.00
Based on the statement of account provided by Morses an outstanding balance remains for
loan 5.
Our adjudicator didnt think it was wrong for Morses to have granted loans 1 - 3. But the
adjudicator thought that loans 4 and 5 shouldnt have been lent. He said the pattern of
lending indicated Miss N had become persistently reliant on the loans and therefore
shouldnt have been provided.
Miss Ns representative acknowledged receipt of the view but didnt provide any further
comments.
Morses disagreed with the adjudicators assessment. In summary, it said:
Morses hasnt seen any evidence Miss N was using other funds to meet her  
repayments.
The loans were repaid early and she confirmed she was happy with the service she 
received.
Morses was never told about any financial difficulties Miss N may have been having.
Miss Ns income was verified through her credit file.
Miss N disposable income (income minus expenditure) of £171 for loan 4 and £176 
for loan 5 and so these loans were affordable for Miss N.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Miss N doesnt appear to disagree with our adjudicators findings that Morses wasnt wrong
to lend loans 1 - 3. So, it seems this lending isnt in dispute and so I no longer think that I
need to make a finding about it. But I have kept these loans in mind when thinking about the
overall lending relationship between Morses and Miss N.
Instead, this decision will focus on whether Morses did anything wrong when it granted loans
4 and 5.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Miss N could afford to pay back the amounts
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Morsess checks could have taken into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments,
and Miss Ns income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss N. These factors include:
Miss N having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Miss N having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period 
of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing 
had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss N coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss N.
Morses was required to establish whether Miss N could sustainably repay the loans  not
just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss N was able to
repay her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Ns complaint.
Loans 4 and 5
As the adjudicator has pointed out, by loan 4 Miss N had taken four loans in around 20
months and she was regularly taking a new loan on the day the previous one was repaid.
Which is why the adjudicator thought these loans should be upheld.
Overall, I dont think the loan activity was quite enough to suggest Miss N had become
reliant on the loan. The loan amounts had gone up but there werent any obvious repayment
difficulties, indeed, Morses says loans 1  3 had been repaid early. So, the number of loans
and time in debt, is in my view, not particularly concerning, at this point in time. So, I dont
agree with the adjudicator that Morses ought to have reasonably concluded that these loans
were unsustainable for Miss N.
But that doesnt mean that Morses carried out a proportionate check. Miss N had been
almost continuously indebted to Morses for 20 months (but loan 4), and she was returning
for further credit, extending her indebtedness for at least another 34 weeks. Loan 5 was
taken on the same day loan 4 was repaid, and shed now been indebted for 27 months and
was, like loan 4, committing to a further 34 weekly of repayment of £25.
Overall, I dont think it was reasonable for Morses to have relied on what Miss N declared to
it about her income and expenditure. Even though this information suggested Miss N had
disposable income of at least £159 per week for loan 4 and £135 for loan 5, Morses, in my
view still needed to do more.
Instead, I think it needed to gain a full understanding of Miss Ns actual financial position to
ensure loan 4 was affordable. This couldve been done in several ways, such as asking for
evidence of outgoings, or looking at bank statements and/or a full review of Miss Ns credit
report. This mightve helped verify information provided and revealed whether there was any
other information that Morses mightve needed to consider about Miss Ns general financial
position.
Morse has provided credit search data from the start of July 2020, so around a week after
loan 4 was approved. It was aware she had 8 active credit accounts, with two of these
accounts having a zero balance.
But there was some concerning information about defaults, but I think Morses ought to have
gained a better understanding of Miss Ns financial circumstances. I say this because the
default data suggested that Miss N was regularly defaulting on credit accounts.
Any by loan 5, the credit file, showed a similar number of active credit accounts. But it looked
like Miss N was keeping up to date with her payments, as there was no recent adverse credit
file data being reported and she hadnt opened any new credit accounts within the last six
months. So, there wasnt any indication at loan 5, based on the credit checks that the loan
was unsustainable for her.
I would add though, that by loan 5, Miss N was committed to extending her indebtedness by 
a further 34 weeks, but she was borrowing the same amount as shed done for loans 3 and 
4. So, her overall indebtedness wasnt increasing but neither was it decreasing. Which is 
why, I think, that for these loans further checks needed to have been carried out by Morses.
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold these loans, I have tobe satisfied that Morses didnt carry out proportionate checks but by carrying out a
proportionate check it wouldve likely discovered that Miss N couldnt afford this loan.
Miss N hasnt provided this Service with a copy of her bank statements or her full credit
report. So, I dont know what further checks may have highlighted about her financial
situation at the time. So, without any further information from Miss N about her living
costs, its difficult for me to conclude what Morses wouldve seen if it had made better
checks. Although Morses didnt carry out proportionate checks, Im not able to conclude that
further checks wouldve led it to conclude that these loans were unaffordable for Miss N.
Looking at everything together though, Ive not seen quite enough evidence to suggest
Morses shouldnt have lent loans 4 and 5. Even considering what Miss N declared to Morses
for her income and expenditure, these loans appeared affordable. Im not minded therefore
to think Morses was wrong to have provided these loans.
As this is the case, Im not intending to uphold Miss Ns complaint about loans 4 and 5.
Response to the provisional decision
This Service asked, both Miss N and Morses to provide any further comments, information 
or evidence as soon as possible, but by no later than 12 January 2021. 
Morses responded to the provisional decision explaining that it didnt have anything further to 
add. 
Miss Ns representatives acknowledged receipt of the provisional decision. It explained it 
would be in touch with Miss N and then get back in contact with this Service as soon as 
possible. 
To date, no further response has been received but the deadline for a response has now 
expired, so Im now in a position to issue a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Morses nor Miss N has provided this Service with any further information for me 
to consider, I see no reason to depart from the findings I reached in the provisional decision. 
While, I dont think Morses carried out proportionate checks before it advanced loans 4 and 
5 to Miss N, Ive not seen enough to say that had it made better checks it wouldve reached 
a different lending decision. 
Im therefore not upholding Miss Ns complaint.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im not upholding 
Miss Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 Robert Walker
Ombudsman