DRN-2944183
The complaint
Mr M complains that Equifax Limited continued to report arrangements to pay (APs) on his 
credit file after the accounts had been settled. 
What happened
Mr M has a bank account and credit account with a business I will refer to as H. Mr M 
settled the outstanding balances on both accounts in May 2020. But he was unhappy to 
learn that Equifax was still reporting APs associated with the two accounts on his credit file.
Mr M says that Equifax didnt do enough to put things right. He points out that two other 
credit reference agencies (CRAs) havent been reporting the APs.
Mr M was up against a deadline to apply for a mortgage. He says the APs had a negative 
effect on his credit score, so he had would have to look for lenders which didnt rely on 
information provided by Equifax. Mr M was concerned about the impact this would have on 
his ability to get a mortgage.  He wanted Equifax to compensate him for the upset and 
financial loss hed suffered over a period. 
The investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ms complaint be upheld. She said that Equifax 
couldnt change information without Hs agreement. The investigator noted that Mr M hadnt 
given this service evidence of declined credit applications. She also said that a lender 
wouldnt refuse credit based on a credit score alone. 
Mr M wasnt happy with the investigators recommendation. He explained that he wanted us 
to focus on the APs recorded against his current account with H. 
The investigator said she was satisfied that Equifax had disputed the information with H. She 
thought that it was H that hadnt properly updated Equifax. The investigator didnt 
recommend that Equifax take any action or pay compensation to Mr M.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that I have summarised Mr Ms complaint. I hope he will understand that Im not 
being dismissive of the points that hes made, but this reflects the informal nature of our 
service. I want to assure Mr M that I have read everything that he has sent to us. I hope he 
will understand if I dont address every comment made. I intend to concentrate on what I 
consider is key to this complaint.
Im grateful for the clarification that Mr M gave to this service about the outstanding issues. 
He asked that we ignore the aspect of his original complaint relating to another lender. And     
Mr M doesnt want me to deal with his complaint about the reporting of APs against his credit 
card account with H. This means I will concentrate on Equifaxs actions in relation to the 
reporting of his current account with H.
Mr M says that he started to apply for a mortgage in December 2020 as he couldnt delay 
any longer. My understanding of the situation is that Mr M was struggling to get to the bottom 
of the reporting issues with Equifax. So, he looked for mortgage providers which didnt rely 
on credit information provided by Equifax. And that this in turn meant Mr M was offered a 
higher rate on his mortgage than he otherwise could have got. So, Mr M would like Equifax 
to compensate him for the trouble he went to and the additional cost that hes incurred.
Equifax reports data given to it by data suppliers and is generally reliant on those data 
suppliers. I would expect Equifax to query things with a data supplier if it was told that 
something was wrong. And thats what Equifax did in this case. Each time that Equifax 
raised a dispute, H told Equifax that the information it held about Mr M was correct. Equifax 
explained that it couldnt change the data that it held without Hs agreement and this is true. 
My decision only looks at the actions of Equifax. H says that as of May 2021, the AP marker 
had been removed and the reporting is up to date. H also confirmed that it hadnt updated 
Equifax when it shouldve done. I cant be exactly sure why the current account AP marker 
re-appeared on Mr Ms credit file, but I dont have enough evidence to conclude that it was 
down to Equifax. And Im satisfied that when asked to, Equifax raised disputes on Mr Ms 
behalf.
I appreciate that Mr Ms credit scores are better with the other CRAs but from what I can see 
 at least as it relates to one of the CRAs  this is influenced by the fact the other CRA isnt 
reporting the APs at all. Mr M had an AP on his two accounts with H  so the other CRAs 
arent reporting accurate information.  This may have the effect of artificially inflating Mr Ms 
credit score, leading him to conclude that Equifax mustve done something wrong when I 
dont think that was the case. 
I should also say that lenders dont see Equifaxs credit scores  they are simply an 
indication of how a potential lender may view their credit rating rather than a formal 
assessment. Instead lenders rely on their own criteria and assessment to decide whether to 
lend.
I dont doubt the impact the AP markers have had on Mr Ms credit score. I also appreciate 
the effort he made to try and avoid lenders who relied on Equifax. But as I dont find that 
Equifax made a mistake, I cant require it to compensate Mr M. I appreciate this is likely to 
disappoint Mr M who understandably feels stuck in the middle of Equifax and H. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman