DRN-4034279
The complaint
Mr J and Miss R have complained to Target Servicing Limited that their Help to Buy (HTB) 
shared equity loan wasnt redeemed which meant the charge remained secured on the 
property despite them having sold it.
Mr J and Miss R are represented in this matter by the firm of solicitors that was involved in 
the sale of their property. Any reference to Mr J and Miss R in this decision should be taken 
to mean their representative where appropriate. For ease Ill refer to the firm of solicitors as 
the solicitor and that should be taken to mean either the firm, or the individual dealing with 
matters as appropriate.
The HTB scheme
The HTB scheme was a government scheme in place to support home ownership. In 
addition to the usual mortgage from a regular lender, a borrower took a shared equity loan 
funded by the government to reduce the amount of cash deposit that would be otherwise 
required. HTB shared equity loans are secured by way of a second charge over the property, 
ranking behind the main mortgage.
Mr J and Miss Rs property was in England, and they took the shared equity loan out with 
Homes England, which was formally known as the Homes and Communities Agency. 
Homes England isnt regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) but it appointed 
Target to administer the loan on its behalf. Target is regulated by the FCA.
The rules which set out the complaints our service can consider are found in the Dispute 
Resolution (DISP) section in the FCAs handbook. DISP 2.3 says that our service can 
consider a complaint if it relates to an act or omission by a firm carrying on a regulated 
activity.
The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 sets out the 
list of regulated activities referred to in DISP. Among the regulated activities listed is debt 
administration and debt collection.
Having considered the activities that Target was carrying out in relation to Mr J and Miss Rs 
agreement, Im satisfied that the event complained about is an activity that forms part of 
administering the loan or collecting payments, and therefore is a matter we can consider 
against Target.
What happened
Mr J and Miss R had separated and were selling their jointly owned property that theyd 
bought through the Help to Buy scheme in 2014.
On 27 September 2019 Target sent a redemption quotation and legal pack to the solicitor.
On 10 October Miss R and the solicitor both contacted Target to say that the sale wouldnt 
be completing on 18 October as planned, and to ask what would happen about the valuation 
as it was due to expire on 19 October.
The solicitor was told a desktop valuation would be required, and that was provided to 
Target on 25 October. Target issued an updated redemption quotation to both Mr J and 
Miss R and the solicitor.
In November the property was sold, and the solicitor sent funds to Target to redeem the 
shared equity loan, but these were returned on 13 January 2020 as the solicitor hadnt 
completed the correct steps for redemption.
On 16 January Mr J called to say he kept getting phone calls and was querying why. Target 
explained the account was in arrears because the solicitor hadnt completed the process 
correctly and so the funds had been returned. Mr J said he would contact the solicitor and let 
them know.
Target called on 7 May and 8 June about the arrears, and again explained that the account 
hadnt been redeemed and the funds had been returned to the solicitor.
On 8 June the solicitor called Target as Mr J had been in touch with them to say the loan 
hadnt been redeemed. Target explained it didnt receive the letter of undertaking (LOU) 
and therefore it didnt issue the authority to complete (ATC) document back in November 
2019. Target said it would need the LOU form filled in and a completion statement. The 
person calling from the solicitor said shed never had to complete a LOU before, and she 
didnt understand what she needed to do. Target said it would send the legal pack again with 
the LOU for completion. It said once it had that it would issue an ATC, and then the solicitor 
could transfer the funds.
The solicitor called Target again on 18 June saying they didnt understand why the funds 
had been returned back in January. They said the staff member concerned had left and they 
were trying to resolve things. Target said it needed the LOU, with the solicitor again asking 
what that is. Target said it had sent the legal pack out again on 8 June but hadnt received 
anything back. The solicitor said they would try to get the LOU sent over that afternoon, and 
Target provided an email address for it to be sent to. Target also confirmed the level of 
arrears on the account.
On 5 August the solicitor called Target and was again told why the funds had been returned, 
and what process needed to be followed. The solicitor said theyd been out of conveyancing 
for a while and was just helping out, and queried whether the LOU was a normal procedure 
and whether a law firm would know to do it. Target confirmed that had always been the 
process to redeem HTB shared equity loans. The person calling from the solicitor asked how 
theyd know what needs to be in the LOU and whether there was a template to work from. 
Target said the template for the LOU was included in the legal pack that was sent with the 
redemption quotation. Target also said that a new valuation and new administration fee 
would be needed. It was agreed that a desktop valuation could be used, rather than a 
physical valuation. Finally Target said the solicitor authority form would expire the following 
month, and a new one would need to be provided, a copy of which could be found on its
website. 
The solicitor called Target again on 12 August to confirm which form they needed to 
complete. They asked if there was a word version of the LOU form (rather than the PDF 
which was part of the legal pack) as the person calling didnt have time to copy it into a word 
document themselves. Target explained that it didnt want the form at that time as it needed the updated valuation report first, and then it would respond with a fresh pack enclosing the 
relevant forms and paperwork.
On 17 August an email was sent to Mr J setting out what needed to be done, including the 
need for an updated valuation report. The solicitor was also told about this requirement. 
On 23 September Target called Miss R to try to discuss the situation, but she wouldnt 
complete the security checks as she said she no longer had a HTB loan so the call couldnt 
be undertaken. Target then spoke to Mr J and he was told the loan still hadnt been repaid 
and the valuation had expired. He said hed been told by the solicitor that they would sort it 
out and that they would cover the arrears due to the issues. He said hed contact the solicitor 
and would call Target back in a few days.
The solicitor emailed Target on 23 September about the valuation report, explaining the 
original staff member (that had dealt with matters in 2019) had left which is why it hadnt 
been followed up sooner, and they wanted to get things resolved. The solicitor enclosed a 
copy of the desktop valuation report dated 19 October 2019, a mortgage redemption 
statement from November 2019, and a LOU that was incorrectly completed as it had the 
date of completion as 20 November 2019 rather than the date the solicitor was now 
proposing to repay the HTB loan.
On 14 October the solicitor called Target. Target said it couldnt discuss anything with the 
solicitor because the solicitor authority form had run out over a month earlier. The person 
calling from the solicitor said it was ridiculous because Target was harassing the clients and 
the solicitor was trying to resolve things. They asked what needed to be done now, and 
Target said the clients needed to complete a new solicitor authority form. To help resolve 
matters, Target agreed  just for the purposes of that call  to use the out-of-date solicitor 
authority form so it could discuss the account. The solicitor admitted the staff member who 
dealt with things originally had got things wrong, which is why the redemption had failed. The 
solicitor said they hadnt had a response to their email of 23 September about the valuation 
report. Target checked on what was happening and said the desktop valuation report that 
had been provided hadnt been signed. The solicitor checked their copy and agreed that it 
hadnt been signed, so said they would get the surveyor to sign it. Target said it would then 
send the desktop valuation to Homes England to see if it would accept it, but Homes 
England might insist on a full valuation due to the time that had passed since the last one 
had been carried out.
The solicitor provided the signed desktop valuation to Target on 16 October, and Target sent 
it to Homes England. Homes England approved the valuation on 20 October, so Target 
emailed Mr J to ask for the information it needed from him (an updated solicitor authority 
form as the previous one had expired, and the administration fee).
On 4 November the solicitor called Target. It was confirmed that Homes England had agreed 
to the desktop valuation and so matters could proceed. The person calling from the solicitor 
said they didnt know the process as the colleague that dealt with these redemptions wasnt 
there at that time. Target emailed the new redemption quotation and legal pack directly to 
the solicitor that was dealing with this whilst on the phone. The solicitor asked if completion 
was possible for 6 November and was told it was. The Target staff member said they 
needed the LOU, and that she could prepare the ATC so it was ready to be issued once the 
LOU was received from the solicitor. She said - if completion was to be on the 6th  Target 
needed the LOU, which she explained was appendix 1, to be filled in and sent back on the 
5th and for the solicitor to phone in once they had emailed the LOU over so it could be 
picked up and dealt with.The solicitor sent the funds to Target on 5 November, again without completing the required 
stages of providing a correctly completed LOU and receiving the ATC before the funds were 
paid. This meant there was a shortfall in the funds, with the solicitor sending £33,492.20 
whereas the amount needed to redeem the loan was £33,676.24 (as shown by the 
retrospective ATC that was issued on 19 November for 6 November).
On 12 November the solicitor phoned Target. She said she had been sent the pack again on 
4 November, asking her to complete appendix 1, which she felt was nonsense. She said she 
had sent an email with the memorandum of sale, the DS1 form and completion statement. 
She said because the figures were wrong she included what she thought were the right 
figures in the email, and she sent the funds over on 5 November but hadnt heard anything 
back. Target said it had sent the redemption quotation on 4 November, which the solicitor 
said she hadnt received although she said she had received something else that day (which 
from her description sounds like it was the redemption quotation). There was a discussion 
about the figures, and Target said it still hadnt received the LOU. The solicitor said that had 
been sent a long time ago, way back when the property was sold. The solicitor sent the LOU 
over whilst they were on the phone, but it sounds like it had been completed incorrectly as it 
had the date of completion as 20 November 2019, rather than 6 December 2020.
Target said it needed a correct up-to-date LOU, once it received that it could issue the ATC, 
and then once that was sent to the solicitor then the solicitor could send the funds to Target. 
The solicitor sent the updated LOU to Target  for a completion date of 13 November  
whilst they were on the phone, but unfortunately it couldnt be processed because the 
valuation had expired on 6 November. It was agreed that the solicitor would send a further 
LOU for a completion date of 6 November, and then Target would refer that onwards within 
the business. The solicitor said theyd been told on 4 November 2020 just to send the funds 
over. They also said it is only now a year down the line from the property sale in November 
2019, that theyd been told the process hadnt been completed correctly back then. 
On 19 November Target issued the ATC to the solicitor. It was for a completion date of 6 
November 2020 and said the total due was £33,676.24.
On 23 November the funds that had been sent on 5 November were returned to the solicitor.
On 1 December the solicitor phoned Target. They were told there was no valid solicitor 
authority form on file as it had expired so nothing could be discussed about the account. The 
solicitor wanted details of the complaints procedure, and it then raised a complaint with 
Target by email on 27 January 2021. In the meantime Mr J had called again on 16 January 
and was told the account was in arrears due to the failed redemption. He said hed contact 
the solicitor to discuss it. Miss R also called on 19 January but didnt complete security.
Target issued a letter to the solicitor on 22 March, not upholding the main thrust of the 
complaint, although it said it should have emailed the solicitor (rather than just speaking to 
Mr J) when the funds were returned the first time. In that letter Target set out again the 
process that needed to be followed for the loan to be redeemed:
On both occasions, an Authority to Complete had not been produced so funds should not 
have been sent. As you sent the funds before the Authority to Compete [sic] had been 
produced, the amount you sent was incorrect as you did not have the final redemption sum 
required.
To complete redemption, you need to send us all the required documentation so we can 
then produce an initial Redemption Quotation. This is not the final sum that needs to be 
paid, so you should not be sending us funds following this letter. Once we have sent the 
Redemption Quotation, you need to complete the Letter of Undertaking with a completion date in the future. From this, an Authority to Complete will be produced that will have the 
final sum payable for redemption and provide confirmation of what date to send the funds. 
If this process is not followed the funds will be rejected and returned. 
To progress with the redemption of this account, please call our customer services team to 
find what documentation is now required. Please complete the process in the correct order 
so that the redemption can be processed promptly.
In June 2021 the solicitor said they hadnt received the complaint response letter, so a copy 
was emailed to them.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and felt it should be upheld in part. They 
said Target should have contacted the solicitor directly when the loan couldnt be redeemed 
in November 2019, and had that happened then the process could have been completed at 
that time. They said, to put things right, Target should pay £500 compensation, and the 
arrears on the loan should be written off. They also said Target should contact the solicitor 
directly to discuss redeeming the loan.
Target didnt agree. It said it was willing to pay £250 compensation, but the delay was 
because the solicitor didnt follow the correct procedure, and still hasnt.
I asked our investigator to contact the solicitor to find out the current status of the account 
and we were told it still hasnt been redeemed as Target is insisting on completing the ATC 
step of the process, but the solicitor has said Target had previously said it would waive that.
I issued a provisional decision earlier this month, the findings of which said:
Target sent a booklet entitled Redemption Information for Legal Representatives with the 
redemption quotation in September 2019. That set out the steps that needed to be 
completed by the solicitor. That said:
You must provide a Legal Undertaking to Target by email at least 15 working Days 
prior to the expected completion date of the transaction.
Within five working days of receipt of the legal undertaking referred to in paragraph 4.1 
above [] Target will issue an Authority to Complete confirming that the transaction 
can complete.
On receipt, the redemption monies will be validated against the figures stated on the 
Authority to Complete (ATC). If the amount received corresponds with the ATC, Target 
will in the case of: [] Full Redemption, issue a notice to Land Registry to release 
Homes Englands charge and confirm the same to the Borrowers legal representative
The pack included a copy of the LOU that needed to be completed, and that said:
We hereby undertake to Target Servicing Limited and to Homes England as follows: [] 
4. Not to complete the Disposal until this firm is in receipt of an Authority to Complete
The covering letter giving the redemption quotation figure also said that an ATC must have 
been issued by Target. And further information about the process was provided in a 
separate letter and booklet that was sent to Mr J and Miss R, with a link to the customer 
information booklet included in the details provided to the solicitor.The solicitor received the redemption quotation and legal pack but didnt send the LOU to 
Target or receive the ATC back, instead just sending the funds across on the day the 
property was sold. It doesnt seem to be in dispute that the solicitor got things wrong in 
November 2019. The solicitor admitted as much in phone calls with Target in 2020, 
accepting that they hadnt followed the correct process to redeem the HTB loan, which led 
to the funds being returned and the loan continuing to run despite the fact the security 
property had been sold.
Target has said that it should have contacted the solicitor directly to let them know it had 
returned the funds in January 2020, and I agree. But I dont agree this case turns on that to 
the extent our investigator thought. Ill explain.
Mr J and Miss R were Targets customers, and Mr J was told by Target on 16 January that 
the loan redemption had failed. He said hed speak to the solicitor, and Target had no 
reason to believe that wouldnt happen - so the customers were notified that completion 
hadnt happened. In addition, the funds would have been returned to the solicitors client 
account and under the Solicitors Regulation Authoritys account rules, at least every five 
weeks a reconciliation should be carried out of the funds in the account. This means by 
mid-February, at the latest, the solicitor should have been aware the funds had been 
returned.
There were calls from the solicitor in June and August, and in those Target explained that 
completion had failed because the correct process hadnt been followed. It also explained 
what needed to be done to redeem the HTB loan.
Unfortunately, the desktop valuation provided by the solicitor dated 6 August wasnt signed 
by the surveyor; it wasnt acceptable until it had been signed and it appears Target 
received the signed version in October. By then the solicitor authority form had expired, 
something the solicitor had been warned about in August 2020 when they were told it 
would be expiring the following month. The solicitor was told that would be required and 
that it could be downloaded from Targets website. Despite that a new solicitor authority 
form wasnt provided. Although it didnt have an updated form, Target agreed to speak to 
the solicitor on a couple of occasions as it was keen to move things forward, but that was 
just a gesture to try to help, it wasnt an agreement that the requirement for a current 
solicitor authority form would be waived.
A further completion was attempted in November 2020 but again the correct process 
wasnt followed, and insufficient funds were sent by the solicitor. In the call of 4 November 
the solicitor was told that it needed to provide the LOU on 5 November and then phone 
Target once they had emailed the form over. That way Target could pick it up and issue the 
ATC the same day which would allow the funds to be paid on 6 November. But the solicitor 
didnt follow that process and instead just sent funds on 5 November, and those were 
around £185 short.
The solicitor sent the funds to Target on 5 November without completing the required 
stages of providing a LOU and receiving the ATC document before the funds are paid. This 
meant there was a shortfall in the funds, with the solicitor sending £33,492.20 whereas the 
amount needed to redeem the loan was £33,676.24 (as shown by the retrospective ATC 
that was issued on 19 November for 6 November). Because the process hadnt been 
correctly followed the funds bounced back again on 23 November 2020.
We recently asked the solicitor what the status of the account is and were told it still hasnt 
been redeemed. The solicitor has said thats because Target is insisting on issuing an 
ATC, but I cant see why that has been a barrier to this matter being settled over the last 
two years as that is a normal part of the process that is needed to redeem a HTB loan. It is unusual here in that the property was sold over three years ago, but Target agreed to 
accept a desktop valuation to move things forward as Mr J and Miss R no longer have 
access to the property.
Having considered everything Im satisfied Target issued the paperwork to the solicitor on 
more than one occasion setting out what needed to be done and explained this in the 
various phone calls. It has been consistent in its communications with the solicitor since 
June 2020 that completion failed because the correct process hadnt been followed, and 
what the process is. Until that process is correctly followed this loan wont be redeemed.
I agree Target should have contacted the solicitor in January 2020, but for the reasons 
given I dont think that would have changed anything bearing in mind Mr J  Targets 
customer - was aware, the solicitor should have noticed they had received the funds back, 
and despite being told on many occasions since June 2020 what they needed to do, the 
process still hasnt been completed correctly.
I also agree Target didnt always respond promptly to emails from the solicitor, but equally 
the solicitor could have phoned Target, and the process is clear and just needed to be 
followed in the right order. Im satisfied there were some small delays caused by Target but 
when considered as part of the wider picture covering over three years, they were fairly 
minimal.
Target offered £250 in response to our investigators view, but I feel £300 compensation is 
more appropriate to take everything into account.
However, the most important thing now is to get this resolved for Mr J and Miss R. To do 
so, Target should:
Allow matters to progress using the August 2020 desktop valuation report rather than 
needing a further valuation report to be obtained.
Allow the £200 administration fee and the arrears balance to be paid as part of the 
redemption funds.
Mr J and Miss R need to instruct the solicitor to follow the process in the correct order 
allowing sufficient time for each stage to be completed. The solicitor can find the process in 
the legal pack that is issued with the redemption quotation, or in the customer information 
pack which can be found at:
https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_d
ata/file/848009/RFI2519_-_Annex_B.pdf
Mr J and Miss R will need to arrange with the solicitor to sign a new solicitor authority form 
and instruct the solicitor to provide it to Target. This can be found at the above link and is 
entitled Form A - Loan Redemption Form with House Sale.Once that form has been provided to Target the process will be:
Target will issue the redemption quotation letter to the solicitor and Mr J and Miss R.
At least 15 working days prior to the expected completion date (by that we mean the 
date the solicitor will send the funds to Target to redeem the HTB loan), the solicitor 
must provide a LOU to Target by email. The date given as the completion date on 
that document should be the date the funds are going to be sent to Target (not the 
date the property was sold). The template for the LOU can be found in the legal 
pack that was provided to the solicitor with the redemption quotation.
Once Target has received the LOU from the solicitor it will issue the ATC document. 
That will contain the exact sum that needs to be paid (the redemption quotation is 
only an estimate).
Only once the solicitor has received the ATC should the funds be sent to Target, and 
the exact amount quoted on the ATC should be sent on the right day.
Ive no reason to believe that if those steps are correctly followed in the right order then this 
loan wont be redeemed and then the charge can be removed from the property. If anything 
goes wrong with that process then that is a new complaint that can be made at the time by 
Mr J and Miss R, but Ive no reason to believe that will be the case.
This was a joint loan so my award of compensation would normally also be joint. But as 
Mr J and Miss R have separated that wouldnt be appropriate in this case. I ask Mr J and 
Miss R, in their response to this provisional decision, to both individually confirm how that 
money should be split. In the absence of an agreement being received then it will be split 
£150 each.
Target didnt make any further submissions. Miss R and the solicitor both responded.
Miss R said that she was disappointed the amount of compensation that our investigator had 
recommended had been reduced. She said she had over three years worth of harassment, 
which caused her a lot of stress and upset.
The solicitor didnt raise any new points that go to the heart of whether or not this complaint 
should be upheld. I wont repeat everything the solicitor said in its response, but some of the 
broad points were, in summary:
They didnt receive any correspondence from Target when the funds were returned 
the first time, and they are perplexed as to why Target persisted in contacting Mr J 
and Miss R rather than them.
A team manager at Target confirmed he would amend the system at its end so the 
redemption could be completed in late 2020. It didnt happen and the solicitor was 
unable to speak to that person again.
The email from Target on 4 November didnt request a new LOU as the redemption 
quote had already been provided.
They dont think that if they submit the LOU with the 2020 desktop valuation that 
Targets systems will let the process complete unless the member of staff dealing 
with it has knowledge of the case and what needs to be done.What Ive decided  and why
Ive carefully considered everything the solicitor has said but no new material information or 
evidence has been provided that I hadnt already considered when reaching my provisional 
findings.
I acknowledged in my provisional findings that Target should have notified the solicitor that 
the funds had been returned originally, but I also explained why I didnt think that altered the 
overall outcome of this complaint. For completeness Ill quote here what I said:
Mr J and Miss R were Targets customers, and Mr J was told by Target on 16 January that 
the loan redemption had failed. He said hed speak to the solicitor, and Target had no 
reason to believe that wouldnt happen - so the customers were notified that completion 
hadnt happened. In addition, the funds would have been returned to the solicitors client 
account and under the Solicitors Regulation Authoritys account rules, at least every five 
weeks a reconciliation should be carried out of the funds in the account. This means by 
mid-February, at the latest, the solicitor should have been aware the funds had been 
returned.
There were calls from the solicitor in June and August, and in those Target explained that 
completion had failed because the correct process hadnt been followed. It also explained 
what needed to be done to redeem the HTB loan.
So even though Target didnt notify the solicitor, it did tell its customer  Mr J  and the 
solicitor ought to have been aware the funds had been returned to their client account.
Even if the team manager did say he would amend the system, the fact remains that when 
that didnt happen there were no barriers to the solicitor completing the process correctly. 
There were also no barriers to the solicitor completing the process correctly before then. I 
understand there were issues with valuation expiry dates, but again none of those were due 
to mistakes by Target.
The solicitor has said that the email of 4 November 2020 didnt request a new LOU as they 
had already provided the redemption quote to us. But the LOU comes after the redemption 
quote in the process, not before, and that is clearly covered in the various legal packs that 
were issued to the solicitor over the process (and was covered in my provisional decision). 
It was also clearly covered in the phone call of 4 November with the call handler saying they 
needed the LOU from the solicitor, and once she had that she could produce the ATC. The 
Target call handler also clearly said that if completion was to be on 6 November then the 
solicitor needed to email the LOU over on 5 November and that the solicitor also needed to 
phone Target as soon as it had been emailed so the ATC could be produced and sent to the 
solicitor. Because that phone call wasnt made, the ATC wasnt produced and sent over, and 
the solicitor paid the wrong amount, causing the redemption to fail.
Whilst I understand the solicitor says they spent many hours on the phone, and the calls 
were difficult, Ive listened to the calls and Target gave correct information as did the legal 
packs. Had that process been followed as set out Ive no reason to believe redemption 
wouldnt have happened.
The solicitor has said that they dont think that if they submit the LOU with the 2020 desktop 
valuation that Targets systems will let the process complete unless the member of staff 
dealing with it has knowledge of the case and what needs to be done. Ive no reason to 
believe that would be the case, but as a way to ensure the background is clear I would suggest that the solicitor also provides a copy of this decision  along with Mr J and Miss Rs 
acceptance (as this decision is only binding if accepted) - with the paperwork. 
In terms of Miss Rs point about the amount of compensation being reduced, Im sorry to see 
the impact this has had on her over the years, that cant have been easy. Unfortunately, as I 
explained in my provisional decision, I can only award compensation for things Im satisfied 
that Target did wrong. The reason there were so many calls, and it has taken so long, is that 
the correct redemption process hasnt been followed.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so - and having considered the full file afresh including what Miss R and the 
solicitor said in response to my provisional decision - I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and order Target Servicing Limited to:
Pay £300 compensation. We didnt receive confirmation from Mr J and Miss R how 
this should be paid so, as I set out in my provisional decision, this should be split 
£150 each.
Allow matters to progress using the August 2020 desktop valuation report rather than 
needing a further valuation report to be obtained.
Allow the £200 administration fee and the arrears balance to be paid as part of the 
redemption funds.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Miss R to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 April 2023. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman