DRN-3240111
The complaint
Mr C complains that Plutusgroup Ltd, now trading as Gate Capital Group Ltd (Gate), gave 
him unsuitable advice to transfer three of his pensions to a Self-Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP).
What happened
In early September 2016, Mr C was recommended to transfer two occupational pensions 
from a previous employer - one defined benefit (DB) pension and one defined contribution 
(DC) pension) - as well as a stakeholder pension to a SIPP and invest through Organic, a 
Discretionary Fund Manager (DFM). Mr C also had another larger DB pension which he 
didnt transfer.
Mr C said he shouldnt have been advised to transfer and that he is financially 
disadvantaged as a result.
Gate said they cant be held responsible for advice given by Mr Cs adviser as at the time, 
between March and 12 September 2016, he didnt hold authority to act for Gate. Another 
ombudsman issued a jurisdiction decision on a similar case where advice happened around 
the same time and found Gate could be held responsible for advice given after mid-August 
2016 and likely after May 2016. Gate was informed that we would proceed with merits 
assessments on cases where advice was given during these times.
Our investigator considered the merits of Mr Cs complaint and didnt think it should be 
upheld. He considered it was reasonable to advise Mr C to transfer the pensions to meet his 
main objective of releasing a lump sum whilst being able to keep the remainder of his funds 
invested until he wished to retire.
Mr Cs representative objected and asked for an ombudsmans decision, so the complaint 
was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Jurisdiction
I considered Gates comments about whether they can be held responsible for the advice 
given to Mr C. However for the same reasons set out by my ombudsman colleague and 
which have been explained to Gate in detail, Im satisfied they are responsible. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint and I note that Gate havent provided further 
comments after the investigators merits assessment, so I see no reason to address this 
point in more detail here.
Was the advice to transfer Mr Cs pensions suitable?
At the time of the advice Mr C was 55, going through a divorce and he had a dependent 
child. He was self-employed with average earnings of around £49,000 per year, however at 
the time of the advice he was between contracts and was receiving benefits. His attitude to 
risk was recorded as low-medium and he planned to retire at 67.
Mr C had a DB pension with a transfer value of around £36,000 which he accrued over three 
years of service with a previous employer. This would provide him with an annual income of 
£1,175 a year if he took it at age 55 or £1,582 at age 60.
He had a DC pension from the same ex-employer with a transfer value of around £21,000. If 
he took benefits from this pension at age 55, he could take around £5,300 in tax-free cash or 
£11,200 if he took benefits from both his DB and DC scheme at the same time. He also had 
a stakeholder pension worth around £36,000.
Mr C held another larger DB pension he accrued over 11 years of service with a different 
employer which would provide him with a retirement income of around £5,300 per year in 
addition to a retirement grant of around £16,000 at age 60. Mr C didnt transfer this pension.
Mr C had no debts or liabilities. He had £117,000 in savings which were earmarked to use 
for a property purchase after his divorce. He needed another £27,000 to buy this property 
and was looking to release money from his pensions for this purpose.
The starting assumption when advising to transfer DB benefits is that it is unsuitable. It 
should only be considered where it can be demonstrated that a transfer is in the consumers 
best interest. A transfer analysis report showed that Mr Cs new pension needed to grow by 
11.2% a year to match his benefits in the DB scheme. Accounting for the ongoing charges in 
the SIPP this would increase by another 0.5%. Given his low to medium attitude to risk it 
was very unlikely these returns could be achieved and so a transfer would likely leave Mr C 
with overall lower benefits in retirement. 
It was mentioned Mr C wanted to take his pension flexibly in retirement, however given that 
he was still 12 years away from his planned retirement age and he had other pensions he 
could have accessed flexibly, I dont think this was sufficient reason to transfer this pension. 
Even if he wanted to access the pension flexibly in future he could have made transferred at 
that point. 
The adviser also noted that the death benefits Mr Cs son could receive would be more 
flexible in the SIPP. Again, whilst that might be true, Mr C was in good health and he had 
other pensions which could have paid out lump sum benefits if he died. In any event, 
although I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, the priority here was to 
advise Mr C what was best for his own retirement provisions. A pension is primarily designed 
to provide income in retirement. So I dont think different death benefits justified the likely 
decrease of retirement benefits for Mr C.
The other pensions Mr C transferred werent DB pensions. However, a pension switch 
should also only be done for good reasons and if its in the best interest of the consumer.
Mr Cs pensions were low cost and the investments available to him would have suited his 
attitude to risk, so generally there would have been no need to switch to a SIPP in order to 
provide better retirement benefits for example. 
However, having said all of the above, its clear Mr C was looking to release £27,000 from 
his pensions to buy a property after his divorce-which he did after the transfer completed. So I considered whether it was suitable advice to use his pensions to meet this important 
objective.
Mr C was 55, so he could have accessed his existing pensions straight away. However, 
none of his pensions allowed him to take a lump sum and keep the rest of his funds invested 
until retirement. He would have had to draw an income straight away which is not something 
Mr C wanted or needed. He was still working and was planning to do so for another 12 
years. So taking additional income which would have been subject to higher income tax and 
losing the opportunity for accruing returns on his pension funds in a tax-efficient environment 
was not advisable in my view.
Pensions are primarily designed to provide retirement income, so the adviser then needed to 
consider whether Mr C could meet his objective of buying the property using alternative 
means. Mr C didnt have any additional savings. The suitability report said Mr C was in 
between contracts at the time and was receiving benefits, so he couldnt service a loan. The 
report also noted Mr C wanted to live mortgage free. The adviser pointed out that mortgage 
interest rates were lower than the 11.2% he would have to pay to unlock his DB pension 
and so arranging a borrowing would clearly be better value than releasing his DB pension. 
Based on what Ive seen I think Mr C was fairly informed about his choices in this regard. 
However, in any event, similar to the loan, I think it might have been difficult for Mr C to 
obtain or service a mortgage in his circumstances at the time.
Ive also considered that the DB benefits Mr C transferred were relatively modest and didnt 
represent a significant part of his pension provisions. He had a larger DB pension which he 
didnt transfer and which would give him a secure income in retirement together with his 
other pensions. So he had the capacity to take some risk with his smaller DB pension. And 
whilst I dont think flexibility or different death benefits on their own justified the transfer, 
those were additional benefits which were achieved by transferring to a SIPP. I think meeting 
his objective of the property purchase outweighed the disadvantages of a transfer.
So overall, I think it was reasonable to recommend Mr C to transfer his pensions to a 
drawdown arrangement which allowed him to take out a lump sum and meet his objective of 
a property purchase without a mortgage and leave the rest of his pension invested until his 
intended retirement age. 
Advice to use a DFM
I then considered whether the advice to use a SIPP and Organic as a DFM was suitable for 
Mr C. SIPP with DFM arrangements can be expensive and customers need to have the 
necessary knowledge and experience to understand the nature of the risks of the underlying
investments  particularly where these are non-traditional investments. Mr C wasnt a 
particularly experienced investor. However, I think the issue here was that Gate wasnt 
reasonably aware that Organic was going to use non-traditional investments to the extent 
that it did. 
Mr C was recommended to invest in Organics conservative portfolio. The factsheet for the 
conservative portfolio for the third quarter of 2016 shows a 58% overall holding in corporate 
and government bonds, 23% in shares (both developed and emerging markets), with the 
remainder market neutral (12%), commodities (5%) and cash (2%). I think the asset 
allocation was reasonably aligned with Mr Cs attitude to risk.
We know from other cases this service has dealt with that the Gate advisers due diligence 
into Organic had been based on specific questions they put to them between May and 
August 2016  rather than simply accepting Organics marketing material without question.The adviser went on to check out the pedigree of those running the business, and its 
external compliance consultants  recording its overall conclusions in a summary document 
which it has provided to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
In August 2016 Organic provided assurances to Gate that the model portfolios wouldnt be 
invested in non-standard assets and that they would not be managing any funds directly. 
Organic made this comment on charges:
Historically to date the funds invested in have had TERs [total expense ratios] below 
0.65% per year, in some cases as low as 0.07%. We will endeavour to keep TER's as low as 
possible; realistically below 0.8%, which includes Organics management charges but could 
be as high as 1.00%.
Based on what Ive seen I think the extent of Gates due diligence enquiries here was 
reasonable and I dont consider they acted negligently in this respect. Im satisfied the due
diligence Gate had carried out in mid-2016 would have provided reasonable assurance that
the portfolio would be managed appropriately. Based on the information available to Gate at 
the time the DFM offered investments in line with Mr Cs attitude to risk and the overall 
maximum charges of 1.5% (up to 1% for fund charges including DFM management and 
0.5% for the SIPP) would have been in line with the charges cap on a stakeholder pension. 
Mr C had a pension pot which could have benefitted from some investment management 
and I think a SIPP/DFM arrangement with these charges wasnt unsuitable. 
Gate offered an ongoing advice service for a fee of 1% a year and I think additional charges 
at this level would have made this arrangement too expensive for Mr C. I dont think 
investing with low medium risk would have provided him with returns to weigh out these 
charges. However, it seems Mr C changed advisers before an annual review could take 
place and Ive seen no evidence that these ongoing adviser fees were paid to Gate. Ive 
taken this into account in my assessment. 
It seems by November 2017 a significant investment in the Organic portfolios was often 
made into two funds which were directly managed by Organic and which held significant 
investments in non-investment grade debt, emerging markets and financial derivative 
instruments. I dont know the extent to which these funds in particular would have been 
introduced to Mr Cs portfolio, as his was lower on the risk scale than some of Organics 
other portfolios. But importantly, any such changes in the portfolios contents, if they 
happened, would have taken place after he invested  and dont seem to have been flagged 
in the due diligence Gate undertook into Organic. The total charges in some portfolios also 
seem to have approached 1.75% per year once management and custody fees were 
included  not the maximum of 1% Organic confirmed to Gate originally.
Given the due diligence Gate carried out I dont think they could reasonably foresee Organic 
going against previous assurances and information they provided. Gate offered an ongoing 
advice service to Mr C which would have allowed them to monitor the investments, however 
I understand Mr C changed advisers in May 2017 before an annual review could take place. 
So I dont think Gate would have had a fair opportunity to notice Organic diverging from their 
assurances on costs and investments. 
The responsibility to monitor Mr Cs investments and change them if they didnt match his 
attitude to risk and objectives anymore fell to the new firm after March 2017. 
In the circumstances of this particular case, I dont think it would be fair to hold Gate 
responsible for any possible failings in how Organic managed Mr Cs investments after he 
transferred.Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint because I consider:
the advice to transfer his pensions to a SIPP was suitable
discretionary investment management could potentially have provided some benefit 
in Mr Cs situation; and
Gate shouldnt be held responsible for Organics failings given the extent of the due
diligence it carried out before the advice was given and the limited opportunity to 
monitor Mr Cs investments afterwards.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022. 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman