DRN-2350913
The complaint
Ms C complains about poor claims handling by esure Insurance Limited (esure) when her 
car was damaged in an accident and she claimed under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
In August 2020, Ms Cs car was involved in an accident and she contacted her insurer, 
esure, on the same day to tell it about the accident. A few days later esure was contacted on 
behalf of the third party about the accident. It wrote to Ms C, who was unhappy with the way 
the letter was worded as she had already told esure about the accident. Esure apologised 
for this and paid Ms C £100 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience it had 
caused.
Esure assessed the damage to Ms Cs car. It said the cost of repairing the damage was 
more than the market value of the car. So it said it would pay the market value rather than 
repairing it. Ms C was unhappy with the market value esures engineer initially offered. He 
increased his offer to £2,000, less the policy excess. 
Ms C says she accepted this offer and the engineer said he would send a cheque in 
settlement. Esure says that according to the engineers file note at the time Ms C wanted to 
get her own estimates for the cost of repairing the damage and the value of the car before 
deciding whether to accept. So no cheque was sent.
 
In October 2020, esure offered Ms C the following options:
accept the claim settlement of £2000 less the excess and it would then take 
ownership of the car; or
if she didnt want to claim for the damage to the car through the insurance, it would  
deal with the third party claim alone and Ms Cs claim would be closed.
Ms C asked about keeping the car. Esure said it would offer it back to her for 35% of the 
market value.
Ms C said that she had spent some £700 on making her car roadworthy (including putting it 
through an MOT) as she needed it and couldnt wait for the claim to be settled. She said she 
wanted esure to settle the claim by paying her the full value of the claim - £2000 and letting 
her keep the car.
She also said she had spoken to the salvage company who would be collecting the car and 
was told it would only pay esure £50 for the car. So she didnt think it was fair that she 
should have £700 deducted from the settlement if she wanted to keep the car.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She thought esure 
had provided poor service when Ms C first tried to register her claim, but the £100 
compensation esure had paid Ms C for this was fair in the circumstances.
There was a dispute between esure and Ms C on whether Ms C had accepted the 
engineers offer of £2,000, and the engineer had said he would send a cheque, or whether 
Ms C had told him she wanted to get further estimates before she decided. Esure said a 
recording of the relevant call wasnt available. The investigator said she accepted esures 
explanation of what had happened, and why no cheque was sent. 
Ms C had complained that she wasnt offered a courtesy car. However, the investigator 
pointed out that under the policy terms a courtesy car was only provided while a car was 
being repaired at one of esures recommended repairers. This didnt happen in this case.
The investigator said esure and Ms C had been in regular contact by email since the claim 
was first made. Esure had now offered the following options to settle the claim:
esure will pay the cars market value of £2000 minus the £250 excess. In this case 
Ms C will be paid £1750 and esure will be the owner of the car; or
Ms C will keep the car and esure will pay her £1312.50, which is the above 
settlement figure minus the excess and a salvage value retention fee which it has 
reduced from 35% to 25%: or
esure can cancel Ms Cs claim and will pay the third party claim only.
Ms C didnt think any of these options were fair. She said she had spent some £700 to get 
the car back on the road while waiting for esure to settle her claim, which she wouldnt 
recover under any of the options.
The investigator thought the options esure was offering were fair, and was satisfied esure 
had acted fairly and reasonably in seeking to resolve Ms Cs claim. It was up to Ms C to 
decide which option she now would take. She didnt think it would be reasonable to require 
esure to pay the full settlement value of the car, and also let Ms C keep the car without 
charge.
Ms C responded to say, in summary, that:
she had accepted the engineers value of £2,000, and he had said he was sending a 
cheque;
she had spent hundreds of pounds in taxi fares, making the car driveable, and 
renewing its insurance, because of the delays;
she didnt think the car was worth the salvage value of £500 esure now wanted.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from the email correspondence Ive seen that Ms C thought her claim should have 
been dealt with much more quickly, and was frustrated by the whole process. Esure was at 
fault with the initial letter it sent her, as it acknowledged. However, I think the compensation 
of £100 it sent her dealt fairly with that aspect.
Esure did assign one of its executives to try to guide Ms  through the claims process. But 
she remained unhappy with the procedure.
One of her main complaints is that she thought she had accepted a value for her car of 
£2,000 at the end of August, and esure had confirmed that a settlement cheque was being sent to her. Esure on the other hand thought she was getting further quotes before deciding 
whether to accept the offer. So more time passed while each side waited for the other. It 
wasnt till October that this misunderstanding came to light.
Ms C has consistently maintained that she accepted the valuation offer of £2,000 in August, 
and was told by esures engineer that he was sending a cheque. The engineers file note 
disagrees. I dont think esure had any reason deliberately to delay settling the claim. In the 
absence of any other evidence I cant be sure the offer was accepted in August.
In October 2020, esure set out the options available and asked Ms C to decide. Ms C then 
raised the issue of her buying back the car. Esure said this was possible if she paid 35% of 
the agreed value. Ms C said this was unreasonable. She said esures salvage company told 
her it was only worth £50 as scrap. I havent seen any evidence of this. 
If an insurer pays the market value of a car as a result of a claim, the car becomes its 
property. If the policyholder then wishes to buy the car from the insurer, we think its 
reasonable that they should have the opportunity to do so. What is a reasonable price will 
depend on how damaged the car is.
In this case esure thought the cost of repairing the car was more than its market value. 
However, it doesnt seem it had significant structural damage, as Ms C was able to get it 
repaired and through its MOT by spending some £700. That suggests the value of the car 
would be more than if it was only fit to be broken up for parts. That being so, I dont think the 
price of 25% of market value that esure is now suggesting is unreasonable.
As the investigator said, Ms C wasnt entitled to a courtesy car under the policy because the 
car never went to a recommended repairer. Similarly, Ms C isnt entitled under the policy to 
be reimbursed taxi fares, or the costs she has expended in getting the car back on the road 
so she had transport in the meantime. 
While some time has passed since the accident happened, I think a large part of this delay 
has occurred because of the misunderstanding about whether there was an acceptance of 
the valuation, and then because of Ms Cs unwillingness to pay anything like the price esure 
wanted to sell the car back to her.
I conclude that esure has acted reasonably in trying to conclude Ms Cs claim, and the 
options it is offering Ms C are fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. So its now up to 
Ms C to decide what she now wants to do.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and make no order against esure Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman