DRN-1205495
 
complaint
Mr and Mrs P say Barclays Bank UK PLC, who were trading at the time as Standard Life 
Bank, mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy for their mortgage. For simplicity, 
I will refer to the business as Barclays for the majority of the rest of this decision.
background
Mr and Mrs P took out a PPI policy with a joint mortgage in 2000. The policy was in joint 
names. Mr and Mrs P paid for the PPI with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract 
interest. It covered them in case they were off work sick or lost a job. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ps case. 
Ive read and considered all the evidence on the file, but Ill confine my comments to what I 
think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to 
consider it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is 
the right outcome in the wider context. Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is 
here), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I 
consider is most likely to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Ive decided that Mr and Mrs Ps PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Ive first looked at whether Barclays gained Mr and Mrs Ps consent and whether it made 
clear to them that the policy was optional. The initial discussion about the mortgage took 
place over the telephone and subsequently documents were sent through for Mr and Mrs P 
to complete and to return. Barclays has been able to provide the mortgage application form. 
It shows that Mr and Mrs P were asked, Are you interested in taking out ASU cover with 
Standard Life Bank? There followed a Yes or a No box for them to tick. I note the Yes 
box is ticked. Later Mr and Mrs P were sent a separate application form for the PPI. I note 
that this is completed for the cover and has been signed by Mr and Mrs P which denotes 
their agreement to the forms contents. Ive seen nothing in any of the documentation that 
suggests Mr and Mrs P had to take the cover to get the mortgage. So, on balance, I think its 
more likely that Barclays wouldve made Mr and Mrs P aware that the PPI was optional and 
that they chose to take it, even though they may not remember that now, many years later. 
Mr and Mrs P have said that they were told on the telephone initially that they had to take the 
cover to get the mortgage. Maybe its not a surprise that Barclays havent been able to provide a copy of the initial phone conversation for us to listen to, these events did happen 
over 19 years ago. I have noted that the mortgage offer contained no stipulation that PPI had 
to be taken. So, if Mr and Mrs P thought they had to have the cover to get the mortgage 
because of something they were told on their initial conversation with the lender, the 
mortgage offer ought to have put them on notice that they did not have to have the cover. 
So, I might have expected them to bring their complaint many years before they eventually 
chose to do. 
I dont doubt that the testimony from Mr and Mrs P represents their best and most honest 
recollection of the events. But, when considering whether Mr and Mrs P were given a proper 
choice about taking the cover, whilst acknowledging that things could have happened just as 
Mr and Mrs P said, based on all the evidence that has been provided in this case, I have 
seen insufficient evidence to uphold the complaint on this point. 
Barclays says it sold the PPI without making a specific recommendation to Mr and Mrs P. 
This meant Barclays had to give Mr and Mrs P clear enough information about the policy, so 
they could decide if they wanted to buy it. Its possible the information Barclays gave them 
was not as clear as it shouldve been. However, Im not persuaded more information 
wouldve made a difference to their decision to take out the PPI. I say this because:
Mr and Mrs P were eligible for the cover and I dont think they wouldve been affected 
by any of the main exclusions or limitations in place to make a successful claim, like 
an existing medical condition or an unusual employment circumstance.
Mr and Mrs P told us their sick pay was such that after three months they mightve 
had to realise some of their assets if things went wrong. The policy wouldve covered 
them for up to 12 months in the event of unemployment or disability or 
accident/sickness. So as the PPI would have paid out in addition to Mr and Mrs Ps 
sick pay and as it couldve helped pay the repayments for a much longer period than 
Mr and Mrs Ps employers would have paid them at their full rate of sick pay and 
considering the potentially serious consequences of defaulting on a loan secured on 
your home, I think the PPI was still potentially useful to Mr and Mrs P. In saying that 
Ive noted that Mr and Mrs P told us they might have cashed in early some 
endowments policies they held or sold their share of an inherited property or their 
rented property. But Mr and Mrs P hadnt chosen to do any of those things to reduce 
either in part or fully the need for the mortgage they were taking out. The policy 
would have paid out in addition to their existing assets and may have saved them 
from potential delays in realising assets or may have been useful in preventing them 
having to realise some or all of their investments in potentially adverse market 
conditions. So, having considered everything in this case, I agree with our adjudicator 
that better or more information would not have, most likely, prevented them from 
taking the policy. 
The policy cost appears to have been comparable to other similar policies at the time 
and it appears to have been affordable (Mr and Mrs P afforded the policy for some 
time).  
 
So having thought about everything carefully, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. 
I know Mr and Mrs P feel strongly about, and have put time and effort into, their complaint. I 
realise theyll be disappointed by the outcome. But on balance, and for the reasons Ive 
explained, I dont think Mr and Mrs P have lost out as a result of anything Barclays may have 
done wrong. 
Barclays has already offered to pay Mr and Mrs P £50 for the distress and inconvenience it 
thought it caused them during the early part of its investigation of this complaint. If it hasnt already done so, Barclays can now make arrangements to pay Mr and Mrs P now Ive 
issued my final decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint about Barclays 
Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 March 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman