DRN-3292573
The complaint
Miss J complains about a fixed sum loan agreement (loan agreement) she entered into
with Specialist Lending Limited (Duologi).
What happened
In April 2019 Miss J purchased an online educational course for her two children and
entered into a loan agreement with Duologi for it.
Miss J says that she purchased the course on the understanding that it was a pay monthly
course and that she could cancel at any time. In other words, she was unaware she had
entered into a loan agreement.
She also says:
it transpired that the course wasnt suitable for at least one of her children
the course was unaffordable
at the time she entered into the loan agreement she was in a debt management plan
which she understood, amongst other things, prevented her from taking any new, or
further credit
In mid-2020 Miss J says she contacted Duologi to cancel her monthly payments for the
course  as she understood she could. However, she was advised by Duologi that she
couldnt because she had entered into a loan agreement with it and the cooling off period
had expired.
Unhappy with Duologis refusal to allow her to cancel her monthly payments  with nothing
further to pay  Miss J raised a complaint. She complained to Duologi that (amongst other
things) she wasnt aware that she had entered into a loan agreement and that shed been
told by the representative that she could cancel at any time.
In response to Miss Js complaint Duologi said that based on the documentation signed by
her, she would, or should, have been aware that she was entering into a loan agreement
and that she was responsible for the total amount of credit provided under it.
Miss J wasnt happy with Duologis response to her complaint and so complained to our
service.
Our investigator upheld Miss Js complaint and outlined what Duologi should do to fairly
compensate her. In summary the investigator said Duologi should:
end Miss Js agreement
refund Miss J the deposit she paid of £45  together with interest
refund all payments made by Miss J after 7 November 2019  the date her children
last accessed the course online  together with interest
cancel Miss Js and her childrens access to the course
arrange for the laptop supplied to Miss J at the outset to be collected from Miss J at
no cost to her
ensure Miss Js credit file shows an agreement end date of November 2019
Miss J agreed with our investigators findings, but Duologi didnt.
Our investigator considered Duologis reasons for disagreeing with her findings, but she
wasnt persuaded to change her mind. Therefore, Miss Js complaint has been passed to me
for review and decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in January 2022. In summary I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that both parties have very strong feelings about this complaint. Both parties have
provided detailed submissions in support of their respective views which I can confirm Ive
read and considered in their entirety. However, I trust that the parties will not take the fact
that my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and that they are
expressed in considerably less detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to
address every point raised. The purpose of my decision is to set out my conclusions and
reasons for reaching them.
I would also point out that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or
contradictory, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Miss J says that a representative visited her home in April 2019 and gave a presentation
about the course. By the end of the meeting, Miss J had purchased the course for her two
children. It seems that the representative was acting for both the course provider and
Duologi during the sales process. The price of the course was £2,905 of which £2,860 was
paid for by a loan from Duologi arranged by the representative.
Miss J says that during her meeting with the representative she was told that she could
cancel at any time. She also says that she was unaware that she was entering into a loan
agreement and only realised this when she tried to cancel her direct debit (payable to
Duologi) for the course in mid-2020. In essence, Miss J says she thought her monthly
payments were for a subscription service.
Duologi has responsibilities to Miss J under the Consumer Credit Act 1974. There are two
sections of the Act which might provide Miss J with protection  section 56 and section 75.
Section 56 has the effect of making the representative who sold the loan the agent of
Duologi during the negotiations leading up to Miss J entering the agreement. This means
Duologi can be held responsible for things which were said during the sales process.
Section 75 makes Duologi responsible for any breach of contract or misrepresentation made
in relation to the purchase of the course.
Duologi relies on the documents signed by Miss J and says she wouldve been aware that
she was entering into a loan agreement. But this isnt the only issue here. Its important to
look at what happened before the documents were signed, and in particular, to look at what
the representative said.
Although Duologi has provided our service with a response from the course provider as to
what it believes was and wasnt discussed during the presentation by its representative,
there is no detailed notes of these discussions for me to rely on.Ive taken into account that Miss J was present and heard what was said. I find her testimony
to be consistent and persuasive. Shes been clear in her testimony that the representative
told her she could cancel at any time. Furthermore, its not in dispute that at the relevant time
Miss J was in a debt management plan. And in this respect  regardless of the reality of the
position  Im satisfied (based on what she has said and submitted) Miss J understood she
couldnt enter into any new or further credit.
In order to find that theres been a misrepresentation, I would need to be satisfied that the
representative made an untrue statement of fact, which induced Miss J to enter into the loan
agreement.
Taking everything into account, I think its more likely than not that the representative told
Miss J that she could cancel at any time. Because this wasnt true, Im satisfied that this was
a misrepresentation, for which Duologi must accept responsibility.
For the sake of completeness, I would also add that I find nothing unusual in Miss Js
decision to seek cancelation when she did, rather than some time sooner. In other words,
Im not persuaded that Miss Js decision to cancel when she did is in anyway indicative that
she knew, or should have known, that she had entered into a loan agreement.
Miss J complains that the course wasnt suitable for one, or both, of her children. But Ive
seen insufficient evidence to persuade me this was the case. I would also add that although I
accept the course might have been unaffordable for Miss J, given for how long she was
obliged to pay approximately £60 a month for under the loan agreement, Im not persuaded
the course would have been unaffordable had it operated as Miss J understood it did, that
being she could cancel any time with nothing further to pay.
Given what I say above Im currently of the view that Miss J shouldnt have her deposit
refunded and she should only be refunded the payments she has made (if any) after she
contacted Duologi to cancel the course, not after the date her children last accessed the
course.
I then went on to explain what Duologi should have to do to fairly and reasonably 
compensate Miss J.
Miss J responded to my provisional decision to say that she only purchased the course for 
one of her children, not two, and that she was no longer in possession of the laptop.
Duologi responded to my provisional decision to say, in summary:
Insufficient weight has been given to the available physical evidence, in particular:
othe substantial paperwork provided to Miss J both before and after the sale
othat Miss J was required to watch a video
othere was a detailed sales process that would have been followed, a process 
that was provided to both Miss J and our service
oif Miss J knew she shouldnt enter further credit, why did she do so?  was 
there no responsibility on Miss J in this respect?
oWhy would the representative look to intentionally mislead Miss J?
It then went on to say that it wasnt confident that I would change my provisional findings and 
decision and so on me making it clear (in this final decision) its dissatisfaction with my 
arguments, approach and rationale it would do the following:
cap Miss Js liability to the date of cancelation, which it believed was 24 June 2020refund the payments made by Miss J beyond the capped liability, together with 
interest  Miss J having made such excess payments
it would remove any negative information from Miss Js credit file and mark the 
agreement as settled from the date of cancelation
It also added that it had no interest in any course material or laptops being returned to it and 
Miss J was free to decide how to treat or dispose of these items.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Duologi is unhappy with my provisional decision and doesnt agree with it. But 
in my view it has added nothing materially new for my consideration, or which requires 
further comment or explanation on my part.
Miss J says she purchased the course for just one of her children, not two. She also says 
she is no longer in possession of the laptop. But this isnt material because the cost of the 
course was the same whether it was accessed by one, or two, of her children and because 
Duologi has confirmed it doesnt require the return of the laptop (or any other materials 
provided to Miss J at the outset).
Given what I say above, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings except to say 
that Duologi no longer needs to collect any course materials or laptops from Miss J and 
Miss J is not obliged to account to Duologi for the same.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Specialist Lending Limited must:
Cap Miss Js liability for the loan at the sum of repayments due up to the date she
asked to cancel. Anything above this sum must be written off.
As Miss J has paid more than the capped liability, these payments should be 
refunded along with 8% simple interest a year from the date she made each 
overpayment to the date of settlement*.
Remove any negative information from Miss Js credit file and mark the agreement
as settled from the date she asked to cancel.
*HMRC requires Specialist Lending Limited to take off tax from this interest. If Miss J asks
for a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off this should be provided.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman