DRN-3737676
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund money she lost as a result of a scam. 
What happened
Miss S thought that shed been contacted by a celebrity (that Ill call C) on a popular social 
media website. They exchanged messages for several weeks, but each attempt at a video 
call ended after a few seconds (albeit after Miss S was convinced shed heard C talking).
C offered to send Miss S everything she needed to visit him including a visa, plane ticket, 
and clothes. C said Miss S would need to pay shipping and customs costs of over $1,000. 
Miss S made four bank transfers using her Monzo account towards these costs.
 
Later, C said Miss S would also need to pay £2,900 because the package had been held at 
customs. Miss S seems to have been concerned enough at this point to report the matter as 
a scam to Monzo, but later she appears to have decided to continue to make payments. She 
couldnt afford to pay the whole amount  so, on the suggestion of the fraudster, she made a 
series of payments using her debit card to a cryptocurrency provider.
Further requests followed: another £10,000 to release the package and then £5,000 in late 
payment fees. Miss S said that she couldnt afford to pay these amounts but she made a 
series of smaller payments after borrowing money from various sources. 
When a final request for money came - £500 for delivery, Miss S became suspicious. She 
contacted the delivery company which was being impersonated and it confirmed it had no 
package for her. 
Miss S initially reported the matter to Monzo soon after the first four payments (all of which 
were faster payments to another Monzo account). It has agreed to adhere to the principles of 
the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code) which 
requires firms to reimburse victims of APP scams in all but a limited number of 
circumstances. The CRM Code only covers those first four payments Miss S made (and not 
the subsequent card payments).
Monzo said it wouldnt refund Miss S as she hadnt taken the necessary steps to protect 
herself under the CRM Code.
Miss S then appears to have become involved with the fraudsters again, as, in October 
2021, she reported the additional transactions, all made to a cryptocurrency exchange. 
Monzo additionally said that it couldnt be expected to reimburse those transactions as 
theyd been carried out by Miss S.
Miss S made some payments from another account she holds at a different financial 
business. That business decided to refund the money she lost as a gesture of goodwill.
 
The complaint about Monzo was referred to our service but our investigator didnt uphold it. 
They thought that the scam was implausible and didnt think Monzo ought to have 
recognised the risk that Miss S might be the victim of a scam.
Miss S, through her representatives, disagreed, arguing:
- C had interacted with her posts on social media and shed interacted with Cs actual 
mother. 
- Shed had a brief video call with the fraudster and was adamant that shed heard the 
real C.
- Shes received various pieces of legitimate looking paperwork.
- Some of the information that the fraudster provided was consistent with genuine 
information about C.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting position under the relevant regulations is that Miss S is responsible for 
payments shes authorised herself. But Ive also considered whether Monzo should refund 
Miss S under the provisions of the CRM Code and whether it breached its longstanding 
obligations to be on the lookout for out of character and unusual transactions that might have 
indicated that Miss S was at risk of financial harm from fraud.
As set out above, the CRM Code only covers the first four payments Miss S made (the rest 
were card payments, which are excluded under the CRM Code). Ive decided Monzo can 
fairly rely on one of the exceptions to reimbursement set out in the CRM Code, namely that 
Miss S made the payments without a reasonable basis for believing that the recipient was 
legitimate and who she was expecting to pay.
As set out by Miss S representatives, she was a big fan of C. Its clear that she wanted to 
believe that she was genuinely being contacted by him. I think that desire caused her to 
continue to engage with the fraudsters despite clear warning signs, many of which she 
recognised herself. I also have to note that Miss S hasnt been able to provide much of the 
correspondence with C. That has made it more difficult for me to assess the plausibility of 
those communications. 
Ive summarised my reasons for reaching that decision below:
- The premise of the scam: that a celebrity would send her a package in the mail 
containing expensive items, but shed need to pay for various charges, was 
implausible. Miss S seem to have recognised this but proceeded regardless.
- Miss S knew that she could verify the fraudsters claims by contacting the shipping 
company to check whether it held a package for her (as she did later). But she didnt 
do this before sending the first four payments.
- Miss S appears to have questioned and been suspicious of the fraudsters 
throughout. She appears to have had concerns about the fees, the social media 
profile, the language used in some correspondence and the email addresses used. 
- While Miss S may be convinced shed heard Cs real voice over a video call, she 
ought to have recognised both that it was unusual that C wasnt able to communicate 
clearly with her and the possibility that such a brief interaction could be faked. 
- While Miss S may have had some limited interactions with C or persons connected to 
him, those interactions did nothing to confirm what the fraudster told her was true. - The personal information associated with C that the fraudsters utilised appears to 
have all been in the public domain.
As Miss S representatives state, she simply didnt want to believe that she wasnt speaking 
to the real C. That belief appears to have been based largely on hope, so I dont think that 
Miss S held a reasonable basis for belief in making the payments and I think Monzo can 
fairly rely on that exception to reimbursement set out in the Code.
Ive also considered whether Monzo ought to have recognised that Miss S might be at risk of 
financial harm from fraud. The payments covered by the CRM Code were all for amounts of 
less than £500 and although they took place over the course of two days I dont think a 
concerning pattern had yet developed. So I dont think that Monzo should have been alert to 
a potential scam risk when processing them and I dont think it was obligated to provide a 
warning under the CRM Code. 
The rest of the payments were card payments to cryptocurrency exchanges. They took place 
over almost three months and many were for less than £100. There was a single payment of 
£1,000, which I think stood out somewhat against Miss S normal account activity. I also note 
that she doesnt seem to have purchased cryptocurrency before. But, there doesnt seem to 
be a concerning pattern of transactions here (which is unsurprising given the somewhat 
unusual nature of the scam) and I must take into account the difficult balancing act Monzo 
has between not unduly inconveniencing customers making genuine payments (of which 
there would be a hugely significant number of this size) and trying to prevent fraud. 
Ive also thought about whether Monzo should have been extra vigilant, given that Miss S 
had recently reported having been scammed (and retracted and reinstated the allegation 
once). But, the transactions that followed the initial faster payments were very different in 
nature and werent obviously linked to those earlier payments. I also think Monzo would 
have been reasonably sure that Miss S wasnt going to send any more money to the 
fraudsters, given the conversations theyd had with her in June and July 2021.
Overall, I dont think that the payments that took place were sufficiently unusual or 
suspicious in nature that Monzo made a mistake by processing the payments without 
contacting Miss S.
Finally, Ive thought about Monzos efforts to recover Miss S funds. I understand that the 
card payments were used to purchase cryptocurrency which was then sent to the fraudster. 
As such, those payments would not be recoverable. In relation to the faster payments, all of 
them went to another Monzo account, but it told our service that the money had been 
removed by the time Miss S initially reported the matter to it on 9 June 2021. So I think 
Monzo acted reasonably in trying to recover her money.
While Im sympathetic to Miss S, I dont find that Monzo are responsible for her loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman