DRN-3416851
The complaint and background
Mr C has complained about overdraft charges and interest Barclays Bank UK PLC added to 
his current accounts. Hes said Barclays was irresponsible to offer him overdraft facilities 
given his financial circumstances, and that Barclays should have realised he was struggling 
because of how he was managing his accounts.
Barclays looked at Mr Cs complaint and offered to refund charges and interest applied to 
one of his accounts from January 2016 onwards. But Barclays said it wouldnt be able to 
look at Mr Cs other account as it was too long since that account had closed.
Mr C was unhappy with Barclays offer and so he referred his complaint to us. After we had 
begun to look into his complaint, Barclays decided it would also offer to refund the charges 
applied since January 2016 for Mr Cs second account. But Barclays also stated that if 
believed any complaint about charges applied, or events that took place, before January 
2016 had been referred to us too late and so was not something we could consider.
Our investigator set out this offer to Mr C and explained that he agreed with Barclays that 
any complaint about what happened before 2016 was made too late. Mr C disagreed with 
our investigator so the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
I issued a jurisdiction decision on 29 March 2022 setting out why I agree with Barclays that 
we are only able to consider events after January 2016. So this final decision will look only at 
the charges applied to Mr Cs accounts since 4 January 2016.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Im satisfied that what Barclays has already offered 
to do to put things right is a fair way to resolve this complaint. 
Barclays has offered to refund all the charges applied to both of Mr Cs accounts from 
4 January 2016. These refunds will be used to reduce the outstanding balance of Mr Cs 
accounts. This offer is in line with what we would recommend. I appreciate that Mr C has 
said he feels it would be fairer for 8% compensatory interest to be paid on these refunds, but 
our general approach is not to ask a business to pay 8% interest on top of a refund if it is 
being used to reduce an outstanding debt as it is in Mr Cs case. I see no reason to depart 
from that approach here.
So with this in mind, Im satisfied that the offer Barclays has made is a fair way to resolve 
this complaint. I know this will be disappointing for Mr C, but I hope hell understand the 
reasons for my decision. 
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Cs complaint for Barclays to put things right as per the offer it has 
already made. That offer is as follows:
Account ending *6817  Refund overdraft charges from January 2016 to November 
2017 (when this account was closed). Barclays has calculated this as £1,733.50 
and this refund will be used to reduce the outstanding balance of this account.
Account ending *3535  Refund overdraft charges totalling £2,977.50 as stated 
within Barclays final response letter. This refund will be used to reduce the 
outstanding balance of this account.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding this complaint, but I think that what Barclays 
Bank UK PLC has already offered to do to put things right is fair. Barclays should put things 
right in line with its offer as set out above, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman