DRN-3830751
The complaint
Mr I complains about how he was dealt with by agents of Santander UK Plc when he was 
applying for a transfer of equity and increased borrowing. 
What happened
Mr I is going through a separation and divorce and contacted Santander about a transfer of 
equity and increased borrowing to facilitate the separation. Mr I was dissatisfied with the way 
that Santanders agents had treated him and specifically how in the affordability assessment 
it treated Mr Is personal credit card account that Mr I used for his business. Mr I also 
complains about the use of national averages for the purpose of establishing his regular 
expenditure that were substantially different than his real expenditure and was unhappy that 
the mortgage adviser advised him on his credit card product that he had with another lender. 
Mr I complained to us in August 2022 and got his offer for additional borrowing in September 
2022 but says that the mortgage offer was sent to his previous solicitor.
Santander says that his personal credit card shows as a recurring debt each month and 
when it assesses his income and expenditure it is required to use the funds available to Mr I. 
It says that it uses some national averages when completing the budget planner but feels 
that this provides the company with less risk when looking to lend additional funds. 
Santander also says that the mortgage offer was sent to the solicitor that Mr I told them was 
acting on his behalf.
Our investigator didnt believe that Santander had done anything wrong and did not 
recommend that this complaint should be upheld. Mr I disagreed and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr I has a number of complaints as to how this mortgage application was processed. Mr I 
was a loyal customer of Santander and feels that his individual circumstances were not 
being considered during a time of stress for him as hes going through a separation and 
divorce. There are particular complaints related to the treatment of his finances that Mr I 
believes led to the reduction of the additional borrowing available to him and two other 
service issues which I consider below.
Personal credit card used for business purposes
Mr I has issues with Santanders assessment of affordability as to how it assessed his credit 
card liabilities and living expenses. Mr I has a personal credit card which he uses for 
company business. This is a business he owns himself and hes reimbursed for his business 
expenditure on the personal credit card every month. At the time the application was 
processed the balance showing on the credit file was £12,975 and as this was recurring 
debt, Santanders policy was to take 3% of this - the amount that Mr I would be committed to 
pay each month into the affordability assessment. Mr I doesnt consider that this is fair given 
that each month the business which he owns repays the balance in full. 
Santander under the MCOB rules must consider Mr Is committed expenditure on credit. Mr I 
uses his personal credit card each month and is liable personally for the debt incurred. 
Whilst this may be reimbursed, its still his credit on the line until its reimbursed and I 
consider its fair and in line with regulations that Santander considers this card in its 
assessment of Mr Is expenditure.  Of course, the credit on the card changes depending on 
the time of the month and Santanders policy is to base its assessment on the balance that 
appears on the credit search. I understand that at times Mr Is balance may be substantially 
more or less than the figure that appears, so it doesnt appear to be unfair to chose what 
appears on the credit file.  
I have to recognise that Santander is the lender exposed to the risk and entitled to set its 
own lending policies as long as they are applied fairly. I also have to recognise that this is a 
personal debt incurred by Mr I. It may be reimbursed by the company but whilst it remains 
outstanding it remains a personal debt, so I dont consider that Santander is wrong to 
consider it as such. As Santander seems to have applied its policy to this assessment 
correctly and in line with mortgage regulation I cant fairly uphold this part of the complaint. 
Santanders use of national averages to assess outgoings
Mr I complains about the use of national averages in respect of outgoings.  Mr I says that his 
outgoings are much smaller than the average and wonders why each specific detail of 
income is audited but averages are used for outgoings. The answer to that lies in mortgage 
regulations which allows a lender to use statistical data which would include, as here, using 
national averages. I also note that it is industry practice to do so and in determining the 
outcome of the complaint I have to consider regulations and industry practice. As, in its use 
of statistical data Santander was complying with regulations and industry practice, I cant 
uphold this part of the complaint.
Delay in sending mortgage offer to Mr Is nominated solicitor
Mr I complains that there was a delay in September 2022 in Santander sending the 
mortgage offer to Mr Is nominated solicitor. It seems that on 9 September Mr I nominated a 
firm of solicitors I shall call Firm X to act for him and I see that Santanders contact notes 
record that and the mortgage offer is issued to that firm a week later.  But on 14 September 
Mr I says that he instead instructed another firm - Firm Y. I looked at the banks contact 
notes which confirm that Mr I requested a change of solicitors on 14 September and gave 
the name of a new firm. But there appears to have been problems with this choice as on 17 
October Mr I contacted Santander to say that the solicitors who were supposed to be acting 
for him - Firm Y - had advised that they wont act on his behalf and then on 26 October Mr I 
called to say that there was a new firm of solicitors - Firm Z - in place and the offer was sent 
out to that firm on 28 October. From my inspection of this contact note log it seems that the 
firms of solicitors who were prepared to accept Mr Is instructions and to act on his behalf 
received the mortgage offers in a reasonable period. I dont see a mortgage offer going out 
to Firm Y or any contact record from that firm requesting the mortgage offer. Presumably 
had that firm wanted it and not received it, there would be a record of them requesting the 
mortgage offer but I see none. But as that firm indicated that it wouldnt act for Mr I, I dont 
see that the issue of a mortgage offer to Firm Y would have expedited matters. So, I dont 
uphold this part of the complaint.
Mortgage advisers advice about use of Mr Is credit card.Mr I says that the adviser during the application process offered inaccurate and flawed 
advice about Santanders bank products and the operation of Mr Is credit card. This was in 
the context that although Mr I used his personal credit card for business purposes, 
Santander, for assessment purposes, viewed it as a personal credit card. I know Mr I feels 
strongly about this, and I listened to the full call with the adviser.  Mr I was very annoyed that 
Santander was treating the card this way as it effectively meant that what he hoped to 
borrow at the start of the conversation he wasnt able to borrow at the end of it. There was a 
discussion about the use of personal credit cards for business. 
I understood that the adviser was trying to be helpful and engaging with Mr I. I didnt find him 
to be disrespectful. Mr I says that he offered inaccurate and flawed advice about the credit 
card. The adviser offered an opinion about what the terms of his credit card would allow 
which of course may not apply to Mr Is credit card. I understood the adviser tried to 
rationalise Santanders position to Mr I as to how it dealt with personal credit cards that were 
used for business and Mr I disagreed with that. But I was clear that this was only the 
advisers opinion. He wasnt an expert on credit cards and didnt pretend to be. Mr I 
disagreed with him. This was a discussion and the parties opinions may differ in a 
discussion. The advisers opinion didnt affect Santanders decision and didnt result in any 
detriment to Mr I. Mr I clearly wasnt influenced by the advisers opinion. So, I dont uphold 
his part of the complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman