DRN-3286509
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the time it took Halifax Share Dealing Limited to transfer funds from 
his stocks and shares ISA to other providers.
What happened
In late 2019, Mr W decided to sell the investments in his ISA, converting them to cash in 
order to transfer this out to different providers. 
He submitted various transfer requests but believes Halifax took too long to carry these out. 
He feels they shouldve been completed within two days, based on industry guidance and 
the fact hed already sold his investments which just left cash to be transferred.
Halifax looked at six transfers that took place between January and August 2020. They didnt 
uphold most of Mr Ws complaint, explaining that the transfers took place in line with HMRC 
guidelines. However, they noted that one transfer was outside of their own service standard 
of 15 working days due to an internal service issue, and offered Mr W £25 in compensation.
After Mr W brought the complaint to our service, Halifax increased their offer to £200. The 
investigator thought this offer was fair, as the transfers took place both in line with HMRC 
guidelines as well as under the terms and conditions of the account. 
In response, Mr W raised several points, namely that:
The transfers werent carried out in line with industry timeframe guidelines.
The terms and conditions referred to by the investigator apply to the closure of an 
ISA account  not the transfer of cash held on an account.
A separate section of the terms states the transfer of cash should only take up to 
three working days.
The dates provided by Halifax for when the transfers started werent always the same 
as the date the requests were stamped as received, particularly one of the transfers 
which the new provider noted as being sent over two weeks before the transfer 
process started.
As an agreement wasnt reached, the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator for broadly the same reasons. Before I explain 
why, its important to say that, while I havent individually addressed every specific point Mr 
W has raised in his detailed submissions, I have read and carefully considered them all 
when coming to my decision. 
When considering complaints about ISA transfers, our service considers it reasonable for 
businesses to rely on guidance provided by HMRC, which explains that they should take no 
longer than 15 working days when transferring between cash ISAs, and 30 calendar days for 
any other types of transfer.
I appreciate that Mr W believes a shorter timeframe should apply because Halifax only 
needed to transfer cash. However, the transfers took place from a stocks and shares ISA 
rather than between cash ISAs. So, in line with the guidance, the 30 calendar day timeframe 
applies for these transfers.
Mr W has relied on guidance produced by representatives across the financial industry, and 
believes that according to this, Halifax ought to have carried out the transfers within two 
days. Ive read the document provided by Mr W, but I note it explains the procedures 
outlined are recommendations only and not prescriptive. Im not satisfied this creates an 
obligation for Halifax to follow this guidance, or that there was a reason for them not to follow 
the standard industry guidelines provided by HMRC, as Id have expected.
Moving to the terms and conditions of the account, I agree with Mr W that the clause our 
investigator has referred to isnt applicable to this situation. The clause, 20.48, appears only 
to refer to the closure of an ISA. However, I dont believe that the clause Mr W has relied 
upon is applicable either. That clause, 7.13, provides a timeframe for when funds will be sent 
to a nominated bank account after theyve been withdrawn from an ISA. This isnt the same 
as transferring the funds to another ISA with a different provider, so it wouldnt be fair to rely 
on this clause here.
I cant see that the terms specifically mention a timeframe for ISA transfers, but this isnt 
unusual, as its reasonable for Halifax to rely upon the guidelines set out by HMRC. I 
understand Halifax have their own service standard of 15 working days when transferring 
cash to another provider, but this is an internal timeframe and not one Halifax was bound to 
by the terms of the account.
Mr W has noted that the start dates for the transfers were not always the same as the dates 
the transfer forms were stamped as received. I believe its reasonable to expect it to take a 
short time for a form to be received and processed, so I have no concerns about the small 
discrepancy between these dates.
Mr W has highlighted one date in particular, where one provider noted sending a transfer 
request to Halifax on 8 February, but the transfer process didnt start until 27 February. I can 
see the providers notes do confirm a transfer request was sent to Halifax on 8 February. 
However, further notes show that when contacting Halifax for a response, they were told 
Halifax hadnt received the request, and it was only subsequently received on 26 February 
after being re-sent. Its unclear what happened to the initial request, but Ive seen no 
evidence to satisfy me that Halifax made an error here.
With the above in mind, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Halifax to rely upon HMRC 
guidelines when carrying out these transfers, and that they were processed within the 
relevant timeframes. So, I dont believe Halifax should do anything further than paying what 
it has already offered Mr W.
Putting things right
Halifax has offered £200 in recognition of the delay caused in one transfer which took longer 
than their internal service standards. I believe this is offer is fair and Im not asking Halifax to 
do anything further. My final decision
Halifax Share Dealing Limited has already made an offer to pay £200 to settle the complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is that Halifax Share 
Dealing Limited should pay Mr W £200. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022. 
Artemis Pantelides
Ombudsman