DRN-3316425
The complaint
Mr A complains about British Gas for issues arising during his annual services. He wants 
British Gas to compensate him for the loss in value of his property, to refund all fees for gas 
safety inspections and to compensate him for tension which arose between him and his 
tenants.
What happened
Mr A was a landlord. He held a homecare agreement with British Gas. This agreement 
provided for an annual boiler and safety inspection, and an annual gas safety certificate for 
him as a landlord.
He had held this cover since 2009.
In 2011, Mr A purchased a service from British Gas to supply and install ventilation around 
his boiler.
Annual safety inspections took place and gas safety certificates were issued each year.
In 2017, British Gas noted at the inspection that it had advised on an issue with ventilation, 
indicating that the ventilation was at risk of becoming a problem.
No issue was noted in 2018.
In 2019, British Gas engineers attended and considered that the ventilation was not suitable.
The engineer turned off the boiler, leaving Mr As tenants without heating or hot water. 
Mr A contacted British Gas. 
After a number of conversations British Gas returned to Mr As property, two days after the 
previous inspection. The engineer then was able to identify the flue and adequate ventilation 
so turned the boiler back on. British Gas then turned the immersion heater back on around 5 
days after that.
Mr A complained to British Gas. He felt that either he had paid for a service which had not 
been done (the installation of appropriate ventilation in 2011) or the engineers had 
inappropriately turned off his propertys boiler in 2019.
British Gas sent its final response to Mr A in December 2019. It acknowledged an issue with 
the 2018 certificate and offered Mr A a refund of the cost of that years certificate.
Mr A was not happy and contacted us.  
An ombudsman has previously made a decision in relation to this complaint, in which they 
decided that we had no jurisdiction to consider a complaint about the content of the gas 
safety certificates as these were not an insurance product.
We therefore considered whether British Gas had done anything wrong in relation to the 
annual service inspections as these were the only part of the agreement which included an 
insurance product.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr As complaint. 
He considered that there was no expert evidence to demonstrate whether the comments in 
relation to the boilers ventilation were correct or not. He was therefore unable to uphold the 
complaint.
Mr A did not accept this and asked for an ombudsman decision.
I previously issued a provisional decision in relation to this complaint in December 2021. In 
that decision I set out that I thought that British Gas had acted wrongly in identifying 
ventilation as an issue, having previously done work on the ventilation to ensure that this 
was adequate. I thought that British Gas was wrong to have turned off Mr As boiler and that 
this left his tenants without heating and hot water for two days, until the boiler was turned 
back on. I thought that British Gas ought to pay Mr A £200 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience that this caused to Mr A by creating tension between him and his tenants. 
That decision has been shared with the parties and they have been invited to comment. 
British Gas has accepted the decision and agreed to the compensation. 
Mr A has not accepted the decision. He has submitted that the boiler was not turned on 
again after 2 days and was in fact not turned on again at all. He states that he cancelled his 
arrangement with British Gas and that he sold his property with the boiler not working. He 
feels that this impacted on the sale price he achieved, and he thinks that the provisional 
award of £200 is an insult. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed the information provided by Mr A, including his email to his managing agent.
I have put this to British Gas and it has repeated that its records show that the boiler was 
switched on again on 30 August 2019 and was left working then and a few days later.
I am minded to accept the documentary evidence provided by British Gas which was 
updated at the time of the visit, and again a few days later. Mr A has demonstrated in his 
email of 22 September 2019 that he said the boiler was not working at that time, but I have 
not seen any evidence that this was the case closer to British Gass appointment and 
reconnection. 
If Mr As boiler failed again, there is no evidence that he alerted British Gas to this and he 
then cancelled his agreement. I cannot see evidence that British Gas was aware of any 
further issue with the boiler and so I remain of the view expressed in my provisional decision. 
I appreciate that Mr A believes that his house price was negatively impacted by British Gass 
actions, but I do not agree. If Mr As boiler was not working, it would have been open to him 
to engage another company to fix or replace it, rather than sell his property without a working 
boiler. It is not the responsibility of British Gas to maximise his sale price. I appreciate that Mr A feels that the compensation I have provisionally awarded is insulting. I 
do not intend it that way, and am satisfied that this is in line with other awards we would 
make in similar circumstances. Based on the evidence, British Gas caused Mr As tenants to 
be without heating and hot water for 2 days and then reinstated this. I think that this award is 
appropriate. 
Putting things right
For these reasons I adopt my provisional decision and reasons, as supplemented by this 
decision, as my final decision and uphold Mr As complaint. I direct British Gas Insurance 
Limited to pay to Mr A £200 compensation for his distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
As stated above, I uphold Mr As complaint and direct British Gas Insurance Limited to pay 
£200 compensation to Mr A. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman