The complaint
Miss B complained because Oakbrook Finance Limited refused to write off a loan which was 
taken out in her name. Miss B said she didnt take out the loan, and she wants it written off.
What happened
On 3 September 2019, a £2,500 loan was taken out with Oakbrook in Miss Bs name. The 
money was paid to Miss Bs bank account. Miss B took out £1,800 cash from her bank. 
Around the same time, some other transfers out of her bank account took place.
Later, Miss B complained to Oakbrook that she hadnt taken out the loan herself. She said 
shed thought the money in her bank account had been lent to her by a friend. 
Oakhurst didnt accept what Miss B had said. It said it still held her liable for the loan.
Miss B wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. She told us that the mobile number 
and email address on the application form werent hers. Miss B also told us that her bank 
had since closed her account, saying it was due to fraudulent activity. She said the other 
transfers out of her bank account had been carried out without her consent. And she 
explained that there was another loan, with another company, where the same thing had 
happened. Miss B said that she had health issues and it was causing her unnecessary 
stress.
The investigator didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint. He didnt think the differences in details, 
such as the mobile and email address, proved that Miss B hadnt taken out the loan herself, 
or consented to it. The investigator also noted that Miss B had taken out some of the money 
from her bank account.
The investigator also got in touch with Miss Bs bank, which provided information 
confidentially. The investigator told Miss B that this had contradicted what shed said, which 
reduced the plausibility of what shed said. But even if it hadnt been Miss B whod taken out 
the Oakbrook loan, shed benefitted from at least £1,800 of it. 
Miss B wasnt satisfied. She asked whether wed traced the IP address or mobile number 
which had been given on the Oakbrook application in her name. And she said she wanted it 
written off. She said shed spoken to a debt charity which had mentioned about getting the 
debt written off.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
DRN-1904727There are three options for what might have happened:
Miss B applied for the Oakbrook loan herself;
Someone else applied for it with Miss Bs consent; or
Someone else applied for it without Miss Bs consent.
 
Its not possible to say for sure what happened, but whenever evidence conflicts as it does 
here, I make my decision on what I think it most likely to have happened.
Ive looked at the application details. Theres one letter different on the application form from 
the way Miss B spells her first name. The phone number and email address are different 
from the ones Miss B used when she contacted our service. But I dont consider these prove 
that Miss B definitely wasnt the person who applied for the loan. Some of the other personal 
details  for example date of birth  could only have been known by either Miss B or 
someone close to her. So I dont consider its likely to have been a stranger applying for the 
loan without Miss Bs knowledge or consent.
Miss B has argued that she didnt sign the application, and shes also said we should trace 
the IP address and mobile number for whoever applied for the loan. I dont consider this is 
necessary. Nor would it necessarily prove whod opened the account or whether or not Miss 
B consented. Online applications dont need a signature, and IP addresses can be 
concealed. And I consider its very unlikely that ringing a mobile which was used for a 
disputed application would be answered by the person who applied for the loan, whoever 
that was. So I dont consider any of these factors can help determine who applied for the 
Oakbrook loan.
One factor, however, does provide a real indication about whats most likely to have 
happened. The money from the Oakbrook loan went into Miss Bs bank account. She 
withdrew at least £1,800 of the money. Its unlikely that a fraudster unknown to Miss B could 
somehow have obtained her personal details in order to apply for the loan. But if they had, 
its not credible that such a fraudster would then have had the money sent to Miss Bs 
existing bank account.
Miss B told us that she thought the money she took out had been sent to her by a friend. In 
an email to the investigator, she said the friend abroad had paid $100 into her account. But 
she took out £1,800 in cash, which doesnt match up. Miss B benefited from the Oakbrook 
loan. 
Ive taken into account all these factors, and the confidential information from Miss Bs bank. 
Having done so, I consider its not plausible that the Oakbrook loan was applied for by a third 
party fraudster without Miss Bs knowledge. I cant tell for sure whether or not Miss B applied 
for the loan herself, or whether someone else applied for it in her name and with her 
consent. But it doesnt make any difference which of these two options actually happened. 
Either way, Miss B is liable for the loan. 
I note that Oakbrook has offered to come to an affordable arrangement for Miss B to repay 
the money, which I consider is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
 
 
 My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 21July 2020.
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman