DRN-4234372
The complaint
Miss B complains that Oplo PL Ltd lent her a loan when it shouldnt have. She says she had 
a pattern of being poor with handling money and had Oplo carried out sufficient checks, it 
would have seen this.
What happened
Oplo lent Miss B one loan in February 2022, the loan was for £7,000 to be repaid in 60 
monthly instalments, the highest repayment amount was £184.09. Miss B has struggled to 
keep up repayments on her loan.
When Miss B complained to Oplo it didnt uphold her complaint, so she referred it to this 
service. One of our adjudicators looked at what both parties had said and concluded that 
Oplo hadnt irresponsibly lent to Miss B, and so didnt recommend that her complaint should 
be upheld.
Miss B disagreed and said proper checks including verifying her financial circumstances with 
payslips and bank statements would have shown Oplo she was struggling financially.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Oplo is aware of its obligation under the regulators rules to lend in a responsible manner. 
Before lending money to a consumer, a lender should take proportionate steps to 
understand whether the consumer could repay without borrowing further or suffering 
significant adverse consequences.
A lender should gather enough information for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance and rules themselves didnt set out compulsory checks, 
they did list a number of things a lender could take into account before agreeing to lend. The 
key thing was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to take into account a 
number of different things, including things such as how much was being lent and when what 
was being borrowed was due to be repaid. A business should also take into account and 
react appropriately to what it knew about the consumer at the time it made its lending 
decision.
Oplo has provided evidence from the point sale of the loan, from what Ive seen, Oplo asked 
Miss B about her income. She declared she was employed full time and had a monthly 
income of around £1,484.14  this included child benefits she received. 
Oplo also asked Miss B about her monthly living expenses, Miss B declared she had a 
partner who paid a lot of the household bills and so Oplo worked out Miss B was responsible 
for around 50% of the household bills, including the mortgage payments. Oplo worked out 
Miss Bs living costs were around £848.52.
Oplo searched Miss Bs credit file and the information on the credit file showed Miss B had 
several defaults recorded on her credit file from 2018. Those defaulted accounts were 
showing as settled at the point of sale of this loan. The credit file also showed Miss B was in 
a debt management plan in 2018. Oplo followed its checks with a phone call with Miss B 
where it asked her about her debt management plan. She explained she had interest built up 
on her credit account and believed a debt management plan was best for her at the time as 
she could make a single fixed monthly payment towards both her credit accounts. The debt 
management plan had ended by the time of this loan.
This was Miss Bs first loan with Oplo, the loan repayment was small in proportion to her 
income and as her credit file showed she only had three active unsecured credit accounts at 
the time, all of which she said she was consolidating with this loan, I think Oplos checks 
went far enough. 
I can see Miss B did have a number of defaults on her account but as stated, these were 
over three years before the lending and those accounts didnt have any outstanding 
balances. Also, Oplo called Miss B to discuss the debt management plan, Ive listened to 
that call, and I think it was reasonable for Oplo to accept Miss Bs explanation at the time. 
Also, as Miss B had said her partner paid a lot of the bills, Oplo still lent based her paying 
50% towards the household bills.
I understand Miss B has suggested she was a compulsive spender and was poor with 
handling money, I dont think this was something that would have been apparent Oplo at the 
time it lent. I dont think it would have been reasonable for Oplo to assume that defaults from 
more than three years ago reflected Miss Bs financial circumstances when it was lending. 
Oplo wasnt obliged to request payslips or bank statements and in the circumstances of this 
case, I think its checks were reasonable.
Ive thought about what those checks showed, considering Miss Bs income, expenses and 
credit commitment (which was the repayment of this loan following consolidation of other 
debts), Miss B had sufficient disposable income. Oplo was reasonable to conclude she could 
repay the loan over the term.
Overall, I dont think Oplo lent when it shouldnt have and I wont be asking it to write off the 
debt or refund interest, fees and charges paid towards the loan.
I appreciate Miss B feels strongly about her complaint and has said shes struggling 
financially. Oplo had previously placed her account in breathing space and I will remind it of 
its duty to treat her positively in financial difficulty. It should work with Miss B to agree a plan 
to repay what she owes.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman