DRN-3459504
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK Plc mis-sold him a bike insurance policy.
What happened
In May 2021, Mr T purchased a bike insurance policy to protect his two bikes. A few months 
later, he made a claim under this policy as his bikes were stolen. The claim was declined as 
Mr T wasnt able to provide proof of ownership.
Mr T complained that the policy was mis-sold to him. He says that he was persuaded to 
purchase this policy during a branch visit, where the staff member told him that he wouldnt 
need proof of purchase if he needed to make a claim. 
Barclays said that the policy was sold on a non-advised basis and the insurer sent Mr T 
policy documents which included information about the cover provided. They explained the 
policy terms and conditions detailed Mr Ts responsibility to prove any loss. But they agreed 
to refund the annual premium Mr T had paid, as a gesture of goodwill.
Our investigator said that the policy documents would have made Mr T reasonably aware of 
evidence he may be asked to provide when making a claim. He didnt agree that Barclays 
had misled him and felt the offer to refund the premium was fair. Mr T disagreed and asked 
for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What I had provisionally decided 
I issued a provisional decision on 25 April 2022, and I made the following findings:
Barclays have shown that a discussion took place with Mr T in relation to the 
purchase of this insurance policy. But they havent provided the specific details of the 
information that was given and read out to Mr T.
I accept Barclays sold this policy on a non-advised basis. But I would still expect 
them to give Mr T information that is clear, fair and not misleading to help him make 
an informed choice.
Ive seen a template of the email that was sent to Mr T to confirm his quote. This 
prompted Mr T to read the policy documents to make sure he was happy before 
proceeding with the purchase.
The policy documents make it clear that Mr T is responsible for proving any loss and 
he may be asked to provide receipts, valuations, photographs, instruction booklets, 
guarantee cards and any other relevant information, documents etc as proof of value 
and ownership to help with a claim. 
Since Mr T purchased the policy while he was in the branch, I can understand why it 
wouldnt have been practical for him to review all the policy documents before going 
ahead. 
Barclays have provided testimony from the branch to explain that they followed their 
process and there isnt any evidence to show that Mr T was given incorrect 
information. They say they provided Mr T with the policy documents which explained 
his responsibility to prove his loss. 
Mr T says that the branch staff reassured him that he wont require proof of 
ownership. He said this was discussed while deciding the amount of cover he 
needed as he makes modifications to his bikes himself to increase their value. 
Theres differing testimony about the conversation that took place in branch when the 
policy was sold. Since I wasnt present at the time, I cant be completely sure about 
what each party said. 
So, Ive taken into account the available evidence and the wider circumstances to 
decide what I think most likely happened on balance. 
Mr T has provided us with a copy of a recording he made during a branch visit after 
his claim was declined. This has been shared with Barclays.
During this visit, the member of staff who helped Mr T with setting up this policy, 
confirmed that he doesnt need a receipt to make a claim. She gave him a note 
confirming that there was nothing on the system which indicated that Mr T needed a 
receipt.
I cant say with complete certainty that Mr T was given incorrect information at the 
point of sale. But, the recording of the conversation that took place in the branch after 
Mr Ts claim was declined, and the note he was provided, adds weight to his 
testimony that he was told he wouldnt need to provide proof of ownership.
All things considered, I think its most likely that the branch staff downplayed the 
information Mr T would need in the event of a claim. It wasnt unreasonable for Mr T 
to rely on the information given to him by the branch staff.
That said, the remedy for providing inaccurate information isnt to treat it as if it were 
true. So, it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to ask Barclays to cover the claim. 
Instead, Ive thought about what Mr T would likely have done if he was given the 
correct information.
After reviewing the recording and note provided by Mr T, Barclays have apologised 
and agreed their branch staff may have provided Mr T with incorrect information 
about the terms of the policy.
Mr T says he wouldnt have purchased the policy and I find this to be credible. Its 
unlikely that Mr T wouldve purchased a policy knowing that he wouldnt be able to 
prove his loss in the event of a claim.
Barclays have already given Mr T a refund of the annual premium he paid, putting 
him back in the position he was in before he bought the policy. This is what Id expect 
them to do. But I dont think this goes far enough to resolve matters here.
Mr T experienced some unnecessary frustration, disappointment and loss of 
expectation when he realised his claim wouldnt be covered as he couldnt prove his 
loss. This couldve been avoided if Mr T was provided with clear and accurate 
information by the branch staff.But Mr T couldve mitigated the impact on him too. He confirmed that he received the 
policy documents  albeit a few weeks later and after he chased Barclays. Its 
reasonable to expect Mr T to review these documents to ensure the policy was 
suitable for him. 
After doing so, I would reasonably have expected Mr T to have raised concerns with 
Barclays and cancelled his policy as the policy document contradicted the 
information he was given in branch.
I appreciate Mr T says that the policy terms and conditions didnt make sense to him. 
But in that case, the onus was on him to either contact the insurer or Barclays to 
clarify his understanding. If Mr T had done so, it wouldve minimised the impact on 
him.
Taking everything into account, I think its fair and reasonable for Barclays to pay    
Mr T £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further submissions.
Mr T accepted my decision. He didnt have any further evidence to provide and didnt make 
any new points that I hadnt already taken into account. 
Barclays also accepted my decision to pay Mr T £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience he was caused.
Since both parties have accepted my decision, there isnt anything further for me to consider. 
Im satisfied with the findings I reached in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that Barclays Bank UK Plc should pay 
Mr T £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman