DRN-2879106
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Y complain that NHBC hasnt resolved the issues theyve had with the builder of 
their new house. In particular, Mr Y said that NHBC were proving to be very little help in 
relation to a number of outstanding issues that the builder kept failing to rectify correctly. He 
believes NHBC should have stepped in, within a reasonable time and completed the works 
necessary to repair the defects in their house and garden. Instead, Mr Y feels theyve been 
left to keep going around in circles with NHBC and the builder. Mr and Mrs Y have said 
NHBCs actions have caused their family to suffer significant distress and inconvenience 
over a lengthy period of time. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 28 May 2021, explaining why I was not 
intending to uphold Mr and Mrs Ys complaint. 
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
What happened
Mr and Mrs Y moved into their new home in September 2014. Since that time, 
theyve had a number of problems with the property, including the rear garden being 
waterlogged, the front door being draughty, the heating system being noisy, and 
theyve had issues with the roof.
Over the last six years, NHBC has attended the property on a number of occasions 
to inspect the defects claimed for and the remedial work carried out by the builder, 
and a number of resolution reports have been issued. Mr and Mrs Y have been 
frustrated with the time its taken to repair the outstanding defects and have 
complained to NHBC on a number of different occasions, about their concerns. I will 
address the outstanding issues, in greater detail, in the What Ive provisionally 
decided  and why section below.
Mr and Mrs Y referred their complaint to our service on 20 August 2019. Our 
investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Ys complaint and issued her view upholding part 
of the complaint on 17 April 2020. She explained why we, under our rules, we could 
only consider part of Mr and Mrs Ys complaint, which they accepted. Our 
investigator awarded an additional £500 for the distress and inconvenience 
Mr and Mrs Y had suffered as a result of NHBC not stepping in to complete the works 
carried out by the builder, with regard to the water-logged garden, as soon as it 
became apparent that the builder hadnt remedied the defect. However, with regard 
to the complaint about the roof claim, because the repair works didnt meet the 
minimum claim value, she concluded that NHBC had fairly declined the claim. 
NHBC didnt accept our investigators view, as they said it wasnt clear what they 
were being asked to do. NHBC requested an ombudsmans decision on the 
complaint.
After our investigators view was issued, Mr Y complained to NHBC about the way 
his claim in relation to defects with the front door had been handled, and the 
customer service theyd received overall. NHBC issued a further final response letter 
on 5 May 2020, offering a goodwill payment of £200 to apologise for the delay in the 
claims team arranging an appointment. Our investigator didnt give a view on this 
element of Mr Ys complaint, however, NHBC have agreed that I may cover this 
recent complaint, in my provisional decision, so that a complete response can be 
provided to Mr and Mrs Y.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this provisional decision, I will consider the four key issues of concern raised by 
Mr Y and Mrs Y with NHBC, that were addressed in the final response letters dated 
8 August 2019, 5 May 2020 and 7 December 2020. In doing so, I will refer to the 
background and relevant evidence, including the resolution reports, and give my 
provisional decision on each of the four material issues, under the following 
headings: Waterlogged rear garden; Damage to the roof; Issues with the heating / 
plumbing system; and Fitting of front door.
Waterlogged rear garden
Mr and Mrs Y told us theyve had problems with waterlogging in their rear garden 
since they first moved into the property in 2014. Mr Y says that in January 2018, 
NHBCs claims investigator said that if the builder didnt resolve the problem, NHBC 
would take over the work and bill the costs back to him. However, when Mr and Mrs 
Y referred their complaint to our service in August 2019 the issues still hadnt been 
resolved. In April 2021, Mr Y contacted our service to say further works have been 
done to the garden to try and resolve the flooding which he hopes will have worked 
as the area has now been flagged. However, he remained of the view that NHBC 
should have stepped in a lot sooner to carry out the repair works, rather than leave it 
to the builder to rectify the issue.
Mr Y has requested an explanation of what a reasonable time is, for NHBC to give 
the builder to resolve the issue with the property, before stepping in and doing the 
works themselves. Mr and Mrs Y have also explained to us the impact the ongoing 
delays in resolving the issues with their property have had on them and their family. 
Before I can consider whether any compensation is due to Mr and Mrs Y, for the way 
NHBC has handled their claim, I first need to decide whether NHBC have done 
anything wrong.
As Mr Y explained, the issue with the waterlogged garden has been ongoing since 
2014, which, if the most recent works have finally resolved the issue, means it has 
taken approximately six and a half years to rectify. On the face of it, I agree that is a 
long time for Mr and Mrs Y to live with a garden that didnt function in the way they 
reasonably expected it to. And I appreciate that this would have caused them 
inconvenience over the years, especially with three young children, spending a lot of 
time at home over the last year or so.
However, before I can conclude that NHBC is responsible for the delay in rectifying 
the issue, I need to be satisfied that they acted unreasonably during that time. To 
form my view on this Ive considered both the policy terms and conditions, and the 
timeline of events, which Ive set out in some detail below. The issue with the waterlogged garden was notified to the builder and NHBC within 
the first two years of the policy term, so is covered under section 2 of the Buildmark 
policy terms and conditions. Section 2 says:
1) Within a reasonable time, at its own expense, in a workmanlike manner and 
in accordance with NHBC Requirements, the Builder will put right or repair 
any Defect or Damage notified to it during the relevant notification period. 
This includes, when Damage is notified, repairing or putting right the Defect 
that caused the damage
The terms go on to say:
If notified within the relevant notification period, the Builder remains liable under this 
part of this section even after the relevant notification period has ended.
In this case, the builder was notified within the relevant period, so was required under 
the policy terms and conditions to put right the defect or damage and remained liable 
until such time as the damage or defect was put right.
Section two also sets out what NHBC will do:
What NHBC will do
1) We will pay you the Cost of any test, investigation or work that is required by 
a Resolution Report that you accept in full, which the Builder does not 
complete in a workmanlike manner and in accordance with NHBC 
Requirements within the time set in the Resolution Report. Alternatively, we 
may at our option arrange to get that test, investigation or work done at our 
expense
Part 3 of section two says that if the Builder is notified of a Defect or Damage to the 
policyholders home, and doesnt fulfil its obligations under this section, then NHBC 
may provide a Resolution Service. 
Where NHBC offers the Resolution Service, the terms and conditions say they will 
issue a Resolution Report informing both you and the Builder of any tests, 
investigations or work that the Builder must do to fulfil its obligations under part 1 of 
this section
The terms go on to say that:
If you accept the findings of a Resolution Report in full, then:
1) The Builder must carry out any tests, investigations or work referred to in the 
Resolution Report at its own expense, in a workmanlike manner and in 
accordance with NHBC Requirement, within a reasonable period of time that 
will be set by NHBC;
2) You must allow the Builder access to your Home during normal working hours 
to fulfil the requirements of the Resolution Report;
3) If the Builder does not carry out the tests, investigations or work satisfactorily 
and within the time set, we will deal with the matter as a claim against NHBC 
under part 2 of this section. 
Ive set out these terms of the policy in detail, as all of the defects that Mr and Mrs Y 
have complained about, were included in various resolution reports issued by NHBC 
during the period of their claim.The waterlogging issue was first included in the June 2015 resolution report. At that 
time, NHBC said that the builder should consider arranging for the rear garden to be 
rotovated, look at the drainage, and remove old obstructions and debris from the 
ground. The works were to start by 30 July 2015 and finish by 28 August 2015. 
The waterlogging issue was next addressed in the resolution report dated 
4 November 2016. NHBC said that the builder should consider providing additional 
land drainage, so that the land drains provided are interconnected, similar to a 
herringbone style, to as to ensure waterlogging doesnt occur within three metres of 
the home. The builder was also directed to ensure that the outfall from the land 
drains was correctly connected and running freely. These works needed to finish by 
19 December 2016. 
NHBCs claims investigator re-visited the property in January 2017 and in the 
resolution report dated 31 January 2017 he confirmed that the builder had carried out 
works to provide additional drainage to the rear garden area which then needed to be 
monitored to determine whether the issue had been resolved. The reports said that 
the homeowner should monitor the situation and if waterlogging is still considered to 
be an issue should contact the builder and NHBC and further arrangements may be 
arranged.
The available information doesnt shed any light on what happened between this time 
and the date of the next resolution report, which was dated 13 August 2018, so Im 
currently of the view that Mr and Mrs Y were most likely monitoring the situation.
In the 13 August 2018 resolution report, NHBCs claim investigator suggested that 
the land drains had been poorly constructed, and water may be perching on a hard 
pan layer close to the surface. The builder was instructed to investigate the situation 
and carry out remedial works to prevent waterlogging within three metres of the 
property. The works were to be completed by 26 October 2018.
Mr Y complained to NHBC in November and December 2018 to say that as the 
builder hadnt yet rectified the issue, NHBC should have stepped in and taken over 
the works. However, NHBC said the builder was willing to resolve the issues, and it 
wasnt their role to tell the builder how do to so.
A further resolution report was completed on 22 January 2019. This report said the 
property was wet but not waterlogged, but significant obstructions had been found 
200mm below the surface. It confirmed that no works were needed to be done 
outside the three-metre boundary, but deep periodic forking needed to be carried out 
to ensure the natural drainage characteristics of the ground were maintained, and the 
works needed to be done by 3 May 2019.
Over the following months, further correspondence was entered into by Mr Y and 
NHBC, in relation to NHBC taking over the works, but NHBC maintained that as long 
as the builder was willing to do the works, they wouldnt take over his responsibilities. 
A contractor who Ill call R, came to the property to advise on the works, but the 
builder decided not to use that contractor to carry out the works. Mr Y then denied 
the builder access to the property until August 2019, as he wanted the works to be 
done by R. NHBC explained that they wouldnt tell the builder who to use, or what 
works needed to be done, the builder just needed to bring the works up to the 
standards set out in their technical specification.A year later, in September 2020 Mr Y contacted NHBC to say that problems with the 
garden persisted, and he sent videos to NHBC and the builder of the garden. 
NHBCs investigator visited the property and issued a further resolution report on 
20 November 2020. In that report he observed that there seemed to be no flow from 
the land drains into the inspection chamber, which suggested there may be an issue 
with the land drains which requires further investigation by the builder to check for 
signs of blockages or defects in the land drains and determine the cause of the 
ongoing waterlogging to the rear garden. 
Then, on 28 April 2021, Mr Y contacted our service to say that say further works 
have been done to the garden to try and resolve the flooding which he hopes will 
have worked as the area has now been flagged.
While I do understand Mr Ys frustration at the time its taken to resolve this issue 
with his garden, the resolution reports Ive seen, and referred to above, lead me to 
think NHBC has dealt with the claim reasonably under the terms of the warranty. 
Where the cause of damage or a defect isnt immediately clear, its reasonable for a 
course of action to be taken, and then if that isnt successful, a different approach be 
considered. 
In their final response letter to Mr Y dated 17 December 2018, NHBC explained that 
while they understood Mr Ys concerns that matters had been ongoing, it remains the 
primary responsibility of the builder to rectify the reported defects. Where the builder 
doesnt dispute their responsibility to resolve matters, appointing an NHBC contractor 
could potentially delay matters further.
Mr Y responded to NHBC to say that he felt he was entitled to have the opinion that 
the builder had failed to put the issues right within a reasonable time, four years had 
passed since theyd moved in. He also pointed out that the policy said in certain 
circumstances the NHBC guarantee to cover the work the builder should have done. 
He felt that their circumstances ought to be such circumstances.
While I appreciate Mr Ys strength of feeling about this, following the issuing of each 
resolution report, it seems to me that the builder was willing to, and did, carry out the 
recommended works to try and rectify the defect. And although there was mention of 
some of the works not being carried out as well as they could have been, while the 
builder was willing to address the issue, I think it was reasonable for NHBC to allow 
the builder the opportunity to do so. I also note that the resolution reports set out 
different works that needed to be done. If it was the same action the builder needed 
to take, repeated through all of the resolution reports, then I may have been inclined 
to say NHBC should have stepped in to do the works. However, as the builder was 
still involved with the property, and works were progressing, Im of the view that 
requiring NHBC to appoint a contractor who wasnt familiar with the property, would 
likely have led to further delays in resolving the issue. Overall, in these 
circumstances, I dont think NHBC acted unfairly in allowing the builder to continue to 
work to rectify the defect. 
In relation to the timescales and service provided by NHBC, I think NHBC dealt with 
the matter reasonably and fairly. While there were a couple of occasions on which 
they could have responded more promptly to Mr Ys concerns, overall I dont think 
that impacted the time it took for the defect to be addressed. When further 
inspections and investigations were requested, NHBC dealt with these reasonably. 
Overall, with regard to the waterlogging of the rear garden, Im currently of the view 
that NHBC acted as the warranty requires it to do and in line with the terms and conditions. I think NHBC has therefore dealt with this part of Mr and Mrs Ys claim 
fairly and reasonably throughout.
Damage to the Roof
Mr Y also made a claim for damage to the roof, in relation to both a tile that had fallen 
off the roof and evidence of mould growth within the roof space.
Mr Y told us that while he was waiting for NHBCs claims investigator to come to the 
property, he arranged for a roofer to come and replace the tile. Mr Y said the roofer 
told him that the hip tiles were loose and not secured properly, however no report 
was provided in relation to this.
When NHBCs claims investigator came to the property he recorded the damage to 
the roof as being one tile coming off. He confirmed that apart from the one fallen roof 
tile, there was no evidence of any further physical damage to the roof tiles. He also 
said that the mould growth and related condensation wouldnt be covered by the 
policy.
As the claim was made in 2019, it was considered under section 3 of the policy terms 
and conditions. Section 3 says, providing the cost is more than the minimum claim 
value (in this case £1535) NHBC will pay the full cost of putting right any damage in 
any of the listed parts of the house, which includes roof coverings. But damage is 
specifically defined within the policy as physical damage to the home caused by a 
Defect. And a Defect is defined as the breach of any mandatory NHBC Requirement 
by the Builder.
I would only expect NHBC to cover a claim for condensation and mould it if had been 
demonstrated that the specific defect was covered by the warranty. However, the 
presence of condensation or mould in the roof space isnt considered to be Damage 
caused by a Defect, under the policy terms and conditions, so Im satisfied it wouldnt 
be covered under section 3 of the policy. 
With regard to Mr Ys claim in relation to the loose tile, NHBCs policy doesnt cover 
work that will cost it less than the indexed linked value applicable to the cover. In this 
case, NHBC noted that indexing at that time meant the claim would need to exceed 
£1,535 to be accepted. NHBC has provided a report and scope of works which 
satisfy me that its cost, in this case is less than the minimum claim value. Here, in 
light of NHBCs policy wording which requires a certain value to be reached before 
the claim is accepted, NHBC, in my view, has not treated Mr and Mrs Y unfairly.
Issues with the heating / plumbing system
Mr and Mrs Y say theyve had issues with the heating / plumbing system since 
moving in, which the builder has failed to resolve, despite four attempts to rectify the 
issues. Theyve complained that the builder has now refused to do anything further 
on the basis that any repair works are outside of the resolution set by NHBC. When 
Mr and Mrs Y raised this with NHBC, they were told that due to the works carried out 
(both in line with the resolution report and outside of the resolution report), they cant 
say with any certainty that the defects are related to the resolution report. 
Mr Y believes that the issues with the plumbing arose as a result of the contractor 
trying to resolve the issues raised.NHBC explained in their correspondence with Mr Y on 26 June 2019 that as that 
particular issue with the plumbing was unrelated to the original issue under the 
resolution claim, they couldnt assist with it.
The resolution report dated 16 June 2015 noted the garage heating system was 
noisy and could be heard throughout the home; the kitchen radiator was hissing and 
noisy since work done to WC radiator; another radiator was noisy, and the heating 
system could be heard in the next room. In the report, NHBC required the builder to 
ensure the heating system complied with Technical Requirements R2, R4 and 
recommended the builder consider sending a plumber/heating engineer to the 
property to check the heating system, by 28 August 2015.
The resolution report dated 31 January 2017 also referred to the radiator in the 
kitchen hissing and being noisy since work was done to the WC radiator, and it also 
referred to another radiator being noisy. The claims investigator noted that the builder 
had carried out some works to try and resolve noise issues from the radiators, but 
Mr Y said the noise was still heard at times from some of the radiators, which was 
supported by a video of the issue that he provided. The claims investigator observed 
that there had been a number of amendments to the heating system, including 
adding radiators and said it may be the system required a thorough check and 
needed to be fully balanced to ensure no air was trapped in it.
On the basis of the available evidence, I agree it is unclear as to whether the most 
recent issues with the heating system were connected to the issues reported in the 
first two years of the policy terms and conditions, given the number of works that had 
been done at the property in relation to the heating. If the issues were new issues, 
that needed to be considered under section 3 of the policy terms and conditions 
which covers damage or defects reported in years 3 to 10 of the policy, then it is 
unlikely NHBC would have been required to take any action. I say this because 
hissing or noisy radiators are not considered to be a breach of Chapter 8.1 of the 
2014 technical standards, requiring action to be taken under section three of the 
policy terms and conditions. 
Where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory as it is here, I make my decision 
based on the balance of probabilities, that is, what I think more likely than not 
happened. Im currently of the view that the available evidence isnt sufficient to 
establish that the current issues with the heating system, more likely, were linked to 
the original issues reported in the first two years of the policy term. Im therefore 
currently of the view that NHBC didnt act unfairly in declining to cover this element of 
Mr and Mrs Ys claim.
Fitting of front door
Mr and Mrs Y have told us that their front door has never fitted properly and recall 
that when they first moved in they could see daylight out the top of the front door. 
Mr and Mrs Y have also explained that a draft comes through the bottom and sides of 
the front door. They said theyd had three front doors, new frames and countless 
(unsuccessful, in their view) attempts to fix the issues, and theyre unhappy that 
NHBC keep saying they have to let the builder carry out works to rectify the problem.
Issues with the front door were first included in the resolution report dated 16 June 
2015. The resolution reports dated 4 November 2016, 31 January 2017, 
13 August 2018, 22 January 2019, and 20 November 2020 also made reference to 
Mr and Mrs Ys concerns regarding the front door.The resolution report dated 16 June 2015 identified a number of defects with the front 
door. NHBCs claims investigator agreed that there was a gap visible under the front 
door threshold which needed to be sealed and the report confirmed the builder had 
agreed to complete the repairs. However, NHBC said the frame for the front door 
complied with the technical requirements so no further action was required in relation 
to that issue. Similarly, in relation to the issue of draughts coming through the front 
door frame, the claims investigator confirmed that the door closed and made contact 
with the seals, so no further adjustments were required. He also confirmed that the 
external sealant around the front entrance door had been completed to an 
acceptable standard. 
On 4 November 2016, a further resolution report was issued, which made reference 
to the front door being poorly fitted. The claims investigator explained that the front 
door to the property had been the subject of several new doors being fitted and 
alterations being carried out, but the homeowners remained concerned about the fit 
of the door and draughts from the door. The claims investigator observed that at the 
time of the investigation the door was noted to fit reasonably tightly into the frame, 
with only slight movement being noted. 
However, to put Mr and Mrs Ys mind at ease, the claims investigator said the builder 
should arrange for the door manufacturers to inspect the front door and provide 
comment on the fitting of the door and whether it was considered acceptable. 
The resolution report dated 31 January 2017 also made reference to the front door 
and addressed Mr Ys concerns regarding the front door catching at the bottom of the 
frame, and the frame for the front door being incorrectly fitted. NHBCs claim 
investigator didnt agree that any action was required. The report confirmed the lintel 
was suitable for the location, and no further action was required in relation to it. The 
report also said that the door manufacturer had inspected the door in its location and 
confirmed that in their view it fits within acceptable tolerances. NHBC was also of the 
view that the door fitted reasonably closely and evenly into the frame and concluded 
no further action was necessary as the items complied with their technical 
requirements. 
On 13 August 2018 a further resolution report was issued which addressed Mr Ys 
report of a large gap beneath the front door, which NHBC agreed needed action. The 
claims investigator said that it wasnt clear what works had been carried out to 
resolve the issue regarding the gap below the front door threshold, but it was now 
noted that the threshold flexes underfoot when stood on, and a thermal imaging 
survey carried out by Mr Ys surveyor indicated draughts were present in the area. 
The builder was directed to investigate and determine the reason for the front door 
threshold flexing underfoot and carry out remedial works to ensure the sill was firmly 
fixed in place and was fully sealed to prevent draughts. Mr Y had also reported an 
incorrectly fitted front door, but the report confirmed no action was required. 
Mr Y again raised the issue of the front door catch being faulty, which was addressed 
in the resolution report dated 22 January 2019. The report said that during the 
investigation it was noted that the front door wasnt providing an adequate seal when 
closed or locked and draughts could be felt. The report required the builder to carry 
out works to ensure that NHBCs technical requirements were met in relation to this 
issue.
The last resolution report to make reference to issues with the front door was dated 
20 November 2020. The report listed Front door poorly fitted and draughty as a 
reported item, but said no action was required. It confirmed that the builder had carried out various remedial works to the front entrance door but said that Mr Y still 
considered the door was poorly fitted and allowed draughts to enter. The report 
confirmed that additional brush seals had been fitted by the builder and the door was 
considered to fit reasonably closely and evenly into the frame with acceptable 
margins noted around the door. As a result, it wasnt considered that any further 
remedial action was required by the builder as the item complied with NHBCs 
technical requirements. 
There was a delay mentioned in the casefile of three months, in arranging a revisit, 
and there was also mention of the scheduled date being cancelled, due to the 
covid19 restrictions. NHBC offered Mr and Mrs Y £200, in May 2020, as a goodwill 
payment to apologise for the delay.
Mr Y wasnt happy with the resolution report and complained to NHBC in November 
2020. He said he was concerned that he could still close the front door over a hoover 
cable and believed that showed there was still a significant gap allowing the draught 
to continue. In response, NHBC explained that it is not uncommon to be able to close 
a door over a cable, as the cable can compress the seals on the door as it is closed.
With regard to the standards that apply in terms of front doors, NHBC confirmed that 
when referring to margins in the resolution report, they look at whether the door is set 
evenly into the frame with equal gaps to both sides. The investigator was satisfied 
that the door was fitting closely and evenly, and the door was providing a satisfactory 
performance. He explained that the technical requirements only require a front door 
to be weathertight, not airtight. Ive reviewed the relevant technical specification 6.7 
S3(a) which I agree refers to weathertightness. It says, Doors and windows should 
be installed correctly so they perform satisfactorily in use.
Having considered the number of issues Mr and Mrs Y had with their front door, 
during the period of their claim, again, I can appreciate why they are feeling 
frustrated with how long it took for the issues to be resolved. However, as I explained 
in relation to the issue with the waterlogged garden, the resolution reports Ive seen, 
and referred to above, lead me to think NHBC has dealt with the claim reasonably 
under the terms of the warranty. Where the cause of damage or a defect isnt 
immediately clear, I think its clear to require certain actions to be taken, and if they 
arent successful, to take a different approach to resolving the issue. At all times the 
builder was willing to carry out the works detailed in the resolution reports, and while 
the builder was engaging and making a reasonable effort to repair the damage or 
defects, I think it was fair for NHBC to decline to step in and take over the remedial 
works. 
Where a delay occurred, that was due to actions on the part of NHBC, I think it was 
appropriate for NHBC to offer Mr Y compensation, and in the context of the £200 
goodwill payment they offered to Mr Y, for delays in arranging a revisit of the 
property, I think the offer of £200 was far in the circumstances of this complaint. If 
this payment hasnt been made to Mr Y, I would ask that NHBC promptly make that 
payment to Mr Y, should he decide to accept this decision. 
Overall, with regard to the issues affecting the front door, Im currently of the view 
that NHBC acted as the warranty requires it to do and in line with the terms and 
conditions. I think NHBC has dealt with this part of Mr and Mrs Ys claim fairly and 
reasonably throughout.
I concluded that I wasnt intending to uphold the complaint.I asked the parties to provide any final submissions or information theyd like me to consider 
before I issued my final decision.
NHBC didnt provide any further response to the provisional decision. However, Mr Y 
responded to say he was disappointed by the outcome. He also said that while the garden 
has finally been resolved after 7 years, they are still left with a badly fitted front door, which 
lets the draughts into the hall as it always has, and the issues with the heating system 
remain, both of which hell have to resolve at his own expense.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I do understand Mr Ys disappointment; his comments havent caused me to change 
my mind. As neither party has persuaded me to depart from the conclusion I reached in the 
provisional decision, for the reasons set out in this decision and my provisional decision, I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y and Mr Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman