DRN-3400061
The complaint
Mr B complains that Trinity Lane Insurance Company Limited (Trinity) declined his claim for 
damage to his car, under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr B noticed a leak from the engine of his classic car. He contacted Trinity to make a claim. 
It sent an engineer to his home to inspect the car. The engineer determined the problem was 
with a cracked engine cylinder block, which was the result of general wear and tear. 
Trinity declined Mr Bs claim saying mechanical failure due to wear and tear isnt covered by 
his policy. 
Mr B disagreed. He thought the damage had been caused by accident when running the car 
engine on his driveway, which caused it to overheat. He believes this should be covered by 
his policy. 
Trinity sent a further engineer to inspect Mr Bs car. He found the same problem with the 
cracked engine cylinder block. Trinity arranged a third opinion from another engineer, who 
carried out a desktop assessment using the previous engineers report, photos and 
research. He concluded the same as the previous two engineers. Namely that the cracked 
engine cylinder block was the result of a mechanical failure. 
Trinity maintained its decision to decline Mr Bs claim. Mr B didnt think this was fair and also 
questioned why the business didnt take his car to a garage to be repaired even if he was 
responsible for paying. Trinity told him his claim wasnt covered by his policy and it wasnt 
responsible for the repair or recovery of his car. Mr B referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the matter but didnt uphold the complaint. He thought Trinity 
had been fair when relying on its policy terms to decline the claim. The terms say that 
damage not caused by an accident, but mechanical faults resulting from wear and tear arent 
covered.
Mr B asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He didnt agree with our investigator 
and felt Trinitys engineers should have told him if he could drive his car or whether this 
would cause further damage. 
The complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint. I understand this will be very disappointing for him, but I 
will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
I have read Mr Bs policy terms to understand the cover provided. The terms under the 
section, Exceptions to sections 5,6 and 7 say:
What sections 5, 6 and 7 do not cover
c Loss of value, and wear and tear.
An insurance policy wont cover every eventuality. Mr Bs policy does provide cover for 
damage to his vehicle, but the terms are clear that any damage resulting from wear and tear 
isnt covered. 
I have read through the engineers reports arranged by Trinity and have copied the key 
findings below:
Your insured advised that the vehicle was run up to temperature over the summer outside 
the garage Your insured advised that they believe this has caused the engine cylinder block 
to overheat causing it to crack.
Examination of the engine found the crack to be highlighted by chalk with evidence of 
moisture clearly seeping through the crack and established corrosion evident within the area. 
No visible sign of any impact damage was found around the damaged area of the cylinder 
engine block.
I have advised them that crack to the engine cylinder block has occurred as a result of 
general wear and tear and under the terms and condition of there policy they would not be 
covered for this due to it being deemed as mechanical failure.
And:
Upon inspection of this vehicle we noted a fracture to the right-hand side of the cylinder 
head block, the fracture is surrounded by corrosion and approximately an inch in length. 
Coolant/cooling system water is visibly seeping form the fracture and dripping into a 
container placed under the vehicle by the client.
We suspect the fracture in the cylinder block occurred due to the engine overheating. Due to 
the very limited mileage covered in this period it is not possible to determine when the 
fracture occurred (It could have remained latent for some time). We would suggest this is a 
case of component failure and we suspect will not be covered under the terms of the policy.
Also:
It is my opinion that the engine block is cracked and leaking due to mechanical failure. I 
have read through the claimants correspondence and whilst I sympathise with him, I am 
fully satisfied that the defect is present due to mechanical failure and no matter how I look at 
the case it remains so.  
All three engineers arrived at the same view that the damage isnt the result of an accident 
but has developed over time. The third engineer who performed a desk-based review, 
supplied information highlighting a known issue with cracked engine cylinder blocks specific 
to Mr Bs make of car. Based on the expert opinion provided I think it was reasonable for 
Trinity to decline Mr Bs claim under the policy exclusion it gave.
I have thought about Mr Bs view that Trinity shouldve arrange for his car to be taken to a 
garage. I sympathise with his situation and the need to arrange repairs. But Mr Bs policy 
doesnt provide cover when the cause is the result of wear and tear, which I think the expert 
opinion has reasonably shown is the cause. This means Trinity isnt responsible for the repairs or for arranging for the car to be transported to a suitable garage. So, I cant 
reasonably ask it to do so.
I acknowledge Mr Bs concerns that he wasnt informed by Trinitys engineers whether he 
could safely drive his car. I cant see that he raised this as a concern with the business. If he 
wants to, he should contact Trinity to raise this directly. But I cant consider an issue here 
that he hasnt first raised with the business.    
In summary I think Trinity treated Mr B fairly when relying on its policy terms and declining 
his claim. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman