DRN-3519633
Complaint
Mr H complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim he 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system he says were misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr H is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In March 2017, Mr H was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to talk 
about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. After being 
visited by a representative of P, Mr H decided to purchase the system and finance it through 
a 10-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently 
installed.
In June 2021, the CMC made a claim on Mr Hs behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that, P had made a number of representations about the system 
that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had induced 
Mr H to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following misrepresentations had 
been made:
the system would be self-funding; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) would provide enough income to cover the finance agreement 
repayments costs.
Shawbrook didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr H or that there were any 
other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr H and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view for the following reasons: 
The CMC re-iterated that Mr H was verbally told the FIT payments and savings on 
energy bills would cover the cost of the monthly payments and that the system would 
be self-funding.
The CMC says relevant weight should be placed on Mr Hs testimony and not only 
the sales document provided by P. 
The CMC challenged whether Ps sales processes were followed during the sales 
meeting  Mr H says he was not taken through the sales document, and the 
information contained within it was not brought to his attention. Mr H adds that if he 
had been shown the expected monthly deficits, he would not have bought the panels.
The CMC adds that even the benefits set out in the sales quote have not been 
realised  as Mr Hs savings have been less than quoted. 
The CMC says that sales quotation document was not signed. 
The CMC has referred to a court case which it says had similar circumstances to 
Mr H and this was upheld in the consumers favor  but it was for a different 
consumer against a different provider. 
The CMC has also pointed out that many consumers have raised complaints over the 
selling of solar panels, and many have been previously upheld in favour of 
consumers. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr H paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr H could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr H and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities - 
what I think most likely happened, given the evidence that is available and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
Mr H says that during a sales meeting he was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote. Ive considered these, along with the 
consumers testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to decide on balance what is 
most likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. 
I appreciate the quote isnt signed, but this quote didnt require a signature  there wasnt, for 
example, a section for the customer to sign.  
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the 
consumers version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of 
fact. 
I would add that while Ive considered carefully the comments made by the CMC, each case 
brought to our service is assessed on the individual merits of that case. 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
The loan agreement clearly sets out the cash price of the goods.
Im satisfied that Mr H was told that the cost of the system was £6,100. The quote sets this 
out clearly. This is also supported by the credit agreement which sets out that the cash price 
of the system was £6,100. The total amount of credit is £6,00 and goes on to show that the 
total amount payable would be £9,416.80.
The quote also set out that the expected monthly loan repayment was £78.96. But I note 
Mr Hs monthly payment is marginally different at £77.64 in his credit agreement but I dont 
think this difference make the quote mis-leading. 
Having considered all the evidence, including the consumers recollections, Im satisfied that 
he was told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this clear, 
as set out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the 
credit agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £6,100, it would 
cost Mr H more than this as he had decided to pay for it with an interest bearing loan. 
Mr H has said that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and savings on energy bills. Ive considered the quote that was 
provided by P as well as the consumers recollections of their meeting with Ps 
representative to decide what is most likely to have been said. 
The what will you earn and save per year? page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance of the system and includes the estimated income Mr H could expect to receive 
by way of FIT payments from the system. The FIT scheme only provides payments for a 20-
year period.
I think the table is clear that Mr H could expect to receive a total FIT income in year one of 
£123.30 (£77.19 generation tariff and £46.11 export tariff), which results in an average 
monthly income of £10.27. The expected year one electricity savings Mr H could expect from 
the system is £219.32 and the combined income and savings in year one is shown as 
£342.62. 
As outlined above, Im satisfied that the quote set out that there would be an expected 
monthly loan repayment due of £78.96. As a result, Im not able to conclude that the 
consumer was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT payments 
and savings on bills.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three table showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 120 months this is the 
length of the loan that Mr H entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 120 monthly payments of £78.96. For each year of the 10-year loan it shows 
the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, 
and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £78.96, to give an average difference between 
the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr H could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan repayments. The 
table does clearly set out that, the overall income he could expect to receive by way of FIT 
income and any additional savings, would not be immediately sufficient to cover the monthly 
loan repayments. This supports my finding above that the consumer wasnt told that the FIT 
payments and savings on bills would cover the loan repayment. Ive carefully thought about 
the consumers version of events. However, as Ive found that the quote did form a central 
part of the sales process which the salesperson went through at the meeting, I dont think I 
can reasonably find that he was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by 
the FIT income and additional savings.
Ill now consider whether P told Mr H that the system would be self-funding from the outset. 
In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have 
happened. 
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand and on balance Im also satisfied that 
the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr H was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain duration of time. 
As mentioned above, the What will you earn and save per year page of the quote has a 
table detailing the performance over 25 years. This shows that by year 18 the overall 
benefits that Mr H could expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable 
under the loan agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr H that the system would pay for itself by 
year 18, and this is supported by the table above included in the quote. If that were an 
untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the 
contract, and he subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr H. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the system is 
expected to produce 1878.15 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mr H FIT statements and can see that his system, on average, has 
generated 1980.76 kWh. This is slightly more than estimated by P at the point of sale, so Im 
satisfied that the system is performing as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to calculate the utility price and RPI inflation. 
I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 2020 and the increases have 
been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think explain why he hasnt been 
receiving the financial returns he may have been expecting from the solar panels. Since 
actual energy prices have been lower than the modelling predicted, the savings achieved 
through the energy generated by the system has been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have used them 
as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr H couldve expected to receive 
from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not have been as high as 
estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to unreasonable 
assumptions being used by P at the time Mr H entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr H to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman