DRN-3314987
The complaint
Mr G has said that Oplo HL Ltd didnt carry out sufficient checks when it granted him a 
secured loan in 2020. He says he was gambling heavily and the lending was based on his 
non-guaranteed overtime, which he feels was irresponsible on the part of the lender.
What happened
In September 2020 Mr G applied for a secured loan through a mortgage broker to 
consolidate some debts. Mr G borrowed £10,000 over four years on a repayment basis. The 
interest rate was fixed at 12.50% for the full term of the loan.
The direct debit failed in November and December 2020, with Mr G explaining that it was an 
oversight on his part in transferring money into the funding account in time. Both payments 
were made by card the day after the direct debits had failed. The direct debit then resumed 
as normal from January 2021.
Mr G complained to Oplo in June 2021. He said that Oplo should have requested bank 
statements to establish affordability, and that hed taken multiple lines of credit and was 
gambling at the time.
Oplo didnt uphold the complaint. It said the loan had been recommended by an independent 
broker, and so any complaint about the suitability of the loan should be directed to that 
business. In terms of the affordability, it said a full income and expenditure assessment was 
carried out, and Mr Gs income was verified through his payslips. It said the loan was stress 
tested and was shown to be affordable, Mr G gave reasonable explanations for the recent 
credit, made no mention of his gambling, and it didnt need to see his bank statements.
Unhappy with Oplos response, Mr G referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
didnt think Oplo had done anything wrong. He said it assessed Mr Gs income and 
expenditure (including a stress test), was satisfied with his credit history, and that it had no 
regulatory requirement to request bank statements. 
Mr G didnt agree, saying the recent borrowing was to fund a gambling problem and the 
lending shouldnt have been based on his overtime income as that could stop at any time. As 
an agreement couldnt be reached the case was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When an application is made to borrow money, the lender must assess whether the 
borrower can afford the repayments. This secured loan is a regulated mortgage contract 
which means the provisions in the Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Busines 
Sourcebook (MCOB) apply. 
Chapter 11 of that is entitled Responsible lending, and responsible financing of home 
purchase plans. It says a lender must treat customers fairly by assessing whether the 
customer will be able to repay the sums borrowed and interest. To do that the lender must 
take account of the income of the customer, and the customers committed and basic 
essential expenditure.
This means that before agreeing to lend, a lender must carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks to assess whether a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside the borrowers other expenditure. 
Ive kept all these things in mind, and Ive thought carefully about the information Oplo relied 
on when it decided to lend to Mr G.
Mr G was asked about his income and expenditure. Oplo verified Mr Gs income by 
requesting payslips. It looked at Mr Gs average earnings over the period covered by the 
payslips, as well as his year to date figure from the most recent. It took the lower of the two 
figures for the affordability check.
Mr G has said that if his overtime stopped he wouldnt be able to afford this loan, and so it 
was irresponsible for Oplo to take his overtime into account. Whilst I can understand the 
point Mr G is making, it isnt unusual for lenders to include other income, such as overtime 
and bonuses, if it can be shown to be consistent over a period of time. Here Mr G was asked 
whether he was aware of any negative impact on his employment, and he said no. Oplo then 
took the lower of the two figures it calculated  that is the average income on the payslips 
provided, versus the year to date figure.
One of the payslips showed Mr G had taken a weeks leave, and on that there was an 
additional line entitled Additional Holiday Pay Amount. That extra amount is because if a 
person regularly gets paid overtime, commission and/or bonuses, their employer must reflect 
those payments in the first four weeks of any paid holiday. Thats because holiday pay must 
reflect an employees normal renumeration  that is, the money they earn when not on 
leave. 
The figure is based on the previous 52 weeks, and so the fact £208.50 was included when 
Mr G was on leave (that is, £208.50 was calculated to be the average weekly 
overtime/bonus/commission hed been paid over the last 12 months) shows his overtime had 
been consistent and sustainable. According to the application form Mr G had been employed 
by the company for six years, so if he felt that level of income wasnt sustainable then I 
would have expected him to have raised that at the time.
Oplo also carried out a credit check and carried out an affordability check based on Mr Gs 
declared outgoings. Having reviewed everything, I can see those checks suggested Mr G 
had enough disposable income each month to afford the loan repayments. Mr G was entering into a new credit commitment with Oplo - he was agreeing to make 
monthly repayments of £309.55 for a period of four years. So, I think it is right that Oplo 
wanted to gather information about Mr Gs financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to 
him. I think that Oplos checks were proportionate to achieve that aim.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to 
react appropriately to the information those checks show. Those results might sometimes 
lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. Or, in some 
cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. So, Ive looked at 
what Oplo gathered to see whether it needed to ask for more or whether it made a fair 
lending decision. 
Oplos credit check showed that Mr G was making use of other credit at the time he applied 
for the loan. Mr Gs open accounts appeared to be well maintained with no issues reported. 
The credit check showed around £12,000 in loans, and around £4,500 on credit cards. He 
had no CCJs, and no missed payments in the last two years. Whilst Mr G had taken out 
some recent credit, he provided reasonable explanations for that.
The Oplo loan was used to consolidate unsecured loans and Mr Gs overdraft debt. It left just 
part of one loan outstanding along with Mr Gs credit cards. These were all high interest rate 
loans, with the new Oplo loan having a lower interest rate; the loan saved him money each 
month compared to his previous outgoings.
Oplo discounted the monthly loan repayment figures for the loans that were being fully 
repaid when it assessed affordability, and I think that was a fair thing to do as those were to 
be repaid. The amount that Oplo had calculated Mr G to have in disposable income after all 
his declared outgoings were taken into account (including the new Oplo loan) was around 
£815.
Mr G has said that Oplo should have asked for copies of his bank statements, and if it had 
done so it would have shown he was gambling heavily. In an email to Oplo nine months after 
he took out the loan he said that his gambling days were, by then, behind him. I would like to 
thank Mr G for being so open with us about his previous difficulties, and wish him the best 
going forward. Ive reviewed Oplos lending policy for the time and, based on that, it didnt 
need to see copies of Mr Gs bank statements. Theres also nothing in the rules that state 
these must be requested.
Whilst Mr G had taken out various items of credit in the year before the application, he 
provided plausible explanations for each of those and all his credit commitments had been 
maintained. Putting everything together I dont think there was anything here that should 
have alerted Oplo to a problem such that I think it did something wrong in not requesting 
bank statements.
I appreciate what Mr G has said about a gambler hiding it as they want access to further 
funds, but I cant hold Oplo liable for not realising when Mr G didnt disclose it. Based on 
everything Mr G declared, and the information Oplo obtained, this loan was affordable. For 
the period in question (which runs up until the end of June 2021 when this complaint was 
raised) Mr G made all his monthly payments in full. He had two direct debits returned as 
unpaid in that time, but both times he provided plausible explanations for that (an oversight 
in moving money around) and he made the payments by debit card the following day on both 
occasions. Theres nothing in the transaction history to indicate this loan was unaffordable at 
the time it was taken out.
In conclusion, I think Oplo made proportionate checks when it agreed to this secured loan 
and on balance didnt do anything wrong when it agreed to lend.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2022. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman