DRN-3202394
The complaint
Mr H complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (Royal London) 
doesnt provide an online facility to manage his pension. 
What happened
Mr H holds a stakeholder pension. I understand it was originally with a different pension 
provider but is now administered by Royal London.
Mr H complained to Royal London that there isnt a facility available to access his particular 
pension online.
Royal London said Mr Hs pension wasnt one that it currently supported online, and this had 
always been the case  as it wasnt a policy which had been designed with an online 
presence. But it appreciated a number of customers would prefer this. So, it said it was 
working to make this available. And it would inform Mr H when this service was ready. But, 
as this required significant work on its infrastructure, Royal London couldnt say when this 
work would be completed.
Unhappy with this response, Mr H asked our service to consider the complaint. He said he 
felt it was reasonable to expect in this day and age that Royal London would provide online 
access. And he also said he thought it was unfair that certain policies were treated differently 
to others  as some had an online facility.
One of our Investigators considered the complaint but didnt think Royal London had done 
anything wrong. He noted it wasnt part of the terms of the policy that online access would be 
provided. And Royal London was not obliged to offer this service.
Mr H did not agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. As a 
result, it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I cant require Royal London to change its processes. Our service is not a regulator, and 
anyway these are a matter of its commercial judgement and something it is entitled to 
decide. My role is to look at whether Royal London has done something wrong and whether 
it has treated Mr H fairly.
I understand why Mr H would prefer to be able to view his pension online. And a significant 
number of businesses provide an equivalent service. But there are no regulations that 
require Royal London to provide access to all of its financial products via specific channels. It 
is free to choose what services it provides and how. 
Royal London has explained that the kind of pension Mr H holds is not one that it currently 
provides online access to. And having reviewed the terms of the policy I can see that this 
wasnt a service that Royal London agreed to provide previously. So, it hasnt made an error 
by failing to provide this service. 
I think what Royal London has said, about aiming to provide this service in the future is 
reasonable. I know Mr H would like more details about when this will be available. But again, 
it isnt a service Royal London is required to provide. And I think what it has explained about 
why it cant give a firm timeframe  due to there being a significant amount of work involved 
 is also reasonable. 
Mr H has said he doesnt think it is fair that Royal London provides access to some policies 
online, but not his. Again, Royal London is entitled to decide how it operates its business and 
how the products it offers are run. And I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr H is being 
treated differently to other policyholders with an equivalent policy to his. So, I dont agree 
that he is being treated unfairly.
Taking everything into account, I dont think Royal London has done anything wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman