DRN-3160420
The complaint
Mr K has complained that Santander UK Plc continued charging him excessive amounts for 
his overdraft when he was in financial difficulty.
What happened
Mr K complained to Santander about the charges that had been applied to his account in the 
previous 7 years. He said hed been experiencing financial difficulties throughout this period 
and the charges had made things worse. Santander didnt uphold the complaint. And as 
Mr K was dissatisfied, he referred the complaint to our service.
Mr Ks complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She explained that we would 
only be able to consider charges applied from November 2013 onwards. She also explained 
that she thought Santander ought to have realised that Mr K was experiencing financial 
difficulty by November 2014 and so shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and 
charges from this point onwards. Santander didnt agree so the case was passed to an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that Santander acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after November 
2014. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Mr K was in no position to sustainably 
repay what he owed within a reasonable period of time. 
I say this for a number of reasons. Firstly, by this point, Mr K was hardcore borrowing. In 
other, words he hadnt seen or maintained a credit balance for an extended period of time. 
And Santanders own literature suggests that overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency 
borrowing not prolonged day-to-day expenditure. So I think that Mr Ks overdraft usage 
should have prompted Santander to have realised that Mr K wasnt using his overdraft as 
intended. Mr Ks statements also showed evidence of repeated payday lending and other 
high cost borrowing. And in these circumstances, Santander ought to have realised that 
Mr K was at a significant risk of being unable to repay what he already owed. Santander has 
said it regularly reviews customer accounts to ensure that overdraft limits are still 
appropriate, and I think the conduct of Mr Ks account by November 2014 should have given 
Santander cause for concern. In these circumstances, I think that Santander ought to have 
realised that continuing to allow Mr K to use his overdraft in this way wasnt in his best 
interests, and that he was at a significant risk of experiencing financial difficulty. And so 
Santander should have treated him with forbearance rather than adding even more interest, 
fees and charges to his overdraft.
I acknowledge that Mr K went on to have periods when he didnt incur charges on his 
account, but this seems to have been because his account was fee-free rather than because 
there was any significant improvement in his financial position. And while Mr K was able to 
repay his overdraft in later years, through loans and then what appears to have been money 
provided by a family member, I dont think this changes the fact that his account conduct in 
2014 should have prompted Santander to take action.
In reaching my conclusions, Ive thought about what Santander has said about the 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook, the terms and conditions of Mr Ks account, its process and 
any actions it may have taken. But for the reasons Ive already explained, I remain satisfied 
that it wasnt fair to continue adding charges to Mr Ks account from November 2014.
Mr K ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on his overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties he already had in trying to clear it. So I think that Santander didnt 
treat Mr K fairly and he lost out because of what Santander did wrong. And this means that it 
should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ks complaint for Santander to put things right by:
Refund to Mr K all interest, fees and charges applied to his account after 
November 2014.
AND
As there is no outstanding balance to repay on Mr Ks account the refund should 
be treated as overpayments and returned to Mr K along with 8% simple interest 
on the overpayments from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of 
settlement.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ks complaint. Santander UK Plc should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman