DRN-3449236
The complaint
Mr H complains PrePay Technologies Limited (PPT), trading as Quidity Plus, provided 
false information to the National crime Agency (NCA) following a review of his account, 
discriminated against him, and failed to give him information following his subject access 
request.   
What happened
In 2017, PPT carried out a review of Mr Hs Quidity Plus account - and others he held with 
them under different brands. Following its review, PPT decided to close Mr Hs account, and 
reported its suspicions to the NCA. 
Sometime later Mr H was visited by the Police who took some of his personal items away 
after questioning him. Mr Hs funds were returned to him in 2018. 
Mr H says that had PPT asked him about the transactions it suspected as potential fraud, it 
would have realised they werent. As a result, PPT would not have taken any of the actions it 
did. 
Mr H would like PPT to pay him compensation for the depravation of funds; for time 
submitting and administering his complaint; providing false information about him to the NCA 
and for being discriminated against. 
In response to Mr Hs complaint, PPT said it acted in line with its regulatory obligations. PPT 
added the report it made to the NCA was based on the activity on Mr Hs accounts - which 
raised suspicions of illegal activity. 
Unhappy with this, Mr H referred his complaint to this service. One of our Investigators 
looked into this and in summary, they found: 
- PPT were acting in line with its legal and regulatory obligations and didnt do anything 
wrong when reviewing and blocking Mr Hs accounts
- Theyve not seen any evidence to show the information PPT recorded as part of its 
review led to the Police investigating Mr H
- There isnt any evidence which shows Mr H was treated less favourably due to any 
protected characteristic. So PPT did not discriminate against him. 
- As Mr H has also complained about PPT not properly fulfilling his request for a data 
subject request to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO), it wouldnt be 
appropriate for this service to comment on this  
 Mr H did not agree with our Investigator said. In short, he made the following key points: 
- He never complained about his account being blocked or closed 
- PPT made up false information about his account activity and sent it to the NCA. By 
doing so they intended to falsely incriminate him 
- Because of what PPT did wrong, Mr H was put under substantive stress given the 
Police raided his home and confiscated some of his personal digital items 
- PPTs actions caused him to lose out financially as no interest was paid on his funds 
whilst withheld. PPT have not apologised for making false reports about him. 
As Mr H didnt agree, the complaint has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. I know this will disappoint 
him, so Ill explain why. 
I note Mr H says he hasnt complained about his accounts being placed under review, 
blocked, and then closed. But given these actions led to consequential events Mr H is mainly 
complaining about, Ill need to consider whether PPT acted fairly in taking them. 
Financial business in the UK, like PPT, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions 
to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing 
monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means they need to restrict, 
or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
So, with that in mind, I dont think PPT did anything wrong when reviewing and blocking 
Mr Hs accounts. 
A regulated business is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an 
account with a bank. But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way which 
complies with the terms and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account, which PPT and Mr H had to comply with, say that it 
could close the account by giving them at least two months notice. And in certain 
circumstances it can close an account immediately or with less notice. Having looked at the 
concerns PPT had, Im satisfied it acted fairly when closing Mr Hs accounts. 
This leads me to the head of Mr Hs complaint. Mr H says PPT gave false information about 
his account activity and sent it to the NCA. And by doing so, they intended to falsely 
incriminate him. Mr H says this led to the Police investigating him. 
I dont underestimate in any way how being placed under investigation in this way, and any 
action the Police took against Mr H, would have caused significant trouble and upset. But I 
havent seen enough information to conclude PPT is responsible for any decisions the Police 
made.  
On a separate note, PPT has several regulatory and legal obligations it must adhere to. And 
that, in broad terms, includes reporting any activity it deems suspicious to the NCA.
So, having closely looked at Mr Hs account activities, and the reasons PPT were 
concerned, Im persuaded it acted fairly and reasonably in reporting this to the NCA. Mr H 
says he had a legitimate reason for using his accounts in the way he was, as it allowed him 
to accrue reward points and the like with other financial product providers.That may be the case, but PPT reported what it saw as suspicious. And Ive already said I 
think it had concern enough to do this. So, in conclusion, I dont think PPT did anything 
wrong by reporting its suspicions in the way it did  even if the suspicions were later 
unfounded or shown to be untrue. 
Ive carefully looked at what Mr H has said about being discriminated against by PPT. 
Having done that, Im satisfied it hasnt treated Mr H differently due to any protected 
characteristic. 
Lastly, I agree with our Investigator that it would be inappropriate for this service to comment 
on whether PPT has fairly handled his subject access request. Thats because he has 
complained to the ICO about this.  Amongst other things, they are best placed to handle this.      
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022. 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman