DRN-4084250
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) closed his accounts and delayed
releasing the money to him.
What happened
This complaint concerns a Saver account and a multicurrency account comprising of a
Sterling account, a US dollar (USD) account and Euro account.
Barclays sent Mr A notice that it would be closing his Sterling and Saver accounts in
September 2018. These closed two months later in November 2018. Mr A was living abroad
at the time so didnt receive this letter.
Mr A has told us that when he couldnt log into his online banking in September 2019, he
called Barclays and was told his accounts had been closed. He says the representative he
spoke with confirmed the balances in his Sterling and USD account but couldnt locate the
Euro account.
Mr A says he continued to call and email throughout the start of 2020 asking for his accounts
to be reopened or the money transferred to a different account. However, he says his emails
were ignored and when calling Barclays, it told him it couldnt do either.
Barclays has record of one call in January 2020. In this call Mr A asked what happened to
the money contained within his accounts before he moved abroad and was told how to
access this.
Barclays then sent Mr A notice that it would be closing his USD and Euro account in May
2020, and these closed two months later in July 2020. Again, Mr A was still abroad at this
point due to the Covid-19 pandemic, so he didnt receive this letter either.
Mr A returned to the UK in the second part of 2020. He wanted to purchase a property and
had employed a property advisor to help with this and was due to go to several house 
viewings. He attended branch in October 2020 to find out what was going on with his
accounts and the money contained within them. At this point Barclays verified his ID and
arranged a cheque for the balances of Mr As Sterling and Saver accounts and Mr A
collected this in November 2020. However, he was told his USD and Euro accounts couldnt
be located. These accounts had over £180,000 in them.
Mr A says he couldnt continue with his property purchase as a result and had to return
home without the rest of his money. Mr A complained at that point.
Barclays issued a final response in January 2021 explaining it had located the rest of his
money and offered £200 for the service hed received. Because Mr A was now abroad, he
couldnt collect the money in branch and asked for it to be transferred electronically.
Barclays agreed and initially asked Mr A to provide ID, which he did. However, Barclays then
said this would need to be validated by a solicitor, the police, or his bank before the money
could be released. Following his referral to our service Mr A provided this and his money
was sent to him in October 2021.
Mr A remained unhappy after he received his money due to the issues hed had up to that
point and the time taken for Barclays to release his money. Our investigator was satisfied
Barclays was entitled to close Mr As accounts and that the £200 it has offered was sufficient
for the delays hed experienced when trying to access the funds in his USD and Euro
accounts. She explained that Barclays was entitled to ask for verified ID to have the money
sent electronically.
Mr A disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 13 March 2023. These were my 
findings:
Barclays has commercial discretion and can choose who it does business with, just as
Mr A can choose who to bank with. Of course, we expect Barclays to use its
commercial discretion to make decisions free of prejudice and discrimination. And having
reviewed the reasons for the closures, Im satisfied in Mr As case it did this. Barclays
doesnt have to provide a reason to Mr A for this decision and it wouldnt be appropriate for
me to require it to or disclose the reason myself.
Taking all this into account and reviewing the information Barclays has provided, Im
satisfied it was entitled to close Mr As accounts and did so in line with the applicable terms
and conditions by giving two months notice. I appreciate Mr A was abroad when the letters
were sent and he therefore didnt receive these, but I cant hold Barclays responsible for this 
as it sent them to the address it held for Mr A. It isnt required to send these electronically.
It seems a lot of the issues in this complaint stem from Mr A being unable to access his
money once the accounts were closed.
Mr A told us he realised something was amiss with his accounts in late 2019 when he tried
to log onto his online banking. He called at that point and was told his accounts had been
closed. Mr A went onto say he contacted Barclays several times in early 2020 to ask it to
reopen his accounts or transfer his money to another of his UK accounts. Mr A hasnt been
able to provide any evidence of this contact and Barclays only has one record of a call in
January 2020. Its therefore unclear exactly what happened during this period.
From what Mr A has explained he wasnt able to travel to the UK until the second half of
2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic. It was at that point he travelled to the UK to carry out
property viewings as he wanted to make a purchase. He also took the opportunity to attend
branch to obtain his money. So, whilst it is possible Mr A contacted Barclays more than the
one time it has on record, Im not minded to say Barclays delayed releasing Mr As money at
that point. Instead, I think its most likely Mr A waited to pursue this fully until he returned to
the UK and needed the money for his house purchase.
Mr A attended branch in October 2020 to find out what was happening with the money in his
accounts. During this visit Mr A provided ID and he later returned to branch on 2 November
2020 to collect a cheque for the balances of his Saver and Sterling accounts. However, from
the notes Barclays has provided and Mr As testimony, it would seem Barclays were unable
to locate the money in the USD and Euro accounts. Its unclear why this was as the
accounts had been closed back in July 2020 following the notice period. Im satisfied Mr A
should have been able to receive the money in all of his accounts at that point. Had this
been done it would have prevented everything that followed, including the additional delay inMr A receiving his funds and the inconvenience he faced in having to provide his ID again.
I therefore think Barclays should pay 8% simple interest on the money contained in Mr As
USD and Euro accounts from 2 November 2020 to the date this money was transferred to
him in October 2021. This is to compensate Mr A for loss of use of those funds during that
time.
I also think a higher award than £200 should be paid for the trouble and upset caused, as it
was clearly inconvenient and time consuming for Mr A to go through the additional security
steps to have the money in his USD and Euro account sent to him once it was located. I
should point out that Barclays is entitled to go through these security steps. However, the
point here is it shouldnt have been necessary in Mr As case as his money should have
been released to him when he was in branch and had presented valid ID at the time. In
addition to this, it was also understandably worrying and frustrating for Mr A to be told his
USD and Euro accounts couldnt be located, especially considering how much money was
contained within them. Not to mention all the additional time and effort Mr A spent contacting
Barclays after November 2020.
I therefore think a payment of £400 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Ive taken into account that Mr A has mentioned that he lost out on purchasing a property
because he couldnt access the money in his account. Hes explained he employed a
property advisor to help him with this and attended viewing during his visit to the UK in 2020.
However, because he couldnt access all the money in his accounts, he was unable to
proceed.
Whilst I dont doubt being unable to access all of his money had an impact on his decision
not to proceed with a property purchase, for me to make a larger award of compensation to
Mr A for the loss of his property purchase, I need to be happy that a purchase would have
definitely gone through had Barclays released the money to Mr A in November 2020. Given
how early on in the process he was, I cant conclude this would have been the case. There
are numerous steps to purchasing a property and Mr A was only at the beginning, in so
much as he was viewing properties. Its therefore difficult for me to attribute the loss of a
property purchase solely to Barclays error here. So, keeping this in mind, Im satisfied £400
is an appropriate figure.
Barclays responded, agreeing with the provisional decision. It explained that if Mr A accepts 
the decision it will pay him £400 compensation, plus 8% interest totalling £10,986.32. This 
total has had 20% tax deducted, which will be paid to HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC). 
Barclays said this deduction totals £2,746.57. 
Mr A responded to the decision agreeing with the interest payment. However, he wanted me 
to consider directing Barclays to compensate him for his travel and accommodation costs 
when he returned to the UK in order to collect his funds. He said he returned to collect his 
money and view properties on the basis he would buy one with the money in these 
accounts. He mentioned to the investigator about a call hes provided to us where Barclays 
request that he attends branch to collect his funds. He would also like his call costs to be 
covered but isnt able to get any evidence of these costs. Finally, he would like the £750 he 
paid to the property advisor to hep him secure a property as he couldnt go on to buy 
because Barclays wouldnt release his money.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I remain of the opinion that whilst Barclays was entitled to close Mr As accounts, it delayed 
him access to the funds in his USD and Euro accounts and in turn caused him unnecessary 
trouble and upset. 
Ive taken Mr As additional comments into consideration and will address these in turn:
In relation to the costs Mr A incurred for travelling to the UK to obtain his money in October 
2020, this isnt something I will be asking Barclays to refund. I say this because I cant be 
persuaded Mr A returned to the UK solely for this purpose. Hes explained he also came to 
view some properties for example. Given this, it wouldnt be fair to ask Barclays to cover 
these expenses. Id like to assure Mr A that I took the call recording he provided to us into 
consideration. I can see Barclays did advise him to visit branch, but it would seem this call 
took place after hed left the UK in November 2020. I say this because he tells the advisor 
about his visit to branch to collect the cheque for the funds in his Sterling account. I cant see 
he had to return to the UK again as he received the money in his Euro and USD account via 
bank transfer. 
I dont doubt Mr A spent time on the phone to Barclays trying to get his money back and this 
would have come at a cost. And given Barclays errors, I would expect it to cover these 
costs. Unfortunately though, Barclays doesnt have record of these calls and Mr A isnt able 
to obtain any evidence of how many calls he had or the cost of them. This means Im unable 
to direct Barclays to reimburse Mr A for these. 
Finally, as I explained in my provisional decision, Im unable to attribute the loss of a 
property solely to Barclays actions. Mr A was at the start of the property process and there 
is no guarantee he would have been successful in securing a property at that time. It 
therefore wouldnt be fair to ask Barclays to pay him the £750 fee for the property advisor. 
My conclusions above shouldnt take away from the fact Barclays let Mr A down on this 
occasion and caused him unnecessary worry and inconvenience. But Im satisfied the 8% 
simple interest and £400 compensation is a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint. 
It therefore remains that I uphold Mr As complaint and direct Barclays to carry out the below 
settlement.
 
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mr A, I direct Barclays to do the following:
Pay 8% simple interest on the money contained in Mr As USD and Euro accounts
from 2 November 2020 to the date this money was transferred to him in October
2021. If Barclays considers that its required by HMRC to deduct income tax from that 
interest (as it has indicated), it should give Mr A a tax deduction certificate if he asks 
for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Pay £400 for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint against Barclays Bank UK Plc.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Sarah Brimacombe
Ombudsman