DRN-1967697
 
The complaint
Mr M complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt provide clear information about when 
his early repayment charge (ERC) would be refunded if he ported his mortgage. He asks 
that Nationwide pays compensation for increases in the property market and refunds the 
ERC. Mr M has been represented in bringing this complaint by a family member, who Ill 
refer to as Mrs M.
What happened
Mr M sold his property and repaid his mortgage with Nationwide in mid-2018. He paid an 
ERC. In late 2018 Mr M applied to port his mortgage. He says Nationwide didnt give him 
sufficiently clear information about when the ERC would be refunded, and his purchase fell 
through as a result. 
Our investigator said while Nationwide had made some errors and didnt respond to Mr Ms 
solicitors in a timely manner, the overall timescales werent unreasonable. He said 
Nationwide had told Mr M the ERC would be refunded shortly after his purchase completed. 
Our investigator said Nationwides offer to extend the porting period by 180 days and £300 
compensation was fair and reasonable. Nationwide agreed, as a goodwill gesture, to extend 
the porting period by another 90 days.
Mr M didnt agree. Mrs M said a 90-day extension isnt fair. She said the property market has 
changed and so Mr M has lost out. Mrs M said the email from Nationwide about the refund of 
the ERC only says what usually happens and this wasnt sufficiently certain.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances
what happened?
1 August 2018: Mr M sold his property and repaid his mortgage. He paid an ERC of about 
£10,600. 
7 December 2018: Mr M found a property to buy and applied to Nationwide to port his 
mortgage. The vendor wanted to complete after 1 February 2019. A key facts illustration was 
sent to Mr M on 10 December 2019. 
11 December 2018: Nationwide sent an email to Mr M saying it would extend the porting 
period to 6 February 2019. The email said the ERC is usually refunded within about 10 
workings days after completion. Mr M replied saying he wanted to progress the mortgage 
application.
2 January 2019: Nationwide issued a mortgage offer with an incorrect expiry date of 1 
February 2019.
On 9 January 2019: Mr Ms solicitors wrote to Nationwide saying: 
We should be obliged if you would  also confirm how you propose to credit back 
the redemption penalty. As those monies will be needed in respect of our client's 
purchase transaction, would you be reimbursing the redemption charge by way of 
adding it to the net loans sent to ourselves?
10 January 2019: Nationwide issued a corrected mortgage offer.
18 January 2019: Mr M told Nationwide the vendor wanted a month between exchange and 
completion and asked for the porting period to be extended.
19 January 2019: the mortgage adviser confirmed the porting period wouldnt be extended.
24 January 2019: Mr M told Nationwide his purchase had broken down.
mid to late January 2019: Mr Ms solicitors sent reminders to Nationwide asking for a 
response to their letter of 9 January 2019.
Did Nationwide make an error?
Nationwide issued a mortgage offer on 2 January 2019 with an incorrect expiry date. It re-
issued the mortgage offer on 10 January 2019. Overall, despite the error, I think it processed 
the mortgage application within a reasonable timescale.
Nationwide didnt respond to the letters from Mr Ms solicitor asking about how and when the 
ERC would be refunded. It had already told Mr M in writing that the ERC would be refunded 
after completion. So while I appreciate the solicitors asked for confirmation, I dont think 
Mr M was misled about this.
What effect did these errors have on Mr Ms purchase?
Unfortunately, property purchases sometimes fall through and for a variety of reasons. I 
dont think, based on what Ive seen, that Mr Ms purchase fell through due to errors by 
Nationwide.
Mr M told us he had funds for the deposit, but couldnt complete his purchase without the 
ERC refund. Hes also said he needed the refund for his deposit. Mrs M said while Mr M had 
enough funds to exchange and complete, the solicitors wanted written confirmation of when 
the ERC would be refunded.
I dont know which of these statements is correct. But I dont think it changes the outcome 
anyway. Nationwide was never going to refund the ERC until after completion. If Mr M didnt 
have enough funds without the refund, his purchase couldnt go ahead. If Mr M did have 
enough funds without the ERC refund, then I dont think any confusion about how or when it 
would be refunded needed to stop his purchase completing. 
I think its unlikely any delays related to Nationwide re-issuing the mortgage offer with the 
correct expiry date was the reason Mr Ms purchase didnt go ahead. Mr M said the vendors 
wanted a month between exchange and completion. Theyd have needed to exchange 
contracts before 6 January to complete before 6 February 2019 (when Mr Ms extended 
porting window ended). Yet Mr M didnt mention this to Nationwide until later in January, when he asked for the porting period to be extended again. It seems to me unlikely the 
parties were ready to exchange  or would have been if the mortgage offer had been correct 
 by 6 January 2019.
what effect did Nationwides errors have on Mr M?
Nationwide told Mr M that ERC refunds usually happen within 10 days after completion. I 
dont think the word usually makes this statement unclear. While Mr M says Nationwide 
was aware he intended to use the refund towards his purchase, I havent seen evidence to 
support this. If there was any misunderstanding, this was corrected by Nationwides email of 
11 December  after which Mr M confirmed he wanted to progress the mortgage.
Property purchases are often stressful. The incorrect mortgage offer and Nationwides failure 
to respond to Mr Ms solicitors letters added to this. However, I think Nationwides offer of 
£300 and to extend the porting period by another 180 days was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Mr M paid the ERC in August 2018. Nationwide extended the porting period by 180 days, 
and after the complaint came to us agreed to extend it for another 90 days. I asked 
Nationwide if, given the Covid-19 pandemic and related Government restrictions, it would 
extend this again. Nationwide said it will offer a further 90 days, which I think should start 
from the date of this decision. Nationwide says this is a gesture of goodwill and is the last 
extension it will agree. 
I dont think, on balance, Nationwide was responsible for Mr Ms property purchase falling 
through. It follows that I dont think its fair and reasonable to require it to refund the ERC or 
to compensate Mr M for any increase in property values. I think Nationwides offer of 
compensation and extension of the porting window was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. Im not going to require it to do anything more. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, because I think Nationwide Building 
Societys offer to put things right was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2020.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman