DRN-4137998
The complaint
Ms F complains that Vitality Health Limited mishandled her private medical insurance claim. 
What happened
Both parties are familiar with the events leading up to this complaint, so Ive only described 
them briefly.
Ms F had access to private medical insurance through a business healthcare plan 
underwritten by Vitality. In June 2022 she made an oral cancer related claim, but later 
complained about the way it had been handled. 
Vitality partially upheld that complaint. It acknowdged for example that some call backs had 
been missed and Ms F had been made to repeat herself, it should have referred her claim to 
its oncology team a few days earlier, and it could have been clearer about retrospectively 
adding co-payments. 
Vitality apologised for the above and explained wider increases of similar claims had 
highlighted some areas for improvement. It agreed to settle some of the retrospective costs 
without co-payments too. But it didnt accept that it had delayed matters overall and said the 
delays had actually been caused by Ms Fs consulting team. So, unhappy, Ms F referred her 
complaint to this service.  
Our investigator didnt think Vitality had delayed the claim overall either. They did think it 
could have been clearer about policy limits during one of its calls with Ms F though, and 
recommended it paid £100 in compensation to reflect the confusion and distress that had 
caused. 
Vitality agreed to pay the £100 as a gesture of goodwill. But Ms F explained her distress 
wasnt isolated to one phone call and said any compensation should correspond more 
directly to the overall trouble experienced. She reiterated that she was unable to be seen by 
a consultant of her choice, in a private hospital, and faster than with the NHS because of 
what had happened. And said she wouldnt be satisfied until there was acknowledgement of 
the multiple errors which had led to the poor outcome for her either.
So, as no agreement was reached the complaint was referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms F clearly feels very strongly about the entirety of Vitalitys case handling and has set out 
why she feels more compensation is warranted. Though I empathise with the impact Ms F 
has described, Im not persuaded that an increase to the £100 already recommended is 
warranted.
Vitality has a responsibly to handle claims both promptly and fairly. I wont recite the entire 
timeline of events here, but I dont agree that Vitality significantly or unnecessarily delayed 
this claim either. For example I note:
Ms F contacted Vitality on 13 June 2022 with a report from her dentist who had 
suspected oral cancer and made an urgent referral. Vitality found 2 consultants for 
Ms F on that same day, and Ms F said shed be happy to reach out to them herself. 
Having seen a consultant three days prior Ms F contacted Vitality again on 20 June 
2022 and confirmed shed received a cancer diagnosis. Ms F was awaiting the 
results of a biopsy at the time and on 24 June 2022 contacted Vitality with a full 
diagnosis. Although a call back didnt take place as advised, on 27 June 2022 Vitality 
received confirmation of Ms Fs surgery date and requested reports from her treating 
consultant the same day. 
A letter about Ms Fs diagnosis was received by Vitality on 29 June 2022. It was 
passed to Vitalitys medical affairs teams for review who in turn requested additional 
information from Ms Fs consultant on the same day. 
A response to that request was received on 30 June 2022, and on 1 July 2022 
Vitalitys medical affairs team requested missing information from it. When doing so 
Vitality explained it would need the response as soon as possible to ensure a 
decision can be made prior to surgery on Sunday. 
No response was received to the above, and Vitality chased up the outstanding 
request on both 5 and 8 July 2022 (at which point it learned Ms F was pursuing 
treatment via the NHS).
I understand that Ms Fs surgery didnt go ahead as planned and of course empathise with 
her distress about that. But it would be unfair of me to find that Vitality was responsible 
delaying this claim overall. 
I havent seen anything to corroborate that Vitality caused the surgery to be delayed, nor that 
it was responsible for the effect Ms F has told this service the delays had on her overall 
diagnosis and treatment plan either. Vitality was entitled to assess the claim it had received, 
and I dont think the information requests it made to help it do that were unreasonable. 
It was appropriate of Vitality to apologise for the areas where it acknowledged it could have 
done more and I am pleased its already done so. But in all the circumstances Im not 
persuaded that Vitalitys position  on the overall delays arising because it was awaiting 
information from another party  is unreasonable. 
As our investigator rightly explained, Vitalitys internal notes show it had asked that Ms F be 
made aware of a £5000 policy limit for dental reconstruction and implants. I dont think it was 
inappropriate of Vitality to highlight the relevant policy limits, and I acknowledge that given 
the circumstances finding the right time to do so was difficult. But I do think the call in which 
this limit was relayed to Ms F led to her being unnecessarily distressed. 
Ms F appeared to be confused and concerned by the explanation being given to her. She 
had to ask a number of follow-up questions in an attempt to try and clarify how, and when, 
the limits would apply too. And the call handlers explanation and response to questioning 
could have been clearer. A follow up email was sent shortly after the call, and that contained 
a clearer explanation of the limit, but the call itself did cause Ms F distress when it need not 
have done so. 
Compensation isnt intended to penalise a business. It is intended to be a fair and 
proportionate reflection of the impact a business mistake has had on someone. I recognise 
Ms F feels additional compensation is warranted here, but I think £100 compensation is a fair and proportionate reflection of the impact described above and will not be awarding an 
increase. 
Putting things right
Vitality should pay £100 in compensation if it has not already done so. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Vitality Health Limited should put things right 
in the way I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman