DRN-3305130
The complaint
Mrs N complains TSB Bank plc didnt inform her about charges for cheques.
What happened
Mrs N holds a passbook account with TSB. Mrs Ns account doesnt come with a card or 
cheque book. When Mrs N has needed money from the account shes been able to ask for a 
cheque, free of charge, to be issued by her local branch.
Mrs N went to withdraw money and was told shed be charged £20 for a cheque issued in 
branch. Mrs N complained, in branch, and was told she wouldnt be charged as it didnt 
appear she was aware of the charge.
The complaint handler told Mrs N thered been a charge for branch issued cheques for some 
time, but the branch hadnt been applying the charge.
The complaint handler offered some different options for Mrs N to transfer money, including 
opening a free current account. The complaint handler felt the complaint was resolved so 
they sent a letter to Mrs N to confirm this.
Mrs N didnt feel the complaint was resolved, so she brought her complaint to this service. 
Mrs N was unhappy with the £20 charge, especially as the interest on her account had 
decreased recently, and she felt this decrease was unfair.
An investigator looked into things and didnt think Mrs Ns complaint should be upheld. The 
investigator felt TSBs terms allowed it to charge for a cheque issued in branch, and these 
terms had been in place since 2015.
The investigator also felt thered been no loss as Mrs N hadnt been charged. And the 
investigator said they couldnt deal with the decrease in interest rate as Mrs N hadnt 
complained about this previously.
Mrs N didnt agree. Mrs N feels TSB is trying to force her to stop using her passbook 
account. Mrs N would like TSB to permanently stop the £20 charge and allow her to make 
transfers from her account again. Mrs N asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete I can decide things on the balance of probabilities, what I 
think is more likely to have happened.
TSB says it wrote out to all its passbook holders in 2015 to advise them of changes to the 
terms and conditions. TSB doesnt have anything to show this, but, on balance, I think its 
likely TSB did send Mrs N updated terms and conditions at some point.
The terms in force now allow TSB to apply a charge of £20 for bankers cheques issued in 
branch. It seems this charge is one applied by branch staff, not an automatic charge. It also 
seems Mrs Ns local branch hadnt been applying the charge.
I can understand Mrs Ns annoyance, shes always been able to get cheques over the 
counter free of charge, but not now. And, although it seems Mrs N was notified of the 
change some considerable time ago, the term was never enforced in branch. It would be 
natural for Mrs N to assume this charge didnt apply to her.
But this doesnt mean TSB is now not allowed to apply the charge. I think TSB is fair in 
applying this charge. I think the charge is clearly explained in the terms and conditions that 
apply to Mrs Ns account.
TSB didnt apply a charge during the visit she logged her complaint, so I cant see theres 
been a financial loss to Mrs N.
I can see Mrs Ns strength of feeling around keeping this account. Mrs N has said it suits her 
needs, and although TSB offered her other accounts they didnt suit her needs. But TSB is 
allowed to decide the terms and conditions of its accounts. 
And Mrs N is allowed to decide whether she accepts these terms by keeping the account or 
closing it if she doesnt accept the terms.
Mrs N would like TSB to permanently cease applying the £20 charge for branch issued 
cheques. I cant fairly ask TSB to do this, these terms apply to all its customers, so I wont be 
asking TSB to stop applying this specific term.
Mrs N has said she was able to make transfers before and now cant. Passbook accounts 
arent payment accounts as defined by the Payment Service Regulations, so I dont think its 
possible for Mrs N to make transfers from this account to accounts held at other banks.
But TSB offered Mrs N a solution, opening a current account. This would allow Mrs N to 
transfer money from her passbook to a TSB current account. Once in that account, Mrs N 
could then transfer out to another bank or write a cheque for free.
Mrs N wasnt happy with this as a solution, but I think TSB acted fairly in offering it.
When Mrs N brought her complaint to this service she said she was unhappy with the 
decrease in interest rate of her passbook account. Its fair TSB has a chance to consider this 
complaint point first, and possibly resolve things for Mrs N.
I wont be considering this point because Mrs N hasnt previously complained to TSB directly 
about it.
Mrs N has since said she intends to close her passbook account and doesnt want to take 
the balance as cash or pay the £20 for a branch issued cheque.
Again, I cant consider this, Mrs N hasnt complained directly to TSB about any charges it will 
or wont apply when she closes her account.My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mrs Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022. 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman