DRN-3448815
The complaint
Mr B complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited treated him unfairly when it handled his claim 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
Mr B entered into a contract with a supplier for new windows and doors. The purchase was 
financed by a fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook.
The installation of the doors and windows wasnt of an acceptable standard. Mr B was 
unable to resolve matters with the supplier, so he contacted Shawbrook and raised a claim 
under section 75.
Both Mr B and Shawbrook obtained reports and costings for the repair works. Shawbrook 
accepted that there had been a breach of contract and accepted the section 75 claim. It 
offered Mr B the choice of allowing its contractors to complete the repairs, or a cash 
equivalent sum to be deducted from the loan balance. Mr B chose to take the refund.
Mr B later found out that the repairs needed were more extensive than hed thought. He says 
Shawbrook failed to advise him of the extent of the works needed. In response, Shawbrook 
said it hadnt handled the section 75 claim unfairly.
Mr B remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said Shawbrook had set out the options 
available to Mr B to remedy the breach of contract and that in doing so it had acted fairly.
Mr B didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of 
goods or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. In 
order to uphold Mr Bs complaint, I would need to be satisfied that theres been a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation and that Shawbrooks response to the claim under section 
75 wasnt fair or reasonable.
Shawbrook agreed that there had been a breach of contract and accepted the section 75 
claim. So Ive focussed on whether Shawbrook treated Mr B fairly when it handled the claim.
Shawbrook obtained a report to identify what was wrong with the doors and windows. The 
report included a quotation setting out how much it would cost to rectify the issues. 
Shawbrook offered Mr B the option of having its nominated contractor compete the works set 
out in the report or having the loan reduced by the amount quoted for repairs.
Mr B agreed to the loan reduction. He says he wasnt advised by Shawbrook that the report 
identified structural work which needed doing on his home, and that if he had been so 
advised, he would have opted for the repair rather than the loan reduction. 
In particular, Mr B says he wasnt told that a beam was an issue which was affecting the 
bifold doors and that this would need to be replaced straightaway. Ive taken into account 
what Mr B has said about this. Whilst I can see that Shawbrook didnt provide the report it 
had obtained to Mr B, Im not persuaded that Mr B wasnt aware of the issue with the beam. 
This is because Mr B told this service that the only reason the inspector knew about the 
beam being rotten was because Mr B had told him. Mr B also told this service that he had 
obtained a quote to replace the beam. Taking all of this into account, Im not persuaded that 
Mr B would have chosen the repair option even if hed been provided with a copy of the 
report. I think that Mr B was already aware that there was an issue with the beam and of the 
need for it to be replaced in order for the repair works to be completed. 
Mr B has also told this service that he intended to carry out some of the repair works himself 
to reduce the overall cost of repairs. I think this was also a factor in his decision to chose the 
option of the loan reduction.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Shawbrook treated Mr B fairly when it handled 
the section 75 claim. I wont be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman