DRN-3920609
The complaint
Mr S complains about the quality of a car he financed with Unity Auto Finance Ltd (Unity).
What happened
In January 2022 Mr S entered a hire purchase agreement with Unity for a car that was eight 
years old and had travelled 79,893 miles. The cash price was £14,202.50 and the total 
amount repayable was £17,299.24 over 57 months.
 
In April 2022 Mr S was travelling with his family across Europe when the car went into limp 
mode on three separate occasions. The recovery service said the diesel particulate filter 
(DPF) was blocked and carried out a manual regeneration on two occasions.
 
When the car went into limp mode on the third occasion Mr S said the car cabin filled with 
smoke, which left him feeling ill, the car was recovered to a garage abroad who said the 
fitted DPF wasnt compatible with the software, so it could not regenerate itself, it also found 
a fault with the exhaust gas recirculation valve (EGR). An invoice showed the garage 
replaced the cooler EGR valve and added antifreeze in April 2022, Mr S paid £483.47 for 
this repair. This didnt resolve the issue and the car continued to go into limp mode.
Mr S had to pay for return flights for him and his family. He reported the issues with the car 
to Unity in May 2022, he wanted to reject the car. Unity said he wasnt entitled to reject it 
before it had the opportunity to attempt to repair the car. The car was recovered back to the 
UK and delivered to the dealership in June 2022, the mileage at that point was 85,908
. 
The dealership didnt find any DPF faults but found the following issues: oil light switch 
leaking down the back of the engine, vacuum pump leaking oil, feed/return pipes also 
leaking oil, damage to the undercarriage and a turbo boost fault. The garage noted the 
damage to the feed/return pipes were likely to have occurred when the EGR was replaced 
abroad and said the under-carriage damage probably occurred when the car was recovered. 
The dealership said it replaced an oil pressure switch, vacuum pump, oil line, turbo feed pipe 
and a gasket.
When Mr S collected the car, he reported the multimedia system had stopped working, there 
was an oil leak, the under tray was damaged and hanging unsecured, and the car was still 
going into limp mode.
 
Unity arranged for an independent inspection in July 2022 to determine whether there were 
any outstanding faults and whether those faults were present at the point of supply. The 
assessor didnt find any coolant or oil leaks and said the multimedia system fault would not 
have been present at the point of supply. 
The report confirmed the car was going into limp mode intermittently, which was a result of a 
partial blockage of the DPF. The report recommended the DPF was cleaned and 
regenerated along with the EGR valve being cleaned (Terra clean). It also recommended 
that fuel system cleaner fluid be placed in the fuel tank. The report said the issue would have 
been present at the time of supply, so recommended the dealership were responsible for 
paying for this, at a cost of less than £150. The dealership agreed to pay Mr S £150 to get a 
system clean.
 
Unity said the blockage of the DPF is a maintenance issue rather than a repair, so didnt 
think Mr S had the right to reject the car. Mr S said he couldnt find any garages that would 
carry out the recommended clean for £150, he declined the £150 offer.
In September 2022 Mr S had a vehicle health check completed, which confirmed; the rear 
discs were corroded, DPF blockage, oil leak around crank shaft pulley area, damage to 
underneath carriage and internal catalytic convertor damage, which may be causing turbo 
under boost fault.  Mr S said all these faults meant the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when 
it was supplied. 
In November 2022 Mr S took the car to another garage to remove the parts so he could get 
the recommended system clean, he paid £312.27. But the garage found the catalytic 
convertor had disintegrated, in the circumstances Mr S was advised that a Terra clean would 
not resolve the issue, as the catalytic convertor needed to be replaced.
 
Unable to resolve his complaint with Unity, Mr S brought his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt think there was enough evidence to show the current faults were present 
at the point of supply or that the catalytic convertor problem was linked to the DPF issue. He 
thought it was fair for Unity to cover the cost of the recommended system clean.
Mr S disagreed; the case was passed to me for a decision.
We spoke to the garage who removed the DPF and catalytic convertor, the engineer 
explained he had examined the DPF which was fine but said the catalytic convertor had 
disintegrated and its condition was the reason for the ongoing issues with the DPF.
Unity accepted that the car was currently faulty but didnt think there was enough evidence 
to show those faults were present when the car was supplied. It noted that Mr S had been 
able to drive for three months and cover 6,000 miles without any issues and said the 
damage to the catalytic convertor could have been caused when Mr S had unauthorised 
repairs carried out abroad. 
We contacted the garage again for further clarification. It explained the catalytic convertor 
had disintegrated internally; it didnt think the issue would have been caused when other 
repairs were undertaken. The engineer explained that disintegration takes place over time, 
and isnt a sudden event, based on the level of disintegration, it was the engineers view that 
the catalytic convertor wouldve started to wear before Mr S was supplied the car in January 
2022.
Mr S confirmed the cars mileage as 86,193 and says he hasnt used it since April 2022. He 
wanted to reject the car and for Unity to refund him the cost of the repairs, his car hire costs, 
his monthly repayments refunded, the cost of buying another car and associated expenses 
(tax/ insurance). Mr S also wanted Unity to pay him compensation for the stress caused. 
I issued a provisional decision in relation to this complaint on 12 January 2022, in that 
decision I explained why I didnt think the current faults were either present at the point of 
supply or were due to normal wear and tear.
 
I invited both parties to let me have any further comments or evidence they wished to raise. 
Unity responded and said it accepted my decision. Mr S disagreed.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Your text here
My final decision
In response to my provisional decision Mr S said the catalytic convertor should last the cars 
lifetime and doesnt think it should have failed so early. He believes the oil leak caused the 
premature deterioration of the catalytic convertor. Mr S hasnt provided any evidence to 
show that an oil leak caused the catalytic convertor to deteriorate. And as I mentioned in my 
provisional decision, for Mr S car its recommended that the catalytic convertor should be 
replaced at around 80,000 miles, Mr S car had travelled over this, so I dont think the 
catalytic convertor failed prematurely and in the absence of any evidence of an inherent 
fault, I dont think this means the car was not of satisfactory quality. 
Mr S said the decision failed to mention the issue with the timing belt, which the dealership 
said he had damaged, after only doing 6,000 miles. Having looked at the information we 
have from the dealership, I havent seen any references to damage to the timing chain, and I 
cant see that this was picked up when the car was inspected either. Whilst I dont doubt 
what Mr S says, I havent seen any evidence to show this problem would have been present 
at the point of supply. 
Mr S says the decision should have taking into account that this is the second problematic 
car he has purchased from the dealership. He also mentioned that it incorrectly told the 
warranty company that he was responsible for damaging the timing belt and catalytic 
convertor. However, Im unable to consider the actions of the dealership against Unity. And 
this complaint only relates to the car he purchased on finance with Unity in January 2022. 
I explained in my provisional decision why I didnt think the current faults were present at the 
point of supply or were due to normal wear and tear. Ive not seen any new evidence about 
this, so Im not persuaded that I should change my provisional findings.
 
I do appreciate the very difficult financial situation Mr S now finds himself in. But I havent 
seen any new information to persuade me to change my provisional findings. So, although I 
realise how disappointing this must be for Mr S, I wont be directing Unity to do anything 
more to resolve his complaint.
Mr S has indicated he will be pursuing this matter with the courts, and I should point out that 
if he doesnt accept my decision, he is free to do this.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Karen Dennis
Ombudsman