DRN-2930893
The complaint
Mr H says the advice given and the arrangements made by Portal Financial Services LLP 
(Portal), trading as Portafina LLP, resulting in the transfer his Occupational Pension Scheme 
(OPS) into a Transact Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and recommended 
investments in unregulated and specialist investments, was unsuitable.
What happened
Mr H says he was sent some information from his employer about his deferred OPS benefits 
and this prompted a conversation with Portal. It offered him a free pension review. He 
accepted and in January 2012 information was gathered from him about his circumstances, 
objectives and matters such as his attitude to risk. The process appears to have been 
conducted over the phone and in correspondence.
Portal issued a suitability report dated 1 February 2012, identifying his objectives, including
to:
-Use your existing pension plans to provide an income at a later date and to take your 
Tax Free Cash entitlement immediately.
-Retain a residual fund that remains invested until such a time that you require an 
income in your retirement.
-Ensure that you have a good awareness of investment opportunities available to you.
-Ensure your portfolio reflects your current Risk & Reward profile.
-Have access to a system which will monitor the performance of your investments.
-Be kept informed of the performance of your portfolio.
Ultimately Mr H was persuaded to transfer his OPS benefits, which had a value of around 
£98,000, into a SIPP with Transact. His money was moved on 7 March 2012 and the next 
day he withdrew around £24,500 in tax-free cash. Fees from Portal and Transact accounted 
for a further £5,000. Over the course of the following weeks and months the bulk of Mr Hs 
residual funds were invested in line with Portals recommendations, with around 85% being 
placed in four unregulated and specialist funds, with a balance in cash.
Mr H approached this Service in March 2020. Hed been in contact with Portal a couple of 
months beforehand about issues with his pension arrangements, but it hadnt responded. 
When he later spoke to an Investigator, he said hed several concerns about the advice hed 
been given in 2012. 
For example, Mr H didnt think his funds had been invested in line with his risk profile, he 
thought hed been overcharged and that hed lost his pension. He also told us hed been 
worried for several years about not being able to get access to his funds and that hed 
always been given reassurances that everything would be ok.
Portal sent Mr H its final response on 6 April 2020. It argued that hed brought his
complaint too late and so this Service couldnt consider it. An Investigator set out why we
could look at the case, but Portal disagreed. So, the matter was passed to an Ombudsman
for review. She concluded that we could look at Mr Hs complaint.
Whenever a case comes to an Ombudsman for a decision on the merits of a case, they must
still consider jurisdiction. Having done so I agree with the findings and conclusions set out by 
the Ombudsman in January this year. Theres little point in me rehearsing everything again. 
Portals main argument hinged on a letter it said Mr H had received in 2015 from his SIPP 
provider which noted problems with his investments. I think the following extract from the 
Ombudsmans decision neatly summarises the position:
Like our investigator I dont think this letter would have been sufficient to cause Mr H to 
have concerns about the funds his SIPP was invested in. In particular, I am mindful that the 
letter included numerous reassuring statements about the investments Mr H held in his 
SIPP. I must also take into account that in telephone records that have been provided to 
this Service it is clear that Mr H was repeatedly re-assured that he did not need to be 
concerned about the investments held in his SIPP and that he would be able to access the 
funds shortly. In particular, I note that after the October 2017 SIPP statement was issued, a 
call record dated 8 November 2017 says:
I have made the client aware that they own their proportion of the physical assets that were used to 
secure the investments. What has happened is that certain information is provided to Transact to 
inform them of the value of the assets etc. Because Transact have not felt confident to list a value 
they have now selected a nominal value of either 0 or £1. This is not to say the funds are worthless. 
Because the design of this is to provide an income to the client at retirement we ensure that should 
illiquidity still be present we will make payments ex gratia until liquidity is available.
A further call record dated 28 November 2017 said:
Client was calling to see if there is a date for when values will start coming back through. I managed 
the clients expectations and explained this will take time and its unlikely to happen overnight. 
Confirmed with client although values are stated as they are, nothing material at this stage has 
changed with his investments.
I think these records show that, even after nominal values had been applied to two of Mr 
Hs holdings, Portal continued to make optimistic claims and failed to properly explain the 
likely implications to Mr H of the funds becoming illiquid. Given that Mr H had explained in 
several previous calls to Portal that he had a pressing need to access the funds in his SIPP 
I think Portal should have made clear to Mr H that he was unlikely to be able to make the 
withdrawals he required from his SIPP.
Given the available information I think the earliest Mr H ought reasonably to have known 
that he might have cause for complaint was when he received his October 2017 SIPP 
statementUnder the rules this service must follow Mr H then had three years from this 
date to bring his complaint. As Mr H complained to Portal in January 2020, I am satisfied 
that his complaint was brought within three years of the date he ought reasonably to have 
become aware that he might have cause for complaint.
The Ombudsman went onto make the following observations about Portals approach to 
dealing with the concerns Mr H had raised about his investments over several years:
I would also remind Portal that the industry regulator, the FCA defines a complaint as:
any oral or written expression of dissatisfaction, whether justified or not, from, or on 
behalf of, a person about the provision of, or failure to provide, a financial service, claims 
management service 228 or a redress determination, which:
-alleges that the complainant has suffered (or may suffer) financial loss, material 
distress or material inconvenience; and
-relates to an activity of that respondent, or of any other respondent with whom that  
respondent has some connection in marketing or providing financial services or products or  claims management services 228, which comes under the jurisdiction of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Portal is required to treat its customers fairly and as a minimum this would include 
recording and investigating complaints, regardless of whether they are made verbally or in 
writing.
It appears that in light of the assurances that Portal gave Mr H when he called it in late 2017
- after he received his SIPP statement showing that two of the funds he was invested in 
had nominal values - he did not pursue a complaint until January 2020 when he 
telephoned Portal to again express his concern and dissatisfaction.
It is disappointing that Portal did not record or investigate the concerns Mr H raised with it 
in January 2020 until Mr H contacted hat Portal initially claimed that Mr H had not 
complained to it.
This Service can consider Mr Hs case.
In its final response to Mr H, I note that Portal did go on to make Mr H an offer in terms of 
safeguarding his income in retirement should matters with his investment funds not be 
resolved.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Wheres theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities,
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate;
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
how does the regulatory framework inform the consideration of Mr Hs case?
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those
performed by Portal for Mr H. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses,
which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA
Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7  which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of 
its clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like Portal. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Hs complaint.At the time of the advice Portal gave Mr H, COBS 19.1.6 made the following specific point
about advising on a transfer from OPS schemes (bolding is my emphasis):
When advising a retail client who isa member of a defined benefits occupational pension
schemewith safeguarded benefits whether to transfera firm should start by assuming
that a transferwill not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transferto be
suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transferis in
the client's best interests.
Under COBS 19.1.2, Portal was required to:
- Compare the benefits likely to be paid under the ceding arrangement with the 
benefits afforded by the proposed arrangement.
- Ensure that the comparison included enough information for Mr H to be able to make 
an informed decision.
- Give Mr H a copy of the comparison, drawing his attention to the factors that do and 
dont support its personal recommendation, in good time.
- Take reasonable steps to ensure that Mr H understood its comparison and how it 
contributed towards the personal recommendation.
In simple terms, Portal had to assess the benefits likely to be paid and options available
under the OPS and compare this with those available under the new arrangements
proposed before it advised Mr H on what to do.
Further, COBS 2.1.1 R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance
with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment business carried on
for a retail client. The definition of designated investment business includes arranging
(bringing about) deals in investments.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments.
They are the same things that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the advice
was suitable. In summary, the business must obtain the necessary information regarding:
the consumers knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice;
their financial situation; and their investment objectives.
In July 2010 the FCA issued guidance about unregulated investments in a Good and Poor
Practice report. The report contained examples of good practice in relation to unregulated 
investments, for example where a firm had robust controls in place and limited client 
exposure to 3% to 5% of their portfolios, where those clients had been assessed as being 
suitable for unregulated investments. An example of bad practice given by the FCA was 
where up to 100% of a clients holdings were invested in a single UCIS (unregulated 
collective investment scheme).
Even if some of the funds Mr H was invested in werent technically a UCIS, they share 
similar characteristics including the high-risk nature of the investment, being illiquid, subject 
to counter-party risk and uncertain valuation. And I think these matters are relevant to my
consideration.
Its also important to review the FCAs specific stance on advice provided about SIPPs. For
example, in January 2013 it issued an industry alert which said:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving advice to
customers on pension transfers or pension switches without assessing the advantages anddisadvantages of investments proposed to be held within the new pension. In particular, we
have seen financial advisers moving customers retirement savings to [SIPPs] that invest
wholly or primarily in high risk, often highly illiquid unregulated investments
Financial advisers using this advice model are under the mistaken impression that this
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their
advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in
the abstract. This is incorrect. The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice
generally requires consideration of the other investments held by the customer or, when
advice is given on a product which is a vehicle for investment in other products (such as
SIPPs and other wrappers), consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is,
the wrapper and the expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes..
If, taking into account the individual circumstances of the customer, the original pension
product, including its underlying holdings, is more suitable for the customer, then the SIPP is
not suitable. This is because if you give regulated advice and the recommendation will
enable investment in unregulated items you cannot separate out the unregulated elements
from the regulated elements. There are clear requirements under the FSA Principles and
Conduct of Business rules.
Although the alert was issued after the advice given to Mr H, it wasnt new guidance; it was
the regulator re-stating its position.
did Portal adhere to the regulatory requirements placed on it?
In short, I dont think Portal met the regulatory requirements placed on it. Ill explain why. 
There are several documents relating to Portals transaction with Mr H that are important to 
my consideration, these include the fact-find and the suitability report, as well as 
correspondence it sent Mr H.
At the time of Portals advice Mr H was 55 years old and his intention was said to have been 
to retire when he reached 65. He was single with no financial dependents. He was 
unemployed and in receipt of benefits, although it was noted he had an interview that day 
and might continue working. At the time he was said to be in good health and not taking any 
medication. 
Theres no detailed information about Mr Hs incomings and outgoings, although the adviser 
made a note that Mr H had said he didnt have any money left after paying his bills.    
Mr H owned his own home which was worth around £200,000 and had a mortgage of about 
£170,000. Its recorded that Mr H had no savings or other assets. He had loans of just over 
£3,000 and a credit card balance of around £2,500, but no other liabilities.
Mr H was a deferred member of an OPS. This had a transfer value of around £98,000. It was 
his only pension provision. Its recorded that Mr H didnt know what income he would need in 
retirement.
The first two objectives Portal recorded for Mr H in this transaction were to:
-Use your existing pension plans to provide an income at a later date and to take your 
Tax Free Cash entitlement immediately.
-Retain a residual fund that remains invested until such a time that you require an 
income in your retirement.In responding to the Investigators view, Portals main contention was that Mr H had gone 
against its recommendation that he shouldnt transfer his pension. It said he was an insistent 
client. And it disagreed with the Investigators conclusion that it hadnt conducted that 
process properly. I note it had nothing to say about the suitability of the investments he 
ended up with, a matter Ill return to later.
Of its approach to insistent clients, Portal told us:
Portal Financials retail investment advisers, who provided financial advice in relation to 
defined benefit or final salary schemes, either held a G60 or AF3 qualification. In addition to 
this, Portal Financial made sure all their advisers completed extensive training to make sure 
that they were competent and able to provide advice on such schemes, which often come 
with a high level of safeguarded benefits in addition to 100% of files checked by Portal 
Financials internal compliance team. 
Portal Financial have experience of dealing with insistent client process reviews with the 
FCA. The format of the insistent client process Portal Financial adopted was done so 
following a meeting with [a former technical specialist at the FCA] in April 2015. This was 
accepted by the FCA and has not raised any concerns since. This is because the client is 
seen as truly insistent due to all correspondence being sent through the post which allows 
the client time to digest the information provided and not return the forms should they not 
wish to proceed any further. 
Id make two observations here. Firstly, I recognise what Portal is saying about its 
processes, systems, advisers and training to help make sure things work well. As it knows, I 
consider the facts and circumstances about what happens in specific cases. Secondly, 
adopting a particular insistent client process from 2015, which it says satisfied the FCA 
about its approach, isnt relevant in this case where Mr H received his advice in 2012.
Where a firm decides to transact with a customer on an insistent client basis, it should 
communicate with them:
- In terms that are clear, fair and not misleading.
- Having regard for the information needs of the client such that the client can 
understand.
- That it hasnt recommended the transaction and that it will not be in accordance with 
the personal recommendation. 
- The reasons why it isnt in accordance with that personal recommendation.
- The risks of the transaction proposed by the client.
- The reasons why it didnt recommend the transaction.
Portal also needed to obtain Mr Hs acknowledgement that the transaction wouldnt be in 
accordance with the personal recommendation given by it; and the transaction was being 
carried out at his request. This acknowledgement shouldve been in Mr Hs own words. 
Portal did set out the steps it took in Mr Hs case to try and ensure it dealt with him properly 
as an insistent client. I can see that during the whole process it sent him several 
communications. For example, on 17 January 2012 it sent him a letter after it had received information from 
his OPS. This set out some bold facts about the transfer value of his benefits and outlined 
what his three broad options were: remain in his scheme; transfer and take TFC while 
investing the residual funds; or transfer, take TFC and an income. Portal noted its letter 
didnt amount to financial advice and Mr H should make contact to discuss matters. 
Portal has provided a second communication, which appears to have been issued just after 
the fact-find exercise it conducted with Mr H on 25 January 2012. It was a short letter in 
which it recommended Mr H did not proceed with the transfer of his pension. It said:
You currently have a pension with [your former employer] which has a Transfer Value of 
£98,167, from which you could release a total amount of £24,541 as a tax free lump sum. 
However, as the Critical Yield (growth rate required to match your guaranteed benefits [from 
your OPS] is 9.2% it would be against our recommendation to do this. Furthermore, you will 
be waiving your entitlement to a guaranteed pension of £9,393.71 per annum which is 
payable at retirement age 65.
In the same short letter to Mr H, Portal immediately went on to say the following:
If you decide that you still wish to proceed, we can help you release money from your 
pension, but we would have to treat you as an insistent client, as this would be against our 
recommendation. We would, therefore, require you to complete the attached insistent client 
form confirming that you are aware of the benefits you would be relinquishing.
I enclose a form detailing the various options available to you. Please can you arrange to 
complete and return the forms to Portal Financial Services. Upon receipt, we will arrange to 
send out all the relevant application forms and Suitability Report detailing our advice.
Attached to the letter was a form with two options  the first was to take TFC and reinvest 
the residual funds with Mr H being treated as an insistent client. The second option was to 
remain with his OPS, which it recommended. Portal also provided Mr H with an insistent 
client template letter to complete and return if he took the first option.
Mr H completed the forms provided by Portal to say he wanted to transfer his pension. Portal 
then wrote to him and provided a suitability report around 1 February 2012.
Ive thought carefully about what Portal did and what its said about the insistent client 
process it followed. Ive a number of concerns about it. And like the investigator Ive 
concluded it was flawed. I say this because:
- While its second communication with Mr H did set out its recommendation for him 
not to proceed with the transfer, this was seriously undermined by advice in the same 
short letter about how he could still go ahead. Portal knew he was in a difficult short-
term financial position and I think it shouldve provided a breathing space.
- I note that it only sent Mr H the suitability report after hed decided that he wanted to 
transfer his OPS. This undermines the process  how could he have been expected 
to take a fully informed decision without access to the analysis?
- The insistent client form Mr H signed was a template. It wasnt in his own words. It 
wouldve been clear to Portal he had no knowledge or experience of financial 
matters. So, it wouldve been important to ensure he understood what he was getting 
into, and a good way to have done this wouldve been to see in his own words that 
he understood the recommendation being made and why he wanted to proceed.- There are also various examples from Portals process of gaps in the information it 
held, or certainly that it provided Mr H. So, he wasnt able him to make a fully 
informed decision. For example, what were the terms of his OPS. Many similar 
schemes allow early access to benefits, albeit sometimes on an actuarily reduced 
basis. 
Given these failings its not reasonable for me to conclude that the process Portal followed 
meant that Mr H can truly be regarded as an insistent client. Its communications werent 
clear or fair. It wasnt acting in his best interests. And it failed to act with due care and skill.
Portal says Mr H wanted his maximum TFC to reduce his debt, theres also mention of 
paying for his sons education. It said that he had explored alternatives available for funding, 
but he couldnt take out a loan because he wasnt working. And he thought re-mortgaging 
might incur redemption penalties as well as the interest on the loan amount. It recorded 
accessing TFC was a higher priority for him than retirement planning.
Mr H said Portal told him he could take the TFC and that by investing the residual amount 
his fund would grow again. He told us he mostly used the TFC for paying bills.
While Portal acknowledged the transfer of Mr Hs OPS wasnt suitable. There were failings in 
the advice process which meant he wasnt fully informed about his position and we dont 
know what effect fuller information and better analysis wouldve had on his decision. 
For example, Portal failed to conduct a detailed income and expenditure analysis. Theres no 
substantive input about options for managing Mr Hs relatively modest debt. And it seems 
clear accessing his TFC was never the solution to his outstanding mortgage. And while 
supporting his 20 year old non-dependent sons education mayve been important to him, 
how was this discussed against his own need for an income in retirement?
Its recorded that Mr H was unsure what income he would need in retirement. Ive seen no 
evidence of an attempt by Portal to get to the bottom of this key question. And Ive seen no 
comparison of the benefits available under his OPS and an illustration of what couldve been 
available under the new arrangements. As Ive already mentioned, we also dont know what 
flexibilities were available to Mr H under his OPS. 
Portal was in a good position to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Mr H about
what was in his best interest for retirement planning. It knew pension pots built up over many
years are to provide for retirement. And certainly, when early access is contemplated there 
needs to be compelling reasons, on balance I dont think that was the case here.
It was Portals role to discern what Mr Hs wants and needs were and why. Its role wasnt
simply to facilitate what he wanted without any critical thinking. It had to use due care and
skill. It had to do these things because it had to act in his best interests. Even though it 
recommended Mr H didnt transfer his benefits, I dont think its demonstrably met these 
obligations.
Turning to the other aspect of what I think was Mr Hs main objective, to provide an income
in retirement. Leaving aside what we know in hindsight about the investment performance of
the funds recommended to him, I have various concerns about Portals advice here.
I dont believe either party would dispute that Mr H wasnt an investment professional. Nor
was he a sophisticated investor. Indeed, from the information gathered by Portal it seems he
had little knowledge or experience of investing. This is important context when I consider
what happened to himFor example, Portal conducted a risk questionnaire with Mr H. It concluded he had a 
moderately cautious attitude to investment risk. This was defined in the following terms:
Moderately Cautious investors typically have low to moderate levels of knowledge
about financial matters and quite limited interest in keeping up to date with financial
issues. They may have some experience of investment products, but will be more
familiar with bank and building society accounts than other types of investments.
In general, moderately cautious investors are uncomfortable taking risk with their
investments, but would be willing to do so to a limited extent. They realise that risky
investments are likely to be better for longer-term returns. 
Moderately Cautious investors typically prefer certain outcomes to gambles. They
can take a relatively long time to make up their mind on financial matters and may
suffer from regret when decisions turn out badly.
The risk assessment Portal conducted for Mr H appears about right. So, its genuinely 
baffling and concerning that it ended up recommending the investment funds it did. I dont 
think the portfolio it recommended was an appropriate match even for someone with a 
balanced risk outlook and lots of investment experience. And it knew Mr H was neither of 
these.
Portal recommended investments where 85% of Mr Hs money would be placed in four 
unregulated collective investment schemes and specialised funds. One of these funds would 
account for half of his pension pot - the Raithwaites Hypa Fund was described as follows:
The Raithwaites Hypa Fund is a specialist investment in a five star hotel development in
Whitby, Yorkshire designed to yield 8% per annum. In addition the fund has secured a
discount to current market value which means that the investment should be worth 25%
more than the amount, you invest once the Hotel opens in August 2011. Our due diligence
research evaluates this as a low to medium risk investment which will run over an
approximate 7-year period and should provide an average compound return of 11% once
capital growth and income are taken into account.
As well as creating a serious lack of diversification in how Mr Hs funds were being invested,
Portal hasnt done enough to satisfy me that he was a sufficiently experienced or
sophisticated investor to appreciate the risks he was taking on.
Im also concerned that Mr Hs capacity for loss doesnt appear to have been thought
through properly. Although he had another 10 years or so before his recorded planned 
retirement date, he was being advised to transfer his only pension provision and to invest in 
a high-risk portfolio. He had no other assets or savings to fall back on.
Its arguable Portal seemed more concerned with facilitating its investment 
recommendations than providing effective advice about what was in Mr Hs best interests 
concerning his valuable pension funds.
Portal was being paid a lot of money to provide best advice to Mr H. Those charges are 
another area of concern. Its recorded that he was charged a 5% commission for the initial 
transaction (portfolio establishment fees). There was a 1% ongoing advice fee for Portal. 
There were fees for the SIPP provider. And there were management fees associated with 
each of the funds he was investing in.
Portal failed to provide a clear comparison of the charges he would incur in the new
arrangements with his former pension plans.Portal failed to provide Mr H with fully formed and unequivocal advice not to proceed with the 
transfer of his OPS benefits into a Transact SIPP, the purpose of which was to access his 
TFC and invest in a high-risk portfolio. I say this because of the flaws Ive found in its advice 
process; what it knew about his attitude to risk and capacity for loss; and his lack of 
experience of the sort of investments it was recommending.
Portal failed to conduct a satisfactory insistent client process with Mr H. Im not satisfied that 
accessing his TFC was the answer to the situation Mr H found himself in 2012 or looking 
forward. There was no effective assessment of his retirement income requirements. And it 
recommended that his OPS benefits be invested in unregulated and specialist funds way 
beyond his risk appetite. 
Portal knew the potential consequences of its actions. The funds Mr H ended up investing in 
could be illiquid, meaning he might have difficulty getting access to his pension funds. The 
investment was specialised, out of the ordinary and reliant on third parties. And it was 
subject to valuation uncertainty. 
I think that if Portal had given Mr H appropriate and fully formed advice, he wouldnt have 
gone ahead with the transfer of his OPS to the Transact SIPP and the high-risk investment 
portfolio it recommended. Its unusual for a lay person to seek professional advice and then 
go against the recommendations received.
To conclude I dont think the transfer of Mr Hs OPS benefits into the Transact SIPP
and the investment in the high-risk portfolio of funds Portal recommended could sensibly be
regarded as fair to him. As such I think it failed to meet the regulatory requirements
when providing him with advice and making the arrangements.
So, taking all the circumstances of the case into account, its reasonable to uphold this
complaint against Portal and for it to put things right.
Putting things right
Im upholding Mr Hs case. So, he needs to be returned to the position he wouldve been in
now - or as close to that as reasonably possible  had it not been for the failures which I hold
Portal Financial Services LLP responsible for.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs/ interest on costs that I think are 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £160,000, I may recommend that 
the business pays the balance.
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be 
calculated as set out below. My decision is Portal Financial Services LLP should pay Mr H 
the amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £160,000, I recommend that Portal pays Mr H the balance. 
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Portal doesnt have to do 
what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr H can accept my decision and go to court to ask for 
the balance. He may want to get independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept 
this decision. I consider Mr H wouldve remained in his OPS. Portal Financial Services LLP should 
therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the pension review methodology, as 
updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for 
firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at that date. In accordance with the regulators expectations, 
this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt 
of notification of Mr Hs acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Hs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Hs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible 
be paid into Mr Hs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr H as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75%
would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to 
be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects 
this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr H within 90 days of the date 
Portal receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal 
to pay Mr H.
 
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.  
My aim is to return Mr H to the position he wouldve been in but for the actions of
Portal. This is complicated where an investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold 
on the open market), as its value cant be determined. That appears to be the case here.
To calculate the compensation, Portal should agree an amount with the SIPP provider as
a commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP plus any costs, and take 
ownership of the investment. If Portal is unable to buy the investment, it should give it a nil 
value for the purposes of calculating compensation. The value of the SIPP used in the 
calculations should include anything Portal has paid into the SIPP and any outstanding 
charges yet to be applied to the SIPP should be deducted.
In return for this, Portal may ask Mr H to provide an undertaking to account to it for the
net amount of any payment he may receive from the investment. That undertaking should 
allow for the effect of any tax and charges on what he receives. Portal will need to meet any 
costs in drawing up the undertaking. If Portal asks Mr H to provide an undertaking, payment 
of the compensation awarded may be dependent upon provision of that undertaking.The SIPP only exists because of the illiquid investment. In order for the SIPP to be closed 
and further SIPP fees to be prevented, the investment needs to be removed from the SIPP. 
Ive set out above how this might be achieved by Portal taking over the investment, or this is 
something that Mr H can discuss with his SIPP provider directly. But I dont know how long 
that will take.
Third parties are involved, and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. To
provide certainty to all parties, I think its fair that Portal pay Mr H an upfront lump sum 
equivalent to five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees). This 
should provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
Further information
Some examples of how calculations should be carried out are available on our website 
under 'Publications' / 'Online Technical Resource' / 'Investment' / 'Calculating compensation 
in investment complaints'
Distress and inconvenience 
In addition, I consider that Portal should pay Mr H compensation for distress and
inconvenience of £250. This is in recognition of the failings Ive identified and the impact 
these have had on him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint. I require Portal 
Financial Services LLP to pay compensation to him as Ive indicated above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman