DRN-3463753
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain Integrated Financial Arrangements LTD, trading as Transact, 
(Transact) delayed their ISA transfers, leaving them incredibly frustrated and out of pocket.
They say Transact was unable to contact or be contacted by the new provider and failed to 
take account of a message the new provider posted with revised transfer instructions.
What happened
Mr and Mrs E signed transfer forms on 19 March 2020. The forms instructed that specified 
accounts be transferred to a new provider (the provider) at a stated PO box address and to 
send all ISA information there. It asked that the transfer be made as cash and gave Transact 
authority to sell the existing holdings.
Towards the end of March, the provider posted a message on an industry system used by 
some ISA managers - including Transact at the time. In this industry message, the provider 
said it had limited access to post and inbound calls and gave a contact email for ISA transfer 
queries. It said electronic payments should if possible be made instead of cheque, to limit 
delays. It said bank details could be obtained from the ISA transfer email address it gave.
It isnt disputed that Transact received this industry message.
Mr and Mrs Es transfer forms were sent to Transact by the provider with a covering letter of 
6 April. This said the provider was willing to accept the transfer in cash, asked for a cheque 
and set out the cheque payee details. It gave the same address as the transfer form. It also 
gave a phone number to call. The provider made an error in the ISA references it quoted.
Transact says it received the forms and letter on 9 April 2020. Its not disputed that what was 
sent was enough to allow Transact to sell the holdings and pay the cash to the provider. 
Transact did sell the holdings on 14 April, with a view to paying the cash to the provider. The 
providers ISA reference error didnt prevent this.
Having sold the holdings, Transact didnt send a cheque, as requested in the providers 
correspondence, but instead attempted to contact the provider for bank details for a bank 
transfer. This wasnt because Transact was acting on the providers industry message, in 
which case Transact wouldve used the email address given in that message. It was 
because Transacts ability to issue cheques was in doubt, given lockdown and remote 
working - it didnt know whether it would be able to issue a cheque or not. Transact adds that 
bank transfers are safer and more efficient than cheque payment and that the providers 
request for a cheque was quite unusual. 
Transact attempted to contact the provider on the phone number given on the providers 
letter, but it could get no answer. Transact says that having been unable to contact the 
provider by phone for bank details, it then spent time looking to see if it could issue a cheque 
instead. It says it concluded this wasnt possible due to lockdown and remote working, so on 
29 April it called Mr and Mrs Es independent financial adviser (IFA). The IFA agreed to ask 
Mr and Mrs E to contact the provider for its bank details.
In the meantime Mr and Mrs E had contacted the provider on 15 April to say all but one of 
the holdings had been sold. The provider told them it expected to receive the funds in the 
coming days. Also the provider has said it tried to call Transact on 22 and 29 April during 
that time but was unsuccessful. It says it called at that stage because it expected the transfer 
could take 30 days and that deadline was getting closer by that stage.
The provider has also said it did contact Transact on 29 April. It has provided a note of the 
call. It has been unable to trace a recording and Transact has no record of the call. The 
notes says the provider called Transact, spoke to someone there and was informed that the 
client details were not matching with the Transact account number given. This appears to 
be a reference to the providers ISA reference error. But, as noted above, it was the lack of 
bank details that was holding up the transfer rather than a problem with the ISA references.
Mr and Mrs Es IFA emailed Mr and Mrs E on 30 April telling them the transfer was being 
held up because the provider had not given Transact the correct bank details. Mr and Mrs E 
in turn emailed the provider. Mr and Mrs E have copied the exchange and sent us extracts. 
According to these, the message sent by Mr and Mrs E to the provider was:
Ive also just be[en] contacted by [the IFA] who were in turn contacted by Transact who are 
saying that they have the incorrect [provider name] account details for us and have been 
unable to speak to anyone at [the provider]. Can I share your contact details with them to 
help sort out the problem?
The provider answered:
[We] have been made aware of the issue and it was resolved yesterday. It would seem that 
transfer team quoted / keyed the incorrect number. We have checked the transfer forms / 
application submitted to the team, which were correct. It was evidently a keying issue. 
Apologies. Please rest assure any delay in transfer will be reviewed and any financial 
detriment addressed due to any delay
So Mr and Mrs Es email didnt mention bank account details and it appears the provider 
thought they were referring to details missing due to its ISA reference error. It appears the 
provider considered that issue had been sorted out the previous day (the 29 April, which 
would appear to be a reference related to the call recorded by its 29 April call note). 
In light of the providers reply, Mr and Mrs E told their IFA the problem had been sorted out. 
On 6 May the provider asked Mrs E to sign a new application form, so it seems the provider 
wasnt sure the reference issue had been resolved at that stage despite what it had said in 
its reply to Mr and Mrs E. But, as noted above, the ISA reference issue was not the problem 
at that time. The problem was Transact needed bank details. The provider took no steps to 
contact Transact or provide bank details as a result of the above exchange.
On 6 May, Transact emailed Mr and Mrs Es IFA - following up from Transacts 29 April call 
to the IFA. The IFA replied to Transact on 7 May relaying Mr and Mrs Es message that the 
issue had been sorted out. The IFA indicated it thought Transact wouldve already heard 
from the provider. On 13 May Transact replied and asked the IFA to ask Mr and Mrs E to try 
again (with contacting the provider for bank details). The IFA agreed.
On 15 May and 18 May the provider sent letters requesting the transfers from Transact  
these were identical to the 6 April covering letters. 
On 19 May Transact received a call from the provider asking for an update. Transact told the 
provider the cash had not been sent as it needed bank details and had not been able to 
make contact with the provider to get them. The provider agreed to email bank details. But Transact didnt receive an email.
On 20 May Transact told the IFA it had received the transfer instruction again but still without 
bank account details. It said Transact had called the number on the providers letters but had 
got no answer.
On 21 May the IFA emailed Mr and Mrs E about the missing bank details. They contacted 
the provider and the provider said the details had been emailed to Transact. Transact 
received a call from the provider asking if it had received the bank details by email. Transact 
said it had not. The provider emailed the details to Transact on 25 May. Transact says it paid 
the funds electronically on 26 May for Mr E and 27 May for Mrs E.
Records from the provider show the funds credited to Mr and Mrs Es accounts a week later 
on 3 June, with asset purchases then mainly being made on 8 and 9 June, and on 4 June 
with asset purchases then mainly being made on 5, 8 and 9 June. The accounts were 
discretionary managed accounts.
Mr and Mrs E say guidance they received from the provider at the start was that it should 
take less than two weeks to fully reinvest their funds after their existing holdings were sold. 
They say it took almost two months instead, during which time the market rose and they 
missed out on growth of around £30,000 - and then on growth on that growth.
Our investigator thought that the transfer had been delayed unnecessarily by both the 
provider and Transact. In terms of Transacts contribution, having noted it was unable to 
send cheques for the transfer proceeds, our investigator noted in particular the gap between 
Transacts attempts on 14 April and 29 April to contact the provider, bearing in mind also the 
availability of an alternate contact method in the form of the email address in the providers 
end of March industry message. Our investigator also noted the providers 29 April call to 
Transact in which our investigator said an error on the transfer paperwork was discussed 
and Transact couldve also got from the provider the bank details Transact needed.
Our investigator considered Transact and the provider equally responsible for the delay and 
that the transfer could otherwise have been completed so funds were reinvested on 28 April 
 ten business days from when the holdings were liquidated. The provider had carried out a 
price comparison that it said showed the assets purchased when the funds were reinvested 
wouldve cost Mr and Mrs E less if it had happened on 28 April. The provider offered to pay 
Mr and Mrs E half of the extra they paid.
Transact has said it didnt make any errors or delay the transfer at all. Ive considered all 
Transact has said but this included, in summary:
The provider wouldve been aware of the difficulties faced by firms having to arrange 
cheque payments during the early stages of lockdown, due to remote working and the 
requirement to stay home. These difficulties include generating a company cheque, 
signing it and sending it through the post. If Transact had sent a cheque, most likely a 
delay wouldve followed as a result anyway.
The providers communication of its lockdown processing arrangements was inadequate, 
inaccurate and inconsistent with information it was sending in its letters.
Transact made IFAs using its service aware some processes might take longer due to 
lockdown, so Mr and Mrs E ought to have been aware normal timescales might not be 
met if they chose to transfer at that time. If there wasnt an alternative, paper-based and 
cheque transfers had to wait until lockdown restrictions eased and manual processing 
restarted.Transact had phoned for bank details in the time between 14 and 29 April but there was 
no answer on the number the provider had given. It was reasonable to have used that 
number rather than the email contact in the providers end of March industry message, 
because the number was on letters dated after that March announcement  so that was 
the most current information. If it wasnt the phone number to use, the provider was 
wrong to keep giving it out on its letters.
The reinvestment was mainly delayed after 29 April, for which our investigator initially 
didnt find Transact responsible. The confusion between bank account and ISA reference 
numbers couldnt have arisen if the provider hadnt made its ISA reference error  so that 
error caused that confusion. Even if Transact might have been able to help prevent that 
confusion, it doesnt make Transact responsible for it. Also, the evidence seems to 
suggest the IFA correctly communicated to Mr and Mrs E that bank details were needed 
so the misconception that it was ISA account details that were needed may have been 
an error in the providers interpretation of the message when Mr and Mrs E passed it on. 
A review of this exchange would help to show whether the provider had an opportunity to 
prevent the further delays that occurred.
The provider got new transfer authorities which delayed things and theres no evidence 
Transact asked for these. This, and the providers belief that the transfer was delayed 
due to the reference numbers, brings into question the accuracy of the providers 29 April 
call note, so this alone isnt sufficient to show that Transact missed an opportunity to act.
Neither Transact nor the provider could locate the 29 April call between Transact and the 
provider, so it was not possible to say this provided an opportunity for Transact to ask for 
the bank details. The provider knew since 15 April that most of the funds had been sold 
and it was supposed to be monitoring the transfer, so Transact wouldve expected the 
provider to explore the reasons for the delay and not merely question an issue with the 
ISA account number.
Transact was proactive in chasing Mr and Mrs Es adviser for help and the consumers 
contacted the provider at the start of May, but the provider didnt contact Transact until 
19 May and did not provide the needed details until 25 May.
Events showed Transact had been proactive in taking steps to try to move things forward 
throughout, and the time between such steps, if longer than usual, was explained by the 
challenges posed by the unprecedented events of the time. It was understandable if the 
emergency arrangements in place didnt enable things to go as smoothly as usual.
Mr and Mrs Es assertion of a loss caused by the delay is made with the benefit of 
hindsight and is not valid.
The reasons that had been given for why Transact should share responsibility for any 
delays were inconsistent and not sufficiently supported by evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint and for broadly the same reasons as 
those given by our investigator.I accept it may have been reasonable, as a first step, for Transact to phone the number 
given on the providers 6 April letter rather than using the email address the provider had 
given in an industry message a week or so earlier. 
I say this because, despite what the industry message had said just a week or so earlier 
about how it might not be possible for the provider to be contacted by phone and how a 
dedicated email address should be used for transfer queries instead and how electronic 
payments were to be preferred to cheques, when Transact got a letter asking for a cheque 
and giving a phone number I accept one possibility was that the position had changed and it 
was now time to use the phone again and send cheques rather than electronic payments.
But in my view that possibility ought to have been very quickly discounted by Transact once 
it found that it could not in fact get through by phone  which in my view would in itself have 
indicated that it was very likely indeed that the information about transfers in the providers 
industry message remained valid. The phone wasnt working and so the message about the 
email was likely still valid and the way to go.
In fact Transact wasnt actually trying to follow the instructions in the letter. It was unable to 
issue a cheque as requested by the letter and so was looking to do an electronic transfer. 
This just reinforces my view that it was unreasonable for Transact to disregard the providers 
industry message, if it did disregard it, given that it was a message about how electronic 
payments were preferred to cheques, offering a dedicated email address from which to 
obtain bank details to enable electronic payments.
Indeed, I find it implausible that someone unable to get an answer on the number they are 
trying and in possession of a message warning of this possibility and giving an alternative -  
someone trying to make electronic payment due to the extraordinary circumstances of the 
time and in possession of a message about how electronic payments should be arranged 
due to those same extraordinary circumstances - would conclude that it wasnt worth trying 
the email address given in that message purely on the basis that the message was issued a 
short time before they got a letter bearing a phone number that wasnt being answered.
It seems more likely to me that the email address wasnt used because the contents of the 
industry message wasnt, for whatever reason, in the minds of those trying to make contact 
in this case at the time. I accept this may have been due to the disruption caused by the 
reorganisation of business due to the lockdown process and I accept things might not have 
fallen into place straight away in that period. But the message was specifically about transfer 
queries, so I think it was something those dealing with transfers ought reasonably to have 
been made aware of in due course  particularly those dealing with transfers where they 
couldnt get through on the phone  and by the time of this transfer, enough time had passed 
to enable Transact to do that.
I think with knowledge of the contents of the industry message, the reasonable thing to do on 
finding there was an issue with getting an answer by phone, was to try the email address. 
Transact has said a request for a cheque was unusual and bank transfers more usual, but it 
hasnt suggested  and I think it was right not to suggest  that a request for a cheque would 
have been unreasonable in ordinary times. At this particular time, though, issuing a cheque 
was of course unusually difficult (and actually not what the provider wanted), so I dont find 
Transact at fault merely because it wasnt able to organise a cheque. 
But on finding that special circumstances prevented it carrying out what would otherwise 
have been a reasonable and routine request, in my view there was an onus on Transact to 
try to find an alternative if there was one. And an alternative had been passed on to it 
through a channel that was specifically being used to post alternatives where the usual methods and practices were no longer workable.
So, in the circumstances here, I think Transact was at fault for not using the email address 
given by the provider. And if it had used that email address, I think it likely the transfer would 
not have been delayed in the way it was and wouldve been completed sooner.
Instead it wasnt until 19 May that the provider, having sent through a valid instruction more 
than a month earlier (valid because Transact acted upon it by selling the existing holdings), 
was informed by Transact of the actual problem. A problem which the provider had already 
given Transact a means of solving.
Id add there does appear to have been another opportunity for Transact to have resolved 
the issue earlier  during the call with the provider on 29 April. Transact says the note isnt 
enough to show what went on in the call. I accept that without a recording of the call I cant 
say exactly what went on. On the other hand, Transact has said it wouldve expected the 
provider to ask about why the transfer was being held up. I think thats right and so I think its 
likely that this is what was asked.
It would appear that what was conveyed by Transact was that it was an issue with the 
reference numbers, which wasnt actually the issue. I do note that if this is what happened, it 
couldnt have happened if the provider hadnt made the ISA reference error in the first place. 
But I dont think that would in itself mean Transact shouldnt bear any responsibility if the 
provider made contact about the delay and Transact didnt ask for the bank details it needed.
That said, and while I think the above is the most likely explanation for what is recorded in 
the providers phone note, there is a chance that it was an error by the provider during that 
call that led to Transact not passing on the information about needing bank details during 
that call. So it is possible, although not the most likely possibility, that if a recording were 
available, it wouldnt show that Transact shouldve asked the provider for bank details. But in 
the end, that would only mean that Transact didnt waste a second chance to get things back 
on track. I dont think it would change very much overall.
I accept that at the end of April Transact did try to contact the provider through other means 
and if this had succeeded it couldve reduced or altered the impact of its failure to use the 
dedicated email address. I also accept that the fact those efforts were not successful was 
something outside of Transacts control, as it relied on third parties to pass on messages. 
Errors do appear to have been made during that process by parties other than Transact. But 
all this could have been avoided if Transact had used the direct route it had available to it 
(and possibly also if it had taken the opportunity presented in the 29 April call).
I also accept that after 19 May Transact did not immediately receive the details it needed 
and had to chase for these  and it was a further week before it received what it needed. It 
wasnt at fault for that.
But in light of all Ive said above, I think Transact bears some responsibility for the delays. 
It follows that Transact bears some responsibility for losses if these arose from the delays. It 
disinvested without knowing whether it could then make the transfer. It didnt know if it could 
pay by cheque, as requested. It knew it could pay electronically, but it didnt have the details 
needed to do that. It was foreseeable in those circumstances that reinvestment could be 
delayed and cause the consumers to lose out. Transact ought to have been alive to this 
possibility. The sums being transferred were large. So delay could cause large losses. This 
should have been apparent to Transact at the time.
I accept that the particular circumstances of the time meant it was possible, in fact likely, that things would not be carried out as smoothly or quickly as normal. But I dont think this means 
Mr and Mrs E werent entitled to request the transfer or ought to bear responsibility if loss 
was suffered as a result of unnecessary delay by other parties. They were entitled to expect 
Transact to take reasonable steps to progress things within the constraints of the time  and 
entitled to be compensated if losses arose from Transacts failure to do that. The actual loss, 
if any, couldnt be known until after the fact, but this doesnt make a claim for loss invalid. 
Mr and Mrs E have said that dealing with their IFA took time but was also embarrassing as 
by moving to the provider they were moving away from their IFA. In my view an award of 
£150 for inconvenience is appropriate in light of the inconvenience caused by the delays.
Putting things right
No argument has been made that the transfer could not have been carried out so that the 
reinvestment could take place on 28 April 2020. Using that date, the provider has said the 
investments Mr and Mrs Es reinvestment bought wouldve cost £14176 less for Mr E and 
£13607 less for Mrs E. The parties havent suggested this isnt a fair assessment of the loss. 
In my view, the responsibility Transact bears for the delay makes it fair and reasonable for it 
to pay half of the loss. I note the provider offered to pay Mr and Mrs E half the loss also. 
So, to put things right, Transact should pay into Mr Es ISA half of £14176 and into Mrs Es 
ISA half of £13607. Transact should also pay simple interest on these sums at the rate of 8% 
per year from 28 April 2020 until the date the redress is paid. 
If the provider is unable to accept these sums or any part of them (apart from the interest) 
into the ISA as redress payments, then what cannot be paid into the ISA Transact should 
instead pay to Mr and Mrs E direct. In that situation I think it likely Mr or Mrs E will pay extra 
tax on future growth and income arising from such sums because I think it likely their future 
ISA allowances are already accounted for and their tax allowances for dividends and capital 
gains are likely already used where relevant. So sums paid to Mr and Mrs E outside an ISA 
(apart from the interest) should be accompanied by an extra payment to allow for this tax.
The extra payment should be calculated by Transact as the extra tax Mr or Mrs E would pay 
on the growth and income arising from the relevant sum outside an ISA compared to within 
an ISA. In calculating this, annual returns of 5% growth and 2.5% income for holdings paying 
dividends and 1% growth and 5% income for holdings paying interest distributions should be 
assumed. It should be assumed the relevant sums are invested for ten years. Annual returns 
shouldnt be compounded. Payments shouldnt be discounted.
The tax rates used should be those applicable at the date of this decision to Mr E if related to 
his loss or to Mrs E if related to her loss. For Mr Es loss it should be assumed 65% and for 
Mrs Es loss 85% of the holdings pay dividend distributions and the rest interest distributions.
I arrive at all these redress provisions having put them to the parties in this case and having 
received nothing to suggest they wouldnt be fair and reasonable to use in this case.
Transact should also pay Mr and Mrs E £150 for the inconvenience it caused by the delays.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, and in light of all Ive said above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Es 
complaint. Integrated Financial Arrangements LTD, trading as Transact, should put things 
right in the way Ive explained above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 September 2022.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman