DRN-3840655
The complaint
Mr B complains about the settlement payment Acromas Insurance Company Limited
(Acromas) offered for his car after it was written-off following an accident, under his motor
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B was involved in an accident where another vehicle collided with the rear of his car. He
contacted Acromas and it arranged for a hire car to be provided, whilst the damage was
assessed. The car was considered to be a category S write-off and Acromas offered Mr B a
settlement payment for £1,480 based on the average of the two valuations it obtained.
Mr B didnt think this was a fair valuation. On further consideration Acromas increased its
offer to £1,775. It says this was the higher of the valuations it had obtained.
Mr B says this was still too low. He comments on the car having sports seats, alloy wheels,
good tyres, as well as a good stereo system. He says he requested an inspection of the car,
which wasnt carried out. He also says his car had done below average mileage, which
should be factored into the valuation. Because he remained dissatisfied Mr B referred his
complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She thought Acromass approach to valuing the
car was fair based on the industry trade guides. Mr B disagreed and asked for an
ombudsman to consider his complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in November 2022 explaining that I was intending to uphold 
Mr Bs complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have seen the engineers report arranged by Acromas in September 2021. This provides a
detailed description of the condition of Mr Bs car. It describes some pre-existing damage to
the right front wing, some discolouration to the paint on the bonnet and a scuff/dent to the
left rear door and wheel arch. The engineer reported the car to be in a fair condition pre-
accident.
In the report the engineer says Mr Bs car has sustained a rear impact. This has damaged
the rear bumper, end brackets, rear panel/cross member, boot floor and both rear wings. It
says checks will be required to the rear lights, exhaust, heat shields and wheel alignments.
The engineer calculated the repairs costs at £3,800.56.
I have seen photos of Mr Bs car that were included within the engineers report. This
supports the condition of the car as reported. Given the cost of repairs is way in excess of
the market valuations, the engineer concluded the car was beyond economical repair.
In his complaint correspondence I can see that Mr B says he is a qualified motor engineer
and that he disagreed the car was a write-off. I acknowledge his comments, and that he
wanted to inspect the car himself. Ive read his policy terms to understand what is expected
to happen here. The terms say:
We have the right to choose which action to take in the case of any claim and we will do
one of the following:
-repair the damage; or
-replace what is lost or damaged beyond economical repair; or
-pay you cash for the amount of the loss or damage.
Based on this I think Acromas acted within the terms of its policy. It determined Mr Bs car
was a total loss based on its engineers report. Given the repair costs are thought to be
significantly higher than the cars value  I dont think Acromass decision was unreasonable.
I can understand that Mr B wants the best possible settlement for the loss of his car. He says
he cant find a like for like replacement for Acromass offer. But I cant see that his policy
provides for a like for like replacement. It provides a maximum payment in the event of a
total loss, which is the market value of the vehicle at the time this occurred. This is defined in
the policy booklet as:
The cost of replacing your vehicle with a vehicle of the same make, model, specification,
age, mileage and condition as your vehicle was immediately before the loss or damage you
are claiming for. Where we are unable to estimate the market value of your vehicle we will
use the nearest market equivalent for comparison.
The Investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide
valuations for cars but look to see whether the insurers offer is reasonable.
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from the main
motor trade guides. These are used for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these guides
to be particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide
research and likely sales figures. The guides also consider regional variations. We also take
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Our investigator thought the offer Acromas had made was fair. Ive checked the valuations
that were considered. I can see the correct make, model, age, mileage, features, and
condition of Mr Bs car were used in the valuations. These gave values of £1,185 and
£1,775. Acromas initially offered the average of those two valuations, which came to £1,400.
It later increased this to £1,775 as a goodwill gesture.
I dont think this approach was unreasonable. However, I did obtain a further valuation from
another of the trade guides for comparison. I used the same details relating to Mr Bs car as
used in the previous trade guide valuations. This gave a market value of £2,766.
In circumstances where one of the valuations is significantly different to the others, we may
discount this as an outlier. Based on these valuations I dont think there is an outlier. And
because of the relatively low value of the car, this represents a significant difference. So, I
think a fair outcome in these circumstances is to take the average of the three valuations,
which amounts to £1908.67. Its reasonable that Acromas pays this amount in settlement of
Mr Bs claim, plus 8% simple interest on any unpaid amount, until the full payment is made.The correct model for Mr Bs car was used in the valuations. I acknowledge his point about
the tyres, seats, and stereo. But I dont think its been shown that this has an impact on the
market value.
I understand that Mr B has raised issues relating to the time taken to handle his claim. This
is being considered separately, so I cant consider it here. If he isnt satisfied with Acromass
response to this point he can of course refer the matter to our service for consideration.
I said I was intending to uphold Mr Bs complaint and that Acromas should:
pay Mr B a total settlement payment of £1908.67, plus 8% simple interest on any
unpaid amount from the date the settlement payment was offered until the full
amount is paid. 
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Acromas responded to say Mr B had been allowed a longer period to request an 
ombudsmans decision than originally advised by our investigator. It asks that a plausible 
explanation is provided for this.  It also says another trade guide was referenced in my 
provisional decision that it doesnt have access to.
Acromas says Mr B was invited to send in evidence that it would have considered alongside 
the trade guides it uses. It doesnt think its fair to uphold Mr Bs complaint for these reasons. 
Mr B responded to say his car suffered no structural damage and Acromas didnt inspect his 
car. He says his car was high quality and he hasnt managed to find a replacement. Mr B 
disagrees with the engineers report and doesnt believe his car shouldve been written off. 
He reiterates that he is a motor engineer himself and has provided some additional photos 
showing the damage caused to his car. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Acromass comments regarding Mr Bs delayed response. He had asked for 
more time to respond to our investigators initial findings. Mr B informed us that he had a trip 
planned that meant he wouldnt have time to respond in the timeframe given. Some 
additional time was allowed for Mr B to respond in light of this. I can see our investigator 
informed Acromas of this at the beginning of September 2022. I think this was reasonable.
When considering whether an insurer has acted fairly in establishing the market value of a 
vehicle, we refer to the industry trade guides  as I discussed in my provisional decision. 
There are four main trade guides widely used by the industry that we check to see if the 
valuation was established fairly. Acromas referenced two of these guides when valuing Mr 
Bs car. We were able to obtain one more valuation, which resulted in an average value that 
was higher than Acromas had offered. Im not persuaded by Acromass comments that it 
was unreasonable to follow this approach here. 
Ive thought about Mr Bs additional comments and Ive also examined the photos he 
supplied. But I dont think this adds anything of significance to the information Ive already 
considered. 
The engineers report provided by Acromas is detailed. It includes photos showing the damage and costings for the repairs. The estimated cost of repairs is far in excess of the 
market value of Mr Bs car, even when the value is increased to acknowledge the higher 
valuation we obtained. 
Im sorry that Mr Bs car was determined to be a total loss. I understand that he was 
attached to the car and that he hasnt been able to find a suitable replacement. I can 
understand that he has found this situation upsetting. But having considered all the further 
comments and information, Im not persuaded that a change to my provisional decision is 
warranted. Im satisfied that this represents a fair outcome in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Bs 
complaint. Acromas Insurance Company Limited should:
pay Mr B a total settlement payment of £1908.67, plus 8% simple interest on any
unpaid amount from the date the settlement payment was offered until the full
amount is paid. *If Acromas considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It
should also give Mr B a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman