DRN-3359926
The complaint
Mr L complains NewDay Ltd irresponsibly lent him two credit cards, and a loan.
What happened
Mr L took out the following:
Aqua credit card in May 2015 with an initial limit of £100
Marbles credit card in December 2016 with an initial limit of £600
Marbles loan in March 2018 for £2,500
He complained to NewDay about irresponsible lending and asked about a Subject Access 
Request (SAR) that hadnt been sent to him yet.
NewDay said:
Aqua credit card  in the application Mr L told them he was employed with an income 
of £44,000, and that he had unsecured debt of £100. Extra information available to 
them at the time, found he had six defaults with the oldest being 50 months ago. The 
value of these defaults was £26,000, there were no payday loans, and no accounts in 
arrears. Mr L met their acceptance criteria, so they offered their card with a £100 
credit limit. In August 2015 the limit was increased to £1,100, in December 2015 it 
was increased to £1,350, and the last increase was in August 2016 to £2,100. This 
account was repaid in full and closed on 7 February 2017.
Marbles credit card  Mr L told them he was employed with an income of £44,000, 
and unsecured debt of £20,000. Extra information available to them at the time, 
found he had six defaults with the oldest being 69 months ago. The value of these 
defaults was £26,000, there were no payday loans, and no account in arrears. Mr L 
met their acceptance criteria, so they offered their card with a £600 credit limit. In 
March 2017 the limit was increased to £1,600, in July 2017 it was increased to 
£2,600, and the last increase was in November 2017 to £3,100. This account was 
repaid in full and closed on 4 December 2018.
Marbles loan  Mr L told them he was employed with a monthly net income of 
£2,150, and from the information he provided they worked out he had a disposable 
household income of £855 per month. Mr L met their criteria, so he was given a loan 
for £2,500, over 48 months, with monthly payments of £81.98.
They added that for the credit card limit increases they sent letters allowing Mr L to opt out of 
the increases but cant see that he did. They said theyd carried out an in-depth evaluation of 
each time a credit limit increase was provided and found appropriate checks had been 
carried out to ensure the limit increases were affordable.
NewDay said they were sorry to hear Mr L was experiencing financial difficulties. They said 
they didnt have any records of him contacting them before the credit cards were closed. And 
the first record they had of financial difficulties was when he contacted them regarding the 
loan in December 2019. They added they could see Mr Ls latest offer to repay the loan of 
£56.85 per month for the next 12 months, made through a debt charity, had been accepted 
on 27 January 2021.
Overall, they didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint about the lending, but said sorry for the SAR 
taking longer than it should have.
Unhappy with NewDays reply, Mr L asked us to look into things. 
One of our Investigators did so and upheld the complaint. Mr L accepted this, but NewDay 
didnt saying they didnt think theyd done anything wrong, so the complaints been passed to 
me to decide.
For completeness, I have noted Mr L held another Aqua credit card which had been opened 
on 27 June 2013, but that he accepts its outside of the timescales for us to investigate it  
so isnt pursuing it further. Because of that, I wont mention it again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The rules require NewDay to make sure they didnt lend irresponsibly. This means NewDay 
needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand what Mr L could afford to 
repay, before granting the lending. What this means in practice varies depending on the 
individual circumstances of the borrower, how much lending is being granted, and the type of 
lending.
NewDay have described themselves as a low and grow lender  offering a second chance 
to those with poorer credit histories. This approach refers to low credit limits initially being 
granted, while NewDay will then look to grow the credit limit as time goes on  subject to 
the borrowers conduct and their own checks. NewDays own checks for credit cards uses a 
credit reference agencys estimate of someones affordability.
If I find NewDay didnt carry out appropriate checks, then it doesnt automatically mean Id 
uphold a complaint about that lending decision. Id need to decide whether I think itd have 
been irresponsible for NewDay to lend, had they carried out appropriate checks. If I find they 
didnt carry out appropriate checks, then I wouldnt usually require NewDay to write off the 
debt, as Mr L has had the benefit of the funds. Instead, Id likely require them to refund 
interest and charges thatd been applied.
Aqua credit card
For a credit card, the expectation is Mr L would repay what he owed within a reasonable 
period of time  this would include interest on his borrowing.
The initial credit limit given here in May 2015 was £100. I think this was reasonable. I say 
that because Mr L had explained he earned £44,000, with only £100 unsecured debt. 
Although Mr L had a poor credit history with £26,000 worth of defaults, these had all been 
satisfied over four years earlier. And, having looked at his history of borrowing, I can see he 
took out three loans with a payday lender, for £100 each, all of which had been closed in 
July / October 2014. So, nothing to cause any concern for such a low limit  and therefore I 
think this lending was reasonable.
I cant though say the same for the first credit limit increase to £1,100 in August 2015. Ive 
noted NewDay have said Mr L was sent opt-out letters, and he never opted out. But Id expect NewDay to be aware at this point that opt-out letters arent sufficient  this is about 
whether NewDay have carried out their responsibilities appropriately.
What NewDay knew at the time of this increase was Mr L had been running his account, with 
a £100 limit, for three months successfully. I dont think running a very small balance is 
automatically proof that the customer could successfully run a higher balance  and certainly 
not one as high as 11 times the existing limit. 
Given the substantial increase, Id expect substantial checks to be carried out to confirm 
Mr Ls ability to sustainably repay the balance. NewDay have said their checks didnt 
uncover any other outstanding debts but did note £26,000 worth of defaults that had been 
settled just over four years ago.
I think the existence of £26,000 worth of defaults, even if this was just over four years ago, 
suggests Mr L might not be able to sustainably repay a large amount of debt  as he didnt 
previously.
I also think the three payday loans are relevant. Although two of them were closed in July 
2014, and one in October 2014, this does suggest Mr Ls pattern of spending is beginning to 
increase which, given his history of defaults from four years earlier, should have caused 
NewDay to ask more questions. Had they done so, I dont think theyd have granted this 
credit limit increase.
So, here, I think increasing the credit limit by 11 times from a small £100, to £1,100 was 
irresponsible lending. As Ive found this first limit increase was irresponsible lending, it 
follows the remaining credit limit increases were also. Ill set out the way to put this right 
towards the end of my decision.
Marbles credit card
Between taking out the Aqua card in May 2015, and this Marbles card in December 2016, 
Mr L took out a number of different lending products. This included:
Credit cards
Payday loans
Personal loans
The personal loans included one for over £16,000 just six weeks before his application for 
this credit card. Mr L also took out a second mortgage on his property.
This means in around 18 months, Mr L has taken out a significant amount of different 
lending products, and now has around £20,000 unsecured credit  as he declared on the 
application.
At the time, NewDay did complete some credit checks and said there were no arrears with 
other lenders, no payment arrangements and no debt management plans. They said there 
were defaults, but these were from 69 months ago.
But, I dont think these checks went far enough. At the time of presenting this information to 
NewDay, Mr L has gone from having only £100 in unsecured credit around 18 months earlier 
 to now having £20,000 credit. Given his declared income was £44,000, this means nearly 
50% of his annual salary was now taken up by unsecured credit.I note NewDays argument about them being a second chance lender, but I think such a 
significant increase  combined with Mr Ls £26,000 worth of defaults from a number of 
years earlier, should have led to them carrying out more checks.
And, I think had they carried out more checks, theyd have realised this lending wasnt 
affordable for Mr L. He took out a loan for over £16,000 just six weeks earlier, so I think 
NewDay really should have asked why hed need a credit card so soon afterwards. As I dont 
think NewDay should have granted this credit card at all, it follows I also dont think they 
should have granted the credit limit increases either.
Overall, I dont think NewDay carried out proportionate checks, and had they done so, then I 
think theyd have realised this lending was unaffordable for Mr L. Again, Ill set out the way to 
put this right towards the end of my decision.
Marbles loan
NewDay have explained when granting the credit limit increases, they carried out thorough 
checks to ensure these were affordable for Mr L. The last of these checks was on the 
Marbles credit card in November 2017 where the limit was increased to £3,100, around four 
months before this loan was granted. So, Mr L already had a high amount of borrowing with 
NewDay prior to taking out this loan.
NewDay have said from the information Mr L gave them when taking out this loan in 
March 2018, they worked out he had around £855 per month disposable income. 
In the statements Ive been provided for the Marbles credit card, Mr L is close to the limit of 
the card in the months leading up to the loan. And Mr L had also taken out several credit 
cards and loans in the months leading up to the granting of this loan  with at least one 
payment being missed on one of those loans in February 2018. This suggests Mr L was 
struggling with his debts, so giving more credit wasnt sensible or affordable.
Taking everything into account, I dont think NewDay carried out proportionate and 
appropriate checks  and if they had of done so, then I dont think theyd have granted Mr L 
this loan either.
Compensation
Like our Investigator, Im also satisfied some compensation is due. Mr L has told us about 
his health. Out of respect for his privacy I wont go into details, but I can see hes told us his 
health is linked to these debts. Had NewDay performed their role correctly, I think it unlikely 
theyd have granted so much credit to him. With that in mind, I also award £100 
compensation.
Ive noted NewDay apologised for the SAR being delivered late. From my understanding this 
wasnt very long overdue, so I think an apology is fair for this aspect of the complaint.
Ive also seen Mr L has concerns NewDay sold his debt for the loan on to a debt collector. 
As our Investigator said, the act of NewDay selling the debt to a debt collector is a new 
complaint which NewDay have to be given time to address initially. But I think this is relevant 
given Im upholding the complaint. As will be seen in the next section, my direction will result 
in either the debt being paid off, or the balance being reduced. If there is an outstanding 
balance, Id expect NewDay to work with Mr L to ensure any arrangement remains 
affordable. 
Putting things right
I require NewDay to:Refund all interest applied to the Aqua credit card from the £100 limit and above
Refund all interest applied to the Marbles credit card
Refund all interest applied to the Marbles loan
Apply the interest refunds from the above three products to the loan balance
If this results in an overpayment of the loan, then the balance should be refunded to 
Mr L plus 8%* simple interest, and any default registered should be removed
If this doesnt result in an overpayment, then the debt should be brought back from 
the debt collection agency, and the default should reflect the new amount.
Pay Mr L £100 compensation.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires NewDay to deduct tax from the interest payment 
referred to above. NewDay must give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax theyve 
deducted if he asks them for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I require NewDay Ltd to carry out the actions in the 
Putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman