DRN-4502206
The complaint
Mr V complains that West Bay Insurance Plc (West Bay) are seeking reimbursement of 
storage costs from him after he made a claim under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
A problem occurred with Mr Vs motorcycle in October 2022 and, given the nature of the 
problem and his motorcycle only being a few weeks old, he initially approached the 
dealership and manufacturer to try to reach an amicable resolution. This wasnt successful 
so, wanting to avoid making a claim on his policy, Mr V then referred the matter through an 
alternative dispute resolution scheme (ADRS). A proposal was made by the ADRS for Mr V 
and the manufacturer to share the costs of instructing an independent expert to inspect      
Mr Vs motorcycle. The manufacturer didnt agree to this proposal, so the ADRS werent able 
to take things further. 
Mr V then made a claim on his policy in March 2023. Mr V says he informed West Bay his 
motorcycle was being stored at the dealership, and he had an agreement with the dealership 
they wouldnt charge any storage fees until the ADRS had provided an outcome. Mr V says, 
despite this, West Bay paid the dealership the full storage costs and then sought 
reimbursement from Mr V of the storage costs incurred from the date the dealership took in 
Mr Vs motorcycle up to the date West Bay were made aware of the claim. So, Mr V 
complained.   
West Bay responded and explained Mr Vs motorcycle was held at a dealership and West 
Bay werent made aware of Mr Vs intention to claim until 23 March 2023. They said, in line 
with the policy terms and conditions, they arent liable for any storage charges applied prior 
to them being made aware of the claim. They noted Mr V said the dealership confirmed in 
writing they wouldnt charge him storage. West Bay said Mr V should refer this to the 
dealership if they arent complying with this agreement. West Bay did uphold other parts of 
the complaint relating to their communication and customer service issues. West Bay sent a 
cheque for £125 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr V. He thought it wasnt fair for West Bay to seek 
reimbursement of the storage charges between the dates they were claiming. He 
recommended the storage cost reimbursement be limited to the date Mr V received an 
outcome from the ADRS to the date West Bay were made aware of the claim. West Bay 
disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation is a fair way to resolve matters. 
My role requires me to say how a complaint should be settled quickly and with minimal 
formality and so Ill focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint and the main 
areas of dispute. Theres no dispute around the parts of the complaint upheld by West Bay 
or their payment of £125 compensation. I think the compensation paid here is fair and 
reasonable. The dispute here relates to the level of reimbursement being sought by West 
Bay. So, Ive looked to see whether West Bay have acted reasonably here. 
The information Ive seen shows the incident occurred in October 2022. Mr V then tried to 
reach a resolution directly with the dealership who were also storing his motorcycle at the 
time. The dealership then emails Mr V in November to say theyve now inspected his 
motorcycle. They say the damage to the engine cases is the result of an external impact, 
and therefore the Consumer Rights Act doesnt apply. They say, I will continue to store the 
motorcycle free of charge for an additional 30 days from the date of this email, this will 
enable you to arrange an independent inspection should you wish to. Mr V then decides to 
approach an ADRS to try to settle the dispute through conciliation. The dealership then 
emails Mr V and says, I can confirm that I will not commence storage charges until you 
have received the advice from your chosen arbiter. The ADRS process then concludes on 7 
March 2023 when they email Mr V explaining they cant take things any further as the 
manufacturer has declined to participate in obtaining an independent experts report. Mr V 
then makes a claim to West Bay on 23 March. 
  
I can see West Bay paid the dealerships storage costs from October 2022 through to 12 
April 2023  and they then took possession of the motorcycle. West Bay then sent a letter to 
Mr V asking him to reimburse them the storage charges accumulated prior to 23 March 
2023. In their response to Mr Vs complaint, West Bay refer to the policy terms and 
conditions in support of their decision that theyre not liable for any storage costs incurred 
prior to them being made aware of the claim. I can see our investigator has queried this and 
West Bay agree the terms and conditions dont specifically make reference to storage costs 
not being covered. West Bay say though that Mr V failed to inform them of the claim in a 
timely manner  and this led to costs being incurred without their agreement or consent. 
West Bay say they were unaware of any storage costs accruing so they shouldnt be 
responsible for them up to the point they were made aware of the claim. They say, had Mr V 
made them aware of the claim in October 2022, they couldve moved his motorcycle to safe 
storage, at no cost. 
I have carefully considered West Bays points here, and I accept Mr V didnt inform West 
Bay of the claim until almost five months after the event. But I think its important here to take 
into account Mr Vs reasons for this. Its clear Mr V was trying to avoid having to make a 
claim on his policy as, given the circumstances didnt involve a third-party, it wouldve been 
treated as a fault claim. So, Mr V exhausted alternative avenues to try and achieve a 
resolution  and when that wasnt successful, Mr V did then notify West Bay of the claim 
within a reasonable period. I dont think Mr Vs actions in pursuing alternative avenues were 
unreasonable in the circumstances, particularly as the information shows Mr V was 
concerned about any manufacturing or material defects given his motorcycle was still 
relatively new and low mileage  and he wanted to avoid a fault claim being recorded on his 
policy. 
Mr V says he did keep the broker and West Bay updated of his actions at the time. He has 
provided a screenshot showing his mobile phone call log, and this shows he did make calls 
to the broker in October 2022. Mr V says, it was during these calls that he made the broker 
aware of what was happening and that he was trying to reach a resolution directly with the 
dealership and manufacturer. Mr V also says, it was during one of these calls that he was 
put through to West Bay where he again explained the situation. I can see West Bay have 
searched their systems, but theyve been unable to locate any record of a call being made to 
them. Having considered the information carefully  in particular the contemporaneous evidence showing Mr V did make calls to the broker and Mr Vs testimony being consistent 
with this  Im persuaded, its more likely than not, Mr V did discuss the matter with West 
Bay while he was taking alternative action. So, in these circumstances and given the facts in 
this case, I understand why Mr V chose to attempt resolution through alternative means 
rather than having a fault claim recorded on his policy  and Im persuaded he informed 
West Bay of his intentions. 
The information shows the dealership agreed with Mr V not to charge him any storage costs, 
initially up to December 2022, and then up to Mr V receiving advice from his chosen arbiter  
which in this case was 7 March 2023. Ive looked at the claim notes and this shows West 
Bay discussed the matter with the dealership on 30 March and they explain storage costs 
have accumulated as Mr Vs motorcycle has been stored with them for five months. The 
notes show West Bay then determine Mr Vs motorcycle as a total loss. The notes say the 
motorcycle will need to be collected for disposal and West Bay will be instructing an agent 
for this. Theres a note which says West Bay spoke with the dealership on 4 April and they 
explained Mr Vs motorcycle wont be released until the storage charges are paid. The notes 
say West Bay will authorise payment of the costs and will then deduct any storage costs 
attributable to Mr V from his settlement. Theres a note which says West Bay then discussed 
the storage costs with Mr V the same day and he confirmed these had been waived by the 
dealership, and West Bay ask for evidence of this. 
Theres a note dated 6 April which says West Bay have authorised payment of the storage 
costs up to 12 April. Theres then a note dated 12 April which says West Bay are still waiting 
for waiver of storage from the dealership as can see email thread advising that 
[dealership] has indicated charges will not commence until you have received the advice 
from your chosen arbiter. The note says West Bay informed Mr V they would need direct 
confirmation from the dealership that there are no outstanding storage costs. Theres a note 
setting out next steps and this says, confirm waiver of storage charges with [dealership] 
Its not clear from the notes whether any confirmation was then sought but the next note is 
dated 13 April, and this says the dealership produced an invoice for the storage costs and 
this was paid.    
West Bay say Mr V had an agreement with the dealership to not charge any storage costs 
until the ADRS process was concluded. They say, however, during the claim, the dealership 
informed them many times that storage costs are accruing and will need to be paid prior to 
releasing the motorcycle. West Bay say this left them in a difficult position as, although they 
informed Mr V about this, they say he did nothing to approach the dealership to query this. 
They say, under the terms and conditions of the policy they hold conduct of a claim and an 
insured interest in the motorcycle. They say, in view of this, and to avoid causing 
unnecessary delay in the claim and in the best interests of Mr V, they decided to pay the 
storage costs to release the motorcycle so they could retain possession and carry out their 
own assessment. 
I do acknowledge the position West Bay were in, but I dont think its reasonable to expect 
Mr V to now reimburse the level of storage costs theyre claiming  I say this for a number of 
reasons. 
Firstly, the claim notes show West Bay were aware of Mr Vs agreement with the dealership 
as theres a note dated 4 April where Mr V refers to the storage costs being waived and a 
note on 12 April which makes reference to the arbiter point  and this appears to be before 
the storage costs are paid the following day. Im satisfied Mr V did send evidence of the 
agreement to West Bay as their notes make reference to the wording of the agreement. The 
notes from 12 April then set out the next steps West Bay plan to take and this says theyll be 
confirming waiver of storage costs with the dealership. The claim notes dont then refer to 
any discussions with the dealership, or of West Bay challenging them about the storage 
costs based on the information they had showing there was an agreement in place. I can see West Bay were presented with an invoice the following day, but theres no evidence 
West Bay referred the dealership to the agreement or sought to clarify why the dealership 
were now deviating from the terms agreed with Mr V. In these circumstances, and given the 
information they had, I think West Bay shouldve done more to challenge the dealership 
rather than pay on presentation of the invoice. 
I note West Bay say Mr V did nothing at the time to query the storage costs with the 
dealership, but West Bay are handling the claim at this point and are the experts here. I can 
see Mr V provided West Bay with details of his agreement with the dealership, and I dont 
think its unreasonable to then expect West Bay to raise any challenges as part of the claims 
handling process. Ive decided this complaint on what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. And in this case, given that Ive seen no evidence of West Bay effectively 
challenging the dealership on the agreement with Mr V despite them being aware an 
agreement existed, I cant say they took all reasonable steps prior to paying the invoice.    
 
So, taking this all into account, and while I acknowledge West Bays reasons for paying the 
storage costs, I dont think its reasonable for them to pursue Mr V for reimbursement of the 
storage costs of 148 days. I agree there should be some responsibility on the part of Mr V to 
pay storage costs prior to West Bay being made aware of the claim. But these should be 
limited to the date Mr V received an outcome from the ADRS to the date he made West Bay 
aware of the claim  and in this case, thats 7 March 2023 to 23 March 2023. 
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that West Bay have acted unfairly in seeking reimbursement of 148 days 
worth of storage costs from Mr V. So, while its fair for West Bay to seek some 
reimbursement from Mr V, this should be limited to the storage costs accrued between 7 
March 2023 to 23 March 2023. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. West Bay Insurance Plc must take the steps 
in accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr v to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman