DRN-3852029
The complaint
Mr R complains about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds (Advantage) delay in 
dealing with his claim under his car insurance. Hes also unhappy they didnt respond to his 
requests to inspect his car.   
What happened
Mr Rs car was stolen, but despite it being recovered, the extensive damage meant it was 
deemed beyond economical repair. Mr R made a claim to Advantage and they instructed 
agents  who Ill refer to as company C and company R - to deal with the claim. Mr R wasnt 
happy with how long things were taking so he complained about this as well as Advantage 
not responding to his requests to inspect his car. 
Advantage responded and explained they understand it was important for Mr R to inspect his 
car but they could see they provided company Cs contact details to arrange this. They said 
company C confirmed they attempted to discuss Mr Rs car with him, but he wouldnt speak 
with them. Advantage explained a settlement hadnt been paid as they werent able to 
validate the claim so they closed it. They said they have processes they need to follow in 
order to progress a claim which includes carrying out an interview with Mr R. They said both 
they and company R had attempted to complete this but hadnt received any contact from  
Mr R to arrange this. They explained theyd taken steps to reopen the claim and set out the 
steps they would be taking. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr R. She thought Advantage hadnt acted 
unreasonably. Mr R disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr R will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
I think its important to firstly make clear the role of various parties in insurance. I can see   
Mr R queries why the complaint has been set up against Advantage when all his policy 
documents suggest his contract of insurance is with another business. 
When taking out insurance, a customer will often communicate with an insurance 
intermediary who is responsible for arranging, selling and administering the policy. The 
insurer, which in this case is Advantage, is responsible for handling a claim. I would refer   
Mr R to his policy booklet and, in particular, the Legal statements section which shows the 
business Mr R believes he has a contract of insurance with, is in fact the insurance 
intermediary/broker. 
I note Mr R says theres no evidence his contract of insurance is with Advantage but I would 
refer him to his Certificate of motor insurance which shows his insurer is, and his policy is 
underwritten by, Advantage. This is also set out in the Schedule of insurance. So, Mr Rs 
complaint about the handling of his claim is correctly set up against Advantage. I do 
understand why Mr R has questioned this though as his policy documents have been sent to 
him by the broker and they also dealt with his complaint. But, this isnt uncommon and 
insurers will generally authorise an intermediary to handle claims and complaints on their 
behalf.   
Delay
My starting point is Mr Rs car insurance policy. This sets out the terms and conditions and 
under a section explaining what happens when a claim is made, it says You must co-
operate fully and in a way so as not to compromise the resolution of your claim. It goes 
further to say a policyholder must give the insurer all the information and help they ask for to 
support a claim.  
I can see from information provided by Advantage, after Mr R reports the theft, they sent out 
a theft pack the following day for Mr R to complete. A few days later, Advantage call Mr R 
but theres no answer, so they leave a message for a return call. They also send a text 
message letting Mr R know theyre required to complete a telephone interview as part of 
their claims process, so they ask Mr R to get in touch with them to arrange this. Advantage 
then receive the theft pack and instruct company R just over a week later to validate the 
claim. Advantage then receive contact from company C to say Mr R isnt discussing things 
with them. Advantage then receive company Cs report setting out the damage to Mr Rs car 
about two weeks later. 
Advantage then call Mr R but he refuses to answer their security questions and explains he 
wants to inspect his car. Advantage then write to Mr R with company Cs details so he can 
arrange to see his car. Advantage again explain they need to conduct a telephone interview 
which Mr R can arrange with them or company R. Advantage explain this is standard 
procedure. Over the next month, company C and company R update Advantage and explain 
Mr R isnt co-operating with their enquiries. Company R then close their file. 
Advantage call Mr R again to arrange an interview but, as theres no answer, they leave a 
message and also send a text message asking Mr R to contact them to arrange an 
interview. Company C also update Advantage and explain Mr R isnt prepared to speak with 
them. Advantage try calling Mr R and again leave a message and follow this up by text 
message, email and letter. Advantage send a letter to Mr R explaining he can arrange to 
inspect his car but will need to contact company C. I can see company C then explain all 
viewings have been suspended due to the ongoing pandemic but theyre prepared to provide 
photos. Advantage then write to Mr R explaining the position with viewings and attach 
photos of his car. 
Advantage again try to arrange an interview and again leave a message and send a text 
message. Mr R responds and explains he tried returning Advantages call but was kept 
waiting so he ended the call. Mr R questions why Advantage need to interview him when he 
has already completed their report form. 
Mr R asks Advantage to put in writing what they want to know. He explains he doesnt trust 
phone calls and isnt prepared to be interviewed. Advantage respond and explain theyre 
required to carry out an interview to go through the claim and discuss next steps. They 
explain, due to Mr Rs previous requests, they can do this through an online form sent by 
company R or by phone on a date and time that suits Mr R. They explain they would be able 
to give Mr R the name and phone number of the staff member who will be calling. They 
explain they cant progress the claim without the interview taking place. Advantage call Mr R again and theres no answer so they send an email. Advantage then 
identify they havent been sending emails to the correct address so they resend their recent 
email to the correct email address. Advantage try calling Mr R a number of times to ask if he 
wishes to continue with his claim but theres no answer. Advantage then close the claim.    
Mr R then contacts Advantage a few months later and they explain the next steps to get the 
claim validated  which includes completing an interview. The claim is then reopened. The 
interview then takes place and, as well as discussing details of the incident, Advantage 
explain they need license checks to be carried out. Advantage then email Mr R and explain 
they still require him to provide a driving license code and set out how Mr R can obtain this 
as well as information about some damage caused to Mr Rs front door.    
Having looked at the information provided by Advantage, I dont agree the delay is down to 
Advantage. I do acknowledge Mr Rs points about the information being requested and the 
need for an interview, but this is part of Advantages claims process. We dont have the 
power to direct a business to change their processes  but we can look to see whether 
theyve been applied fairly. And, in this case, I think Advantage have been clear about the 
information they require from Mr R to allow them to progress the claim and have made 
reasonable attempts to chase Mr R for this information. I acknowledge Advantage were 
initially sending emails to an incorrect email address, but I dont believe this held things up 
as they were also contacting Mr R using alternative methods of communication such as 
leaving messages on Mr Rs phone and text messages. So, while things have taken longer 
than they shouldve, I cant say Advantage are responsible for this. 
I can see Mr R questions the relevance of Advantage needing a driving license code. 
Advantage say this forms part of their validation checks and also to check whether 
customers have a valid driving license. The policy terms and conditions say under a heading 
Documents we may ask for, Its a condition of your Policy that you supply us with any 
information or documents that your Insurer may ask to see to support the details you gave 
when you applied for your Policy. So, I think Advantages request for the driving license 
code falls within this. And, I think its also important to add, insurers will often ask for this 
type of information when dealing with a claim so Advantages request for this information 
isnt uncommon or unreasonable.    
 
The information shows company C and company R let Advantage know Mr R wasnt co-
operating with them. I acknowledge Mr R mightve been concerned about their involvement 
given that his claim was with Advantage. But, insurers will generally use a third party 
company to assist with claims, this might include providing salvage services or claims 
validation. I can see Advantage did explain who the companies are so I think they acted 
reasonably in providing reassurance that both companies were acting on their behalf. So, I 
cant say Advantage are at fault if both companies were unable to take things forward.  
Car inspection   
I note Mr R is concerned about Advantage not responding to his requests to inspect his car. I 
can see Mr R did, early in the claim process, explain to Advantage he wanted to inspect his 
car. During this call the agent explains they can give Mr R details of where his car is being 
stored so he can arrange this. 
The agent explains theyll need to complete some security questions first, but the notes say 
Mr R refused to answer these and asked them to write to him with the location of his car. 
Advantage then sent a letter to Mr R with company Cs details  which is where his car was 
being stored - inviting him to contact them direct to arrange this. I cant see Mr R arranged 
this with company C. I do acknowledge that, despite Advantage informing Mr R he could 
inspect his car, they later told him this wasnt possible because of the pandemic. I 
understand why this was frustrating for Mr R, but this decision was taken by company C and was as a result of measures over which they, or Advantage, had no control. In the 
circumstances though, and as an alternative, I think they took reasonable steps in providing 
photos of Mr Rs car. 
I can see our investigator has addressed Mr Rs complaint about his policy being 
automatically renewed. I havent addressed that complaint point in my decision as that 
complaint relates to the actions of the broker  and not Advantage as the insurer. So, I will 
leave it for Mr R to consider whether he wishes to take that complaint forward. 
I understand Mr R will be disappointed, and I wish to reassure him Ive read and considered 
everything he has sent in, but if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it 
isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference 
it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the 
informal nature of our service.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman