DRN-2902522
The complaint
Mr D complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited unlawfully retained his credit card 
details.
What happened
Mr D renewed his car insurance policy with Admiral in January 2021. During an audit a few 
weeks later, Admiral discovered Mr D might have a driving conviction which wasnt included 
on his policy. It wrote to Mr D in February 2021 to check this and asked for a digital copy of 
his driving licence. In its letter, it said that if it didnt receive this, it would assume the 
conviction was correct. This could mean he would be charged an additional premium.
Mr D didnt reply, and Admiral charged him an additional premium of £64 in March 2021. It 
took this payment from the credit card Mr D used to pay his premium in January 2021.
Mr D is unhappy about this for two reasons:
1. At renewal, he told Admirals agent that he had a minor driving offence but had 
attended a speed awareness course (SAC), so didnt have any points on his license.
2. He was upset Admiral had retained his credit card details, despite him asking Admiral 
to delete these from its records.
Admiral explained that its agent hadnt recorded the SAC because we do not rate on these 
courses. Mr D had since provided proof that hed attended the course, so it refunded the 
additional premium and removed the driving offence from his policy. It also said:
When you gave us these [credit card] details at renewal you consented for us to use 
your card for future payments including the renewal. If we are unable to speak to 
customers we give 30 day notice of any premiums due for any mid-term changes to 
give the customer time to contact us.
Mr D wasnt satisfied by Admirals response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied 
that Mr D hadnt explicitly asked Admiral to delete his credit card details, and thought its 
response when Mr D provided proof of the SAC was fair. 
Mr D disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr D was annoyed that Admiral charged an additional premium when 
hed disclosed his driving offence and SAC during the renewal call in January 2021. 
Unfortunately, Admiral didnt record this in Mr Ds file. I know Admiral says this isnt part of its 
process, but Ill simply point out that if it had recorded the SAC it wouldnt have needed to 
contact Mr D again or charge the additional premium.
However, Admirals actions are in line with the terms of Mr Ds policy. Section 9 of the policy 
booklet (Fraud or misrepresentation) explains that Admiral can amend your policy to show 
the correct information and apply any change in premium. Basically, this means that if 
Admiral finds Mr D hadnt disclosed a driving conviction at renewal, it can (among other 
things) charge him an additional premium to reflect the increased insurance risk.
I see Admiral wrote to Mr D about this on 2 February 2021. The letter clearly set out the 
information it needed and the consequences of Mr D not replying. I think if Mr D had replied 
to this letter, the matter would have been resolved very quickly. When Mr D complained 
about Admiral taking the additional premium, it immediately refunded this. So I think 
Admirals actions here were appropriate.
That leaves the issue of the credit card.
Section 5 of Mr Ds policy booklet (Payment of your premium and/or other charges) says: 
Unless you ask us to change your payment details, we will debit the payment details we 
have on file to collect any premium due. [my emphasis]
Section 16 (Automatic renewal) is also relevant: If you do not want your policy to renew 
you must call us before your renewal date to let us know.
Ive listened to the call between Mr D and Admiral when he renewed his policy. Mr D asked 
Admiral not to use the card details hed just provided for future payments. Admirals agent 
interpreted this request as Mr D asking not to automatically renew the policy. She confirmed 
Admiral wouldnt do this. However, its clear to me that Mr D didnt explicitly ask the agent to 
delete his card details.
I think this was a simple misunderstanding. Mr D believed hed asked Admiral to delete his 
card details from its records. Admirals agent thought Mr D was simply opting out of 
automatic renewal. This opt out was recorded on Mr Ds file. So when Admiral wanted to 
charge the additional premium in March 2021, it used the same payment details Mr D had 
given at renewal. This was in line with its policy terms and, in my opinion, was reasonable.
For the reasons above, I dont think Admiral acted unfairly. It follows that I dont uphold Mr 
Ds complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021. 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman