DRN-2501632
The complaint
Ms W complains that Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about an Egg credit card PPI policy taken out in December 2002. The 
policy was added to Ms Ws credit card account when she applied for the card online.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Ms W disagreed 
saying, in summary, that:
Its unfair that the burden of proof is on her  to provide details of her sick pay  and not 
Canada Square  to prove that the policy wasnt mis-sold.
The information shes provided about her sick pay has changed  but even taking into 
account what she said at the outset of this complaint, she could still have met her 
commitments and didnt need the PPI.
If shed been told the policy was optional, she wouldnt have taken it. It was automatically 
applied to her application and she wasnt given the option to cancel it.
Canada Square upheld her other complaint, which shows it was aware it was acting 
incorrectly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms W's complaint.
Ive considered what Ms W says about an unfair burden of proof being placed on her. But I 
dont agree. Weve asked both parties for all the information and evidence they have about 
the sale. Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I 
consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ws complaint because:
I think Canada Square made Ms W aware that the PPI was optional and a separate product 
from the credit card, and that she chose to take it. I say this because the online application 
process included equally clear options to accept or decline the PPI and Ms W clicked the 
yes box to confirm that she wanted it. Im not surprised Ms W cant remember this as it took 
place so long ago.
Canada Square didnt recommend the PPI to Ms W, so it didnt have to check if it was 
suitable for her.
But it did need to provide her with enough information so that she could decide for herself 
whether she wanted the policy. Ms W says her existing arrangements meant she didnt need 
the policy. She cant evidence what sick pay she would have received from her employer if 
she couldnt work, or what savings she had. And I wouldnt expect her to have evidence or a 
clear recollection after all this time. Even taking into account a generous sick pay 
arrangement, I think, on balance, that its unlikely Ms W would have had the equivalent of full 
pay for 12 months. The PPI would have covered her credit card payments for up to 
12 months in the event of a successful claim for sickness or an accident. And it would have 
covered her if shed been made unemployed. So I think it more likely than not, despite what 
she says now, that Ms W would have thought the policy would have given her peace of mind 
if she couldnt work, or if shed become unemployed.
Its possible the information Canada Square gave Ms W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Ms W chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted 
this type of cover. She wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the policy 
was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely that Ms W would 
have made a different decision at the time if better information had been provided.
Ive taken into account what Ms W says about Canada Square upholding her other PPI 
complaint. But this was for PPI on a loan and the circumstances were different. Ive 
considered the information about the sale of this policy and the outcome of Ms Ws other 
complaint does not change my conclusion here.
On balance I think Ms W would still have taken out the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman