DRN-3828467
The complaint
Miss M has complained that Allianz Insurance Plc trading as Petplan Equine have declined 
her claim for treatment of and the loss of her horse L.    
    
What happened
Miss M bought an equine insurance policy for L with Allianz from 10 February 2022. 
On 14 February 2022 Miss M noticed that L had slight hind leg lameness so she rested him.
On 18 February 2022 while the vet was examining L in relation to an eye issue, she asked 
him to do a lameness work up on L. The vet was unable to find any lameness and advised 
her to place him back to work. 
The following week, L again appeared lame and Miss M took a video to send to her vet.  The 
vet agreed that Miss M should send L to a more specialist vets.
When L went to the specialist vets, they examined him and performed a myelogram and 
formally diagnosed Wobbler syndrome on 2 March 2022. After further discussions, L was put 
to sleep on 14 March 2022. 
Allianz rejected Miss Ms claim for treatment and loss. They said that the clinical signs of the 
Wobbler syndrome were present on 23 February 2022 which was during the policys 14-day 
deferment period in which claims will not be covered. 
So Miss M brought her complaint to us. She says the date that the onset of the condition 
should be recorded from is 2 March 2022 when it was diagnosed. She also thinks that the 
hindlimb injury should be covered separately as the 14-day deferment only applies to 
conditions, not injuries. 
One of our investigators has looked into Miss Ms complaint. He didnt think that Allianz had 
done anything wrong in declining the claim.   
Miss M disagreed with our investigators view and so the case has come to me to review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ms complaint, and I will explain why. 
Ive looked at the policy terms and conditions, and the documentation provided, and Ive 
thought about the arguments put forward. 
The claim for Wobbler syndrome 
The policy terms and exclusions say that there is no cover for:
Any amount if the death of your horse results from an illness which starts in the first 
14 days of cover.
The cost of any treatment for an illness which starts in the first 14 days of cover.
An illness that starts in the first 14 days of cover is defined in the policy as:
An illness that showed clinical signs in the first 14 days of your horses first policy 
year
An illness that has the same diagnosis or clinical signs of an illness that showed 
clinical signs in the first 14 days of you horses first policy year. 
An illness that is caused by, relates to, or results from a clinical sign that was noticed 
in the first 14 days of your horses first policy year. 
So, Im satisfied that for the purposes of applying this exclusion, the important question is 
when the first clinical signs of Wobbler syndrome were present. 
The clinical records show the formal diagnosis was made on 2 March 2022, which was 
outside the first 14 days of the policy.  But in order to fairly exclude any claim related to the 
Wobbler syndrome, Allianz would need to show that there was evidence of the clinical signs 
of Wobblers syndrome before 24 February 2022.
Allianz have said that there were clinical signs of Wobblers syndrome at the date of referral 
on 23 February 2022.   
So, Ive looked at the evidence they have used to support this decision. Allianz have 
provided a report from their consultant vet, who has reviewed all the evidence including the 
videos provided by Miss M and her Vets report. He says, It is likely that the hock lameness 
and Wobbler syndrome were separate pathologies but, in my opinion, there is clear evidence 
that the signs of Wobbler syndrome were visible and pre-existing.
He also says The Vet has suggested that the findings indicate an acute injury. In my opinion 
this is not the case because an acute injury to the neck of a horse is very painful. In such 
case, immediate stiffness of the neck is noted with marked reaction to palpation which is not 
reported here.
Instead Wobbler syndrome is correctly diagnosed describing changes to the neck vertebrae, 
stenosis of the spinal canal with impingement of the spinal cord. This condition is usually a 
developmental abnormality over a period of time.. The consultant Vet has had access to the 
x-ray and scan results in forming this opinion. 
He further references the report from Miss M s Vets in which she had confirmed to them 
inco-ordination and ataxia whilst L was being ridden, and in which the examination findings 
on 2 March also showed mild-moderate ataxic hindlimb gait. He says that the videos 
provided by Miss M from 23 February 2022 show evidence of an abnormal abduction of the 
right hind limb, which is the same at the abnormal movement described by the vets on 2 
March 2022. 
I am satisfied that taken together, this evidence does support Allianzs conclusion that there 
was evidence of the clinical signs of Wobbler syndrome during the 14 day deferment period, and so I dont think their decision to decline the claim for Wobbler syndrome has been made 
unfairly.   
The claim for right hind limb lameness. 
Miss M says that any treatment for the right hind limb lameness should be paid because it 
resulted from an injury, not from an illness, and the 14-day deferment period exclusion 
doesnt apply to injuries. 
Injury is defined in the policy as Physical damage or trauma caused immediately by an 
accident. Not any physical damage or trauma that happens over a period of time. 
I havent seen any evidence that L suffered an accident which led to physical damage and 
lameness. The clinical notes only record that L had right hind leg lameness, and Miss M 
hasnt suggested that any accident occurred. And so, Im unable to conclude that Ls right 
hind leg lameness is an injury as defined in the policy. 
I appreciate that this will be disappointing for Miss M and I understand that she has incurred 
significant expense for the treatment and loss of L, but I cant say that Allianz have acted 
unfairly declining the claim on the evidence before them.  
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint about Allianz Insurance Plc trading as 
Petplan Equine.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman