DRN-3123207
The complaint
Ms B complains of unfair charges applied by Mercedes-Benz Finance a trading name of 
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services UK Limited (MBFS). She would like these waived.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons:-
Theres no dispute that Ms B didnt provide the vehicle literature or V5 document 
when her car was inspected , based on her contract she should have done so. In the 
current climate  I find her explanation that the inspector told her to wait inside during 
the inspection, and then left without asking for any documents , plausible. MBFS has 
told us that the inspector would have asked for any outstanding documents. But if 
that were the case, I cant see why  Ms B wouldnt have handed them over. She 
clearly the documents as she has evidenced that she sent a parcel to MBFS at the 
address on her Hire Purchase Agreement. I think there was simply a missed 
opportunity by both parties to collect the documents on the inspection day. In these 
circumstances I think its reasonable, to waive the charge applied.
In respect of the damage to the left-hand front and rear alloys I have considered the 
photographic evidence and the measurement size between the spokes that MBFS 
has given us. The photographic evidence shows some scuff marks but has no 
measuring device alongside these to confirm the size of the damage. And I didnt find 
the  photographs clear enough for me to calculate the size of the damage myself 
using the measurement information from that MBFS. As I cant confirm if the   
damage exceeds the 50mm allowed by British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Standards 
(BVRLA) or not I dont think I its reasonable for MBFS to charge for this.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement . Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services UK Limited should waive the 
charges for the V5 and missing documentation along with the charges for damage to the left-
hand rear and front alloys 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman