DRN-2822165
The complaint
M, a limited company, complains about the increase to the premium charged by AXA PPP 
Healthcare Limited for their group private medical insurance scheme. 
What happened
M has held the scheme with AXA since 2012. In 2020, Ms renewal documents showed the 
annual premium would increase by over 60%. M made a complaint to AXA about the 
increase. 
AXA didnt uphold the complaint. It explained the factors that had impacted its decision to 
increase the premium, but said that it had calculated the premium correctly. Unhappy with 
this, M brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought AXA had calculated 
Ms premium accurately and fairly.
M didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service generally takes the view that its up to an insurer to decide how much to charge 
for its policies. So long as it exercises that judgment fairly and consistently, its a matter in 
which this service wouldnt normally interfere. 
AXA has explained to M the factors taken into account behind the premium increase. The 
policy also gives further information about the pricing for group plans. 
AXA has provided an explanation to this service regarding how the relevant factors 
contributed to the premium amount, and I see that a large amount of the increase relates to 
claims. 
M thinks that AXA should share information relating to its pricing structure for transparency 
reasons. However, as our investigator has explained, this information is commercially 
sensitive, so we wouldnt expect AXA to do so. Though based on what Ive seen, Im 
satisfied the premium was charged accurately and fairly. 
It seems that the increase in 2020 came as a surprise to M because AXA had provided 
discounts on the premium in previous years, but chose not to do so in 2020. Though as AXA 
has explained, it wasnt under any obligation to offer a discount.
I do understand Ms concerns. Theyre a small business and theyre worried about whether 
theyll be able to continue to offer private healthcare to their staff if the premium continues to 
increase. Whilst I sympathise with M, I cant conclude that AXA has done anything wrong. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman