DRN-1822543
 
The complaint
Mr M complains about the costs hes incurred because Inter Partner Assistance S.A. (IPA) 
caused damage to his home while dealing with a home emergency insurance claim.
In this final decision, Ive referred to the contractors IPA sent out and the complaint handlers 
it used as IPA. Thats because they were acting on behalf of IPA in dealing with Mr Ms 
claim. So IPA is responsible for their actions. 
What happened
In May 2019, Mr M noticed his bath was draining slowly. He made a claim on his home 
emergency policy and IPA sent out one of its engineers. Mr Ms bath didnt have a bath 
panel  it was fully tiled in. So the engineer couldnt look under the bath to see what was 
causing the blockage. He sent a drain snake down the drain to investigate the cause of the 
leak.
Unfortunately, the drain snake punched a hole through the blanking cap. This caused water 
to leak through the ceiling and caused damage to Mr Ms living room. Mr M and the engineer 
attempted to clean up the leak and the engineer told Mr M hed return with a plumber the 
next morning.
As the engineer didnt turn up, Mr M made a complaint to IPA. He was initially told that the 
engineer didnt accept hed caused damage. After a series of phone calls and a visit to Mr 
Ms home with a manager; a second engineer fixed the issue. He had to remove some tiles 
to get access to the bath and ultimately fixed the issue by squirting a jet underneath the bath 
to clear the blockage. He also replaced the bath pipe.
Mr M sent IPA photos of the damage and invoices for the re-fit of his bathroom and remedial 
works to his living room. He said as hed used a specific sort of tile in the bathroom, 
everything had needed to be replaced. IPA didnt agree to cover the cost of the bathroom. It 
said a) that it wouldve always needed access to the bath, so the tiles wouldve always had 
to have been removed. And b) it said the pipework was non-standard. The drain snake 
hadnt been able to navigate this  it had hit the blanking cap and the engineer would 
naturally mistake this for the blockage.
IPA did offer to make a 50% contribution towards the cost of some of the damage caused to 
the living room. It calculated this to be £298.64 towards parts and labour. It didnt agree to 
cover the cost of replacing the floors or the blinds  but it did offer to send out a loss adjuster 
to inspect these further. IPA offered Mr M £150 for the service issues hed experienced. 
Mr M wasnt happy with IPAs proposed settlement and asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. He didnt think IPAs 
contractor had been negligent in using the drain snake. So he didnt think it needed to bear 
the costs of the remedial works. He thought the compensation IPA had offered was fair. And he noted IPA had offered to send out a loss adjuster to assess the extent of the damage 
caused to Mr Ms living room.
Mr M disagreed. He thought IPAs public liability insurance should cover the cost of the 
remedial works. He didnt think he should be left to foot the bill for IPAs mistakes. 
I issued my provisional decision on 15 April 2020. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I was planning to partly uphold Mr Ms complaint. I said:
I think there are three key issues for me to consider. First, is IPA responsible for the costs of 
refitting Mr Ms bathroom? Second, has it offered a fair settlement for the costs involved in 
redecorating Mr Ms living room? And third, is the compensation its offered Mr M fair and 
reasonable?
Is IPA responsible for the costs of refitting Mr Ms bathroom?
Theres no dispute that IPA damaged the blanking cap under Mr Ms bath, which caused 
water to leak into his living room. So Ive thought very carefully whether or not it needs to 
pay the costs of refitting the bathroom.
I understand Mr M had decorated the bathroom with a special type of tile, at some expense. 
I appreciate how frustrating this situation mustve been for him.
But I need to think about whether the first engineer acted reasonably when he sought to find 
out what was causing the drainage delay in Mr Ms bath. Mr M didnt have a bath panel and 
the bath had been tiled in. And it seems he didnt want the tiles on the bath to be removed to 
gain access to underneath it, because he didnt want them to be damaged. So the engineer 
wasnt able to see underneath the bath to investigate what was going on; what the pipework 
looked like or whether any special fixes needed to be done.
IPA accepts that the first engineer really shouldve insisted on the tiles being removed, so it 
couldve had access to underneath the bath. That wouldve allowed him to identify that Mr M 
didnt have standard pipework. So it seems unlikely the engineer wouldve attempted to clear 
the blockage with the drain snake. And it also seems unlikely the blanking cap wouldve 
been damaged, leading to the living room damage.
Mr M would always have been responsible for the costs of replacing these tiles. Thats 
because the policy specifically excludes the cost of redecoration or making good fixtures and 
fixings once the emergency works have been done. So, I dont think it would be fair for me to 
direct IPA to meet these costs. It seems to me that in all events, the tiles wouldve needed to 
be removed and the replacement of them simply wasnt covered. This means I dont think I 
can fairly tell IPA to pay for the refit and redecoration costs of Mr Ms bathroom.
Has IPA offered a fair settlement for the costs involved in redecorating Mr Ms living room?
IPA offered to consider the internal damage costs if Mr M provided invoices, photos or other 
evidence. It agreed to pay a 50% contribution to the parts and labour of redecorating some 
of the living room. But it didnt agree to cover the floor costs or the blind replacement costs. It 
offered to send a loss adjuster to investigate the extent of the damage to these areas to 
assess if it needed to pay anything more.
Ive looked at the invoice for the living room decoration Mr Ms sent in. This was for a total of 
£1343.29. If I deduct the costs of a new floor (£175), new blinds (£150) and refitting the floor 
(£180) from that invoice, that leaves a balance of £838.29. IPA offered Mr M a 50% contribution towards this cost and offered £298.64. By my calculations, 50% of £838.29 is 
about £419.15. So it seems IPAs offer fell short of what it was meant to cover.
I asked IPA to explain how it had calculated this settlement. It said it couldnt find 
any correspondence relating to this offer, so it couldnt say how it had been calculated. Im 
satisfied this offer was made to Mr M, by IPA, after it issued its final response. Ive seen 
email confirmation. It seems to me though that a 50% contribution less the floor and blinds 
shouldve been around £420.
But I dont currently think thats enough. I currently plan to direct IPA to pay the full cost of 
the internal repairs, less the flooring and blinds. I appreciate IPAs limited what its offered 
because it thinks the installer of the bathroom should be responsible. Thats because they 
fitted a non-standard pipe. But a non-standard pipe isnt the same as a defective or faulty 
pipe. And it doesnt mean that there was poor workmanship in the installation of the bath. My 
understanding is this simply means it isnt the pipe a plumber would usually use. And were it 
not for the engineer using the drain snake rather than insisting on the removal of the tiles to 
access the pipework, a hole wouldnt have been made in the blanking cap and there 
wouldnt have been a leak.
Im satisfied (and IPA accepts) that this caused internal damage to Mr Ms living room. So I 
think its responsible for meeting the full costs of the damage it accepts was caused. This 
means I plan to direct IPA to pay Mr M the full redecoration costs, less the costs of the blinds 
and the flooring. I also plan to direct it to pay interest at an annual rate of 8% simple on that 
settlement from the date Mr M paid the contractor until the date of settlement.
IPA wasnt satisfied that the flooring and blinds needed to be replaced, based on the 
evidence itd seen. It offered to send a loss adjuster round to assess the extent of the 
damage to these areas. I think this was a fair response. Its open to Mr M to get in touch with 
IPA if he wants to take-up this option. But based on what Ive seen, Im not currently 
persuaded these are costs which IPA needs to meet.
Is the compensation IPA offered Mr M fair and reasonable?
Its very clear that Mr M suffered some trouble and upset because of what happened. IPA 
offered him £150 to recognise this. But I dont think this was sufficient. Ive listened to the 
calls between IPA and Mr M. He was initially told that IPA didnt accept responsibility for the 
damage. Then, he was told by a manager that this wasnt true. 
But Ive looked at the claims notes and it seems to me that IPA did dispute responsibility for 
causing the damage. So Mr M wasnt getting the full picture.
IPA accepts that the first engineer told Mr M hed be back the next morning with a colleague 
to put things right. This didnt happen. I understand Mr M took a morning off work to wait in. 
He was also without the use of his bathroom for four days while the repairs took place.
Ive also listened to a call with a manager, where I agree Mr M was led to believe he would 
get the costs of re-tiling covered. While, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think IPA is 
responsible for meeting these costs, I do think this led to even greater frustration for Mr M. 
IPA told him effectively it was his word against theirs  but in fact, a call recording existed 
which shows Mr M was led to believe these costs would be met.
Ive also borne in mind the tone of the email correspondence between one of 
IPAs contractors and Mr M. I think the representative was unhelpful and attempted to cast 
doubt on the credibility of Mr Ms claim, when there was no reason to do so. I dont doubt this 
caused Mr M further distress.So, taking all of these things into account, I currently think a fairer award for Mr Ms trouble 
and upset is £300.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 15 May 2020.
Mr M accepted my provisional findings.
IPA disagreed with my provisional findings. It agreed to pay Mr M total compensation of 
£300. But it didnt think it should be liable for the full living room costs Id proposed. It 
suggested paying Mr M 50% of the cost - £419.15, plus interest.  Thats because Mr Ms 
reluctance to get the tiles removed had contributed to the damage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided to uphold 
Mr Ms complaint in part.
As Mr Ms accepted my provisional decision, I dont need to reconsider whether the 
bathroom tiles should be replaced. Ive decided that these are costs that simply arent 
covered by the policy and would always have needed to have been met by Mr M. So I make 
no award for the cost of retiling Mr Ms bathroom.
Im also pleased that IPAs accepted the compensation award I proposed of £300. Mr M has 
told me he didnt cash the original cheque for £150. If this cheque is now out of date, IPA 
should reissue a new cheque for the full amount of £300.
I appreciate IPA feels it should only pay a 50% contribution towards the costs of the living 
room repairs. Ive thought carefully about what its said, because it is clear that Mr M didnt 
want the first engineer to remove the bath tiles to get access under it. 
But IPAs engineer was the professional expert in this situation. IPA accepted the engineer 
simply shouldve insisted that the tiles were removed before any investigation work into the 
cause of the leak took place. And it remains the case that if this had happened, the engineer 
wouldve been able to establish that Mr Ms pipework wasnt standard. It follows hes unlikely 
to have gone ahead with using a drain snake to clear the blockage; the blanking cap 
wouldnt have been damaged and the internal damage wouldnt have happened.
So overall, it seems to me that because IPAs engineer didnt insist on removal of the tiles, 
damage was caused to Mr Ms home. And Im still satisfied the fair and reasonable outcome 
is to pay for the cost of Mr Ms internal decoration, less the costs of the flooring and blinds. 
So Im telling IPA to pay these costs, plus interest.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold Mr Ms complaint in part.
I direct Inter Partner Assistance S.A to:
Pay Mr M the costs detailed on the invoice of getting his living room decorated, 
less the costs of replacing the floor and blinds;
Pay Mr M interest on this amount at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date 
he incurred those costs until the date of settlement;Pay Mr M total compensation of £300. If it has already paid Mr M £150, it will 
only need to pay a further £150.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman