DRN-3966576
The complaint
Mr M complains that he was misled into buying a holiday product with a promise that his 
existing arrangements would be cancelled. Because he paid in part using his credit card,  
issued by The Co-operative Bank Plc (the Bank), he says that, under section 75(1) of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974, it is equally liable with the seller to meet his claims. Mr M is 
represented by a firm of solicitors, which Ill call A.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M were members of a points-based holiday club, D. They held 500 membership 
points, which they could exchange for holiday accommodation. By around November 2014, 
however, they had decided that their membership no longer suited their needs, and they 
were looking for ways to relinquish or sell their membership. D did not have a process that 
allowed them to do so. 
Mr and Mrs M became aware of a scheme which, Mr M says, initially indicated that it could 
sell timeshares and similar products. When they made further enquiries, however, A says 
that Mr M was told that there was in fact no real market for Ds holiday club points and 
membership. Instead, Mr and Mrs M were encouraged to buy credits which they could use to 
obtain discounts on holiday products, including accommodation and flights. Any unused 
credits could then be sold back after 14 months for the same or more than Mr and Mrs M 
had paid for them. The seller in the meantime would arrange for Mr and Mrs Ms 
membership of D to be brought to an end. 
Mr and Mrs M agreed to the offer and to pay some £6,000 (I will discuss the exact price 
below). Mr M paid £1,000 of the price using his credit card. 
A few days later, Mr and Mrs M became concerned when they made some further enquiries 
about the companies involved in the scheme. They sought to cancel the contract and asked 
the Bank to refund the £1,000 card payment  which it did.
Despite their request to cancel, Mr and Mrs M later made a further payment of £5,000 from 
their account with a different bank. They say however that the contractual arrangements 
have not been as they were told they would be. Because those arrangements were partly 
funded by the credit card payment, Mr M says that the Bank is equally liable with the seller to 
meet his resulting claims. 
When A approached the Bank, it disputed that it had any liability to Mr M. In summary, it said 
that section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act does not apply, because:
Mr Ms contract was with one company but the card payment was made to a different 
company; and/or
Mr and Mrs M cancelled the contract and received a refund.
When A referred the matter to this service, our investigator thought however that the 
complaint should be upheld. The links between the companies involved were such that 
section 75(1) could apply; and the contract had not been cancelled, even though Mr M had 
received a partial refund. 
Because no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for further 
consideration. I issued a provisional decision, in which I said:
A has referred a number of similar complaints to this service, representing complainants who 
say they have been misled in much the same way as Mr M says he was misled. In part, As 
submissions are that the very similar recollections of a large number of customers are 
evidence of the sellers general practice and, therefore, of what happened to Mr and Mrs M. 
A has also referred to (and relies on) wider investigations into the seller and linked 
businesses. 
I must however consider the individual circumstances of Mr Ms complaint. General findings 
about the sellers activities and the recollections of other customers are not necessarily 
evidence of Mr Ms treatment. They do however add a degree of credibility to his own claims.  
The contract 
The contract which Mr and Mrs M entered into was called a Monster Credits Purchase 
Agreement (with Timeshare Trade-In). Monster Credits was the name given to the credits 
which could be used to obtain holiday discounts. It was dated 27 November 2014.
The contract recorded that the seller was Complete Internet Solutions Ltd, a company 
registered in the Seychelles. Mr and Mrs M were to pay £6,050 for 285,333 credits. It also 
noted that they owned 5,000 points with D. Mr and Mrs M signed to say that they had read 
and agreed to be bound by the contract terms. They had the right to withdraw from the 
agreement within 14 days. The contract also indicated that the seller would not seek or 
accept any payment within that period. 
I have seen a copy of the General Legal Terms provided in connection with a different 
customers claim. I assume they are the same terms referred to in Mr and Mrs Ms 
agreement. They explain the terms on which Monster Credits can be redeemed, but are 
silent on the issue of cancellation of timeshares or holiday club memberships and say 
nothing about the subsequent sale or redemption of Monster Credits. They include 
cancellation rights and key information, purportedly in accordance with The Timeshare, 
Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010. 
The documents supplied also include an invoice and receipt dated 27 November 2014 from 
Hollywood Marketing SLU, a Spanish company. It records a payment of €1,145.79 plus tax 
of €80.21, giving (erroneously) a total of €1,200. It says that it is payment for vouchers to the 
value of £4,850 and notes:
 This purchase does not form a part of any other contract or purchase that you may, or 
may not, be entering into now (or at any other time) from this, or any other, company. Nor 
does the payment constitute a deposit or an Advance Payment against any other 
product(s), contract(s) or purchase(s)
The card payment
Mr M made a payment of £1,000 on his credit card on the same day. His card statement and 
the Banks records indicate that it was made to Hollywood Marketing SL and the till receipt 
shows that the equivalent was €1,226.00. As I have indicated, the payment was later 
refunded, when Hollywood Marketing SL did not challenge a chargeback request.     Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act
One effect of section 75 of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for breach of contract 
or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, bring that claim 
against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
In the case of credit card payments, the arrangements among card issuers, card schemes 
and recipients of card payments generally amount to pre-existing arrangements. 
The contract giving rise to Mr and Mrs Ms claim in this case was with Complete Internet 
Solutions Ltd. The card payment was however made to a different company, Hollywood 
Marketing SL (which has since changed its name). The Banks pre-existing arrangements 
were therefore with that company, not with Complete Internet Solutions Ltd. 
However, under section 187 of the Act, a consumer credit agreement is to be treated as 
entered into under such pre-existing arrangements if it is entered into by the creditor and an 
associate of the supplier. A says that either (i) Complete Internet Solutions Ltd and 
Hollywood Marketing SL are associates or (ii) that Hollywood Marketing SL is the supplier. 
In the Act, supplier is defined by reference to the person with which the creditor has 
arrangements and by reference to the person which is a party to a transaction with the 
debtor. In any given transaction, however, it seems to me that there can only be one 
supplier and that, for the purposes of section 75, it must be a party to the underlying 
transaction and the party with which the creditor has arrangements. 
Under section 184, however, a company is an associate of another company  if the 
same person is a controller of both, or a person is a controller of one and persons who are 
his associates, or he and persons who are his associates, are controllers of the other 
The ownership of Complete Internet Solutions Ltd is hidden. I understand that is not unusual 
in the Seychelles, where corporate and nominee shareholders and directors are common. 
However, in October 2014 a power of attorney was executed by the company in favour of a 
Mr R. That document gave him wide powers to control the company and its finances. I think 
he can properly and fairly be said to have been its controller within the meaning of section 
184 at the relevant time. A person does not need to be an officer or shareholder of a 
company in order to be a controller of it.  
At the same time, a Mrs R  said by A to be the wife of Mr R  was the sole shareholder and 
administrator of Hollywood Marketing SL. I am satisfied therefore that it is likely that she was 
the controller of that company. 
Spouses are associates of each other. I am satisfied therefore that the two companies 
were controlled by individuals who were associates of each other and that accordingly the 
companies were associates of each other. I do not believe it makes any difference that the 
second part of section 184(3)(a) uses persons and controllers (in the plural); by section 6 
of the Interpretation Act 1978 the plural includes the singular. 
I must therefore consider whether Mr M has a claim for misrepresentation against Complete 
Internet Solutions Ltd. 
MisrepresentationA misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
As I have indicated, the written contract terms were, at best, opaque, and dealt primarily with 
the Monster Credits scheme itself. A says that Mr and Mrs M were told that they would be 
able to sell those credits after 14 months and recover their expenditure. In addition, they 
would be released from their obligations to D. 
On balance, I think it more likely than not that they were told that, or something very similar. 
The only reason they met with Complete Internet Solutions Ltd in the first place was because 
they wanted to be released from their holiday club arrangements. It seems unlikely that they 
wanted to spend more money on further arrangements of questionable use and value to 
them. And if the only benefit they were buying was the Monster Credits, there was no reason 
to include reference to the points they held with D. Nor was there any reason to describe the 
agreement as including a timeshare trade-in.  
I believe too that what Mr M was told was not true. He and Mrs M have not been released 
from their holiday club membership. I do not believe either that there is any realistic market 
for the Monster Credits they bought. They are only likely to be sold in connection with a 
promise to release other clients from timeshare or similar obligations. 
In my view, theres a high likelihood that a claim in misrepresentation  were it practical to 
bring one  would succeed. 
The effect of the refund      
Shortly after they entered into the contract with Complete Internet Solutions Ltd, Mr and Mrs 
M asked to cancel it  as they were entitled to do, according to the contract terms. The 
contract was not cancelled, however, and they later made a payment of £5,000. I note that 
this was slightly less than what was due according to the contractual documents. The Bank 
has suggested that this was because the cancellation was accepted and that new terms 
were agreed  so that the new contract was not financed by a credit card payment. 
I note however that no new documentation was produced or signed. I think it more likely 
therefore that Mr and Mrs M were persuaded to continue with the existing arrangements but 
with a small adjustment in the price they paid. 
As part of the overall arrangement, Mr and Mrs M received a book of vouchers which they 
could use to buy a range of goods and services. A says that these were routinely produced 
towards the end of the sales process. The sale of the vouchers was set out as a separate 
contract and was paid for separately, as I have described above. 
Having reviewed the invoice and receipt associated with the vouchers, however, I do not 
believe it reflects the reality of what happened here. The payment recorded on the invoice 
was not the same as the card payment that was made, and was arithmetically incorrect too. 
And the card payment that was actually made was deducted from the overall sum due under 
the contract with Complete Internet Solutions Ltd. 
It is not for me to speculate on the reasons for producing a separate invoice for vouchers, 
rather than including them in the overall package. In the circumstances, however, I am not 
persuaded that the purchase of vouchers recorded in the invoice constituted a separate 
contract which was financed by the card payment. Either it was (despite what is claimed on 
the invoice) part of the overall deal, or it was only partially funded by the card payment. It 
follows that the main contract was partly funded by the card payment and that Mr M has a claim against the Bank in the same way he has a claim against Complete Internet Solutions 
Ltd. 
Remedies 
A argues that Mr M potentially has claims for misrepresentation and for breach of contract. I 
have discussed misrepresentation, but A says that the representations made could be 
incorporated as terms of the contract. I believe that is arguable. 
The main significance of the distinction is in the remedies available. The usual remedy for 
breach of contract is to put the claimant in the position they would have been in but for the 
breach. In this case, that would most likely mean requiring the Bank to ensure that Mr and 
Mrs Ms holiday club membership was cancelled or for it to take over that membership. 
Either remedy would require the cooperation of D, and there is no particular reason to think it 
would be forthcoming. It would not be fair in my view to make an award which cannot be 
enforced or which, for practical purposes, requires the agreement of a third party. 
The remedies available for misrepresentation are generally more flexible. 
Be that as it may, I think it is appropriate in this case to consider what would have happened 
if Mr and Mrs M had not been misled about what Complete Internet Solutions Ltd and its 
associates were providing. I have little doubt that they would not have agreed to anything 
and would not have spent the money they did on trying to end their holiday club 
membership. 
That being the case, I believe that a fair and reasonable way to resolve this complaint is for 
the Bank to refund the payment made to complete the contract. That was a payment of 
£5,000 made on 22 December 2014. 
Mr and Mrs M have not had the use of those funds in the meantime. So, I think it would be 
fair to add interest to the award. This services usual practice is to award interest at 8% a 
year simple, reflecting the judgment rate and the likely cost of not having funds  by 
reference to the typical cost of borrowing. I see no particular reason to make a different 
award here.     
I concluded  provisionally  that the Bank should pay Mr M £5,000, plus interest at 8% from 
22 December 2014 until payment. 
Mr M accepted my provisional decision. The Bank thought however that the interest rate was 
too high. Mr M had made the payment of the balance of £5,000 from a savings account 
which paid just 0.65% a year, so that was an appropriate rate. Mr M did not accept that offer, 
so I have reviewed the case for a final time.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The only remaining issue between the parties is the rate of interest that should apply on the 
£5,000 which Mr and Mrs M paid from their savings account. As I indicated in my provisional 
decision, 8% a year reflects the judgment rate and the likely cost of not having funds. 
The section of the Financial Ombudsman Services website which provides technical 
guidance for financial businesses explains that we can make an award to compensate a 
customer who has been deprived of funds  as Mr and Mrs M were here. It says:In most cases, we think a rate of 8% simple per year is appropriate to reflect the cost of 
being deprived of money in the past. We wouldnt normally use the current rates paid on 
deposit accounts as a benchmark. This is because the rates of interest customers have to 
pay in order to borrow are usually much higher.
8% is also the same interest rate that the courts would normally award. This rate takes into 
account that:
the rate is gross before tax is deducted
it often applies to losses at times when different base rates applied
current interest rates charged on overdrafts and loans may not have reduced in line 
with the base rate 
In some cases, we can use a different rate if we think its fair. For example, if we think the 
money your customer was deprived of might have been used to pay a credit card bill, we 
might use the higher interest rate they were charged instead.
Having considered the issue carefully, I think that statement of our usual approach produces 
a fair outcome in this case. I see no reason to award a higher or lower rate of interest. Its 
likely too that, if Mr and Mrs M had successfully sued Complete Internet Solutions Limited in 
court, any judgment would have attracted interest at an annual rate of 8%. Mr Ms claim 
against the Bank is, under section 75, a like claim to that which he has against the supplier; 
he should not be left worse off than if he had taken action against that supplier.
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In order to resolve it in 
full, The Co-operative Bank Plc should pay Mr M £5,000, together with interest at 8% a year 
simple from 22 December 2014 until payment.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman