DRN-3670532
The complaint
Mr R complains about the advice given by David Stock & Co Limited (David Stock) to 
transfer the benefits from his British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) defined-benefit (DB) 
occupational pension scheme benefits to a self invested personal pension (SIPP). He says 
the advice was unsuitable for him and believes it has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Rs employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from 
the company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved benefits which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF), or a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed 
they could transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which 
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to 
BSPS2 or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices 
was 11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
Mr R had received a Cash Equivalent Transfer Value (CETV) from the DB scheme in 
October 2017. It had a value of £231,361.52 and was valid for three months.
Mr R was unsure about what to do so he contacted David Stock. On 2 November 2017 they 
had a triage meeting. David Stock says that no advice was given in this meeting. It says 
that only pensions in general, and the situation with Mr Rs employer were discussed. David 
Stock says that Mr R indicated he wanted to transfer after the triage meeting and it sent him 
a fact find document to complete. This was so it could gather information about his 
circumstances and objectives. Mr R completed and returned this to David Stock. 
The fact find showed that Mr R was aged 36, single, and he had no dependents. He was 
living with his parents and he had a modest amount of debt. Mr R was currently a member of 
his employers defined contribution (DC) scheme and he also had his defferred BSPS 
benefits. David Stock also carried out an assessment of Mr Rs attitude to risk (ATR), which 
it said was speculative. 
David Stocks file notes show that a transfer value analysis report (TVAS) and a suitaility 
report  were prepared for a meeting that took place on 28 November 2017. I understand that 
Mr R agreed to proceed with the transfer after reviewing these in the meeting. 
On 30 November 2017, David Stock provided written advice to Mr R to transfer his pension 
benefits into a personal pension. The suitability report said the reasons for this 
recommendation were: 
He didnt trust the BSPS, or his employer, and was worried about the future of his 
pension.
He wanted flexibility and control over his pension and he wanted to transfer to a 
scheme that would let him retire earlier than the BSPS. 
He was attracted by the enhanced transfer value.
And he was keen to gift his pension savings when he passed away. 
The transfer to the SIPP proceeded in due course. Mr Rs DB scheme value of £231,361.52 
was invested using a discretionary fund manager (DFM) in a progressive portfolio. 
Mr R complained in 2022 to David Stock about the suitability of the transfer advice. He said 
he had received information from the industry regulator that showed the transfer may not 
have been suitable for him. He says he was told his fund would significantly increase in 
value, but this may not be the case. Hes gone on to say that as the DFM is managing the 
investments its not clear why he is paying fees to David Stock and the personal 
arrangement product provider. 
David Stock didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. It said that it took the time to fully explain and 
document the advice. It said this was suitable for Mr R and met his needs and objectives. He 
was made aware of the risks of the transfer, but he wanted to proceed in any event due to 
the situation with his employer. 
Mr R referred his complaint to our service. An Investigator upheld the complaint and 
recommended that David Stock pay compensation. He said that whilst the critical yield 
showed that replacing the benefits Mr R gave up were possibly achievable, his retirement 
was too far away for him to have any concrete retirement plans. And so, there was no real 
need for him to transfer his DB scheme benefits at this time. 
David Stock disagreed, it said that the sale wasnt rushed and Mr R was provided with full 
information about the transfer. He was fully informed about the new scheme and the risk of 
it, he was given time to consider this information. It said that it thought that the sale was 
reasonable. 
David Stock also thought that the compensation should be based on the PPF rather than the 
BSPS2. This is because the BSPS2 wasnt fully started until after the transfer had 
completed. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of David Stock's actions here.PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, David Stock 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Rs best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was 
in his best interests.
Financial viability 
David Stock has strongly argued that BSPS2 may not have gone ahead so the only 
meaningful comparison it could provide was with the benefits available to Mr R through the 
PPF. But I think David Stock overestimated the chance of this not happening; Mr R had 
received his Time to Choose pack by the time the advice was given. And details of the 
scheme had been provided; the BSPS2 wouldve offered the same income benefits but the 
annual increases wouldve been lower. Of course, its possible this may not have gone 
ahead, but I note the advice was given at the time on the basis that Mr R had a choice 
between the PPF, the BSPS2 and transferring away. Which correctly reflects the options 
he had. 
David Stock carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) 
showing how much Mr Rs pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide 
the same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield).
Mr R was 36 at the time of the advice and wanted to retire at the latest age 65. The critical 
yield required to match Mr Rs benefits from the BSPS2 at age 65 was 4.66% if he took a full 
pension and 4.25% if he took TFC and a reduced pension. The critical yield to match the 
benefits available through the PPF at age 65 was quoted as 3.62% per year if Mr R took a 
full pension and 3.4% per year if he took TFC and a reduced pension. 
I havent seen that David Stock looked at critical yields for any age except Mr Rs age 65. It 
would have been better if it had looked at earlier ages if Mr R said he wanted to retire early. I 
would expect the critical yields for an earlier retirement to be higher than those at his age 65. 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 4.7% per year for 29 years to retirement. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection 
rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the 
time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
David Stock says it assessed that Mr R was likely to have a speculative attitdue to risk. So 
it was therefore reasonable to assume he would invest to gain higher returns, that is 5% or 
above, and would be able to replicate the benefits he was giving up in the DB scheme. And 
in addition gain the flexible benefits the personal arrangement had. 
Mr R did have around 30 years before retirement so its not unreasonable to expect that he 
would take some investment risk over this time. But Ive seen the information that Mr R 
provided about this and I dont think it properly establishes his attitude to risk. 
What seems to have happened here is Mr R gave the same answer to certain questions 
about his attitude to risk, which was three on a scale of one to four, or agree to all but two 
of the attitude to risk questions. And this gave him a high enough score to fit into the 
speculative category. 
But the answers Mr R gave were contradictory. For example, Mr R said on the form that he 
had invested before without advice. But he also said that he was not at all experienced; 
Im not very comfortable with investing. 
I would expect someone whose attitude to risk was assessed as high to have significant 
investment experience. But this doesnt seem to be the case here. Mr R had no current 
investments and there was no detial about how hed invested in the past, if he had. 
I think overall that David Stock should have ironed out these contridictions by looking at 
this in much more detail. If it had done this I think it would have determined that Mr Rs 
attitude to risk was much lower than the speculative it recorded on the form, particularly in 
respect of what could turn out to be the mainstay of his retirement provisions. Its one thing 
to take a speculative risk with a smaller investment, but doing this with a the transferred out 
proceeds of a DB scheme is more signficant and the consequences for loss can be far 
more serious. It follows that Im also not persauded that Mr R had the capacity to take a 
signficant risk with this pension. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, what I 
think about Mr Rs attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point 
in Mr R giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at 
best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the lowest critical yield 
was 4.6%, I think the Mr R was at best likely to receive benefits of the same value, or lower 
than the DB scheme from retirement at age 65, and he could receive less as a result of 
investing in line with his likely tolerance to risk. And I think he was likely to achieve lower 
benefits if he wanted to retire at an earlier time than his age 65. 
I recognise that the situation when comparing critical yields is different if the scheme moved 
to the PPF. But it was recorded that Mr R didnt want to join the PPF and it was reasonably 
certain when he received advice that his BSPS benefits could move to the BSPS2, if this is 
what he wanted
Overall, whilst I think it was possible for Mr R to match his DB benefits outside the scheme. But there was still a risk he wouldnt, particularly if his atttitude to risk was lower 
or he changed his risk appetite over the many years to retirement. And I think the 
chances he could significantly improve on his benefits were a lot less likely.
David Stock has provided cashflow models which it says shows Mr R wouldve been able to 
meet his needs despite the high critical yields. Ive considered these, but David Stocks 
models show that if the fund grew at a medium rate, and Mr R took the same income as he 
could from the DB scheme, then it would run out at his age 92. So, if there was a period of 
poor returns or Mr R lived a long life, his fund was at risk of running out before he died.
And David Stock also provided an estimate of the fund value he would need to replicate the 
benefits he was giving up in the DB scheme. At age 65 this was £747,117.50. This was far 
above the transfer value, and what the transfer could reasonably be assumed to grow to. 
This gave a revealing insight into the value of the benefits Mr R gave up when he transferred 
into the SIPP.
As David Stock will know, past performance is no guarantee for future performance and so I 
consider the discount rates and the regulators standard projections to be more realistic in 
this regard in the long term rather than projecting historic returns forward, particularly over 
such a long period of time.
For this reason alone, Im not persuaded that a transfer out of the DB scheme was in Mr Rs 
best interests. Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer 
advice, as David Stock has said in this case. There might be other considerations which 
mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered this 
below.
Flexibility and income needs
It seems that one of the main reasons that David Stock recommended this transfer was for 
the flexibility and control it offered Mr R. That said, Mr Rs retirement date was so far in the 
future that his actual aims werent established. This wasnt entirely unreasonable given his 
age, but it does make it difficult to actually know what he wanted. 
I dont doubt that Mr R found the thought of retiring early attractive and so I think David Stock 
was right to consider if this was possible. I also appreciate that being so far away from 
retirement age Mr R likely wanted to keep the option open to take flexible benefits in 
retirement.
It's evident that Mr R could not take his DB scheme benefits flexibly. Although he could 
choose to take tax free cash and a reduced annual pension, Mr R had to take those 
benefits at the same time. But Im not persuaded that Mr R had any concrete need to take 
tax free cash and defer taking his income, or to vary his income throughout retirement. To 
my mind this seems more of a nice to have rather than a genuine objective.
Mr R was a member of his empoyers DC scheme and he and his employer were jointly 
contributig 16% of Mr Rs salary into this. He had around 30 years to build up further pension 
provisions. He could have accessed this pension (or other future ones) flexibly when he 
chose to retire. And he also could have taken early retirement from the BSPS2. So keeping 
the DB benefits would have given him a risk-free guaranteed income and he could still have 
flexible benefits through his other pension provision. He didnt need, in my view, to transfer 
his DB benefits for flexibility when he could have achieved this through his other provisions.
David Stock says Mr R didnt need a fixed guaranteed income. However, in my view, most 
people value the security and peace of mind of a guaranteed income. And as explained above, he still would likely have had the flexibility to retire early and use hs benefits flexibly 
through his DC, or other, arrangements.
So, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for Mr R to give up his guaranteed 
benefits now when he didnt know what his needs in retirement would be. If Mr R later had 
reason to transfer out of his DB scheme he could have done so closer to retirement.
Overall, Im satisfied Mr R could have met his income needs in retirement by maintaining 
the guaranteed income available to him through the BSPS2 or the PPF at age 65 and 
taking additional funds from his DC scheme until his state pension became payable. So, I 
dont think it was in Mr Rs best interests for him to transfer his pension just to have 
flexibility that it wasnt really established he needed.
Death benefits
Mr R said that he would like to pass on his pension fund to his family. That said, this doesnt 
seem to have been a high priority as he didnt have any actual dependents. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr R. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr R might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr R about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think David Stock explored to what 
extent Mr R was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. If Mr R 
had dependents in the future, the dependents pensions provided by the DB scheme 
wouldve been useful to them if Mr R predeceased them. I dont think David Stock made the 
value of this benefit clear enough to Mr R. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not 
dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal 
pension was.  In any event, David Stock should not have encouraged Mr R to prioritise the 
potential for higher death benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement. 
Particularly as he didnt yet have dependents. 
Furthermore, if Mr R genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for any of his relatives, which didnt 
depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I 
think David Stock shouldve instead explored life insurance.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a SIPP justified 
the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr R. 
Control and concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
Mr R was only 36 when he asked for advice. The regulator more recently referred to the 
scenario of younger consumers in Finalised Guidance 21/3 (which did not represent new 
rules). It states:
If a client is some way from retirement and has no clear idea of what they want from it, it 
may not be possible to advise them on a transfer, until they are closer to retirement. You 
should be asking the question why transfer now? when your clients retirement plans are 
unclear. Wanting to take advantage of a high transfer value is not generally a good reason 
on its own to transfer.I think this applies to Mr R. As I said above I think he was interested in early retirement and 
taking benefits flexibly, however given that he was 25 to 30 years away from retirement, I 
think its fair to say that these retirement objectives were not certain and could of course 
change. And giving up his guaranteed benefits was an irreversible action. 
Its clear that Mr R, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and he 
was worried his pension would end up in the PPF. Hed heard negative things about the PPF 
and he said he preferred to have control over his pension fund.
So, its quite possible that Mr R was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and his negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was David Stocks obligation to give Mr R an objective picture and recommend what was in 
his best interests.
As Ive explained, by this point details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely it was 
going ahead. So, the advice David Stock gave Mr R shouldve properly taken the benefits 
available to him through the BSPS2 into account and I think this shouldve alleviated Mr Rs 
concerns about the scheme moving to the PPF.
But even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that David Stock 
shouldve reassured Mr R that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he 
thought. The income available to Mr R through the PPF wouldve still provided a significant 
income at his retirement, and he was unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out. 
And although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the income was still 
guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, I dont think that these concerns 
shouldve led to David Stock recommending Mr R transfer out of the DB scheme altogether.
I also think Mr Rs desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr R was not 
an experienced investor, and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be 
able to manage his pension funds on his own. So, I dont think that this was a genuine 
objective for Mr R  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
 
It seems to me that Mr Rs stated desire for control related more to moving his pension 
away from an employer that he didnt trust than to any resolution on his part to begin to 
manage his investment.
But it ought to have been explained that Mr Rs employer and the trustees of the BSPS2 
were not one and the same. And in any event, Mr R was not intending to leave his 
employment and his DC pension remained connected to his employer  so transferring out 
of the scheme didnt achieve a break from his employer. So had David Stock explained that 
Mr Rs belief regarding the control Mr Rs employer had over his pension was misplaced, I 
think he would have been reassured by this.
Use of DFM 
David Stock recommended that Mr R use a DFM to manage his pension funds. As Im 
upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable 
for Mr R, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation. This is because Mr R should have been advised to remain in the DB 
scheme and so the DFM would not have had the opportunity to manage his funds if suitable 
advice had been given.Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr R. But David 
Stock wasnt there to just transact what Mr R might have thought he wanted. The advisers 
role was to really understand what Mr R needed and recommend what was in his best 
interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr R was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr R was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mr R shouldnt have been advised to transfer just 
because of any concerns he may have had about his employer or the scheme. This wasnt 
worth giving up the guarantees associated with his DB scheme.
Mr R was being advised by David Stock after having received the Time to Choose 
document and was at the point where he had to select which option to he wanted to take. 
Ive carefully considered what Mr R likely would have done  had he been suitably 
advised by David Stock  and on balance I think he would have opted to join the BSPS2. I 
say this because I dont think Mr Rs retirement plans were fully formed. So, I don't think 
that it would've been in his interests to accept the reduction in benefits he would've faced 
by the scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction 
for very early retirement. And by opting into the BSPS2, Mr R wouldve retained the ability 
to transfer out of the scheme if he needed to at some point in the future. The annual 
indexation of his pension when in payment was also more advantageous under the 
BSPS2. So, I think David Stock shouldve advised Mr R to opt into the BSPS2.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr R would've gone ahead anyway, against David 
Stock's advice. David Stock argues that this is the case. And I have noted that the point of 
sale documentation does say that Mr R was determined to transfer whatever the outcome 
of the advice given was. Put simply, David Stock says that Mr R was as good as an insistent 
client who wouldve chosen to transfer even if it had advised him against it.
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr R wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against David Stocks advice. I say this because Mr R 
was an inexperienced investor with at best a medium attitude to risk and this pension 
accounted for the majority of Mr Rs retirement provision. So, if David Stock had provided 
him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in 
his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice. And hes recently said that this 
was the case. 
Im not persuaded that Mr Rs concerns about his employer and the scheme were so great 
that he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose 
expertise he had sought out, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. If 
David Stock had explained that Mr R could meet all of his objectives without risking his 
guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr R 
would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think David Stock should compensate Mr R for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
I agree with our Investigator that Mr R will have been caused some distress and 
inconvenience by David Stocks unsuitable advice so I think that David Stock should pay 
him compensation of £200 in recognition of any trouble and upset it has caused him.Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr R, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr R would most 
likely have opted to join the BSPS2 if suitable advice had been given. 
David Stock must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement 
PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
David Stock should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. 
A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr R and our Service upon 
completion of the calculation.
For clarity, Mr R has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Rs 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, David Stock should:
calculate and offer Mr R redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr R before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr R receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr R accepts David Stocks offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr R for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Rs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr R as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, David Stock may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would 
have been taxed according to Mr Rs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 
20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
David Stock should pay Mr R £200 for the distress and inconvenience the unsuitable advice 
caused him. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus anyinterest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require David Stock & Co 
Limited to pay Mr R the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
David Stock & Co Limited pays Mr R the balance. 
If Mr R accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on David Stock & Co 
Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr R can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr R may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman