DRN-3770206
The complaint
Mr O complains about the customer service Barclays Bank UK PLC has provided in 
connection with his mortgage.
What happened
Mr O has a mortgage with Barclays. Mr O says hes been unable to work since the covid-19 
pandemic. Hes now in receipt of benefits. Hes not been making payments to his mortgage 
for some time. The mortgage is now in arrears.
Barclays contacted Mr O. It wanted to discuss the mortgage with him, to learn more about 
his situation and what he could afford to pay.
Mr O complained to us. He said that he had a hearing impairment. He said this meant that 
he couldnt understand the advisers who called him from Barclays overseas call centres. He 
said he wanted only UK-based staff to contact him. Mr O complained that he was being 
called every day. He said that Barclays had an obligation under the Equality Act to assist 
him.
Mr O said that he ought to be dealt with by Barclays vulnerable customer team. And he 
wanted Barclays to stop chasing him for payment. He said it could add the interest to his 
mortgage balance. It could then collect its money when he sold the property or died  
whichever came first.
Barclays said that it needed to speak to Mr O because his mortgage was in arrears. It 
needed to understand his situation and see what could be done to avoid repossession. It 
said it would refer him to its specialist vulnerable customer team so that team could decide 
whether it could help him. It paid £150 compensation for any upset he had been caused. But 
it said that it would continue to use non-UK based call centres where appropriate.
Our investigator thought that Barclays had made a fair offer. She said that Mr Os mortgage 
was in arrears and it was reasonable for Barclays to want to talk about the situation with him. 
Mr O asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Os mortgage is in significant arrears. Ive previously issued a decision in which I said that 
Barclays should have offered him a covid-19 payment deferral. Barclays has re-worked the 
mortgage as if it had done so.
But even so, the mortgage is still in significant arrears. A payment deferral only lasts for a 
maximum of six months. And after that Mr O would have been expected to start making 
payments again  but he hasnt been able to. So even after re-working the mortgage to allow 
for the payment deferral, there are still significant arrears.
In those circumstances I expect Barclays to try and contact Mr O. It needs to understand his 
situation and see whether he can afford to make any payments, or when he might able to 
start doing so. 
Its not possible to stop taking payments and add the interest to the balance indefinitely. This 
is an interest only mortgage, and the term ends next year. At that point it will need to be 
repaid. And in the meantime its reasonable for Barclays to expect Mr O to pay the interest 
due each month. The balance increases each month when he doesnt do so because more 
interest is charged.
Where he cant make payments, Barclays needs to look at his circumstances. Its tried to do 
that. But Mr O hasnt been willing to give income and expenditure information. And he hasnt 
wanted to speak to Barclays staff when they call him.
I dont think its reasonable to expect Barclays to only use UK-based staff to contact Mr O. It 
doesnt arrange its business that way. And if Mr O has difficulty hearing or understanding 
any individual person who calls him, he can ask them to speak more clearly, more loudly or 
more slowly  in a polite and appropriate way. But I dont think its reasonable to think that he 
will be able to understand all UK-based staff and not understand any non-UK based staff  
or practical to expect Barclays to do that. 
I dont have medical evidence about the nature or extent of Mr Os hearing impairment. But 
he does speak to Barclays regularly. Its therefore difficult for me to say that he has a 
disability within the meaning of the Equality Act. But even if he does, I dont think its a 
reasonable adjustment for Mr O to insist on only speaking to staff based in the UK.
Mr O has previously been dealt with by Barclays vulnerable customer team. But that team 
hasnt been involved with him for some years. Its explained that at the moment it doesnt 
think thats necessary and that Mr O is best helped by speaking to its mortgage specialists. I 
think thats reasonable. But Barclays will need to keep under review whether its appropriate 
for Mr O to be placed back with that team again.
Mr O complains that Barclays is threatening him with legal action. Thats because of the 
substantial arrears on his mortgage. Id expect Barclays to treat repossession as a last 
resort. 
But for repossession to be avoided, Mr O will need to engage with Barclays. Hell need to 
speak to its staff, and be prepared to discuss his income and expenditure so that it can look 
at whether theres an affordable arrangement that can be put in place. If Mr O isnt willing to 
do that, its difficult to see what Barclays can do to help him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im satisfied that Barclays Bank UK PLC made a reasonable offer 
when Mr O first complained. I dont therefore uphold this complaint or require it to take any 
further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman