DRN-3169918
The complaint
Ms O complains that Bank of Scotland, (BoS), mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance, (MMPI), policy with a mortgage.
What happened
Ms O took out a MPPI policy at the same time as taking out a mortgage with BoS in 1994. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Ms O didnt agree 
with this view, so it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Os case.
The parties cant be sure whether the sale took place in person, by post or over the phone. 
And although Ms O says that she was advised to take out the insurance, BoS no longer 
has a record of how the sale took place and whether it made a recommendation for Ms O. 
In any event, these points dont change my decision.
Because the sale was so long ago, BoS no longer has any of the paperwork signed by 
Ms O. And it is not required to keep papers for this length of time. So, Ive had to make my 
decision based on the information that I do have, what we know generally about the sale of 
MPPI policies and, in particular, those sold by BoS. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, (as some of it is here), Ive made my decision on the balance 
of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to have happened, in the light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances. Im satisfied that these approaches are a fair 
and reasonable way of reaching my decision.
I know that this will come as a disappointment to Ms O, but Ive decided not to uphold her 
complaint. I explain why below.
Ms O says that she understood that the insurance was compulsory. And that her mortgage 
would not have been approved without her taking the MPPI. I dont doubt that that is what 
she now recalls she was told. But she is trying to remember something that took place over 
25 years ago. And I dont think that its fair and reasonable to rely solely on her memory. 
And in the absence of any more persuasive evidence, I dont consider that Ive anything on 
which to conclude that BoS didnt make it clear that the policy was optional or that she 
didnt choose to take it.
From the information I have, on balance, Im satisfied that Ms O was eligible for the MPPI.
If BoS recommended that Ms O take out the policy it needed to have taken reasonable 
steps to ensure that it was suitable for her. Because of the time that has passed, I dont 
know what steps BoS actually took. But, in any event, I find that the policy was suitable. I 
say this taking into account what I know about Ms Os circumstances and by reference to 
the terms and conditions of the policy, because:
Ms O was not adversely affected by any of the policys main restrictions and 
limitations  such as those affecting someone with a pre-existing medical condition;
Ms O has told us that she was entitled to six months full sick pay and six months 
half pay. And that she had some savings But, following a successful claim for 
accident, sickness, or involuntary unemployment, the MPPI would have paid out 
£600 a month, had she not been working. These payments would have been made 
for up to 12 months. And would have been paid in addition to any sick pay and 
savings, leaving those available to help her meet her other expenses while she 
wasnt working. So I find that the MPPI could have been of use to Ms O;
The cost of the policy was initially about £40 a month and was competitively priced 
by reference to other similar policies available in the market at the time. And it 
offered reasonable benefits. And I havent seen anything to suggest that the 
premiums were unaffordable for Ms O. In any event, had she later felt that she 
couldnt afford the policy, or she no longer wanted it, she could have cancelled it at 
any time without further cost, as it was paid for monthly.
Whether or not BoS advised Ms O to take the MPPI it ought to have given Ms O clear, fair, 
and not-misleading information about its main features. This is so that she could decide 
whether she wanted it or not. Its possible that the information BoS gave Ms O wasnt as 
clear as it should have been. But Ive found nothing on which to conclude that she didnt 
choose to take the policy and it seems like it would have been useful for her if something 
went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think clear information about the 
MPPI would have put her off taking out the cover. I say this, particularly bearing in mind the 
serious consequences that could have arisen had Ms O not been able to make her monthly 
payments on her mortgage, which was secured on her home.
This means that Ms O hasnt lost out because of anything that may have been wrong with 
BoS sales process. So theres nothing I require BoS to put right.
As Ive said, Ive considered all the information that the parties have given us. Ms O told us 
that she had other insurance policies in place. But none of the ones shes told us about 
would have paid out in the same circumstances as the MPPI. Ms O also said that a claim for unemployment she made in 2002 was refused because she 
had received a redundancy payment. I have no details about this claim, nor do I know 
whether the policy she tried to claim against is the same as the one that forms the subject 
of this decision. But I cant see anything in the terms of the MPPI, which Ive considered 
here, which would prevent a successful claim on such a basis. (It may well be too late, but 
Ms O could consider making a new complaint if she thinks her claim was incorrectly 
refused.) So this and Ms Os other comments dont change my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my decision is that I do not uphold this compliant.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman