DRN-3097972
The complaint
Mrs and Mr O complain about the way AXA Insurance UK Plc has handled their claim for 
damage caused by subsidence. 
As well as being a policyholder, Mr O is the representative on this case, so for ease Ive 
referred to all actions and comments as being those of Mr O.
What happened
In May 2018, Mr O noticed some damage in his rental property, he made a claim for damage 
caused by subsidence. AXA looked into the claim but declined it and avoided his policy. It 
said he hadnt disclosed previous subsidence damage when he took out the policy, so hed 
misrepresented the risk. 
Mr O brought that complaint to our service and I issued a final decision on                           
18 September 2019. I didnt accept Mr O had misrepresented the risk. I directed AXA to 
reinstate his insurance policy and settle his claim for subsidence damage in line with the 
remaining policy terms. I also said AXA should consider Mr Os claim for lost rental 
payments.
From early 2020, Mr O raised concerns with AXA as the claim hadnt progressed following 
the final decision. He complained that whilst AXA had covered some lost rent, hed incurred 
more losses that it should cover as a result of not proactively progressing the claim.
AXA didnt formally respond to a complaint from Mr O, so he brought it to this service. He 
said whilst AXA had given a loss of rent payment to February 2021, he could have charged 
tenants a higher amount of rent, so he felt the amount offered was too low. He also said 
AXAs delays in repairing his property had caused significant disruption to his future financial 
plans and hed missed out on investing in more properties. 
Our investigator thought AXA had caused unnecessary delays from September 2019. He 
said AXA had communicated poorly with its contractors about what work needed to be 
carried out, which had resulted in months of delays. He noted AXA had paid Mr O some loss 
of rent but said interest should be paid on that amount from when the tenants moved out in 
September 2018 to the date AXA made the loss of rent payment. He also said AXA should 
pay a further £800 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the delays. 
But our investigator didnt think AXA needed to make any further award for other financial 
losses claimed by Mr O. He said Mr Os plans to buy more investment properties by 
releasing equity in this property would have always been disrupted by a subsidence claim, 
even if AXA hadnt delayed matters. He said he hadnt seen enough to say AXA was 
responsible for his claimed losses.
AXA didnt say whether it accepted the findings. Mr O didnt accept. He felt the 
compensation awarded was too low for the financial impact AXAs delays had caused him. 
He also said the stress of the claim and managing the property which needed repairs has 
had a significant impact on his wellbeing. 
As Mrs and Mr O didnt agree, the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision only considers events from 18 September 2019, after the previous final 
decision. And it will cover the claim until the point at which Mrs and Mr O brought the 
complaint to our service in February 2021. Its disappointing to see AXA hasnt progressed 
this claim with the urgency wed expect following a previous direction from this service. 
It seems AXA did attend the property in December 2019, but the contractors were under the 
impression they were only attending to arrange repair works, without carrying out any 
monitoring to determine if the property was stable. The same contractors attended again in 
March 2020 and it seems Mr O wasnt comfortable with them entering his property, given its 
proposal to carry out repairs. 
AXA agreed to appoint another company to carry out an assessment on the property, which I 
think was reasonable to do given Mr Os concerns. But a visit from the second contractor 
didnt take place until September 2020, and again this contractor thought it was only 
arranging repairs on the property. It wasnt until February 2021 that AXA decided it needed 
to monitor the property.
Im satisfied this confusion could have been avoided from the outset. As far as Im aware the 
property had never been monitored. And after September 2019, as part of settling the claim, 
a full assessment should have been carried out on the property to recommend what needed 
to be done. Had this happened, I think monitoring could have started around March 2020. 
But because of the poor communication from AXA, it didnt start until February 2021. So I 
consider AXA has caused an avoidable delay of around 11 months. 
Ive gone on to consider the impact that delay has had on Mrs and Mr O. I understand Mr 
Os frustrated at AXAs handling, but this service doesnt have the power to fine AXA for poor 
handling. But we can make awards where a business mistake has led to financial losses or 
has caused unnecessary distress and inconvenience. 
Mr Os said he could have bought another property with equity released from his current 
one, had AXA not delayed repairs. Hes also outlined his other financial plans he had and his 
projections of how much more money hed have, but for AXAs delay. Ive carefully 
considered all of the information Mr O has provided, whilst taking into account that 
subsidence claims can take a long time to resolve, even if there are no delays.
As far as Im aware the property is now still being monitored, and repairs are still to be 
carried out. Mr O has said he had an option to buy a neighbouring property in December 
2019. He hasnt provided any evidence to support this, such as property listings, as hes said 
he knew the previous owner and could have secured the property at a good rate. But even if 
he did have any evidence of this, from looking at the claim background I dont think its most 
likely the property would have been monitored and repaired to release the equity Mr O 
wanted in December 2019. Theres also the possibility that Mr O may not have secured the 
additional property for other reasons, such as issues during the sale, or potential issues with 
his bank agreeing the finances. 
It seems a lot of Mr Os other financial plans stemmed from his plan to purchase this 
additional investment property. And as I dont think AXA are responsible for this, it follows 
that I havent seen enough evidence to say AXA has caused him his further projected 
losses. AXA has paid Mr O for lost rent from when his tenant moved out in September 2018. It says 
he isnt entitled to lost rent under his policy terms, but it has paid it under the alternative 
accommodation cover. But it seems AXA didnt issue any payment for this until July 2020. 
So I agree with our investigator that Mr O was denied this money for a long period of time, 
and so AXA should pay 8% on each of those rental payments from the date they would have 
been paid, until the date of settlement in July 2020.
AXA has paid a rental payment of £575 per month based on the tenancy agreement 
provided by Mr O. But hes said he was charging his previous tenants a lower amount, as 
theyd been in the property for a long time. He says the actual rental worth of the property is 
around £1,300 per month, so hes argued thats what AXA should pay. Having considered 
both sides, I dont think AXA has acted unreasonably in using the tenancy agreement to 
issue the payments. I havent seen any evidence from Mr O that his property could be rented 
out for more than it was. His estimation seems to be based on similar properties, but I 
havent seen anything that persuades me Mr O would have received the rent hes claiming 
for from 2018, given the significant difference between this and the actual rental income.
This service can also make awards where a business mistake has caused unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience. Mr O has told us how hes been impacted by AXAs delays, hes 
said his wellbeing has suffered as a result of the ongoing management of the claim, and his 
relationships have suffered as a result. Hes also said hes worried about his familys 
financial future because of how long the claim has been ongoing. I realise the whole claim 
has been ongoing for a number of years now, but I can only look at distress and 
inconvenience caused since I issued my last decision on 18 September 2019. Having done 
so, I think AXA should pay Mr O £800 to recognise the impact its mistakes have had on him 
and Mrs O.  
My final decision
My final decision is that AXA Insurance UK Plc needs to:
Pay Mrs and Mr O 8% simple interest per annum on the reimbursed rental payments, 
calculated from the dates they would have been received from his tenants to the date 
they were reimbursed.
Pay Mrs and Mr O £800 compensation for unnecessary distress and inconvenience 
caused from 18 September 2019, to February 2021.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman