DRN-2091458
 
The complaint
Mr Z complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) told him it would agree a new 
repayment plan but later changed its mind.
What happened
Mr Z says he called RBS to discuss his loan account and says he was told he could 
complete an income and expenditure form before a new repayment plan could be agreed. 
He says RBS then told him it wouldn't offer such a plan, and he says that has caused stress 
and anxiety. Mr Z says RBS has misled him and made a binding offer which it ought to keep 
to. He would like RBS to agree a new plan and is concerned about a default being 
registered.
RBS accepts it gave Mr Z incorrect information when he called it in August 2019 and says it 
shouldn't have discussed a repayment plan as it had previously given him four plans that 
had all failed. It says its normal policy is to offer three plans. RBS has apologised for the 
mistake and paid £80 compensation and refunded interest of £50. It says to avoid the default 
Mr Z need to continue to make his monthly repayments.
Mr Z brought his complaint to us but our investigator thought RBS had dealt fairly with it and 
paid a fair and reasonable amount of compensation. The investigator thought RBS had tried 
to help Mr Z by agreeing the plans, but he had broken all of them and thought RBS had 
acted positively and sympathetically to his position.
Mr Z doesn't accept that view and says there was a contract between him and RBS which it 
broke. He says such an act is illegal and says the offer to allow him to complete a new 
income and expenditure form had the affect of resetting their relationship. Mr Z says he has 
not made any monthly repayments since he brought this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the 
overall view that RBS has dealt fairly with this complaint and I don't require it to do anything 
further.
There is no question that RBS made a mistake by asking Mr Z to complete a new income 
and expenditure form and by telling him it would consider a new repayment plan. I 
appreciate that Mr Z was caused frustration in those circumstances to find out some days 
later that wasn't the case and that RBS would not offer a fifth repayment plan. I'm satisfied 
that RBS has fairly apologised for that mistake and has paid what I think is a fair and 
reasonable amount of compensation. I don't think Mr Z suffered any financial loss as a result 
of the mistake.
I have listened to the call between the parties in August 2019 and I'm satisfied that a new repayment plan was not agreed but that it would be considered when Mr Z completed the 
required income and expenditure forms. 
Banks and building societies should treat customers in financial difficulties positively and 
sympathetically and should offer help. I can see that from November 2018 to April 2019 RBS 
set up four repayment plans with Mr Z, but he broke each one of them and made very few 
required payments. So I'm satisfied RBS has acted as I would expect and has tried on a 
number of occasions to support and help Mr Z. I think it's clear that Mr Z is unable to make  
required payments and I think that even if a new plan had been agreed in August 2019 that 
it's unlikely Mr Z would have kept to the terms of it. I say that based on his payment history 
under the previous plans and that he has told us he hasn't made any payments to RBS 
whilst this complaint has been ongoing which has been about 12 months.
I appreciate Mr Z says that RBS's actions were illegal and that it breached a contract offer. 
We are not a court and it would be for a court to make such findings. I have explained that I 
don't think RBS  made an actual offer to Mr Z and I don't accept its actions had the affect of 
starting the process of offering repayment plans again. I think RBS reasonably considered 
Mr Z's previous compliance with the four plans and reasonably concluded in line with its 
policy that there would be little point offering further such plans. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman