DRN-2258646
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) declined a claim for sofa 
damage under a warranty insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D bought a new sofa, along with a warranty policy. A few years later, Mr D made a claim 
under the policy because some of the colour had come off parts of the sofa.
Great Lakes sent an engineer to assess the sofa. The engineer said he couldnt find a 
manufacturing fault and that the leather had been contaminated by an outside source.
Mr D complained to Great Lakes. When Great Lakes replied, it maintained its decision to 
decline the claim, as it said the damage wasnt covered by any of the policy terms and 
conditions.
So, Mr D complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said 
that it was reasonable for Great Lakes to turn down the claim, as the damage wasnt 
covered by the policy.
As Mr D did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at the details of this case, although Im aware that this will disappoint Mr D, I 
dont uphold it. Ill explain why.
For the claim to be accepted, the damage would need to be an insured risk. Ive looked at 
the details of the damage, including Mr Ds description of it and the engineers report and the 
photos.
Mr D described the damage as the sofa colour fading and that he didnt know how it had 
happened. When the engineer visited, he found that the colour had lifted from leather. The 
engineer carried out a rub test on the sofa and no colour came off. He said that Mr D had 
also confirmed that all he had used to clean the leather was a leather care kit, which he had 
been provided by the company that sold him the sofa. The engineers report said looks like 
the leather has been contaminated by an outside source to cause damage to leather.
Looking at the policy terms and conditions, it says The following occurrences of stain, 
structural defects and accidental damage are covered under this Certificate of
Insurance subject to the exclusions listed under What is not covered. It then described a 
number of types of stains, structural damage or accidental damage to the sofa. But having 
read these, none of these relate to the colour of the sofa fading. 
Ive also looked at what was included in the section called What is Not Covered and this 
included Fading, effect of sunlight or non-colour fast materials.
Im aware that Mr D has said that he doesnt know the cause of the fading, but fading was 
explicitly excluded under the terms of the policy. So, on that basis, I think it was reasonable 
for Great Lakes to turn down the claim, as the damage wasnt covered by the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman