DRN-3120288
The complaint
Mr H1 (father) and Mr H2 (son) have complained that Santander UK Plc refused to allow 
them to port (transfer) their mortgage onto a new property. As a result, they had to pay an 
early repayment charge (ERC) when they repaid the mortgage. They want Santander to 
reimburse them.
 
What happened
Mr H1 and Mr H2 had a mortgage with Santander in their joint names on a property in which 
Mr H1 lived. On the advice of their mortgage broker, on 24 February 2017 Mr H1 and Mr H2 
borrowed £276,745 (including fees) from Santander, on an interest-only basis over a term of 
12 years. The mortgage was on a fixed rate of 1.99% until 2 April 2022, after which it 
reverted to Santanders standard variable rate. If the mortgage was repaid before that date, 
an ERC would be payable. The interest rate product on the mortgage was only available up 
to a maximum 60% loan to value ratio (LTV).
On 12 March 2020 Mr H1 applied to port the mortgage onto a new property and wanted this 
to be done in his sole name. The new property was £430,000 and Mr H1 wanted to port 
£275,000, giving a LTV of about 64%. Santander declined the application, as it wasnt 
affordable in Mr H1s sole name.
On 15 May 2020 Mr H2 spoke to Santander about porting the mortgage in joint names. It 
was explained by Santander that because the new property was of a lower value, Santander 
would allow only £215,000 to be lent on interest-only. Thats because Santander had 
changed its rules and would now only allow 50% of the LTV to be on interest-only. The 
balance would have to be on a repayment basis. Mr H2 said that hed been told that if he 
and Mr H1 were putting at least £150,000 into the property, thered be an exception made for 
them.
After checking the position, Santander confirmed that this was not the case and that the 50% 
LTV applied as this was a new application on a new property. The £150,000 equity buffer 
applied if the sale of the property was to be used as the repayment vehicle. As a result of 
this, and due to changes in Mr H2s employment status from employed to self-employed, 
Santander explained it would need to carry out an affordability assessment for the mortgage. 
Santander also said that this would have to be on a part-interest-only, part-capital repayment 
basis (which I will refer to as part-and-part). 
During the call, Mr H2 explained that, although Mr H1 had unsecured debts, the intention 
was that these would be paid off out of the proceeds of sale and so wouldnt impact the new 
mortgage. However, Santander said it would need to take these into consideration when 
carrying out a credit check (although there was no explanation about how this would affect 
the assessment of affordability of the mortgage going forward). 
Santander said that, due to Mr H1s existing credit commitments and Mr H2s change of 
employment , the mortgage was unaffordable and the application was declined. Santander 
said that, taking the mortgage up to Mr H1s 70th birthday by extending the term, only about 
£209,000 could be lent. Mr H2 asked if there was any point proceeding with a full 
application, but because hed been told it wouldnt be affordable, no formal application was 
made.
Mr H1 and Mr H2 complained to Santander. They believed Santander was wrong to decline 
the porting application, based on the information on Santanders website. Specifically, Mr H2 
pointed out that Santanders intermediaries website said:
Existing Santander mortgage customers who have any part of their existing loan on 
an interest only basis can port their existing deal subject to our current lending 
criteria. 
If there is no increase in any interest only loan part and the existing vehicle was 
previously (but no longer) acceptable to Santander, we may consider their new 
application where the existing mortgage is being simultaneously redeemed and 
already falls outside of the current interest only policies stated. This is subject to:
maximum LTV 85%
maximum age not to exceed 75th birthday of any borrower.
Santander didnt uphold the complaint, as it said the request in May 2020 was materially 
different from the existing mortgage, being a part-and-part application, with a change of 
Mr H2s employment status where affordability needed to be checked. Santander also said 
the application didnt meet its lending criteria.
The mortgage was repaid on 10 September 2020. In line with the mortgage offer an ERC of 
£13,799.75 was paid, along with a redemption administration fee of £225.
The complaint was brought to the Financial Ombudsman Service, where an investigator 
looked at it. She didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She thought Santander was 
entitled to reassess affordability in all the circumstances, taking into account that the May 
2020 application was for a part-and-part mortgage.
Mr H2 (who has largely dealt with the complaint throughout) disagreed with the investigators 
findings and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Mr H2 said:
the basis of the complaint is that Santander had told them that the application wouldnt 
be subject to underwriting if both borrowers were to remain on the application; 
when they tried to port in joint names, Santander refused even to accept an application 
on the basis that it didnt meet their new business underwriting criteria;
Santander refused to consider the exception mentioned on the intermediary website 
which Mr H2 pointed out to Santander during the call on 25 May 2020;
it was not their intention to change the repayment type or term; they were told by 
Santander during the phone call on 25 May 2020 that they would be required to change 
this and only agreed to do so because Santander told them this was the only available 
option for them to be able to port the mortgage;
even then, Santander told them it would be unaffordable, so they didnt go ahead with a 
full application;
the problem was that Santanders staff who were not qualified mortgage advisers 
rejected the application at the outset, before they could even speak to a qualified 
mortgage adviser.
Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a decision on the complaint.
Provisional decisionOn 21 September 2021 I issued a provisional decision in which I made the following findings:
Ill begin by explaining that there are regulations that have flowed from the FCAs 
Mortgage Market Review (MMR) which took place after the financial crash in 2008. 
This has led to a series of major changes, effective since 2014, in the way residential 
mortgages are regulated. MMR regulations have brought about requirements for 
stricter lending assessments, aimed to protect consumers and encourage mortgage 
lenders to act more responsibly. 
The FCA recognised though that existing borrowers who wanted to make changes to 
their mortgages might have difficulties with this if they passed tests under the old 
rules but not under the new ones. So, it introduced certain rules to address this. The 
rules are contained in the Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (MCOB).
MCOB 11.6.3, says a lender doesnt have to carry out an affordability assessment if 
a borrower wants to vary or replace an existing mortgage and there is no additional 
borrowing (other than for product fees) and no change to the terms of the mortgage 
that affect its affordability
There are also transitional arrangements, particularly MCOB 11.7.1, which says that 
a lender need not carry out an affordability assessment if: 
the borrower has an existing mortgage taken out before 26 April 2014, and is 
applying to vary that mortgage or replace it with a new one;  
the application wouldnt involve any additional borrowing except for essential 
repairs to the property, or to add product fees to the balance; 
theres been no further borrowing (with some exceptions) since 26 April 2014; 
and  
the proposed transaction is in the borrowers best interests. 
So, under this rule, even where a change material to the affordability of the mortgage 
takes place, the lender can, if it chooses, waive an affordability assessment. If the 
lender decides to carry out an affordability assessment, it shouldnt use that as a 
reason to decline an application if allowing the application would otherwise be in the 
customers best interests. But the lender can take the assessment into account as 
part of its consideration of best interests.
Mr H1 wanted to move house and keep the joint mortgage with Mr H2. Its important 
to remember than when porting a borrower doesnt transfer their mortgage loan from 
one property to another. Rather, they pay back their existing loan secured on the first 
property and apply for a new loan secured on the second property. The lender must 
consider that application in line with the rules in MCOB. If its granted, the lender will 
then consider whether to allow the old loans product to be ported to the new one  
the product in this case being the fixed interest rate.
Its the termination of the product before its expiry, not the paying back of the loan, 
which triggers the ERC. If the lender doesnt agree to the new mortgage, theres 
nothing to port the product onto, and so the ERC will be payable.
Thats what Mr H1 and Mr H2 wanted to do  keep their borrowing at the same level, 
but on the new property so they could avoid paying the ERC.Its worth noting that Santander didnt formally make a decision on an application to 
port  because Mr H1 and Mr H2 didnt apply. Thats because Mr H2 was told during 
the telephone call on 25 May 2020 that the application wasnt going to be successful 
because of affordability.
I note that Santander said that Mr H2 specifically applied for a part-and-part 
mortgage during the 25 May 2020 call. I have been provided with only part of the call 
recording, but its clear from what Ive heard that the request was for a like-for-like 
port, and that it was Santander, after telling Mr H2 that an interest-only port of 
£215,000 (50% LTV) would be allowed, that suggested that Mr H2 should proceed on 
a part-and-part basis. It was also Santander which suggested that, in order for the 
repayment part to be affordable, the term should be extended to Mr H1s 70th 
birthday.
None of that is what Mr H1 and Mr H2 wanted, but they were told this was their only 
option.
What this case turns on is whether it falls within 11.6.3R  which allows a lender to 
set aside the requirement to undertake an affordability assessment in certain 
circumstances. MCOB 11.6.3R says that 11.6.2 does not apply where a new 
mortgage replaces an old mortgage, whether or not for the same property, provided 
that the new contract does not involve additional borrowing and there is no change to 
the terms of the mortgage likely to be material to affordability.
I think thats clear. Provided the conditions are met, there isnt any discretion for the 
lender. MCOB 11.6.3R says 11.6.2R does not apply if the conditions are met. So if 
they are met, there is no requirement to assess affordability.
The first condition  that theres no additional borrowing  was clearly met in this 
case. And I think the second was as well. The rule requires that there be no change 
to the terms of the regulated mortgage contract which is likely to be material to 
affordability.
Santander has pointed to Mr H2s change of employment circumstances. I dont 
consider this to be a change to the terms of the regulated mortgage contract. Its a 
change to the wider circumstances in which the loan operates and  I acknowledge  
could affect Santanders exposure to risk. But its not a change to the terms of the 
mortgage; I think that means things that are part of the mortgage contract itself  as 
indeed are all the examples given in 11.6.4E.
The rationale appears to be as follows:
the new mortgage would have a higher LTV, which is a higher risk to Santander;
it would therefore want to consider other risks as well, one of which is 
affordability;
any porting application is subject to Santanders lending criteria;
Mr H2s change in employment circumstances was a material change for the 
purposes of 11.6.3R and so made the application of an affordability test, as 
required by MCOB 11.6.2R, appropriate;
the change to a part-and-part mortgage was a material change, which required 
an affordability assessment, which Mr H1 and Mr H2 failed  partly due to Mr 
H1s unsecured credit.I agree that Santander can assess a porting application based on its lending policy at 
the time. I also agree that Santanders lending policy is to carry out an affordability 
assessment. But the policy itself isnt part of the contract, and I dont think it was fair 
or reasonable for Santander to apply its policy to Mr H1 and Mr H2 when MCOB said 
it shouldnt.
Ive also thought about whether, notwithstanding 11.6.3R, Santander would have 
been right to carry out some form of affordability assessment  even one not as strict 
as is required by MCOB 11.6. In this regard, the regulations say that Santander is 
required to act in its customers best interests. Clearly it wouldnt be in Mr H1 and Mr 
H2s best interests to be granted an unaffordable mortgage, but I dont think that is 
the situation here.
I also dont think that taking into account Mr H1 and Mr H2s best interests would 
require an affordability assessment in this case. I say that because, from Mr H1 and 
Mr H2s point of view, there would have been no change to the mortgage except the 
secured property. The borrowing would be the same, the term would be the same, 
the monthly payments would be the same. 
Santanders criteria required there to be at least £150,000 equity in the property, and 
there would have been £155,000. I also note that on its intermediary website (which 
is available to the public), Santander explains that, where there is an application to 
port, that is outside criteria, an exception can be applied:
If there is no increase in any interest only loan part and the existing vehicle 
was previously (but no longer) acceptable to Santander, we may consider 
their new application where the existing mortgage is being simultaneously 
redeemed and already falls outside of the current interest only policies stated.
 
The criteria was that the LTV had to be under 85% and the borrower could be no 
older than 75. Both criteria were met in this case.
The original repayment vehicle was that Mr H1 was going to downsize  but he was 
intending to do that with this new purchase. However, he would be exceeding the 
£150,000 equity threshold for an interest-only mortgage where the repayment vehicle 
is sale of the property, so I dont think that would have been any impediment to 
Santander considering an exception to its criteria.
The LTV was increasing above Santanders interest-only threshold of 50%, but only 
to 64%, which is still well below the total allowable LTV of 85%.
I also note that on 25 May 2020 the staff member Mr H2 spoke to said that, 
notwithstanding that Mr H1 was repaying all his unsecured debt from the proceeds of 
sale, this would still have to be taken into account  and was one reason why Mr H2 
was told the part-and-part application was declined on affordability.
Because Mr H1 and Mr H2 were told their application wasnt going to be successful, 
it never progressed to the stage where a qualified underwriter looked at it. Had that 
been the case, I think Santander would have been able to apply the transitional 
arrangements in MCOB and determine whether or not the application was in Mr H1 
and Mr H2s best interests without carrying out an affordability assessment.
I think the issue of the LTV could have been considered, taking into account that the 
equity threshold had been exceeded and the total LTV was only 64%. In addition, the 
issue of the unsecured credit could easily have been dealt with by way of a special condition in the mortgage offer requiring a solicitors undertaking to discharge those 
debts out of the net proceeds of sale.
But Mr H1 and Mr H2 never got to that stage, because they were told during their 
initial enquiry that the application wouldnt succeed, so they believed there was no 
point proceeding with it. As a result, Mr H1 and Mr H2 lost the opportunity to have 
their porting request properly considered.
In the circumstances, I dont think Santander treated Mr H1 and Mr H2 fairly, or that it 
properly applied the provisions of MCOB to their porting request. Im not persuaded 
there was any requirement, on a like-for-like application, to carry out an affordability 
assessment. I also find that Santander should have looked at whether or not the 
request was in Mr H1 and Mr H2s best interests. 
It follows, therefore, that I think Santander was wrong to reject the application at the 
enquiry stage on the basis of affordability. The consequences of Santanders actions 
are that Mr H1 and Mr H2 had to pay the ERC, as well as the cost of taking out a new 
mortgage.
To put things right, I said that the following should happen.
I think if Santander had correctly applied MCOB 11.7 to Mr H1 and Mr H2s porting 
request, it should have been granted. If it had, they wouldnt have incurred the ERC. 
In the circumstances, I think its fair for Santander to refund the ERC of £13,799.75 , 
and the redemption administration fee of £225. 
Mr H1 and Mr H2 took out a new mortgage for the purchase of Mr H1s new property. 
I havent seen a copy of the mortgage offer, so I dont know if its at a higher or lower 
interest rate than the Santander mortgage. Mr H1 and Mr H2 will need to provide a 
copy of the new mortgage offer.
If the mortgage is on a higher interest rate than the Santander fixed rate, the bank 
will need to refund the difference in payments from the date of redemption until 2 
April 2022 (when the Santander rate expired). If the new mortgage is at a lower rate, 
then any benefit Mr H1 and Mr H2 have gained will need to be factored in.  
Santander will also need to refund any mortgage application or other setup fees paid 
by Mr H1 and Mr H2 when taking out the new mortgage.
Interest at 8% simple per annum will also be payable on this financial redress.
I am also minded to make an award for distress and inconvenience of £300, to take 
into account the trouble and upset caused to Mr H1 and Mr H2 as a result of 
Santanders actions.
Responses to the provisional decision
Mr H1 and Mr H2 accepted the provisional decision and provided, as requested, a copy of 
Mr H1s new mortgage offer.Santander didnt agree with my provisional decision. The bank said that it had always been 
the intention that the mortgage would be in Mr H1s sole name, and so it was right for 
Santander to apply its affordability criteria. The fact that the new mortgage is in Mr H1s sole 
name supports this, and so Santander doesnt agree that it did anything wrong. 
But in any event, Santander has pointed out that there would always have been some ERC 
to pay, because the amount of the new mortgage is less than the Santander mortgage, so 
the ERC would have been payable on the difference.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the case in full, including the additional points made by Santander, and Ive 
reconsidered my provisional decision. Having done so, I have not changed my mind about 
upholding the complaint.
I agree with Santander that originally Mr H1 wanted the mortgage in his sole name  and if 
that was the case, then Santander was entitled to apply its affordability criteria.
But the crucial point which Santander has failed to mention is that when Mr H2 spoke to 
Santander on 25 May 2020, he specifically asked if the application could be made in joint 
names  and was told that this wasnt possible because it would be declined due to 
affordability. This was not, in my opinion, correct, given the transitional provisions to which I 
have referred above.
If Santander had correctly applied the transitional provisions, Mr H1 and Mr H2 would have 
been allowed to make the joint application. As I explained in my provisional decision, 
because there was no additional borrowing, there would be no need for Santander to carry 
out an affordability assessment.
Santander effectively blocked Mr H1 and Mr H2 from making the joint application by telling 
them that it would be declined. In the circumstances, Im satisfied that it was solely due to 
this incorrect advice that Mr H1 and Mr H2 incurred the ERC. It matters not that the new 
mortgage is in Mr H1s sole name; he and Mr H2 were entitled to have a joint application 
considered by Santander to port their existing mortgage, but were denied this opportunity 
and thus had no option but to seek a mortgage elsewhere and pay the ERC.
For these reasons  and for the reasons given in my provisional decision  and after 
considering the points Santander have made, I am upholding this complaint.
 
Putting things right
Santander has correctly said that a partial ERC would have been payable by Mr H1 and 
Mr H2 in any event. Thats because the loan balance at redemption was £276,745 and the 
new mortgage was for £255,000 (plus a £1,034 fee added to the loan). Santander has also 
pointed out (and I agree) that the administrative fee of £225 to close the mortgage account is 
always payable, even on a porting case, so that does not need to be reimbursed.
The new mortgage is at 2.34% on a five-year fixed rate, and the old mortgage was at 1.99% 
until 2 April 2022. So Mr H1 is paying more for the new mortgage, which Santander will need 
to take into account.So to put things right, I direct Santander to do the following:
reimburse the ERC paid on redemption of the Santander mortgage, less any ERC that 
would have been payable if the equivalent amount borrowed under the new mortgage 
(£255,000) had been ported onto the new property;
reimburse the fee of £1,034 added to the new mortgage;
pay Mr H1 the difference in monthly repayments at 1.99% and 2.34% on £256,034 (the 
amount borrowed plus the fee added to the loan) from the date of redemption of the 
Santander mortgage to 2 April 2022;
pay interest at 8% simple per annum on the above*;
pay compensation of £300 for distress and inconvenience.
* If Santander considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income 
tax from any interest, it should tell Mr H1 and Mr H2 how much it has taken off. Santander 
should also give Mr H1 and Mr H2 a tax deduction certificate if requested, so the tax can be 
reclaimed from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Santander UK Plc to settle the 
complaint as set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman