DRN-2938582
The complaint
Miss R complains that TSB Bank plc unfairly recorded a default against her credit account 
and sold her debt on. She also complains about the contact she received following an £800 
transfer error, and that she didnt receive a contactless debit card when requested. 
What happened
Miss R took out a credit card in 2018. Later that year she began to suffer with health issues 
and experienced abuse, depression, joblessness and homelessness. Miss R says that this 
caused her difficulties in repaying her card until her financial situation improved in 2020. 
In May 2020 Miss R made contact with TSB to discuss making repayments while she was 
furloughed. Miss R says that she was told that calls were only being taken about basic 
enquiries and she couldnt be routed to the right department. 
In September that year, Miss R discovered that her credit card account had been sold to a 
debt collection agency and a default had been recorded. 
Miss R complained to TSB. They issued their final response in November 2020. They said 
that they wouldnt be removing the default as it had been recorded correctly. They advised 
that they had attempted to contact Miss R but she hadnt responded and so the decision was 
correct.
  
Miss R also raised two additional complaint points. 
The first related to an incident in February 2020 when she made a transfer of £800 in branch 
to her husband, but TSB transferred to the wrong person. She feels that during the recovery 
process, TSB contacted her excessively, asking her to assist them when it was a bank error.
The second additional issue was that she was not issued with a contactless debit card for 
her account despite her making several requests.     
Miss R brought her complaint to us. 
Our investigator upheld Miss R s complaint.  She thought that TSB had applied the default 
fairly, but that they could have done more to assist Miss R when she notified them that she 
had health and financial issues. She recommended TSB do the following:
Return the account back to in house from the debt collection agency
Set up dedicated support to assist Miss R and communicate according to her needs.
Issue a contactless card
Pay £100 in recognition of the distress experienced by Miss R caused by not 
managing her account after being advised of her health issues.
TSB disputed paying the £100 distress payment as they said that in September 2020 they 
had provided Miss R with the option of having the debt returned to them, and she refused as 
she had already set up a payment plan with the debt collection agency. 
The investigator stood by the recommendation, saying that although TSB had made this 
offer in September, they should have been given more support from May 2020 when she 
notified TSB of her vulnerabilities.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am upholding this complaint and I will explain why below. 
I have seen all the information provided by TSB, including the system notes, and I have 
taken into account the testimony provided by Miss R. 
Reporting of the default
I can see from the account information provided that Miss R took out the card in June 2018 
with a credit limit of £5500. She quickly spent up to this limit by December 2018, using the 
card for everyday expenditure, but only making little over the minimum payment each month 
between July 2018 and December 2018. Miss R exceeded her credit limit for the first time in 
May 2019, and despite making repayments, she remained in excess of her credit limit from 
then onwards as a result of further expenditure, and was charged a fee each month.  
In January 2020 Miss R failed to make a repayment for the first time, missing it again in 
February, March and April. TSBs records show Miss R was sent notices about missed 
payments in January, February, March and April, with default notices being sent in March 
and May 2020.
 
Although Miss R made a payment of £50 in May 2020, this was less than the minimum 
payment and was not part of a payment arrangement. No further payments were made, and 
in September 2020, TSB registered the default. 
Although Miss R did make contact with TSB when she made the payment in May 2020, and 
she did make them aware of her financial difficulties and health problems, I dont think TSB 
have acted unfairly in registering the default, as Miss R had been in arrears for over six 
months at that point, having only made one payment of £50, and had no payment 
arrangement was in place. TSB have a duty to report a fair and accurate reflection of how 
Miss R has managed her account to credit reporting agencies, and I am satisfied that they 
have done nothing wrong here.  
However, I do agree with the investigator that there was a breakdown in communication 
between Miss R and TSB during the time she was experiencing financial difficulties, and 
TSB could have done more to help her earlier. 
Miss R was significantly exceeding her credit limit from May 2019 onwards and has told us 
that she was experiencing a difficult time emotionally, living with her husbands family and 
not being able to get stable employment. Despite the account being with the Collections 
Department and Miss R being persistently several hundred pounds over her limit, no contact 
was attempted with Miss R until she stopped paying altogether and went into arrears in 
January 2020. 
In their final response letter dated November 2020, TSB say that the role of the Collections 
Department is as a dedicated team who can help by providing a full financial review and 
agreeing reduced repayments. Whilst I accept that they tried to contact Miss R from January 
onwards, they had held the account for the whole of the previous year and hadnt attempted contact despite Miss Rs debt continuing to increase well over her credit limit.  So, I think 
they could have done more here, and if they had made contact earlier, the situation may not 
have escalated to the situation in January 2020, and the matter might not have been passed 
to a debt collection agency.  
TSBs records show various arrears letters and SMS being sent to Miss R from January 
2020 onwards. TSB say they also made calls, but none of the calls were answered.  Miss R 
says that she didnt receive the calls as her phone blocks unlisted numbers and that she 
didnt receive the letters. I can see that the letters were sent to Miss Rs parents address 
until April 2020 although she wasnt living there, and to her new address from April onwards. 
So, she should have received these later letters. I am also satisfied that from May onwards 
Miss R was aware of the position with her account as she had spoken to TSB about it in May 
when she made a payment, and she was aware of the need to make a repayment 
arrangement.  
Miss R says that she did contact TSB about her debit card several times, and about her 
arrears but she could not always get to speak to the right person. Unfortunately TSBs 
records dont show any contact apart from the contact in May and so I am unable to make a 
finding about this.  
However, despite that, I am satisfied that TSB were aware of the financial difficulties that 
Miss R was getting into from May 2019 onwards, and having passed her account to the 
Collections Department, they missed an opportunity to help her. In respect of this, I agree 
that TSB should pay £100 to Miss R for the distress and inconvenience caused by failing to 
provide support at the earliest opportunity. 
 
Contact following the £800 transfer error and the contactless card. 
Miss R has complained that she was contacted repeatedly by TSB about the erroneous 
transaction and asked to help recover the money when it was their error. TSB say that they 
wrote to Miss R in May 2020 because they couldnt recover the funds and thought she might 
be able to help as she had previously made a payment to the person. Whilst I can see that 
this error was TSBs I dont think its unreasonable for them to ask if she is able to help in the 
recovery of the funds if the person is known to her. 
Finally, in relation to the contactless debit card, I can see that a debit card was sent to Miss 
R in May 2020, so I dont think TSB refused to send the requested card. It seems that it 
mightve been sent to the wrong address or didnt arrive to Miss R. So, I dont agree that 
TSB have done anything wrong here. They should, however, issue a replacement card to 
her new address if they havent already done so. 
 
Putting things right
In view of the reasoning I have given above, I agree with the investigators recommendations 
for putting things right and direct TSB to do the following:
Return the account back to in house from the debt collection agency 
Set up dedicated support to assist Miss R and communicate according to her needs.
Issue a contactless card
Pay £100 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused by not assisting 
Miss R sooner
 My final decision
My decision is that I am upholding Miss Rs complaint and directing TSB Bank PLC to 
undertake the actions above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman