DRN-2012859
 
The complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank PLC has repeatedly issued him new bank cards, without 
being asked and with no explanation of why these are sent.
What happened
Mr P told us that in the last two years, hed been issued with an estimated ten to fourteen 
different bank cards by Barclays. He had repeatedly been left with a card which no longer 
worked, without any advance notice of this. Things came to a head at the end of September, 
when he said he was sent three or four cards, and the last one didnt work. He said he was 
still being charged for his account, but he couldnt access the money in it.
Mr P said he couldnt use telephone banking, and a promised new telephone banking code 
had never been sent. He had no access to online banking either. He couldnt pay his bills. 
Hed spent a very considerable amount of time on the phone to Barclays, but hadnt 
managed to sort things out. He was concerned this would affect his credit rating.
Mr P said he does have a building society account, so he can buy food with this. But to 
access that money he has to make a long journey to his nearest branch. Mr P told us 
Barclays has offered him £200. He doesnt think thats enough for what has gone wrong.
Barclays wrote to him on 17 October 2019. It said it was glad that hed now received a 
working card. His online banking had been blocked because of multiple failed attempts, but 
he should be able to access that now. Barclays credited his account with £71 to refund the 
charges applied for failed payments while online banking didnt work. And it paid £200 for the 
inconvenience. It didnt mention Mr Ps previous difficulties with reissued cards.
Mr P told us his card was working at this stage, but it failed again in November.
Barclays said it had issued several cards over the last couple of years, although it didnt 
think this was as many as 14 in one year. (That may be because Mr P had estimated ten to 
fourteen over two years.) It said it couldnt see any evidence to suggest that these were 
faulty, or that it had discussed with him the difficulty he was having. Separately, Barclays has 
shown us notes that say that one card issued in August 2019 was faulty, it was affected by a 
known problem with cards issued at that time.
Barclays said the problem might be caused by where or how Mr P was storing the cards. It 
said it hadnt had problems with other cards issued to other customers. Barclays thought 
what it had already paid Mr P was enough to make up for what had gone wrong here.
Barclays said it had explained to Mr P how he could get transcripts of his calls, but he hadnt 
gone through that process.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that Barclays had 
looked at the problems Mr P had recently, and he would take into account what Barclays had 
done, as well as the payment it had made to Mr P.
Our investigator noted that Barclays wasnt having problems with other cards, so the issue 
might be how Mr P was storing the cards. He said there wasnt enough evidence to hold 
Barclays responsible for whats gone wrong with Mr Ps cards. It had sent the recent 
replacement in a timely manner. Our investigator didnt think it was fair to hold Barclays 
liable for issues that seem to have arisen after the cards were issued.
Our investigator didnt think Mr P had actually ordered call transcripts, although hed 
discussed the process for doing so with Barclays. Our investigator thought a telephone 
banking passcode had been sent to Mr P on 6 October. Previous failed attempts to log in 
using online banking had caused Mr Ps online banking to lock, this was to protect his 
account. Our investigator thought that delays had caused the problems Mr P was having to 
go on longer than it should.
Our investigator said Mr P couldve travelled to a branch to do his banking. He accepted this 
wouldve been inconvenient as thats quite a distance from Mr P. But he said he had to take 
into consideration that Mr P couldve helped the situation by doing this. Our investigator 
thought that Barclays offer was fair.
Mr P replied to say he disputed that Barclays wasnt liable for its lack of attention and 
exceptionally poor service. So he disputed and rejected the findings. He felt wed glossed 
over what had happened.
Mr P said his tenancy had been at risk, because he didnt have access to pay his rent, or 
transfer enough money to ensure payment would be made. Mr P said Barclays had admitted 
that every time a card needed to be replaced, it had to be logged as either lost or stolen. So 
he said that wasnt why hed asked for new cards. And he said Barclays had given him a 
payment of £200 a few years ago for simply sending out two cards in a short space of time, 
and the aggravation hed had this time was far worse. He said it was grossly untrue for the 
bank to say it had no records of certain requests.
Mr P wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Im recommending Barclays pays Mr P another £300 to make up for the problems 
hes suffered. Ill explain why below.
But first, its worth me saying at this stage that I cant give Mr P all the answers hed 
like. Thats simply because Barclays doesnt know exactly why hes had some of the 
problems with his cards that he has. I realise thats not very satisfactory. But I hope 
Mr P will understand  and accept  why thats the case as he reads the details of my 
review.
To make things a bit easier for both Mr P and Barclays, Ill cover each of the key 
problems in turn.
Access to phone and online bankingThe problems Mr P was experiencing with his cards have been compounded by not 
being able to access phone or online banking. Barclays noted that Mr Ps phone 
banking was blocked, and it sent him a new passcode on 6 October 2019. I dont 
know if Mr P received this, but I think it was sent. And when it wrote to him on 17 
October, it said it had removed the block on his online banking. I havent seen 
anything to suggest to me that these problems were caused by the repeated reissue 
of cards to Mr P. And I understand that these issues are now sorted out for Mr P.
Transcripts of calls Mr P made to Barclays
As part of his complaint, Mr P also said that he wanted transcripts of his recent calls 
to Barclays. He complained that these hadnt been sent to him. But I think Barclays 
explained to Mr P its usual process for requesting transcripts. And it says he hasnt 
made an online request for these. So I dont think that Barclays has done anything 
wrong by not sending these transcripts to Mr P. He can still ask for them if he would 
like them.
Reissuing of cards  contacting Barclays
But that leaves what I think is the key issue in this complaint, which is the repeated 
reissue of cards to Mr P. When this complaint came to us, Barclays said it couldnt 
see any evidence to suggest that the cards issued to Mr P were faulty, or that it had 
discussed with him the difficulty he was having. It has suggested the problem may be 
how Mr P is storing the card.
Ive listened to a number of lengthy calls where Mr P discusses the number of 
replacement cards hes had with Barclays. So I do think Mr P has discussed this 
problem with the bank. And Barclays said Mr P has complained about this issue 
before, in March 2019. He received a complaint response letter from Barclays dated 
16 March 2019, and a payment of £200, for the inconvenience. Barclays internal 
notes say that this was paid because of the repeated issue of new cards to Mr P. So 
it looks like this problem has been going on for some time.
Reissuing of cards  what I havent looked at
I wont actively consider here Mr Ps previous complaint, made in March 2019. It may 
not be possible for our service to do so, as he didnt complain to our service within 6 
months of the letter he received then. But in fact that doesnt seem to me to be what 
hes seeking to complain about now.
And I wont consider the card replacements that have happened since Barclays sent 
the second of its more recent complaint letters, on 17 October 2019, because 
Barclays hasnt had a chance to respond to any complaint about those cards.
Reissuing cards  what I have looked at
However, I note there were a number of card replacements before the March 2019 
letter, and there have been at least four further cards since the second complaint 
letter. I can, and will, bear in mind that background when Im considering the 
complaint Mr P makes here.
There are some card reissues that we do have an explanation for. I think we do know 
that one of the cards reissued, after August 2019, was sent because of a known fault with cards issued by Barclays at the time. Another, on 10 October, was reissued at 
Mr Ps request, as the card hed just been issued with a few days earlier apparently 
wasnt working. I note that it seems to have taken a number of calls before this 
replacement was actioned, and Ill bear that in mind when Im considering 
compensation.
That leaves two other replacements, on 28 April and 30 August. One of those is 
noted as lost or stolen the other was apparently used at a facility with fraud 
concerns.
Mr P says that his friends use broadly the same merchants as him, and are certainly 
using their cards in the same locations he is. But none of them are experiencing the 
same level of replacement cards that he is.
It seems to me that Barclays has, at some points, contradicted itself in the reasons it 
has given for issuing new cards. It shows a number as being replaced because the 
previous card was lost or stolen. Mr P suggested Barclays was recording cards as 
lost or stolen when they are replaced for other reasons. I note that the card replaced 
in March 2019 was marked as a lost or stolen replacement, but Barclays has written 
to Mr P to say this was actually because of confirmed fraud on his card. That 
suggests Mr P is right to say that Barclays doesnt always record the full detailed 
reason for a card being reissued.
Barclays suggested that part of the problem could be how Mr P is storing his card. If 
Mr Ps card was being damaged, perhaps by being stored next to a strong 
electromagnetic source, then I expect he would find each card in turn eventually 
failed to work, and he would then call Barclays to have the card replaced. But Mr P 
has stressed that he doesnt regularly ask for new cards. In the main, hes just been 
sent them. So I dont think that Barclays suggestion that Mr P may somehow be 
causing at least part of this problem himself is likely to be what is going wrong here.
I would like to be able to tell Mr P why cards are being reissued to him so often. Ive 
asked Barclays to provide a detailed explanation, covering the replacement of each 
card, but that unfortunately doesnt seem to have helped to identify any underlying 
problem. It also hasnt identified and cleared up errors like the one referred to above 
about the March 2019 card. Some of these reissues just seem to remain 
unexplained.
That means I cant tell Mr P what is going wrong. Call recordings Barclays sent me 
included the acceptance from Barclays staff that Barclays doesnt know why this is 
happening either.
I think it is clear though, as Mr P has suggested, that this is going wrong repeatedly. 
Barclays has failed to set out clear explanations for some of the card reissues. For 
others, it simply doesnt seem to have an explanation. And in the background, it looks 
like this continues go wrong, after what is now Mr Ps second complaint about the 
same issue.
I can well understand why this is so frustrating for Mr P.
I know that Mr P was actively considering moving his bank account. Unfortunately, 
this decision is unlikely to resolve this complaint fully in a way that might enable him 
to be confident about staying with his current bank. I have thought about this when 
reaching my view on compensation.Given the conclusions Ive reached above, I think the payment of £200 that Barclays 
made isnt enough to make up for whats gone wrong here. I think Barclays should 
now pay Mr P an additional £300, to make up for the inconvenience caused by the 
repeated reissue of cards between 16 March 2019 and 17 October 2019.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied. 
 
Putting things right
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I havent changed my mind.
Mr P said the problem was still happening. He had received two new cards just that week. 
He said Barclays wasnt being honest about him not having asked for call recordings. Ive 
listened to the call that Mr P had with Barclays about this, and I think he agreed to go online 
to order those recordings. Barclays told us he hadnt done that. But Mr P says Barclays has 
now also written to him to say that the current situation is why it cant send these to him. 
That doesnt seem to fit with what it previously said, that he hadnt ordered them.
Mr P has also mentioned other reasons that he is becoming increasingly dissatisfied with 
Barclays. I cant consider those issues here, as they werent part of his original complaint. 
Mr P said that because the bank had been messing him around for so long, and in addition 
hadnt, in his view, been honest, he thought that the settlement should be greater. 
I dont think Ive got evidence to show Barclays has deliberately lied to Mr P. I appreciate, 
however, that this problem has been going on for a long time. I explained to Mr P in my 
provisional decision that I would be considering new cards issued to him between 16 March 
2019 and 17 October 2019. Thats the period Im considering when I award compensation. 
And I still think the amount I suggested is appropriate for the complaint Im considering here.  
Barclays said that it could explain why most of the cards were reissued. It listed the cards 
reissued around this time, using the last four digits of each card to identify them.  
Card ending 7026 was replaced because of a fraudulent transaction. It was closed on 
4 March 2019. 
Card ending 9011 was issued on 5 March 2019, but was not received. Barclays said 
Mr P went into a branch on 29 April to order a new card. Barclays says if this card 
was lost in the post, then that wouldnt be its fault. 
The date Barclays offered here cant be right, as this card was produced on 28 April.  Its not 
clear why, if a card sent in early March didnt arrive, Mr P didnt ask for a replacement until 
late April. When he has a card, his statements show he makes regular use of it. I dont think I 
can be confident, on the evidence I have, that this provides a clear explanation as to why 
this card needed to be replaced. And given how long this complaint has gone on for, I dont 
think it would be fair to both sides to pause this case to request further evidence on this.
Card ending 4011 was issued in late April, and used. It was closed on 30 August, 
replaced with 4029 as Barclays believed the card details to have been compromised. 
Card ending 4029 was requested on 30 August. Barclays says it cant confirm why 
this was replaced. It was replaced on 1 October.
Card ending 4037 was replaced with 4045 requested on a phone call on 10 October 
2019.  We know this was reissued at Mr Ps request, as the card hed just been 
issued with a few days earlier wasnt working.Barclays said that when a new card is issued, the old one stays open for 28 days, unless the 
old card was used fraudulently. As Barclays appears to be regularly replacing Mr Ps cards 
because its concerned about fraudulent use, that may not assist Mr P a great deal. 
Barclays sent us the online login records for Mr P. It said he was logging in frequently, which 
it considered to be evidence that Mr P was using his account without disruption. Mr P 
however has offered a different explanation for this. He told us that he watches his account 
very carefully now, because he is very worried about mistakes by Barclays. 
Barclays also said, looking at Mr Ps statements, it could see very little disruption to 
transactions authorised on the account. Im not clear what Barclays expects to see on the 
statements if Mr Ps use of the account was being affected by frequent card replacements. 
Barclays thought only one card replacement in the relevant period was unexplained. Thats 
presumably not counting those where Barclays has told us it issued replacements because it 
believed card details to have been compromised, or where it says Mr P took over a month to 
tell it a card hadnt arrived in the post. But, overall, Im still not clear why Mr P seems to be 
experiencing such a high level of card replacements overall. He says this is still happening. 
Barclays thought its existing payment of £200 was enough. But I dont think that payment is 
enough to make up for the difficulties Mr P has continued to experience.
This complaint has now been running for quite some time. Ive not been able to explain to Mr 
P why each of his cards was replaced. And although Barclays recent reply focusses on the 
number of cards issued to Mr P, I note that a number of other things seem to have gone 
wrong, as I set out in my provisional decision. In that context, I still think that a compensation 
payment of £300 provides a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank PLC must pay Mr P £300, in addition to what it has 
already paid for this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman