DRN-3372455
The complaint
Mrs S complains that NewDay Ltd irresponsibly allowed her to open two credit card accounts 
and later increased the credit limit on one of them to unaffordable levels.
What happened
Mrs S says she was in financial difficulties when she opened the first NewDay credit card 
account and says her bank had closed her bank account due to gambling issues. She says 
NewDay increased the credit limit on the first account to unaffordable levels and then 
allowed her to open a second account. Mrs S says there were defaults on her credit file and 
had debts valued at over £10,000. She would like interest, charges refunded, and interest 
paid on any refund as well as adverse information removed from her credit file.
NewDay says the first account which I will call A was opened in 2016 and it carried out 
appropriate checks. It says Mrs S declared an income of £25,000 a year with additional 
household income of £25,000. NewDay says it calculated Mrs Ss other debt at about £100 
and says the last default was some 50 months before the application and the last adverse 
information some 16 months before. It says it gave her a credit limit of £600 which was 
increased with appropriate checks carried out at the time.
NewDay says the second account which I will call M was opened in 2018 with a credit limit 
of £1,200. It says Mrs S again declared an income of £28,000 and it calculated her other 
debt at £2,400. NewDay says it also considered Mrs Ss account management of A and says 
she didnt make any contact with it about gambling or financial difficulties.
Mrs S brought her complaint to us and our investigator upheld it. The investigator thought 
NewDay did carry out appropriate checks on the A application but shouldnt have increased 
the credit limit from £600 to £800. The investigator thought the M account shouldnt have 
been approved and didnt think the lending sustainable or affordable. The investigator 
recommended interest and charges be refunded and any adverse information removed from 
Mrs Ss credit file.
NewDay doesnt accept that view and says Mrs Ss debt of under £10,000 was affordable 
based on her income.
I asked both sides for further information including Mrs Ss credit file and account 
statements.
My provisional view
I issued a provisional view on this complaint and came to a different provisional view to that 
of the investigator for the reasons I said I would explain.
Lenders and credit providers should carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on any 
lending or credit application which also includes increases to a credit limit. Those checks will 
of course vary depending on the type and amount of any lending. These were applications 
for credit facilities and increases to credit limits and so I wouldnt have expected NewDays 
checks to have been as detailed here as for example a mortgage application, but such 
checks must of course be carried out.
I looked at the original A lending decision in December 2016. I could see that Mrs S declared 
an income of £25,000 and told NewDay there was additional household income of a further 
£25,000. I saw that NewDay looked at the application and Mrs Ss credit file noting the 
previous defaults were some 50 months before and that the last adverse information was 
some 16 months before. I could also see that affordability calculations were carried out by 
NewDay including a check of Mrs Ss existing debt which was relatively low. So, I was 
satisfied that NewDay did carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on the A 
application and that Mrs Ss existing debt was low. I thought such lending ought to have 
been affordable based on Mrs Ss income and low existing debt. I also thought NewDay 
approved a relatively modest credit limit of £600. It follows that I didnt think the lending was 
unaffordable or irresponsible.
NewDay increased the credit limit on the A account in August 2017 from £600 to £800. I 
appreciated by that stage there had been a late payment fee and Mrs S had exceeded her 
credit limit. But I could also see from NewDays records that Mrs S on the whole managed 
her account appropriately and paid in excess of the minimum required amount. I also didnt 
think a £200 credit limit increase significant or that such an increase justified further checks 
over and above those I could see were carried out.
The next credit limit increase took place in November 2017 when Mrs Ss A account credit 
limit was increased from £800 to £1,800. I could see that NewDay did check Mrs Ss account 
management in the months before the increase and I saw that she made appropriate 
payments, on occasions significantly more than the minimum required amount. I didnt think 
Mrs S exceeded her credit limit or used the account for cash withdrawals which is often a 
sign of financial difficulties. I looked at Mrs Ss credit file which I could see NewDay checked 
at this time and I couldnt see any adverse information recorded at that time. So, I was 
satisfied that NewDay did carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on this credit limit 
increase and that the increase was not on the face of it unaffordable or irresponsible. I also 
thought this still resulted in a relatively modest credit limit compared to Mrs Ss income and 
debt. I also looked at Mrs Ss bank statements from the time of the first two credit limit 
increases and saw that although Mrs S was gambling there was still a positive balance in her 
account.
The third credit limit increase took place in March 2018 when the credit limit was increased 
from £1,800 to £2,800. This increase took place some four months after the previous one 
and I was satisfied that it was a relatively significant increase. I looked carefully at NewDays 
records from that time and could see that Mrs S exceeded her credit limit in December 2017 
and January 2018, used her account for cash withdrawals and missed or was late making a 
further payment. I thought at this stage there were signs that justified further checks before 
approving a further credit limit increase and saw that Mrs Ss other debt was increasing. I 
also thought it ought to have been reasonably clear to NewDay that although I thought 
previous increases were affordable, Mrs S tended to use her new available balance as soon 
as increases were approved.
I said I was satisfied that further checks would have revealed that Mrs S had a gambling 
issue.  I appreciated that it was up to Mrs S how she spends her money and that gambling is 
a legitimate activity. But I also thought that if NewDay had carried out further checks it is 
likely that it would have concluded that further lending, by increasing the credit limit was 
unlikely to have been affordable due to the level of gambling or that Mrs S would have been 
in a position to repay her debt.I could see that shortly after this increase that Mrs S used the new balance and exceeded it. 
I also saw that there were signs that the new limit was unaffordable which I thought provided 
further evidence that NewDay ought to have carried out further checks in March 2018.
The M account was opened in May 2018 some two months after the credit limit on A had 
been increased. I appreciated that NewDay carried out affordability checks, but I have made 
clear that I thought there were obvious issues in March 2018 that ought to have led to further 
checks being carried out and a more detailed assessment of Mrs Ss position. It follows that 
as I thought those checks ought to have been carried out in March 2018 that I thought that 
the M account shouldnt have been approved. I also thought NewDay ought to have 
questioned why Mrs S wanted a new account when her credit limit had been recently 
increased on the other account.
Overall, my provisional view was that the March 2018 A credit limit increase was 
unaffordable as well as the M account. I intended to order NewDay to put Mrs S back in the 
position she would have been in if the increase and account hadnt been approved but I 
accepted she had the benefit of the money and that any refunds should be deducted from 
any balances owed.
I said that it appears NewDay has sold the accounts and so I provisionally thought it should 
buy back the accounts and I also intended to order it pay interest on any refunded balance at 
8% simple interest if appropriate. I said I hoped NewDay could confirm before my final 
decision what if any information has been registered on Mrs Ss credit file and if I follow my 
provisional decision what the impact would be on that credit file information. I also hoped 
NewDay could provide further information about what the impact on the outstanding 
balances would be if I followed my provisional decision.
Mrs S accepts my provisional decision but NewDay hasnt replied or provided the 
information I hoped it would.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view that I reached in my provisional 
decision and for the same reasons.
Putting things right
NewDay should put Mrs S back in the position she would have been in if it didnt open the M 
account and if it didnt increase the A credit limit in March 2018. It should also buy back any 
accounts that it has sold and remove any adverse information from Mrs Ss credit file caused 
by the M account being opened and the A credit limit being increased. It should also pay 8% 
simple interest per year on any refund on interest or charges due to Mrs S, if that refund 
results in a balance owed to her after being deducted from any balance owed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order NewDay Ltd to buy back Mrs 
Ss accounts if necessary and refund her interest and charges on account M and on account 
A from March 2018 on any balance over the increased credit limit. If there is any refund due 
to Mrs S after a deduction from the amount, she owes, then 8% simple interest per year 
should be added to that refund. I also order NewDay Ltd to provide Mrs S with a certificate of 
taxation paid if necessary and that it remove any adverse information from her credit file caused by the M lending decision or the March 2018 credit limit increase. It should also 
agree an appropriate repayment plan with her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman