DRN-3067362
The complaint
Mr F complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc applied the wrong default date to his account. 
What happened
Mr F had a credit card account with HSBC. On 18 November 2015 he wrote to HSBC, 
saying he was in financial difficulty and that he was finding it difficult to meet his contractual 
payments. He said he was seeking debt counselling advice to make a full assessment of his 
financial situation. On 15 December 2015 he wrote to HSBC again, offering to pay £41.13 
per month towards the outstanding balance. HSBC responded on 30 December 2015 
confirming that a three-month payment plan had been set up; the first payment being due on 
30 January 2016. 
On 29 February 2016 HSBC issued a default notice, advising Mr F that they required a 
payment of £570.57 by 21 March 2016. Their letter said that, if they didnt receive this 
amount, theyd exercise their right to terminate the agreement and demand immediate 
payment of the full outstanding balance. On 4 April 2016 HSBC sent a final demand, asking 
Mr F to pay the full outstanding balance of £6,858.33 within 18 days. On 30 June 2016 they 
registered the account as being in default. 
In April 2021 Mr F complained to HSBC that they shouldve registered this default sooner. 
HSBC responded, but they didnt answer his point about the date the default had been 
recorded. So, one of our investigators looked into what had happened.
The investigator was satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for HSBC to record the account 
as being in default on 30 June 2016. He considered this to be in line with guidelines 
published by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO), which expect a default to be 
registered when the consumer is between three and six months behind with their payments. 
The investigator noted HSBC had offered Mr F £100 compensation for the lack of response 
to his complaint  he felt this was in line with what our service would think is fair.
 
Mr F was happy with HSBCs offer of £100 for the lack of response to his complaint, but he 
disagreed with the investigators view about the date the default shouldve been recorded. 
He said this shouldve happened as soon as the payment arrangement ended, because by 
then it was clear his financial difficulties werent short-term. He also thought that, even if six 
months was considered to be the appropriate threshold, hed accrued six months worth of 
arrears by 23 May 2016.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) says a default may be registered when a 
consumer is at least three months behind with their payments. And it would expect a default 
to be registered by the time the consumer is six months behind with their payments. As Mr F 
had told HSBC he was in financial difficulty, there were other considerations they also 
needed to take into account. 
HSBC are regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), which sets out rules and 
guidance they must follow. These can be found in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC), a copy of which is available on the FCAs website. CONC requires HSBC to:
treat customers fairly;
suspend the active pursuit of recovery of a debt for a reasonable period when a 
customer has informed them that a debt counsellor is working on a repayment plan 
on their behalf;
treat customers in default or arrears difficulties with forbearance and due 
consideration;
allow customers in default or arrears difficulties a reasonable time and opportunity to 
repay the debt.
Ive considered Mr Fs complaint with both the ICO guidance and FCA rules in mind.
The evidence Ive seen shows Mr F first notified HSBC that he was in financial difficulty in 
November 2015  and this was the first month hed missed a payment on his account. 
CONC sets out examples of treating a customer with forbearance, which could include 
suspending further interest or charges on an account; or accepting reduced payments for a 
reasonable period of time to give the customer an opportunity to recover from an unexpected 
income shock. 
The evidence Ive seen shows HSBC stopped applying interest charges to the account in 
November 2015  and they agreed to accept the payment plan Mr F offered them the 
following month. I think this was fair and reasonable, and in line with the requirements of 
CONC. As he kept up with the agreed payments during the three-month payment 
arrangement, I wouldnt expect HSBC to record Mr F as having defaulted on payments to the 
account in that period.
The payment arrangement finished at the end of March 2016. HSBC issued a final demand 
for the full outstanding balance on 4 April 2016 and registered the default on 30 June 2016  
three months after the payment arrangement ended. I think thats reasonable. Ive gone on 
to consider the point Mr F has raised about the amount of arrears hed accrued by this time  
and whether this means hes been treated unfairly.
Mr F thinks the default shouldve been applied by 23 May 2016; this being the date the 
payment towards his April 2016 statement was due. He says that, by this point, hed only 
paid enough to cover the October 2015 statement. He feels hed therefore accrued six 
months worth of arrears from his November 2015 to April 2016 statements.
 
Having examined Mr Fs statements carefully, I can see that he was required to make a 
minimum payment of £1,002.20 by 23 May 2016. Most of this amount related to arrears of 
previously missed payments, plus the minimum monthly payment of £170.42. Mr F made a 
payment of £41.61 that month - a shortfall of £960.59 on the amount owed. I can see that, by 
the end of May 2016, the amount of arrears Mr F had accumulated was approaching six 
times his minimum monthly payment. But Im not persuaded that HSBC treated Mr F unfairly 
by not recording the default until the following month.
 
Mr F says that, by not recording the default until 30 June 2016, HSBC have made it more 
difficult for him to borrow money because the default appears more recent than it actually 
was. I can appreciate that this is frustrating for him. But Im satisfied that HSBC acted in accordance with the FCA rules and ICO guidance in this case, so I wont be asking them to 
do anything different.
In response to Mr Fs complaint to our service, HSBC offered him £100 compensation for not 
having answered his complaint about the date theyd recorded the default. As Mr F has 
agreed to accept HSBCs offer, theres no need for me to discuss this aspect of his 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained here, I uphold this complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to 
pay Mr F a total of £100 compensation, if they havent done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman