DRN-3121607
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society called the police into branch when he
visited in August 2020 and that they subsequently blocked his account without explanation.  
What happened
Mr S went into branch and asked whether he needed to give any advance notice to withdraw
a large sum of money as he wanted to withdraw £5,000 to pay back a friend. Nationwide
advised Mr S that it would be safer to make the payment to his friend by bank transfer or
cheque.
The next day, Mr S returned to the bank and asked to withdraw £12,000 as he wanted to pay
this amount back to a friend. Nationwide felt that this was suspicious and might be indicative
that Mr S was in the process of being scammed, so they asked Mr S to wait in a private
room and then contacted the police and asked them to attend. When the police arrived, Mr S
was shocked and became very anxious.
Mr S asked the police to speak with his representative on the telephone who explained to
that Mr S suffered with physical and mental health issues and was prone to severe anxiety
and seizures. The police escorted Mr S from the private room and allowed him to leave the
Nationwide branch, albeit in a distressed state.
Several days later, Mr S noticed that he could no longer access his Nationwide account or
withdraw money from it, and when he contacted Nationwide about this Nationwide confirmed
that theyd frozen his account pending investigation. Mr S wasnt happy about this, or with
how hed been treated while in branch previously, so he raised a complaint.
Nationwide looked at Mr Ss complaint, but they didnt feel that theyd done anything wrong,
so they didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. Mr S wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response, so
he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They accepted Nationwides explanation to
this service that Nationwide had acted in Mr Ss best interests when contacting the police as
they had been worried that Mr S might have been in the process of being scammed, but they
felt that Mr S had been unnecessarily negatively impacted by the steps that Nationwide had
chosen to take in this regard.
Our investigator also felt that it was reasonable that Nationwide had subsequently frozen Mr
Ss account pending investigation, but felt that Nationwide hadnt informed Mr S in a timely
manner that his account had been unfrozen which had caused Mr S to continue to believe
his account access was restricted for several days after his access had been restored.
Because of these points, our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld
in Mr Ss favour and that Nationwide should make a payment to Mr S of £100 as
compensation for the distress and inconvenience their actions had caused.
Mr S remained dissatisfied and didnt feel that recommended compensation amount went far
enough, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 20 September 2021 as follows:
I can appreciate how it must have been distressing for Mr S to have been asked to 
wait in a private room by Nationwide staff, ostensibly because Nationwide were 
checking into his enquiries with them, only to then discover that Nationwide had 
called the police to branch to ask him further questions about the money he was 
seeking to withdraw.
Nationwide have stated that they took this cause of action because they were 
concerned that Mr S might be in the process of being scammed, and that they were 
following the Banking Protocol by doing so. Nationwide also stated that they didnt 
inform Mr S that they had called the police as they feared that this might result in Mr 
S leaving the branch and the potential scammer being tipped off by Mr S such that 
the risk to Mr S remained in place.
I can understand Nationwides line of thinking here, but Im not convinced that 
Nationwide did effectively follow the Banking Protocol here, and I feel that if they did 
some important elements of this complaint  specifically those relating to Mr Ss 
anxiety  might have been avoided. To explain my position on this matter more 
clearly, Id like to begin by explaining what the Banking Protocol is.
The Banking Protocol is a multi-agency initiative between the Police, financial sector
organisations (including banks and building societies) and Trading Standards and 
aims to identify customers who are in the process of being defrauded and to 
implement immediate safeguarding procedures to prevent their repeat victimisation 
and further loss of funds.
In broad terms, according to UK Finances toolkit for PSPs, financial businesses 
commit to:
(1) Look out for any unusual or out of character withdrawals and to implement the
Banking Protocol procedure when such transactions are identified.
(2) Discreetly question the customer about the withdrawal or transaction and their
reasons for making it, keeping in mind that the customer may have been told they are
helping to catch a corrupt bank employee and may have been given a cover story to
tell if asked about the transaction.
(3) Consider the responses against what they expect as normal activity on the
individuals account. If they are concerned or suspicious that the customer may be
the victim of fraud, they should notify a senior member of staff, who should take the
customer to a quiet area and ask further questions to establish more details.
(4) If the senior colleague believes the customer is the victim of fraud, either as a 
result of the answers provided or through their general behaviour, they should call 
the Police immediately who will attend the branch to speak to the customer.
In this instance, having reviewed the information provided to me by both Mr S and
Nationwide, it appears that Nationwide didnt implement point (3) above, which would 
have involved Mr S being asked into a quiet area and asked further questions by a senior member of Nationwides branch staff. Instead, Nationwide appear to have 
proceeded directly from stage (2) to stage (4).
Nationwide have explained to this service that prior experience has demonstrated 
that contacting the police at this stage has led to the discovery of attempted scams 
and the stopping of these scams before their customer loses any money. Nationwide 
have also explained that they didnt want to alert Mr S to the fact that they had called 
the police or that they had ongoing concerns with his withdrawal request because 
they worried that Mr S might simply leave before any potential attempted scam could 
be discovered and prevented.
I can appreciate Nationwides position here, and I dont doubt that Nationwides 
actions were undertaken with the intention of safeguarding Mr S against a perceived 
potential scam. However, if Nationwide had chosen to implement stage (3) of the 
Banking Protocol described above, such that Mr S was taken into the private room 
and asked further questions by a senior member of branch staff who explained their 
ongoing concerns to Mr S, I feel that its more likely than not that a resolution to this 
issue could have been reached without the need to contact the police and to subject 
Mr S to a situation which triggered his health issues and caused him significant 
distress.
And ultimately, that is what happened here. And while it may be the case that 
Nationwide werent aware at the time that they called the police of the mental and 
physical health issues that Mr S suffered with, this doesnt detract from the fact that 
had Nationwide approached this matter differently, and in line with the recommended 
steps of the Banking Protocol as described above, Mr S wouldnt have been 
subjected to such a distressing a situation and the impact on Mr S wouldnt have 
been as severe as that which actually transpired.
Mr S is also unhappy that following the incident in branch, Nationwide froze his 
account a few days later and then didnt inform him in a timely manner that his 
account had been unfrozen.
Nationwide have explained that they froze Mr Ss account because they had ongoing
concerns with the activity on the account. All financial institutions have an obligation 
to take steps to protect their customers money if they have legitimate concerns, and 
so I dont feel that I can fairly censure Nationwide for investigating Mr Ss account or 
for restricting the use of that account while their investigation was taking place.
However, what this service would expect would be that Mr S would have been clearly
informed by Nationwide that his account was suspended pending investigation, and 
further informed when the investigation had been completed and Mr Ss account 
access had been restored. But in this instance, it appears that Mr S wasnt kept 
adequately informed by Nationwide, and one consequence of this was that Mr S 
continued to believe that his account was frozen for several days beyond the time 
that his account access had been restored.
Considering all the above, its difficult then to conclude that Nationwide have acted 
fairly or reasonably toward Mr S here, either in regard to how Nationwide managed 
their concerns at Mr Ss request for a significant balance withdrawal while in branch 
or with the standard of communication to Mr S in regard to the subsequent freezing 
of his account.
Our investigator, in their review of this complaint, reached broadly the same 
conclusion as I have and recommended that Nationwide pay Mr S £100 by way of compensation for the distress hed incurred. However, I dont feel that this amount 
adequately reflects the impact that these events  and especially how Nationwide 
managed Mr S while he was in branch  had on Mr S.
Indeed, having reviewed all the information available to me on this complaint, I feel 
that Mr S was subjected to an avoidable, distressing situation by Nationwide which 
had a significant impact on Mr S. Because of this, I will be provisionally upholding this 
complaint and instructing Nationwide to make a payment of £450 to Mr S, which I feel 
more appropriately compensates Mr S for the level of distress that hes incurred.
I realise that this might not be the outcome that Nationwide were wanting here, and I
continue to acknowledge that the intentions of Nationwide were to protect Mr S from 
a potential ongoing scam. Unfortunately, the consequences and impact of  
Nationwides actions were detrimental to Mr S, and so I trust that Nationwide will 
understand, given everything that Ive explained above, why Ive made the 
provisional decision that I have.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr S and Nationwide the opportunity to provide 
any comments or further information that they might wish me to consider before I moved to a 
final decision. However, neither Mr S or Nationwide provided any further submissions for my 
consideration, and as such I see no reason not to uphold this complaint on the basis outlined 
above. 
  
Putting things right
Nationwide must make a payment of £450 to Mr S to compensate him for the trouble and 
upset this matter has caused.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Nationwide Building Society on the 
basis explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman