DRN-2893985
The complaint
Mrs and Mrs E complain about costs not met by U K Insurance Limited (UKI) following a 
claim made on a home insurance policy covering their property. 
What happened
Mrs Es mother, Mrs W, had home insurance with UKI for a property she owned. In 
2005 a claim was raised on her policy following a flood at her property. UKI accepted 
the claim.
The claim took a long time to resolve, as new issues arose, and some repair work 
had to be re-done. During this time Mrs W set up a discretionary trust fund, to 
transfer the ownership of the property to Mr and Mrs E. After this, and while the claim 
was still ongoing, Mrs W very sadly passed away. The property transferred out of the 
trust which was wound up in 2016. And Mr and Mrs E became solely responsible for 
the claim. 
Throughout the claim Mr and Mrs E werent happy with the work done by UKIs 
contractor. And they made a number of complaints, which UKI responded to. 
Towards the end of 2018 Mr and Mrs E asked UKI to pay expenses linked to the 
claim. These related to some unpaid amounts for contents as well as utility bills, 
council tax and gardening costs. UKI considered the costs and agreed to pay the 
outstanding amounts for contents and for utility usage at a total cost of £2,000. But 
said it wasnt liable for standing charges for utilities or for other costs for maintaining 
the property. 
Mr and Mrs E didnt think this was fair and made a complaint. They said the claim 
had been ongoing for 14 years and during this time theyd had to pay for utilities and 
other related costs. They said, had UKI not delayed the claim they would have sold 
the house and wouldnt have had to cover the costs.
UKI didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had already paid for the utility usage while 
its contractors were at the property. And standing charges werent covered under the 
policy. 
Mr and Mrs E didnt agree and brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said that the 
expenses Mr and Mrs E were asking UKI to cover, didnt fall within the scope of the 
policy. And he thought it had acted reasonably by just paying the utility usage costs. 
Mr and Mrs E didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I want to be clear about the remit of the complaint I am considering, as there 
have been a number made throughout the claim. This decision relates only to Mr and 
Mrs Es claim for additional expenses, which UKI responded to in its most recent 
final response in August 2019. 
It is also of note that this claim for expenses spans a period of time when the 
property transferred ownership. It was first owned by Mrs W and then it was subject 
to a trust. But as Mr and Mrs E were sole beneficiaries of the trust, and Mrs E was 
the sole executor of Mrs Ws estate, I have looked at this complaint altogether as 
part of one case brought by both Mr and Mrs E. 
In this complaint Mr and Mrs E have detailed expenses that they feel UKI should 
cover. The charges include:
Water charges,
Gas charges,
Electricity charges,
Council tax,
Property insurance premium refund,
Gardening charges, 
Home care policy.
This amounts to around £40,000 for the period of the claim. 
When deciding a complaint such as this, I need to consider what is covered by the 
policy. And then decide if UKI has acted fairly and reasonably by declining to meet 
these costs.
UKI has said that the costs Mr and Mrs E are claiming for arent covered by the 
policy. Ive looked at the policy wording and I agree this isnt something that is 
provided for under the cover.
However when a claim is accepted, and repair work is carried out, there are some 
circumstances when this service thinks it is fair and reasonable for the insurer to 
cover additional costs incurred due to the work, regardless of policy cover. This will 
usually be where the policyholder has had to pay more than they would have if the 
repair work hadnt been taking place. For example if their electricity bill increases 
due to use of specialist equipment. So Ive considered whether this is the case here. 
Most of the expenses that Mr and Mrs E have claimed for are standard costs that are 
incurred due to owning a property. And would need to be paid whether repairs were 
continuing or not. For example  council tax will always be due, as will other utility 
bills. However I agree that there would have been some increased costs relating to 
the heating, water and electricity used by UKIs contractors as they carried out the 
work.UKI has offered to cover the additional cost of the utility bills above the standing 
charges. A standing charge is the fixed amount that is paid to the provider, 
regardless of usage. So this amount would have always needed to be met. And this 
cost wouldnt have been affected by the repair work. So I dont think it would be fair 
to ask UKI to cover the standing costs.
The only costs that would have increased as a result of the repair would be the cost 
of the actual usage, while UKIs contractors were at the property. As the property 
wasnt occupied for this time, then its fair that UKI pay for the full amount of usage. 
As UKI has offered to pay this already, I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
Mr and Mrs E have said that they wouldnt have had to pay the other costs relating to 
the property, if the repairs hadnt been going on for so long. They say they would 
have likely sold the property or rented it out. And only kept the property because it 
wasnt in a fit state to do either, so they lost out on these funds due to the ongoing 
claim. 
Ive considered this, but I dont think I can say they only paid the cost of the bills 
being claimed for, because of UKIs actions. Mr and Mrs E have provided valuations 
from a number of agents from the years during the claim. So Im satisfied that they 
could have sold the house during this time. 
Further, from looking at the timeline of the claim there were long periods where no 
repairs were carried out. And during this time the expenses continued to be paid. So 
I dont think the ongoing repair work was the sole reason for these charges.
Mr and Mrs E have said that the value of the house has been affected while the 
repair work that has been carried out. This is very difficult to calculate, due to the 
many factors that affect the value of a house. However I havent seen enough to 
persuade me that the actions of UKI had a direct impact on when Mr and Mrs E 
could sell the property or for how much. So I dont agree it would be fair to ask UKI to 
pay the expenses on that basis.
For these reasons I think UKI has acted fairly. It has agreed to pay utility costs above 
what Mr and Mrs E would have had to meet, if repairs hadnt been ongoing. So I 
wont ask it to do anything differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman