DRN-1694310
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that Covea Insurance plc wont pay the full amount of their home 
insurance claim for flood damage to their property.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S made a claim to Covea in August 2018 following the collapse of a well in or 
under their basement/cellar. The damage was later found to have likely been caused by a 
major storm in May 2018. A large hole had opened up in the floor of the basement potentially 
opening up the structure of the property to subsidence damage. The damage was repaired 
by the filling in of the well with a concrete cap being put over the head of the well.
In 2016, when Mr and Mrs S had taken out the policy they disclosed to Covea that the 
basement was liable to flood. Covea accepted the policy but put an endorsement on it that it 
wouldnt pay for loss or damage to the basement or any contents kept there by flood 
resulting from storm or any ingress of natural ground water. Initially Covea declined the claim 
as it considered the damage to be from a gradual cause (and excluded under the policy). It 
also said the endorsement applied and that the damage was to the basement and caused by 
flood and/or the rise of ground water. Mr S disputed this and said that the well wasnt part of 
the basement so should be covered under the terms of the policy.
Covea came out to inspect the damage and to review the layout of the basement. Following 
that meeting it acknowledged that it could be argued that there was some ambiguity in the 
endorsement attaching to your cover that excludes flood damage to the basement. As a 
result it proposed to pay half of the costs, net of the excess, that Mr and Mrs S had incurred 
in repairing the damage. They had an excess of £2,500 for such damage. The cost to 
decommission the well was £7,363.20. Net of the excess and halving the difference, the 
resulting figure was £2,431.60. Covea rounded up this figure to £2,450.
Mr and Mrs S didnt think that was fair but offered to accept a net figure of £4,000. Covea 
didnt agree and paid the sum it was offering to Mr and Mrs S. They continued to dispute the 
matter. Mr S believes that the excess that should be applied is the subsidence excess, of 
£1,000, as he believes the damage was caused by subsidence.
On referral to this service our investigator thought that Covea had made a fair settlement.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree and the matter has been referred to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When they applied for the policy with Covea Mr and Mrs S advised that:
About once a year-in the event of high levels of rain- we get a bit of water in the basement. 
About 2 inches or so. Storage in basement only; the basement is about 6ft below ground. 
As a result, Covea added the following endorsement before issuing the policy, which Mr and 
Mrs S accepted:
Exclusion of flood and water ingress to the basement
We will not pay for any loss or damage to the basement of your home or to any contents, art
and antiques kept therein caused by
- flooding resulting from storm
- any ingress of natural ground water.
Mr S says he accepted the terms of the endorsement concerning storing contents in the 
basement. He didnt think it should apply it to the building, but nevertheless accepted it and I 
think agreed to be bound by it, as it was specifically drawn to his attention. The policy had an 
excess of £2,500 for any damage to the building except caused by subsidence, which had 
an excess of £1,000.
Covea initially rejected the claim as it believed the damage was due to a gradual cause and 
excluded under the policy. This was because the damage wasnt reported until August 2018 
when the storm which allegedly caused it was the previous May. However I note the findings 
of a structural engineer appointed by Mr and Mrs S who advised that, instead of the normal 
flooding Mr S had previously advised about, this time the walls of the well had been washed 
away during the storm leaving a large sinkhole. The cause of the damage was said by the 
engineer to be a combination of surface water entering through the cellar wall from the 
highway but mainly from ground water rising from the well. 
Covea said the exclusion concerning the basement still applied. I think in light of the 
engineers report thats likely to be the case if it can be said that the well was part of the 
basement. Mr S believes it wasnt part of the basement but could be accessed from it. He 
has pointed out that the endorsement doesnt mention a well. However I wouldnt expect it 
to. Insurers dont usually survey properties before they offer insurance so Covea wouldnt 
have known of the existence of the well.
If the well wasnt part of the basement then it would have to come within the definition of 
buildings in the policy. Having looked at that definition Im doubtful that it did if it wasnt in 
use, theres certainly no reference to wells in it..
The structural engineer said there is a cellar under the front part of the house running 
parallel with the street containing what is believed to be a well originally serving the kitchen.   
And the lab report following the carrying out of a probe test to see if there was any void in 
the well after backfilling said, the well is situated within the cellar.
From this I think its reasonable to conclude that its likely that the well was part of the 
basement/cellar. And that the endorsement was applied precisely because Covea didnt 
want to accept the risk of flooding damaging the basement. 
However, when we consider such cases we always look to see if a compromise can be 
reached. And I think Covea has put forward a reasonable compromise which was to look at 
the cost of the repair net of the excess and to pay half of that. I think that was fair.
Lastly, Mr S has argued that the subsidence excess of £1,000 should apply rather than the 
£2,500 excess for other damage. Referring again to the engineer he said, The concern is 
that similar flood events in the future may well affect the foundations. At the time there was 
no subsidence although I appreciate that unless the well was capped there was a future risk 
of it. The present damage was caused by the rise of ground water and some surface water. I 
think it was fair not to record this as subsidence even if that meant a higher excess applied.My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman