DRN-3558513
The complaint
Mrs C has complained about the service received from The Prudential Assurance Company 
Limited (Prudential). She says Prudential had told her and her financial adviser that her 
with profits bond had been surrendered. She says this caused her considerable distress and 
inconvenience because she hadnt surrendered it or put in a request to do this. 
What happened
Mrs C held a with profits bond with Prudential that it called a prudence initial charge bond. 
Mrs C says that in January 2022, as a result of information Prudential had given to her 
financial adviser, she was led to understand that her bond had been surrendered and was 
not worth anything. She says that hearing this caused her significant distress and 
inconvenience as she hadnt surrendered it and was expecting there to be a guaranteed 
balance. 
Mrs C says she tried to call Prudential on 11 January 2022 and check online. She said she 
initially was not reassured by a representative from Prudential and when she checked online, 
she also couldnt find the details of her bond. She says this caused her a considerable 
amount of distress as she didnt know what was happening. A representative from Prudential 
did make contact later in the day and then a letter was also sent by them dated 17 January 
2022. 
In this letter Prudential explained that Mrs Cs bond was initially arranged in twenty 
segments and that in 2012, she encashed four of them, leaving sixteen segments. It said 
when Mrs Cs financial adviser contacted Prudential, he didnt have authorisation to obtain 
information about the remaining sixteen segments of the policy, but it did give him details of 
the encashment that had already taken place. This, it says, was the cause of the confusion 
as the financial adviser was only told about the encashed segments that now have no value. 
When Mrs C complained to Prudential, it upheld it and initially offered a compensation 
payment for £100. It then increased this overall to £350. It says this was because it could 
have dealt with Mrs Cs complaint quicker and for its initial response where it says it could 
have done better, and as an acknowledgement that Mrs C wouldve been distressed by not 
knowing what had happened to her bond. 
Mrs C did not agree to this offer or Prudentials response. She referred her complaint to our 
service. 
An investigator from our service looked into Mrs Cs complaint. He sent his view to both 
parties and felt Prudentials offer was a fair one. He said the information Mrs C had been 
given about her policy, was from her financial adviser and not from Prudential. But he said 
Prudential could have done better in communicating with Mrs C information about her bond. 
He said the offer that Prudential had made to Mrs C was fair compensation.
Mrs C disagreed and responded with the following points:
That she deserves appropriate compensation for her distress. Prudential has paid 
£100 directly to her account but it has not paid a sum of £250.
Her initial contact with a prudential staff member was when her distress started. She 
said they told her the funds had been withdrawn and was told another representative 
would get in touch.
She says she checked online, and her account was showing as null and void.
She says after several return checks to the website, she could see balances for her 
funds but that these were lower than what she was expecting by over £2,000.
She says over £88,400 just disappeared and was reported back to her as withdrawn.
She says Prudentials failure to protect her funds has led to her losing a great deal 
more than the compensation it has offered her. 
As the parties are not in agreement, Mrs Cs complaint has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to look into.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mrs C encashed four segments of her with profits bond in 2012, leaving 
sixteen segments. So, Mrs C had one part of her bond showing with a zero balance and 
another part that was still running and with a balance. The way this information has been 
relayed to Mrs C initially has been the cause of much of the confusion regarding the value of 
Mrs Cs bond and whether it had been surrendered. And this in turn has caused Mrs C 
distress and inconvenience. I can see why that would be the case and why Mrs C was 
worried about what had happened to her bond when she tried to contact Prudential on 11 
January 2022. 
That said, after looking through all the documentation from both parties I can also see that 
the bond did not go anywhere. It wasnt encashed and it didnt go missing. The issue here is 
one of miscommunication between the parties and this has led to Mrs C, for a short period of 
time, not knowing what was going on. I can see that Prudential did get in contact with Mrs C 
and attempted to reassure her on 11 January 2022 and followed this call up with a letter 
explaining what had happened. But there was still a short period of time where Mrs C was 
distressed about her bond. 
Prudential offered to pay in total £350 payment for distress and inconvenience caused. Mrs 
C would like this amount to be much higher, but I think this offer is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of her complaint. I say this because although I acknowledge the strength of 
Mrs Cs feelings about what has happened, I can see Prudential did try and make contact on 
the same day that Mrs C contacted it. And it did follow up matters by sending an explanation 
of what happened in writing shortly afterwards too. So, I think Prudential did make attempts 
to put things right and in quick time after it could see something had gone wrong.
I understand that Prudential has paid £100 of the £350 it has offered already but Mrs C says 
that she has not received the remaining amount of £250. So, Prudential would need to pay 
£250 to take the overall compensation payment to £350 in total, as it has offered.Im sorry that it is likely to come as a disappointment to Mrs C as she would have liked 
Prudential to have paid her additional compensation. But for the reasons I have given, I dont 
think this would be fair or reasonable in the circumstances of her complaint.
My final decision
The Prudential Assurance Company Limited has already made an offer to pay £350 to settle 
the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. It has already paid £100. 
So, my decision is that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited should pay an additional 
£250 if it hasnt done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2023.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman