DRN-3109986
The complaint
Mr G complains that the pension fund value he was quoted by Scottish Widows Limited 
when he contacted them to take his pension benefits wasnt the value he actually received  
it was lower. Mr G wants the original value quoted to him.
What happened
Briefly:
In February 2020 Mr G contacted Scottish Widows by phone to begin the process of taking 
part of his pension plan benefits in the form of a tax-free lump sum. The claims process 
involved two phone calls with a Scottish Widows representative just over a week apart.
Mr G was provided with a pension fund value both during the phone calls and in the 
supporting paperwork he received after the first call. The fund value quoted was as at 17 
February 2020. The process completed on 26 February 2020 after the second phone call.
Mr G complained to Scottish Widows because the fund value he received when the 
transaction was finalised was lower than the one hed been quoted during the claims 
process.
Scottish Widows said it hadnt done anything wrong. It said it told Mr G that values couldnt 
be guaranteed in both phone calls and in the paperwork it sent him. It said the value Mr G 
received was based on the close of business fund prices on the day of the second phone 
call. It said this was the day its two-stage pension claim process was finalised.
Mr G brought his compliant to the Financial Ombudsman Service where one of investigators 
considered all of this. In summary they concluded Mr Gs pension didnt offer any guarantees 
and that the value was subject to market conditions. They didnt think Scottish Widows had 
done anything wrong. They added that Scottish Widows had offered Mr G £100 for the poor 
service he received in dealing with his complaint, which they considered was fair.
Mr G disagrees. In summary he says Scottish Widows should have fully explained how the 
pension value would be arrived at  not simply say it wasnt guaranteed without any 
qualification.
The complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr G, Ive decided not to 
uphold his complaint. My reasons are set out below.
I can understand that Mr G was disappointed when he received confirmation of his pension 
claim from Scottish Widows, which showed a lower fund value than the figure hed been 
given during the process to take his pension benefit. But Im satisfied that Mr Gs loss as he 
sees it isnt a result of an error on Scottish Widows part or because it acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards him. 
Scottish Widows process to allow Mr G to take part of his pension as a tax-free lump sum 
involved two phone calls about a week apart. Between the calls, Scottish Widows sent Mr G 
some paperwork confirming what was discussed in the first call. Mr G has provided some of 
this paperwork and Scottish Widows has provided recordings of both of these calls. Ive 
looked at the paperwork and Ive listened to the phone calls.
Its not necessary for me to replay all of the detail of the phone calls here  the calls lasted 
more than an hour in total and much of the discussion isnt important to Mr Gs specific 
complaint. But as Mr G himself has acknowledged, in both calls the representatives quoted a 
fund value based on the last available price (17 February 2020) and on both occasions the 
representatives said these were not guaranteed. I can also see from the paperwork Mr G 
received from Scottish Widows following the first phone call, that the policy value as at 17 
February 2020 was given and this too said the value wasnt guaranteed. 
While Mr G has acknowledged this, he says the statements werent qualified during the calls 
 how it was or wasnt guaranteed. But I dont think the statement was vague, ambiguous, or 
otherwise needed further explanation. I think a typical consumer would have reasonably 
understood this statement and applied the normal meaning of it.
Im mindful too that at the start of the first phone call, Mr G told the representative that hed 
sought advice from a financial adviser and wasnt coming into this blind. I can also see 
from his complaint submissions, that he said he understands the market can go up as well 
as down. This suggests to me that Mr G had a reasonable understanding of how things 
worked. 
Scottish Widows says that the fund value Mr G was quoted during the first phone call at the 
start of its claim process, was based on the last available price i.e. the previous days closing 
price. It says that the value used to complete the transaction was calculated at the close of 
business on the day Mr G completed its pension claims process  i.e. the day of the second 
phone call. And I consider this to be normal practice  most businesses like Scottish Widows 
calculate investment / unit fund prices once per day (either at the start or the close of each 
working day.) So Im satisfied Scottish Widows hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably here.
I can see Mr G says that Scottish Widows couldve explicitly told him that his fund would be 
valued at the close of business during the second phone call. And I accept that the 
representative could have done so. Because Ive not seen all of the paperwork Mr G 
received from Scottish Widows, its possible this was set out here. But importantly I dont 
think Mr G would have acted any differently had Scottish Widows told Mr G this during the 
phone calls. I say this because its clear from the phone calls that Mr G was intent on getting 
the ball rolling to access his tax-free cash  he said he had plans for the money. 
And in any event, Mr G wouldnt have known or have been able to reasonably anticipate 
what the unit price and therefore the overall value of his pension fund was going to be. The 
price and value would only be known after Mr G had given his agreement to go ahead. 
So I dont think Mr G would have taken a different course of action had Scottish Widows 
been any clearer about things.
Overall I dont think Scottish Widows has acted unfairly or unreasonably here. The fall in value of Mr Gs pension fund was down to market conditions and an unfortunate fall in the 
unit price of his underlying funds at the point he wanted to take benefits. This is an inherent 
feature of the type of pension policy Mr G held. And while no doubt frustrating and 
disappointing for Mr G, the loss as he describes it isnt one I can fairly hold Scottish Widows 
responsible for. So I wont be instructing Scottish Widows to honour the higher fund value it 
quoted Mr G during his pension claim process as Mr G would like.
In closing I can see that Scottish Widows paid Mr G £100 for the poor service he received 
during its complaint handling process. Because this was solely in relation to complaint 
handling, which is not a regulated activity, I wont comment further on this here.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman