DRN-2718465
The complaint
Mr C has complained about Chiene + Tait Financial Planning Ltd (C+T). He says that it
failed to advise him to fix his Lifetime Allowance (LTA) in 2012 at £1.8 million. As a result, he
incurred an LTA excess tax charge of over £80,000 in 2018/19.
Mr C also raised concerns as to why he wasnt advised to withdraw some pension funds in
2018, before his 75th birthday, to prevent incurring the top rate of tax.
What happened
C+T provided a final response to the complaint on 3 May 2019 rejecting the complaint. It
said that it mainly facilitated Mr Cs withdrawal requests and was only acting on an ad-hoc
basis. There was no agreement for on-going services. C+T said that although it had
recommended fixed protection in 2014, this was due to a voluntary exercise as it became
apparent LTA was becoming a greater issue for individuals. C+T maintained it was under no 
obligation to do this in 2012.
C+T have also said that they were unable to advise Mr C about withdrawing funds in 2018
because they didnt have sufficient information and doing so may have been advantageous
or disadvantageous. It was acting in a transactional relationship rather than an active
service relationship.
The complaint was referred to this service where it was considered by an investigator. The
investigator noted that there had been discussions around Mr Cs retirement, pension and
financial planning in the lead up to his retirement in 2008. In November 2005, Mr C had
responded to a review which had mentioned fixed protection. C+T responded and said that
due to his current level of benefits and the fact he was still contributing he should not apply
for protection at that time.
When Mr C retired in 2008, meetings and discussions took place annually, generally
followed up by written correspondence about its findings and investment offerings.
In March 2011, C+T wrote out following a discussion and explained new changes in pension
legislation. It stated that pensions and lump sums no longer had to be taken by 75, however
it noted that the benefits would still be tested at 75 against lifetime allowance. The letter
finished by C+T offering advice in IHT planning but there was no mention of whether Mr C
should apply for pension protection given his circumstances.
There was further advice about a pension withdrawal in June 2011.
Further meetings took place and correspondence was sent out for pension planning in 2012.
In 2013, another meeting took place with correspondence sent regarding Mr Cs pension
income.
In 2014, C+T wrote out to its clients, including Mr C, explaining fixed protection and LTA. Mr
C acted on this and applied for fixed protection in 2014 for £1.5 million.
C+T said this correspondence was a general exercise as it became apparent LTA was
becoming a greater issue for many individuals.
Mr C contacted C+T in April 2017 to arrange his tax return and he says he raised concerns
about a possible breach of LTA. He was under the impression he would be told how
much he should withdraw without incurring top rate tax. He didnt hear anything, so made
further contact in March 2018 but the tax year passed without any withdrawal.
Mr C did then face an LTA charge of £80,945.50 which was taken from his pension funds in
December 2018 and March 2019.
The investigator said that the complaint should be upheld. He felt that the correspondence
sent between 2005 and 2013 demonstrated a relationship between C+T and Mr C. Whatever
the precise nature of the relationship, he felt that it was reasonable that it should have
discussed with him, or made him aware of, LTA protection in 2012. These discussions had
taken place before his retirement and took place later, for 2014 protection. Mr C wasnt
making contributions at that time and so he so couldve applied for fixed protection. The
investigator was satisfied that had C+T discussed or mentioned this, Mr C wouldve acted on
it as he did in 2014.
The investigator added that although there was no signed client agreement for ongoing
advice, Mr C believed he was a client receiving ongoing advice. The regular contact over the
years allowed him to believe there was an on-going service with an established relationship.
C+T was aware that Mr C had concerns over his LTA.
On the issue of higher rate tax, the investigator accepted that Mr C had raised this. He felt
C+T ought to have made its position clear. If it required more information, it could have
asked, although withdrawal may have had advantages and disadvantages.
The investigator upheld the complaint and recommended that C+T calculate Mr Cs position
at age 75 using the LTA fixed at £1.8 million and pay him the difference in charge he may
have incurred. He also recommended C+T pay Mr C £250.00 for the distress, aggravation
and inconvenience caused.
C+T didnt agree and asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
I considered the compliant and decided that I agreed with the investigator. I made a 
provisional decision saying:
I agree with the investigators conclusions on the merits of this complaint. I intent to uphold
the complaint. I dont fully agree with the redress proposed and so Ive made this provisional
decision.
Its clear that Mr C had an established, ongoing relationship with C+T by 2012. It seems that
he had consulted with C+T on a regular basis, almost year in year out. It had advised him on
his pension holdings.
Given the nature of the relationship between C+T and Mr C, I dont think it was
unreasonable for him to have expected to be warned and advised on changes in pension
legislation that were likely to impact upon him. C+T had highlighted fixed protection to him in
2005. It also highlighted fixed protection again in 2014, which Mr C had then applied for.
Im satisfied that C+T ought to have warned Mr C of the impact of the reduction of the LTA
from £1.8 million to £1.5 million in 2012. Had it done so, Im satisfied that he would have
applied for fixed protection before the change took place. The reduction in LTA wasannounced in the budget in 2011. C+T gave advice to Mr C in June 2011, and although this
primarily focussed on the crystallisation of funds to allow a payment of tax-free cash, it did
deal with other wider issues including death benefits. The letter of advice also makes it clear
that C+T knew that the total pension funds were around £1.1 million, and so with additional
growth up to Mr Cs 75th birthday the risk of an LTA charge ought to have been apparent. I
think this advice should have extended to address the LTA change and the availability of
fixed protection. Mr C wasnt making contributions to his pension. I think he would have been
eligible for fixed protection (as he was in 2014). I dont think was any downside to his
applying for it, had he been advised to.
On the issue of the withdrawal in the 2017/18 tax year, I agree that C+T should have
responded and made its position clear. But had it advised, it seems there were advantages
and disadvantages, so I dont know what Mr C would have done. And, if this was a matter of
critical importance its possible that he could have done more to ensure that he had the
necessary advice. So, I dont think it would be fair to make a specific award for any loss that
may have resulted.
Mr C accepted that decision but C+T didnt. It said, in summary:
The relationship was transactional and not based upon an agreed ongoing service 
provision. 
The interaction with Mr C was driven by his relationship with his accountants. This is 
evidenced by the fact that C+T we were not made fully aware of all of Mr C's pension 
plans or annuities.
With regards to the assumption that C+T were providing an ongoing advice service to 
Mr C throughout the many years, he had a duty to make C+T fully aware of his 
position which was evidently not the case as he chose to manage his own SIPP.
C+T have not been aware of Mr C's position throughout the period in question as he 
chose not to involve it in some aspects of his financial planning.
Had Mr C wished to be treated as an active client he would be expected to keep C+T 
informed of his position.
If the relationship is to be treated as that of an ongoing engagement, C+T should be 
able to recover backdated fees to reflect this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nothing C+T has said causes me to change my provisional view. I confirm my provisional 
conclusions and uphold this complaint.
C+Ts relationship with Mr C may have been transactional, but that doesnt excuse poor or 
incomplete advice. Mr C paid for advice and was entitled to receive competent advice. There 
was an established relationship and there can be no doubt that in June 2011 C+T had 
sufficient information about Mr Cs pension status to anticipate that he may be impacted by 
the LTA reduction. Its letter from June 2011 identified that he had two SIPPs worth over £1 
million in total. 
Even if C+T wasnt providing more wide-ranging advice like that it would provide to a client 
with an ongoing service, Im satisfied that the LTA change was highly significant and clearly 
relevant to Mr C, so Im satisfied that C+T ought to have at least mentioned it. The proposed 
LTA change for 2012 was the first time the LTA had been reduced since it was introduced in 
2006. And I think the position could have been easily addressed with a short warning which would have required no more than one or two sentences. Whatever the status of its 
relationship with Mr C, C+T did refer to the LTA in correspondence with Mr C both before 
and after 2011/12, but for some reason didnt warn him of the LTA reduction for 2012.
Mr C chose to pay for pension advice from C+T as and when he felt he needed it. But that 
was clearly a choice he was entitled to make, and C+T didnt have to engage with him on 
that basis if it didnt like it. Therefore, I dont find the suggestion that Mr C should now give 
credit for the cost of an ongoing service to be an attractive or credible one.
Im satisfied that C+T ought to have warned Mr C about the LTA change for 2012. It clearly 
had sufficient information when it advised him in 2011 to assess that this change may impact 
on him by age 75. It was a significant change, and I think that in these circumstances a 
reasonably competent adviser ought to have referred Mr C to it. Had it done so, Mr C would 
probably have applied for protection which he was eligible for and would have received.
Putting things right
I understand Mr C has paid an LTA charge of £80,945.50. This was paid in two portions, one
in December 2018 and one in March 2019.
I dont think the full value of the excess charge represents Mr Cs loss. The LTA charge has
reduced his pension funds, but when he withdraws those pension funds, he will be liable to
pay income tax. So, any redress must take into account the impact of income tax. Its also
true that Mr C will have lost out on investment growth on the amounts withdrawn to meet the
LTA charge.
To put things right, C+T should:
1. Calculate (A) where (A) is the difference between the actual LTA charge paid, and
the LTA charge that would have been paid if Mr C had fixed protection at £1.8 million.
2. Calculate the lost investment growth on (A). This should be calculated by reference
to the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index from the dates the
charge was paid up to date. This loss is (B).
3. (A) plus (B) is the notional gross loss to the pension.
4. Establish the net loss after tax, this should be calculated by deducting 15%. This
assumes that there are sufficient uncrystallised funds to allow further tax-free cash to
be available, and that Mr C is or will be a basic rate tax payer.
C+T should also pay Mr C £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the impact
and disruption on Mr Cs retirement planning.
I think the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index this index will provide a fair
reflection of the growth Mr C may have expected on his investments.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Chiene + Tait Financial Planning Ltd must calculate and pay redress 
as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman