DRN-3754745
The complaint
Mr R complains that Motability Operations Limited (MO) went back on an assurance that it 
would not seek hire payments during a period when they could not be made. 
What happened
In August 2020 Mr R entered into a three-year hire agreement with MO. Payments were to 
be made every four weeks by way of deduction from one or more of a range of mobility and 
independence benefits to which Mr R was entitled. That is, MO was to be paid directly by the 
Department for Work and Pensions (DWP), not by Mr R. 
Mr R says that, in July 2021, he contacted MO to say that he was going to have a period of 
imprisonment. He says he was told that MO would forego payments for up to six months, 
even if his personal independence payment was stopped. Mr R says he wrote to MO in 
August 2021 providing the same information. 
In the event, Mr R spent five months in prison. He was not entitled to benefits during that 
time in the way he had been, so hire payments were not made. Shortly before Mr Rs 
release, MO said that it intended to take possession of his car. He asked MO to delay that 
until he had had a chance to remove a roof-box which he had fitted. MO agreed to the 
deferral until after Mr Rs release.
MO then sought payment of the arrears of hire from Mr R. He said however that he had been 
assured he would not have to pay them. He said as well that, since MO had not taken any 
action as soon as the payments stopped, it was not fair that it should do so several months 
later. 
MO said it could find no record of having been told that Mr R would be in prison until the 
DWP contacted it in December 2021. It acted almost immediately by telling Mr R that it 
intended to repossess the car. It was, it said, entitled to seek payment of the arrears of hire 
from Mr R.
Mr R referred the matter to this service. Our investigator did not recommend that the 
complaint be upheld. He was not persuaded that Mr R had told MO about his upcoming 
prison sentence and said that, in the circumstances, MO had not acted unfairly. Mr R did not 
accept the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the case.           
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms of the hire agreement required Mr R to ensure that all payments were made and 
to tell MO if he ceased to be entitled to receive funds to make the payments due under it. 
The terms also said that MO could end the agreement if Mr R did not comply with his 
obligations under it or if he ceased to be eligible to the relevant benefits used to make the 
hire payments. 
Mr R says he did tell MO about his forthcoming imprisonment in July 2021. MO has provided 
call recordings from that time, but Mr R does not mention it in any of them. He discusses 
outstanding congestion charges and problems he is experiencing with modifications to the 
car, but not the fact that he will not be in receipt of the same benefits for several months. 
Mr R has however provided a written statement from a part-time carer, who confirms Mr Rs 
recollection that he did tell MO that he was about to go to prison. 
On balance, I am not persuaded that Mr R did tell MO in advance about his imprisonment. 
There seems to have been no reason for Mr Rs carer to have listened to a call which MO 
cannot locate. I think the carer may be mistaken in his recollection of what happened. I also 
believe that, had MO agreed to suspend payments for any length of time, it would have 
confirmed that in writing, so there was no misunderstanding about the matter. I note that 
neither MO nor Mr R did that. 
I am therefore satisfied that it was not until some time later that MO found out why payments 
could not be made. It acted promptly to stop further arrears accruing, by taking steps to 
repossess the car. I am satisfied too that the terms of the hire agreement explained clearly 
the likely consequences if payments were not made. In the circumstances, I do not believe 
that MO has treated Mr R unfairly.      
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Motability Operations Limited to 
do anything more to resolve Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman