DRN-4386214
The complaint
Mrs D complains about how One Insurance Limited (One) handled a claim under her motor 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs D had a motor insurance policy with One covering her car. 
Mrs D has supplied One and this service a detailed timeline of her claim and I thank her for 
her efforts.
Ill not include full details of the claim and complaint here. Instead, Ill write about the key 
events on the timeline as I see them.
In June 2022 her car was damaged by a third-party driving a large lorry. 
She contacted One and made a claim. The car was recovered and taken to Ones approved 
repairer. 
The car was returned to Mrs D in mid-August 2022. She wasnt happy with the quality of the 
repairs. One told her to reject the car.
About two further months later the work hadnt been completed and further issued had been 
caused during the repairs. One offered Mrs D £100 compensation.
A hire car was taken back by One and not replaced. Mrs D was told by the repairer that her 
car was fine to drive.
Mrs D arranged for an assessment by the cars manufacturer but One rejected its estimate 
for repairs.
One told Mrs D it would get an independent assessment carried out. It took a further two 
months for this to happen. The assessor said they had safety concerns with the quality of 
repairs in mid-January 2023 which was seven months after the initial incident. The assessor 
said her car was unroadworthy and needed about £9,000 worth of repairs.
Mrs D complained to One. It offered her £100 compensation and £350 in its final response. 
She remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. She complains about the 
quality of repairs, delays to her claim and Ones poor customer service. 
In May 2023 when Mrs D approached this service, repairs still werent complete on the car. 
This was eleven months after the collision.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ds complaint and thought it would be upheld. He thought 
Ones service had been poor over an extended period and its actions had caused Mrs D 
significant amounts of distress and inconvenience. He thought One should pay a total of 
£750 compensation.
Mrs D agreed with the view. One said it didnt agree and it thought its offer was fair. Because 
it didnt agree, this complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding Mrs Ds complaint.
Having read the file I can see Mrs Ds claim has involved a series of instances of poor 
service from One and its approved repairer. Its important I say that One is responsible for 
the actions of its approved repairer as its agent.
Put simply, Ones approved repairer had her car for about four months from the date of the 
collision. And in that time it didnt repair her car to a satisfactory standard, which was 
confirmed by an independent engineer sent by One, and by the cars manufacturer.
During that time, Mrs D repeatedly encountered poor service and poor communications.
I can see there were many times when Mrs D had to contact One and its repairer because 
One wouldnt call her about the situation.
Ones approved repairer tried to return her car to her in a poor condition unsuccessfully, and 
then again successfully by telling her the car was ok to drive.
I can also see One told Mrs D to reject the car when it was initially returned to her. Having 
done so, I find it extraordinary that One didnt deal with her claim and complaint better as its 
clear to me that the repairer wasnt able to carry out the repair to the right standard.
One also rejected the cost of repairs raised by the cars manufacturer, following an 
assessment arranged by Mrs D. Having rejected it, I can see that One didnt instruct its own 
engineer for a further two months, during which time Mrs D didnt have a hire car and was 
driving her young family around in the car. It wasnt able to explain why this took two months 
to arrange.
Then Ones engineer said they thought her car was unroadworthy. In their report, there are 
references to visual damage to the suspension and alignment of the wheels, as well as 
numerous cosmetic issues with the paint repairs, and dents to panels.
I find Ones poor service remarkable and I can see from her evidence that the impact on Mrs 
D is considerable.
Ive considered this services guidelines on compensation and I think her distress and 
inconvenience has been substantial. Taking everything into account, I think One should pay 
Mrs D a total of £750.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint 
One Insurance Limited should pay a total of £750 compensation to Mrs D. If any amounts of 
compensation have already been paid then they can be deducted.One Insurance Limited must pay the amount within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
Mrs D accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman