DRN-2928713
The complaint
Mr G complains that Ageas Insurance Limited refused to give him a refund of premium on 
his motor insurance policy for a period where he wasnt using his car.
What happened
Mr G stopped using his car in March 2020 as he wasnt driving anywhere due to the 
pandemic. In June he made a Statutory Off Road Notification (SORN). He later spoke to 
his insurance broker about getting a refund of premium. This was referred to Ageas but it 
didnt agree to provide a refund.
When Mr G complained, Ageas said it wasnt offering refunds as cover remained in force 
even if a vehicle was being used less frequently. If there was a large reduction in use, Ageas 
said it would consider a reduction in premium, but in Mr Gs case his cover was limited to 
1,000 miles per year, which is the lowest mileage limit it offered. And Ageas has said if the 
mileage limit went below 1,000 miles the premium would increase.
Mr G brought the complaint to this service but our investigator didnt think it should be 
upheld. She said: 
Ageas had decided not to offer refunds to all its customers due to the pandemic and 
there was no requirement for it to do so; 
it had considered whether a lower mileage limit would reduce the price but Mr Gs 
policy already had the lowest mileage it offers.
Mr G remained unhappy and requested an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its for insurers to decide how to price their policies and they each do this differently. Its not 
for me to tell an insurer how much to charge. But I can consider whether an insurer has 
treated its customer fairly. So I have considered how Ageas dealt with Mr Gs request.
Mr G is unhappy that he wasnt offered a refund when some insurers have provided refunds. 
I appreciate that some insurers did provide refunds to their customers. But it was for each 
insurer to decide whether to do that. 
While Ageas decided not to offer automatic refunds to customers, it did consider Mr Gs 
circumstances. It has explained that his policy has a mileage limit of only 1,000 miles per 
year, which is the lowest it generally offers, and if that was reduced it would in fact have 
increased the premium. Im satisfied Ageas did consider Mr Gs request and has explained 
why a refund wasnt offered. Theres nothing to show hes been treated unfairly compared to 
other customers. And as Ageas has pointed out, even if Mr G wasnt driving his car, he still 
had the benefit of cover. So he could have claimed on the policy if he needed to, for example 
if the car was stolen from his property, or damaged by fire or malicious damage. In these 
circumstances I think Ageas decision was fair. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman