DRN-3147209
The complaint
 This complaint is about a Halifax-branded mortgage Mrs M used to hold with Bank of 
Scotland UK plc. Mrs M is unhappy that Halifax has continued to report missed monthly 
payments on her credit file after she went into, and then was discharged from, bankruptcy. 
 
What happened
 The history and background of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont 
repeat them in detail here. Instead Ill give a brief summary and then focus on giving the 
reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll 
be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Mrs M was made bankrupt in 2015; her mortgage was part of the bankruptcy. She was 
discharged a little over a year later. Halifax took possession of the mortgaged property, and 
after it was sold in 2018, a shortfall was recorded. 
In 2020, Mrs M complained that Halifax had continued to report missed monthly payments 
on the mortgage, and had periodically sent her letters about the outstanding debt. She said 
this was causing her to be turned down for new credit, including a mortgage for a house 
move she and her husband were hopeful of arranging.
Halifax accepted its credit reporting had been wrong, and agreed to amend it to reflect 
Mrs Ms bankruptcy status correctly; it also offered her £500 compensation. Mrs M rejected 
the offer and referred her complaint to us. She thought the compensation inadequate, not 
least because she had issues over how her credit card and current account with Halifax has 
been reported as well.
Our investigator looked into the reporting on all three accounts, and agreed that it had been 
wrong, but that Halifax had taken reasonable steps to correct it. But some parts of the 
information were still not right, largely down to system limitations with the credit reference 
agencies. She recommended Halifax provide Mrs M with a letter of clarification to show to 
potential new creditors, and that it increase its compensation offer to £750 to cover the 
issues with the credit reporting on all three accounts.
Mrs M asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill make some general observations before dealing with the substance of the complaint. 
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal 
with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont 
replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions 
on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our 
conclusions without interference from anyone else.
Mrs M has complained about her mortgage, credit card and current account. Initially, we set 
up three separate complaints, and our investigator issued separate, albeit complementary, 
views on each case, culminating in a single recommendation to resolve all three. On my 
direction, the three separate complaints have been merged into one (something 
Mrs M wanted us to do at the outset) and this decision deals with all three together, largely 
for procedural simplicity, 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because 
I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the 
wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
This isnt a case where I have to decide fault; Halifax has accepted its mistakes, apologised 
and largely corrected them and agreed to pay compensation. My job is to decide if that is 
enough, or of there is more Halifax needs to do.
The position as it relates to the current account and credit cards is relatively straightforward. 
Once Mrs M was discharged from her bankruptcy, Halifax should not have reported her as 
having any further liability for the debts. The position as it relates to the mortgage is a little 
more nuanced due to the secured nature of the debt.
Halifaxs right to enforce the security in the event of discharge from bankruptcy is preserved 
by section 281(2) of the Insolvency Act 1986. However, section 281(1) says that where a 
bankrupt is discharged, the discharge releases the borrower from all the bankruptcy debts. 
In the case at hand, this would mean that, although Halifax was entitled to enforce its 
security over the property, Mrs M wasnt liable to pay the monthly instalments and Halifax 
shouldnt have pursued Mrs M for payment or recorded the fact that the monthly instalments 
hadnt been paid on her credit file.
But whilst Mrs Ms requirement to pay the monthly instalments ended, Halifax was still 
entitled to report the account, but in the appropriate manner for bankruptcies. This means 
the mortgage account should have been shown on Mrs Ms credit file as defaulted at the 
date of bankruptcy (and for six years after that). Once Halifax sold the property in 
possession, it should then have reported the mortgage debt as part-settled (because of the 
shortfall) for six years from the date the mortgage account was closed following the sale in 
possession.
Halifax has now amended its reporting on the three facilities as much as it is able to. But 
some credit agencies still show missed mortgage payments during the post-bankruptcy 
period. Those shouldnt be there, but they cant be removed due to technical limitations at 
the reporting agencies. Its therefore quite right that Halifax should instead provide written 
clarification for Mrs M to show to potential creditors in future.
Its also right that Halifax should pay Mrs M compensation for her time, trouble and upset in 
pursuing the complaint. It initially offered £500; the increase of £250 to £750 in all reflects 
two additional factors: these are:
the chase letters that Halifaxs system generated for a debt for which Mrs M was no 
longer liable; and
Mrs Ms concerns about how her mortgage, credit card and current account were all 
reported. I appreciate this might not be what Mrs M was hoping the outcome of this complaint would 
be; she feels her capacity to obtain credit has been impacted by what Halifax reported. I 
appreciate why she might think that, but if Halifax had always reported what it should have 
reported, the likelihood is that the wider effect on Mrs Ms credit profile would have been 
broadly the same. I make that point not least because of the bankruptcy itself.
 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, and order Bank of Scotland UK plc to:
Provide Mrs M with a letter of correction to explain the information about her mortgage, 
current account and credit that cant be corrected on her credit file: and
Pay Mrs M £750 compensation.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman