DRN-2033417
The complaint
Mr G complains that Citifinancial Europe Limited mis-sold him a single premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy which he took out in July 2003 in connection with a loan.
What happened
Mr G complained to this Service. He told us he took out a loan on 9 July 2003 during a 
meeting. Mr G said he wasnt told the policy was optional; the terms and conditions were not 
explained, and he never asked for PPI and he didnt need it.   
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld. Citifinancial disagreed with our 
adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again. Citifinancial added it had 
made clear the policy was an optional product and it had set out the PPI costs clearly for Mr 
G.
I issued my provisional decision in June 2020, where I explained I would not be upholding 
the complaint. We sent a copy of my provisional decision to both parties and asked them to 
make any new comments or produce any new evidence. We have not received any new 
comments or evidence from either party, so I see no reason to change the conclusions I 
reached in my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint. I know this will disappoint him, so Ill set out my 
reasons below.  
Mr G said he wasnt told the PPI was an optional product. So I first looked to see if the policy 
was presented to him as a separate and optional product. 
Citifinancial produced a copy of Mr Gs loan application and the PPI application forms which 
were probably completed for him at the time of the sale. I can see the PPI application says at 
the top that All Insurances Are Optional and as it was a separate document, I can 
reasonably assume that Mr G didnt have to give instructions to complete it or sign it at all. 
As he had that choice, I think the policy was presented as an optional product. I also noted 
that the loan application referred to Optional Insurance, so I think it was more likely that Mr 
G was aware the policy was optional, and he chose to buy it.
Both parties agree this was an advised sale so I will continue on that basis. For such sales, 
Citifinancial wouldve had to recommend a policy which was suitable for Mr G. 
Having looked at Mr Gs circumstances at the time of the sale, I do think the policy was 
suitable because he was eligible for the cover, I havent seen any evidence it wasnt affordable for him, and he didnt seem to be affected by any of the things not covered by the 
policy (the exclusions). 
Mr G said he would get sick pay from his employer but had no savings. I think the PPI could 
have given him a useful benefit which could cover his loan repayments if he made a 
successful claim for sickness or an accident. So I dont think Mr Gs employee benefits made 
the policy unsuitable for him.
Citifinancial also had to make sure Mr G got information which was clear, fair and not 
misleading. So I looked at the main PPI policy features which Mr G may have seen at the 
time of or shortly after the sale. 
It isnt clear how or if any of the key features were explained or highlighted to him in respect 
of, say, pre-existing medical conditions. Mr G told us he didnt have any pre-existing medical 
conditions but Citifinancials meeting notes from 2003 show he may have suffered from a 
medical condition at around the time of the PPI sale  but it is not a very detailed note. We 
have asked Mr Gs representatives for more information, but we havent received any new 
evidence about Mr Gs medical condition. So I dont have enough evidence to conclude he 
would have been affected by the main exclusions in the policy. So I think that even if hed 
been given a full list of the exclusions, I dont think it would have put him off from buying PPI.
I saw Mr Gs loan agreement. I saw it set out the PPI premium, the amount of the loan, the 
number of monthly instalments, the interest rate on the whole loan amount and the monthly 
premium for the whole amount he would have to pay. And as he signed the credit 
agreement, I think he probably saw these figures and was aware of the PPI cost. So I dont 
think any further information about cost and benefits would have stopped him from buying it.
Taking everything into account, I think the PPI was optional and that Mr G chose to have it 
added to his account. I think it was probably suitable for him and I think he was probably 
given enough information which was clear, fair and not misleading. So Im not going to 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman