DRN-2728049
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as H, complains that Society of Lloyd's hasnt fairly valued a 
vehicle following a claim on his commercial vehicle insurance policy. H is also unhappy with 
Society of Lloyd's handling of the claim. 
Mr A, who is the director of H, brings the complaint on Hs behalf.
What happened
A pick-up insured under Hs policy with Lloyd's was stolen in June 2020. Mr A put in a claim 
and the vehicle was written off as a total loss. Lloyds subsequently made an offer of 
£3,172.50 to settle the claim, which it said was the market value of the vehicle (according to 
one of the trade guides) with a 10% reduction applied as the vehicle had been written off 
before. The trade guide valuation used didnt include VAT, due to the vehicle type. 
Mr A wasnt happy with the offer, and complained to Lloyds that he wouldnt be able to 
replace the vehicle with an equivalent one for that amount. He submitted receipts for the 
parts hed replaced recently to show the vehicle was in excellent condition, as well as 
evidence of the same make and model being advertised online for higher amounts. Mr A 
also explained that hed owned the vehicle from new, and had repaired the chassis corrosion 
(a known fault with this model)  both of which would have increased its value.
Lloyds response to the complaint said it had acknowledged the vehicle was in good 
condition before the loss by offering the full retail figure given by the trade guide it consulted. 
It also said that approach to valuing the vehicle, along with the reduction for the pervious 
write-off, was in line with the guidance on our services website. Lloyds did accept there had 
been service failings, and offered £100 compensation for Mr A having to chase the 
settlement offer.
Mr A wasnt happy with the response, so the complaint was referred to our service. An 
investigator here reviewed everything and thought Lloyds offer was fair. He said the trade 
guides were a reasonable way for the insurer to determine market value, and the one used 
by Lloyds had given the highest figure of the relevant ones hed checked. He also thought 
the deduction for the previous write off was reasonable, as that can affect a vehicles value. 
The investigator later alerted Mr A to the fact the valuation hadnt included VAT, as H was a 
VAT registered company and could claim that back when buying a replacement. 
Mr A didnt accept the investigators view. He didnt think the evidence submitted about the 
vehicles condition had been fully appreciated. He also reiterated that hed seen adverts 
which suggested a value of more than £6,000. Mr A added that the VAT status of his 
business shouldnt matter, as Lloyds should be paying market value for the vehicle (which 
included VAT).
As no agreement could be reached at the informal stage of our process, the complaint was 
passed to me for a final decision on the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Hs complaint. I know that will come as a 
disappointment to Mr A, who has provided detailed submissions in support of the complaint. 
I can understand his strength of feeling on the matter too, given how carefully he maintained 
the vehicle from new. Im also aware that Ive summarised this complaint very briefly, in far 
less detail than has been provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Ive carefully 
considered everything thats been provided on the case. But Ive focussed on what I think is 
the heart of the matter here: whether Lloyds made a fair and reasonable offer to settle Hs 
claim. I think it has  and Ill explain why.
The role of our service in complaints about valuations isnt to determine the exact value of a 
vehicle, but rather to decide if an insurer has made a reasonable offer in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy. Hs policy pays market value in the event of a total loss  which 
the insurer defined as the cost of replacing your vehicle with another one of the same make, 
model and specification and of similar age, mileage and condition at the time of an accident 
or loss. Generally we find the trade guides to be a fair way to assess a vehicles market 
value. We do consider other evidence, including adverts, but we place most weight on the 
guides as theyre based on nationwide research of likely selling prices. 
The three applicable trade guides we use gave a market value for this vehicle at the date of 
loss of £2,570, £2,945 and £3,500. Lloyds used the last trade guides slightly higher retail 
advertised figure of £3,525 as its starting point  which included an upward adjustment for 
the vehicle being in good condition. Mr A has provided lots of evidence in support of this 
vehicle being in the best possible condition prior to it being stolen  and Im persuaded it was 
extremely well kept. In some respects he went above and beyond what could reasonably be 
classed as maintenance. But I think Lloyds has factored that in sufficiently by using the 
highest figure given by the trade guides. 
Mr A gave Lloyds details of prices hed seen in online adverts  but I havent been able to 
see those same adverts to check if the vehicles were of similar age, mileage and condition. I 
checked advertised prices for vehicles of the same model and age myself, and found some 
above what Lloyds offer would look like with VAT added and some below. None of the 
vehicles I could see had mileage quite as high as Hs, but equally very few of them had only 
had one owner from new. Overall, Im satisfied that Lloyds valuation isnt out of kilter with 
the prices being advertised online, and so Ive seen nothing that ought to have prompted the 
insurer to question the amount given by the trade guide it used. 
Mr A has said he put new tyres on the vehicle just before it was stolen. Whilst the timing of 
that expense was very unfortunate, I consider it to be part of the vehicles general upkeep  
and not something that would materially affect its value. Mr A had also fixed a known chassis 
corrosion fault, which affected some vehicles of this model built around the same time. Mr A 
has pointed to most adverts not mentioning this fault being fixed, but I dont consider that 
means those vehicles are likely to encounter corrosion problems. The manufacturer didnt 
recall this model, and that suggests to me it wasnt something that impacted all or even a 
large proportion of the vehicles produced. So, while I think the fault being repaired supports 
the use of the top valuation from the trade guides, Im not persuaded it would have increased 
its value beyond that. The terms of the policy set out that Lloyds will not pay the VAT element of any claim if you 
are registered for VAT  and the valuations given by the trade guides havent included it. I 
consider that to be a fair deduction in the circumstances. H is VAT registered, so the true 
cost of replacing the vehicle is the price without VAT as it can claim that back. Another 
deduction of 10% was also applied as the vehicle had previously been written off. I agree 
that would likely have affected its appeal to buyers and value, no matter how well it was 
repaired afterwards. So, I think that reduction is a fair way to recognise the likely impact the 
previous write-off wouldve had on the vehicles value.
Part of the complaint related to the handling of the claim  specifically Mr A having to chase 
the settlement offer. Lloyds offered £100 compensation by way of apology for the poor claim 
handling, and I think that amount fairly covers the inconvenience caused to H. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Hs complaint about the offer made by Society of Lloyd's in 
settlement of a claim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2021.
 
Ryan Miles
Ombudsman