DRN-4236208
The complaint
Mrs C complains Nationwide Building Society reported incorrect information about her
mortgage which caused her to lose out.
What happened
Mrs C has a residential mortgage with Nationwide. She also has a joint buy-to-let mortgage
with her son (Mr B) with another lender. In late July 2022 Mrs C and Mr B applied to move
their buy-to-let mortgage to a new lender. The new lender declined their application, saying
Credit Score Fail.
It came to light Nationwide had reported some adverse information about Mrs Cs residential
mortgage to the credit reference agencies (CRAs). Nationwide quickly (although not
without hassle for Mrs C) accepted this was a mistake and took steps to correct it but said it
would take four to six weeks for Mrs Cs credit file to update.
Mrs C and Mr B (with advice from their mortgage broker) decided they didnt want to risk
waiting so they took a new product with their existing lender. The terms, however, werent as
favourable as what they had applied for with the new lender, so Mrs C asked Nationwide to
cover the difference (about £10,000).
Nationwide accepted it made a mistake but didnt think it could fairly be held responsible for
Mrs Cs alleged loss. Mrs C didnt think this was a fair outcome, so she asked our service for
an independent review. The Investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. Nationwide
didnt agree so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide, Mrs C, Mr B, and the Investigator all agree Nationwide reported adverse
information to the CRAs in error. For completeness, so do I. So what I need to decide 
is whether I should require Nationwide to compensate Mrs C in the way she has 
asked. Im not persuaded I should. Ill explain why.
Nationwide has argued Mrs C and Mr B could have appealed against the new 
lenders decision to decline their application. I can see from a screenshot of the 
application being declined on 29 July 2020 (provided by Mrs C and Mr B) they could 
have. By 4 August 2022 Nationwide had provided written confirmation of its mistake. 
Mrs C and Mr B didnt appeal. Instead, they took a new product with their existing 
lender on 8 August 2022. While I can understand Mrs C and Mr Bs decision, by 
doing what they did, they crystallised their alleged loss and I cant see that they 
sought any specific support/relief from Nationwide beforehand.
Mrs C and Mr B say their application would have been successful but for the adverse
information Nationwide reported to the CRAs. Theres no certainty in this though, and 
as an appeal wasnt lodged, well never know for sure. There was some additional 
adverse information on Mrs Cs credit file (albeit somewhat dated) and Mr B wasnt 
on the electoral register. And if the application hadnt failed on the credit score, there 
is no certainty it would have ultimately succeeded. Mortgage applications consider a 
great many factors. And buy-to-let mortgages even more so. Its also known that at 
the time of this application there was uncertainty in the market, including with 
changes in interest rates - a cause for concern.
Overall, I cant fairly and reasonably conclude, with sufficient certainty, on the 
evidence presented to me, that Mrs C has lost out directly and solely because of 
Nationwides actions. It follows I cant fairly and reasonably require Nationwide to 
compensate her as she would like. Nationwides mistake did cause Mrs C some 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience in that she had to get Nationwide to correct 
its mistake. Nationwide apologised and offered Mrs C £100 compensation. I consider 
that fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My provisional decision
I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
Nationwide accepted my provisional decision. Mrs C and Mr B responded in a logical, 
measured way, highlighting evidence they considered supported their position.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Mrs C and Mr Bs response to my provisional decision is well formed and makes clear 
what happened from their point of view, the evidence and arguments are materially the same 
as those as I considered before issuing my provisional. 
I have reconsidered. While I sympathise with Mrs Cs position, I still find I cant fairly and 
reasonably conclude, with sufficient certainty, on the evidence presented to me, that Mrs C 
has lost out directly and solely because of Nationwides actions.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman