DRN-3390633
The complaint
Mrs B complains that UK Insurance Limited (trading as Direct Line) failed to pursue a third 
party insurer for liability after she made a claim on her home insurance.
What happened
Mrs B had a home insurance policy with Direct Line. In December 2020, she found water 
coming into her kitchen. She called a builder who believed the problem was caused by an 
overflow pipe from Mrs Bs neighbours property. She made a claim on her insurance and 
told Direct Line that her builder believed her neighbours drain hadnt been maintained as it 
was blocked with mud and leaves.
Direct Line settled the claim and paid for repairs to Mrs Bs home, less her policy excess. 
However, Mrs B feels strongly that her excess should be returned to her and her no claims 
discount reinstated as she believes Direct Line should have recovered its costs from her 
neighbours insurer.
Direct Line told Mrs B that its decision to abandon this claim was because it had to show her 
neighbour was negligent and we dont have the evidence to prove negligence. Mrs B was 
unhappy with this and brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator recommended that Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld. She thought Direct 
Line should have forwarded Mrs Bs evidence to her neighbours insurer and made more 
effort to investigate the cause of the damage. She also thought Direct Lines 
communications were inadequate. She thought Direct Line had caused Mrs B significant 
distress and recommended that it pay her £700 to reflect this. 
Direct Line disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to consider.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 9 March 2022. I said:
Direct Line settled the claim for damage to Mrs Bs home and Mrs B hasnt complained 
about the settlement. So the only thing for me to consider is whether Direct Line should have 
pursued Mrs Bs neighbours insurer to recover its costs.
The excess is the first part of any claim and is sometimes referred to as an uninsured loss. 
Mrs Bs policy booklet says an excess is payable in the event of a claim (Section E, page 
12). Mrs B agreed to this when she took out the policy. 
Mrs Bs policy booklet also says Direct Line can take over, defend or settle the claim, or 
take up any claim in your name for our own benefit as it sees fit (Claims Conditions, page 
31). This means Direct Line can choose if and how it recovers any costs from a third party. 
This is common in insurance policies and Direct Line doesnt need Mrs B to agree this. This 
also means Direct Line can make a decision Mr B doesnt agree with. If it does, I can decide 
if that decision was reasonable. 
Direct Line told us:
Our recovery team did attempted [sic] to recover the claim costs from the Third Party 
Insurer but were unable to prove the Third party had acted in a negligent manner or 
failed to take reasonable steps to carry out a repair when they were made aware of 
an issue. Due to this the recovery was abandoned.
In other words, Direct Line says it would have to prove negligence by Mrs Bs neighbour to 
recover its costs. It didnt think it would be able to do this so it didnt pursue the case. It said, 
in summary:
There wasnt a clearly identifiable cause that led to the water damage in Mrs Bs 
home. Mrs Bs builder thought it was poor maintenance of the drain, but Mrs B later 
said it might have been to do with her neighbours central heating system. The 
exceptionally heavy rainfall at the time could also have been a factor.
Direct Line was unable to order an inspection on the neighbours property.
The neighbours insurer told Direct Line there was no evidence the drain was poorly 
maintained, so the damage was completely unforeseen. It said it would defend the 
claim.
Mrs Bs statement that the neighbours property had been unoccupied for over three 
years didnt help it prove negligence or failure to maintain the drain/central heating.
I accept that Mrs B feels Direct Line should have sent her neighbours insurer her videos and 
photos of the damage. However, I agree with Direct Line that these would only show the 
damage  they couldnt show the cause or, more importantly, show that Mrs Bs neighbour 
had been negligent. So I understand why Direct Line didnt forward this. On the other hand, 
Im satisfied that Direct Line considered this evidence when it decided whether it should 
pursue the claim against the neighbours insurer. 
In the circumstances, I think Direct Lines only option would have been to take legal action 
against the neighbour. But to do that Direct Line would have to believe it had a reasonable 
chance of success. Direct Line clearly believed its chances were poor and, given the value 
of the claim, it wasnt worth instructing solicitors. I dont think this decision was 
unreasonable. 
Direct Line also referred Mrs B to the legal protection on her policy, and the possibility of 
recovering her uninsured losses through this cover. I understand this option is still available 
to Mrs B.
I know this would have been an incredibly stressful experience for Mrs B and her husband, 
and I sympathise with her. But I dont see that Direct Line can be held responsible for this. It 
settled her claim promptly and made a relatively quick decision that it wouldnt pursue her 
neighbour for costs.
I understand why Mrs B is frustrated  she had to pay her excess and lost her no claims 
discount for something that wasnt her fault. But unfortunately this can happen with 
insurance claims. Having considered all the evidence, I think Direct Lines decision to 
abandon its claim against Mrs Bs neighbours insurer was reasonable. I dont intend to ask it 
to take any further action. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs B didnt accept my provisional decision but didnt comment further.
Direct Line said it had nothing to add.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given neither party has commented on my provisional decision or provided any new 
information for me to consider, I see no reason to change my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman