DRN-3513590
The complaint
Mr W is complaining that HSBC UK Bank Plc hasnt refunded an amount he paid for some 
flights on his HSBC credit card.
What happened
In February 2020 Mr W bought flights with an airline  who I shall refer to as R  to travel in 
August 2020 and travelling to Portugal. Due to the travel restrictions in place as a result of 
Covid-19, Mr W said he wasnt allowed to travel to Portugal. He said he tried to cancel the 
flights, but he said he wasnt able to do so.
Mr W contacted HSBC to ask it to refund the amount he paid for the flights. HSBC initially 
considered processing a chargeback but it said this wouldnt be successful as it said the 
flights went ahead and the contract was non-refundable, so it said he wasnt entitled to a 
refund. It also considered whether Mr W had any right under S75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (S75). But it said, for the same reasons the chargeback wouldnt be successful, Mr W 
didnt have any rights under S75.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint as he was satisfied HSBC had considered the 
chargeback and S75 fairly. He said the contract was non-refundable, so he said Mr W wasnt 
entitled to a refund when he looked to cancel the flights. 
Mr W didnt agree with the investigator. He reiterated it was illegal for him to fly, so thinks its 
unfair he isnt getting a refund. He said R only flew to prevent it having to refund the flights.
As Mr W didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
HSBC has considered this matter under both chargeback and S75  as Id expect it to do. 
Ive considered its approach to both separately.
Chargeback
Chargeback is the process by which a bank or credit card provider look to resolve a 
settlement between a consumer and a merchant under the relevant card scheme. Initially the 
card provider will temporarily refund the payment back onto the card account and will raise a 
dispute with the merchant. The merchant is then required to respond within a prescribed 
period of time with any further information it wishes to provide and set out why it thinks the 
chargeback shouldnt go through. If the chargeback is defended, then the temporary refund 
is returned to the merchant.   
The rules of the chargeback scheme are set by the individual card scheme provider and set 
out specifically when a consumer may have chargeback rights. In respect to Mr Ws 
situation, the two potential scenarios are either service not provided or credit not 
received.
So for a chargeback to be successful, Mr W would need to demonstrate that R either didnt 
provide the service  i.e. the flights to Portugal  or issue a refund he was entitled to.
Mr W has highlighted that, owing to the travel restrictions, he wasnt entitled to travel to 
Portugal. But that, in itself, doesnt mean the service wasnt provided. Ive seen evidence 
that shows the flights took place, so R provided the service it was contractually required to 
provide. I do not dispute that Mr W wasnt able to use the flight personally. But I cant say it 
was unfair for HSBC to say there wasnt anything to show the service wasnt provided.
HSBC has also highlighted that the Rs conditions of carriage didnt provide for a refund 
where the consumer cancels the contract or doesnt use the ticket. And I agree that this is 
what the contract said. So I cant say it was unfair for HSBC to also say there wasnt grounds 
to raise chargeback for a credit not being provided.
The chargeback scheme rules set out that HSBC can decline to process a chargeback 
where it doesnt believe theres reasonable prospects of success. Taking everything into 
consideration, I dont think HSBC acted unfairly in declining to process the chargeback.
Section 75
Mr W paid for the flights on his HSBC credit card. S75 sets out that in certain circumstances, 
as the finance provider, HSBC is jointly liable for any breach of contract or misrepresentation 
by R. Im satisfied those circumstances apply here. 
I need to stress that Im only considering the actions of HSBC in its handling of Mr Ws S75 
claim. Im not considering the actions of R in this matter. I appreciate Mr W feels that R acted 
in an underhand why in providing the flight, despite the travel restrictions, to prevent the 
need to issue refunds. But under S75, HSBC is only liable for any losses Mr W has incurred 
owing to a breach of contract or misrepresentation. Theres no suggestion of any 
misrepresentation, so the issue for me to decide is whether I think it was fair for HSBC to say 
there isnt a breach of contract. 
I do not dispute Mr W wasnt willing to travel to Portugal because of the travel restrictions in 
both countries. But there wasnt anything to say that R couldnt provide the flight itself. R 
provided the flights so it fulfilled its contractual responsibilities. The fact Mr W wasnt able to 
travel wasnt down to anything R did wrong. So, the fact Mr W understandably wasnt willing 
to travel because of the travel restrictions, didnt equate to a breach of contract by R. And, it 
follows that I dont think HSBC had any responsibility under S75 to put things right.
Ive also considered whether it was fair for HSBC to say Mr W wasnt entitled to a refund. 
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of Mr Ws contract with R and it sets out that the 
amount Mr W paid for the flights was non-refundable. So Mr W wasnt entitled to a refund of 
the amount he paid. I appreciate Mr W feels strongly about whats happened. But I cant say 
that HSBC acted unfairly in saying that Rs decision to not refund the cost of the flight tickets 
amounted to a breach of contract. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman