DRN-4210257
The complaint
Mr A complains that Unum Ltd has turned down a claim he made on a group income 
protection insurance policy.
Mr A is represented by a solicitor. But for ease of reading, Ive referred to Mr A throughout.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so Ive set out a summary of 
what I think are the key events. 
Mr A is insured under his employers group income protection insurance policy. The policy 
provides cover for Mr As own occupation and includes a deferred period of 26 weeks. 
In October 2020, Mr A was signed-off work with post-viral fatigue. In January 2021, Mr A 
was referred to occupational health (OH) by his employer. He was later referred to a 
rheumatologist, who felt Mr As symptoms could be caused by a psychological illness. So Mr 
A was referred to a consultant psychiatrist and subsequently, for cognitive behavioural 
therapy (CBT). Mr A was ultimately diagnosed with anxiety and depression. In March 2021, 
Mr As employer made an income protection claim on the group policy.
Unum assessed the available medical evidence. Based on that evidence, Unum didnt think 
there was enough to indicate that Mr A had a significant, impairing mental health condition 
during the 26-week deferred period (between October 2020 and April 2021). Instead, it 
concluded that Mr As mood and anxiety appeared to be caused by work-related concerns. 
Accordingly, it wasnt satisfied that Mr A had met the policy definition of incapacity and it 
turned down his claim. 
Mr A was unhappy with Unums decision and he appealed. He provided further medical 
evidence in support of his claim, which indicated that Mr As condition had potentially 
worsened since the end of the deferred period.
But Unum maintained its stance and it issued a final response to Mr As complaint in March 
2022. It told Mr A that given the potential deterioration in his condition, he could consider 
making a new claim.
As Mr A remained unhappy with Unums position, he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr As complaint should be upheld. He assessed the available 
medical evidence. He didnt think Unum had unfairly relied on the evidence to conclude that 
Mr A hadnt shown he met the policy definition of incapacity during the deferred period. And 
therefore, he concluded itd been fair for Unum to turn down Mr As claim. 
Mr A disagreed and so the complaint was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
Following that referral, Mr As representative provided three new pieces of medical evidence 
in support of Mr As claim  a letter dated 5 April 2023 from Mr As CBT therapist; a letter 
dated 5 May 2023 from his psychiatrist and a letter from his GP dated 2 June 2023. This 
new evidence has not been shared with Unum.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Mr A, I think it was fair for Unum to turn 
down his claim based on the evidence available to it in March 2022, at the point it issued its 
final response to his complaint. Ill explain why.
First Id like to reassure Mr A that while Ive summarised the background to his complaint 
and his detailed submissions to us, Ive carefully considered all hes said and sent us. Im 
very sorry to hear about the circumstances that led to Mr A needing to make a claim and I 
dont doubt how upsetting and worrying the situation has been for him and his family. Within 
this decision though, I havent commented on each and every point hes made and nor do 
our rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues.
It's also important that I make the parameters of this decision clear. Mr A has sent me three 
pieces of new medical evidence, which was provided by his treating practitioners in April 
May and June 2023. This medical evidence was all dated over a year after Unum assessed 
the claim and issued its final response in March 2022. Both the investigator and I have only 
considered whether Unum handled the claim fairly up until the point it issued its final 
response. It isnt at all clear to me that Unum has a) seen this evidence and considered 
whether it would affect its claims decision or b) had an opportunity to comment on the 
evidence. And our role isnt to handle claims on an insurers behalf, or to effectively act as a 
postal service between an insurer and a consumer. As such then, it wouldnt be reasonable 
or appropriate for me to comment on the new medical evidence, or to consider it as part of 
my assessment of this particular complaint.  However, its open to Mr A and his 
representatives to now send this new evidence to Unum for its review. If theyre unhappy 
with the outcome of any assessment of the new evidence by Unum, they may be able to 
bring a new complaint to us about that specific decision. 
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So, Ive thought about, amongst other 
things, the terms of the group policy and the available medical evidence, to decide whether I 
think Unum handled Mr As claim fairly. 
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of the policy, as these form the basis of Mr As 
employers contract with Unum. Mr As employer made a claim on his behalf for incapacity 
benefit, given he wasnt fit for work. So I think it was reasonable and appropriate for Unum to 
consider whether Mr As claim met the policy definition of incapacity. Ive turned then to look 
at Unums definition of incapacity. This says: 
A member is incapacitated if they are unable to perform the material and substantial duties 
of their insured occupation because of illness or injury. 
This means that in order for Unum to pay incapacity benefit, it must be satisfied that it was 
Mr As illness which prevented him from carrying out the material and substantial duties of 
his own occupation, for the entirety of the deferred period and afterwards. The policy doesnt 
cover Mr A being unable to work at a specific workplace or for a specific employer. Unum 
needs to be satisfied that Mr A would be unable to carry out the material and substantial 
duties of his own occupation at any workplace or for any employer. Its a general principle of insurance that its for a policyholder to show they have a valid claim 
on their policy. This means it was Mr As responsibility to provide Unum with enough 
evidence to demonstrate that an illness had led to him being unable to carry out the duties of 
his own occupation for the full 26-week deferred period between October 2020 and April 
2021 and afterwards.
Unum assessed the evidence Mr A provided in support of his claim and concluded that it 
didnt indicate that he had a significant, impairing mental health condition or that he met the 
policy definition of incapacity. So Ive next looked at the medical evidence available to Unum 
up until it issued its final response to Mr As complaint to assess whether I think this was a 
fair conclusion for Unum to draw.
Mr As GP records indicate that in October 2020, he was signed-off of work with a viral 
illness. It appears that the GP believed that Mr A was suffering from chronic fatigue 
syndrome and he was subsequently referred to a rheumatologist. 
In the meantime, in January 2021, Mr As employer referred him to OH. In their report, dated 
15 January 2021, the OH advisor set out the symptoms Mr A was suffering from, along with 
their opinion that Mr A wasnt fit for work. The OH advisor said:
(Mr A) also reports that he felt stressed at work prior to his current absence and he is 
currently ruminating frequently about these concerns and worries about losing his 
employment as he is off sick
(Mr A) is currently very anxious about both work and personal matters and recognises that 
his mood is also low.
Mr A saw the rheumatologist in February 2021. The rheumatologist referred to Mr As 
ongoing physical symptoms and stressful factors Mr A had experienced at home and in his 
working life. I note that at this point, four months after the start of the deferred period, the 
rheumatologist stated: I think there is a significant mental health problem here, triggered by 
a combination of your physical health problems and the shock of (a family members illness.
Subsequently, Mr A continued to see OH; and he was also seen by a consultant psychiatrist 
and a CBT therapist, along with his GP.
In February 2021, the OH report stated: Mr A reports that he continues to feel stressed and 
anxious about his work-related concerns but hasnt yet had any dialogue with his employer 
about this.
Mr A first met with the consultant psychiatrist in February 2021. Ive set out what I consider 
to be their most relevant findings:
We spoke of the factors relevant in the onset of symptoms. In this respect, there were four 
key factorsHe next spoke about his new boss, who he felt undermined and even bullied 
by
We formulated from a psychological perspective some factors that may be contributory to his 
ongoing symptoms. It is noted that he is hard-working, a worrier, perfectionist and with a 
great sense of personal responsibility. The series of events described above (a bereavement 
and family illness, increased work intensity and a difficult relationship with his boss) acted on 
this background, leading to many of the symptoms above.
The psychiatrist referred Mr A for CBT but didnt make a formal diagnosis of anxiety or 
depression at this point.In March 2021, a further OH report said: There do seem to be significant perceived 
workplace issues and I would advise that these are addressed via the appropriate business 
channels to resolve these issues.
Subsequently, following the expiry of the deferred period, in April 2021, the GP noted that 
following cardiac testing, Mr A would be raising a grievance with workplace. A later entry 
said he had ongoing issues with employer, having CBT, stress at work  The OH reports 
make further mentions of work-related concerns.
And on 22 April 2021, the consultant psychiatrist stated: 
He presented with symptoms of depression and anxietyHowever, I did not feel that a 
diagnosis of depression and anxiety adequately captured the difficulties with which he 
presented. It was my view that a series of life events on the background of his premorbid 
personality characteristics induced many of the symptoms with which he presented.
I saw him again (in April 2021) at which times he gave additional details of some of the 
background details in his life that may have been germane and to add context to his 
presentation. He added that work-related issues were an ongoing factor in his mood 
symptoms, and I believe that resolution of this will be one factor relevant to his recovery.
The CBT practitioner also referred to Mr As work-related issues and worrying life events in a 
letter of April 2021 following their first consultation with him.
After the initial decline of the claim, Mr As treating practitioners provided further evidence. In 
October 2021, his GP referred to a diagnosis of depression and anxiety that had been made 
in February 2021. However, I note that the GP referred to a consultation theyd had with Mr 
A on 19 March 2021. The GP said: 
During this consultation, we discussed the triggers for his anxiety and depression and Mr A 
opened up about the main reason, he informed me that since 2018 he has been bullied at 
work and he specifically mentioned his manager
From my assessment of Mr A over the last year and as he has mentioned to me on multiple 
occasions his work-related stress and the bullying have led to his mental health 
deteriorating.
Further letters written by the CBT therapist in October 2021 also make clear reference to the 
work-related issues Mr A was experiencing and how theyd affected his health, albeit they 
did also set out that Mr A was being treated for anxiety, depression and PTSD.
Ive thought very carefully about all of the evidence thats been provided. Its important I 
make it clear that Im not a medical expert. In reaching a decision, I must consider the 
evidence provided by both medical professionals and other experts to decide what evidence 
I find most persuasive. Its clear that Mr A was suffering from symptoms which can also be 
indicative of a significant mental health condition and indeed, in February 2021  four 
months into the deferred period, the rheumatologist did conclude that Mr A had a significant 
psychological condition. Im conscious that during the deferred period, Mr A was referred to 
a consultant psychiatrist and for CBT. Im also mindful though that the consultant psychiatrist 
 a specialist in mental health conditions  didnt diagnose Mr A with a mental health 
condition during the deferred period. In fact, they specifically referred to not making such a 
diagnosis.
Taking into account the totality of the medical and other evidence available to Unum in 
March 2022, I think it was reasonable for it to conclude that the evidence showed that Mr A was suffering from an understandable reaction to the work and external circumstances in 
which he found himself. And that one of the main triggers for Mr As absence during the 
deferred period was likely the workplace stress he was experiencing as opposed to a 
diagnosed mental health condition. This is supported by the GPs evidence stating that the 
main trigger had been work-related stress. And so I think this evidence points towards the 
cause of Mr As upsetting symptoms between October 2020 and April 2021 being the 
workplace issues he experienced. I think it indicates too that he was suffering from an 
understandable reaction to his personal circumstances, rather than a functionally impairing 
mental illness which prevented him from carrying out the material and substantial duties of 
his role. I also dont think it was unfair for Unum to conclude that the evidence didnt indicate 
that Mr A wouldnt have been able to carry out his own occupation for another employer.
This means I dont find that Unum acted unfairly - in March 2022 - when it decided that Mr A 
wasnt suffering from a significant mental health condition, during the whole of the deferred 
period, which prevented him from carrying out the material and substantial duties of his 
occupation. 
On this basis then, I dont think it was unfair for Unum to conclude, in March 2022, that Mr 
As absence wasnt due to incapacity in line with the policy definition. Instead, I think it fairly 
concluded that Mr As absence over the full deferred period was more likely due to 
workplace stress and a reaction to his circumstances. 
Unum has told us that it has asked Mr As GP for further medical information, as it thinks that 
Mr As condition may potentially have deteriorated since it issued its final response. It 
remains open to Mr As employer to make a new claim on his behalf should he wish to do so. 
And as Ive explained, its open to Mr A to send the new medical evidence Ive referenced 
above to Unum for it to consider. If hes unhappy with the outcome of any further 
assessment of that new evidence or an assessment of any new claim, he may be able to 
make new complaint(s) about those issues. 
But, overall, despite my natural sympathy for Mr As position, I find it was fair and reasonable 
for Unum to rely on the evidence available to it in March 2022 to turn down his income 
protection claim
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman