DRN-3994482
The complaint
Mr W complains about AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) avoiding his 
policy and declining his claims. He wants AA to reinstate his policy and consider his claims 
further, and to compensate him for the additional costs he has incurred in getting insurance 
elsewhere.
What happened
Mr W and his late wife insured their home with AA. They appear to have held a policy with 
AA for at least 7 years. 
At the time of the policy inception, AA recorded the value of their home as £900,000. 
In 2015, Mrs W sadly passed away. 
Each subsequent year, AA sent renewal information to Mr W and Mrs W. This included a 
statement of facts and included both Mr and Mrs W as policy holders, and the valuation of 
the property as £900,000. 
AA asked that the consumers let them know of any changes. Mr W does not appear to have 
alerted AA to the passing of his wife as she remained named as a policy holder at the 2021 
renewal. No changes were reported to AA, and the policy renewed. 
Around November 2021, Mr Ws home was damaged during a storm.
He submitted two claims to AA. AA began to process his claims. During the course of the 
claims, AA identified that the property had been marketed in 2019 at an asking price of 
£1,500,000. 
AA wrote to Mr W in early 2022. It said that it considered he had made a careless 
misrepresentation when renewing his policy. AA confirmed that if it had known the higher 
valuation of the property it would not have offered cover. AA therefore avoided Mr Ws 
policy, cancelling it back to February 2021. It refunded the premiums paid and stopped 
consideration of the ongoing claims. 
Mr W complained to us. Our investigator looked into this matter and did not recommend 
upholding the complaint. She considered that AA had fairly applied the legislation and so 
had avoided the policy fairly. 
Mr W did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision.
I previously made some enquiries with the parties, and asked AA for evidence to support its 
view that Mr W had made a misrepresentation. 
AA did not respond to my request in time and so I issued a provisional decision. In that 
provisional decision I set out that I had not seen evidence to demonstrate the question asked 
of Mr W, or that his answer was a misrepresentation. I therefore provisionally considered 
that the complaint should be upheld, and the policy reinstated. 
That provisional decision was shared with the parties, and they were invited to comment. 
After that provisional decision was issued, AA sent its response to my enquiries. It provided 
the renewal documentation, system notes and phone call recordings and stated that it 
considered that the market value had been misrepresented. AA argued that if Mr W had 
expected a sale value of £1,500,000 in 2019 then he ought to have known that the valuation 
on his renewal information was incorrect. 
AA has subsequently reiterated that it disagrees with my provisional decision.
 
Mr W has also responded. He feels that AA acted cynically in its decision to avoid his policy 
and comments that he has been caused extreme distress and inconvenience. He feels that 
the compensation ought to be higher as if he had engaged solicitors to help him with his 
complaint then he would have incurred costs of several thousand pounds.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed the information provided by AA and this does not alter my view. The central 
point of my provisional decision was that it appeared that Mr W had been asked for his 
opinion on the market value of the property, and I had not been shown that this was 
incorrect. 
The renewal documentation demonstrates that he was asked to update the information on 
the schedule if it was incorrect, and the information remained as it was from policy inception. 
This included detailing Mr Ws late wife as a policy holder, and the market value which was 
initially given. The renewal documentation does not elaborate on how consumers should 
reach a market valuation, or refer to any guidance on what to consider. 
AA also provided a call between Mr W and an agent of AA, in which Mr W acknowledged 
that he had not closely read the renewal information, and the agent responded that most 
people do not read the renewal information. The agent went on to say that Mr W had a 
responsibility to read the documentation and ought to have known that the market valuation 
was incorrect.  
I remain of the view set out in my provisional decision. In order to be satisfied that a 
consumer made a misrepresentation I need to be satisfied that a clear question was asked, 
and the consumer gave an objectively incorrect or unreasonable answer. I am not satisfied 
on the evidence that this happened in this case. 
The market value of a property is the value that can be obtained for a property on the open 
market. Valuations by estate agents are opinions and may change rapidly and dramatically, 
and the market value can only be objectively assessed after the market has reached an 
answer and the property has been sold. Although the property was marketed at a higher 
price, it was not sold. 
AA argues that it is not unreasonable to expect Mr W to update the market value of the 
property. I do not accept this, and I do think it would be unreasonable to expect consumers 
to continuously know market valuations of their homes and update their insurer. If a business 
wishes to know information from a consumer (such as the purchase price of a property), in 
order to reach its own view of the risk, then it must ask this clearly, and prominently. Asking the consumer for a market valuation calls for their opinion rather than for objective 
fact. I therefore do not agree that Mr W made a misrepresentation on the value of the 
property, and I think AA acted unfairly in avoiding the policy. 
Looking then at Mr Ws comments, I appreciate that he feels that the decision to avoid the 
policy was taken to avoid paying out his claim. I understand that view, especially as a 
different approach was taken to correcting other information from the schedule of fact.
I appreciate that he has experienced substantial distress and inconvenience as a 
consequence of the decision to avoid the policy. I do not agree that the compensation ought 
to be increased as much as he suggests legal fees would have been, but I accept that the 
effect upon him of the decision to avoid was more severe than I previously considered.
Putting things right
In order to put matters right, I remain of the view that Mr Ws claim ought to have been 
considered, and that the policy for 2021/22 should be reinstated. The avoidance decision 
should be removed from AAs and other databases. Mr Ws claims for storm damage should 
then be considered in line with the remaining policy terms.
Additionally, Mr W has incurred financial effects in having to pay higher costs for insurance, 
due to the avoidance decision. This should be refunded to him, based on the increase of his 
subsequent premiums compared to his 21/22 premium with AA. 
Interest should be added to reimbursement, at a rate of 8% per annum from the date when 
Mr W had to pay out any expenses up until the date of settlement. 
In light of the comments from Mr W about the effects he has experienced, I increase the 
compensation for distress and inconvenience to £500.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Ws complaint and 
direct AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to:
Reinstate Mr Ws policy for the year 21/22 and remove any reference to an 
avoidance from its own and any centralised databases;
Provide Mr W with a letter confirming the above, and that he does not need to 
declare an avoidance in future;
Refund to Mr W the difference between the premium(s) he has incurred since the 
avoidance decision, and the last premium he agreed to with AA;
Consider his claims in line with the remaining policy terms;
Add to any reimbursement to Mr W interest at a rate of 8%; and
Pay to Mr W £500 for his distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and the 
estate of Mrs W to accept or reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Laura Garvin-SmithOmbudsman