DRN-3043152
complaint
This complaint is about payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken with loans in 1999 
and 2000. Mr B says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold the PPI.
The complaint is brought by Mr B on behalf of both Mr B and the estate of the late Mrs B.
background
The first policy was a single premium policy, replaced by a regular premium policy when the 
second loan repaid the first loan around six months later. In each case the PPI cover was for 
accident, sickness and unemployment and was on Mr B only. Claims relating to pre-existing 
health issues were excluded but there were no extra limitations, exclusions or more onerous 
evidential requirements for claims relating to back pain or mental health issues.
The amount of the PPI single and monthly premiums, the background to each sale and 
Mr Bs circumstances havent been disputed, so I havent repeated all that information here.
The lending was repaid before April 2008 so the unfair relationship provisions set out in 
s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgement in Plevin about s.140 of 
that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of complaints 
about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin judgement, arent applicable.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr Bs representatives disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. Mr B also told us hed like an ombudsman to consider his complaint 
and issue a final decision. So the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like those Im considering here. I havent set out that 
detailed information here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding 
this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think it likely Nationwide made it clear Mr B didnt have to take the PPI and he chose to 
take it. I say this because the loan application form for each loan had a separate section 
headed Protecting your repayments - with boxes to tick to say either yes or no to the 
PPI. On Mr Bs forms, which he signed to apply for the loans, the yes boxes were ticked 
to say he wanted the cover  and I think it likely he wouldve known that if he didnt want 
cover the no boxes shouldve been ticked instead.
Also, to take each loan, Mr B signed a credit agreement after the loan application and 
before each loan started. These referred to the PPI as optional credit insurance and set 
out details of the PPI cost separately from the other loan costs. I think this wouldve 
tended to indicate the PPI was optional insurance that carried a separate cost.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI - so it didnt have to check the PPI was right or 
suitable for Mr B. But it did have to give enough clear and timely information so Mr B 
could decide for himself if it was right for him.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But the loan application forms told him the PPI was protection for his 
repayments if unemployment, accident or sickness stopped him working - and he chose 
to take the cover. So it looks like he wanted this type of cover.
There were no extra restrictions on cover for back pain or mental health issues over and 
above those applying to other health issues. But Mr B couldnt claim for work absences if 
due to a health issue he knew about at the start  and hes told us of a health issue he 
had an operation for around 11 years before the sale. Ive looked carefully at all I have 
about this, including all Mr B has told us. I take into account also that Mr B didnt mention 
having had any other pre-existing health issues in what he sent us when he brought his 
complaint to us. Also, Mr B wasnt significantly affected by any of the other significant 
exclusions on or limits to the cover  nothing about his job or employment wouldve 
made it hard for him to claim, for example. 
With all this in mind, and taking into account what he could still claim for, on balance 
what I have doesnt make me think Mr Bs decision to take cover wouldve changed had 
he been told more at the start about the exclusion relating to pre-existing health issues.
It was conceivable at the start that the lending might be repaid early. The first policy was 
paid for with an upfront premium, but it offered a pro-rata refund of that premium if the 
loan were repaid early. The second policy was a monthly policy that could be stopped if 
the loan were repaid or if Mr B decided to stop cover for any reason. With all this in mind, 
I dont think the terms for cancellation or early repayment made the cover fundamentally 
wrong for Mr B and I dont think his decision to take cover wouldve changed if hed been 
given more information about this at the start.
Overall, I dont think the cover was fundamentally wrong for Mr B or too dissimilar overall 
to what its likely he thought he was buying from the information its likely he was given  
and I think he couldve found the benefit useful if he couldnt work in the circumstances 
the PPI covered. So, with this and all Ive said above in mind, I dont think he wouldve 
declined the cover had Nationwide done more in terms of the information it gave him.
Overall, I consider Mr B wouldve still taken the PPI. It was sufficiently close to what its likely 
he thought he was getting and given his circumstances I think he couldve found the benefit 
useful at what couldve been a difficult time if he lost his job or become too sick to work. And, 
in those circumstances, I think he wouldve taken the PPI policies in any event.
Mr Bs representatives have raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which they say apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service isnt correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI complaints; that these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and that the duty of utmost good faith meant Nationwide shouldve disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact on the 
chances of making a claim.
Mr Bs representatives havent said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of this individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Bs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint. For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Im grateful to Mr B for his courtesy throughout our consideration of this matter and also for 
his patience.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold this complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2022. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman