DRN-2145732
The complaint
Mr K complains that Specialist Lending Limited trading as Duologi is responsible for a credit 
facility he thought he could get out of at any time.
What happened
In September 2018 Mr K says he was sold a cancel within twelve months online education 
course for his children by a course provider. He says he came across the course provider 
through the school his children attend. Duologi says he took out a Fixed Sum Loan 
Agreement over five years with it to pay for this online educational course.
In September 2019 he tried to stop paying the monthly payment. In his correspondence with 
Duologi he makes repeatedly clear that he was told he could cancel any time in the first 
twelve months. Mr K wants out of the agreement with nothing else to pay but Duologi say 
hes responsible for the total amount of credit (which was just over three thousand five 
hundred pounds at the time the agreement was signed in 2018).
Mr K (often represented by Mrs K) repeatedly contacted Duologi saying the representative 
lied to him. But no agreement was reached so Mr K complained. Duologi said theyd done 
nothing wrong. Mr K says he signed paperwork but Duologi arent listening to what hes been 
saying about what the representative told him. So Mr K brought his complaint here.
Our Investigator upheld Mr Ks complaint, but Duologi didnt agree and pointed to the 
paperwork from the sale. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K says he received a leaflet via his childs school offering the services of the course 
provider Ive referred to, to help with educating children. He expressed an interest in learning 
more about this, and a representative visited his home in September 2018. By the end of this 
meeting Mr K had purchased an educational course for children. It appears the 
representative was acting for both the course provider and Duologi during the sales process. 
The total price of the course was £3564 of which £3514 was paid for with a loan from 
Duologi which was arranged by the representative. The loan was interest free and was to 
run for 60 months. 
Mr K has been very clear and consistent in his representations that during the meeting with 
the representative they understood the situation was that they had a service which could be 
cancelled anytime within the first twelve months. He says the crux of this issue is the fact 
that we were lied to and tricked by the representative who visited them (who he names). 
Mr K accepts he signed the contract. But repeatedly makes clear he was told that they had 
one months cancellation notice within the first year. And that being told that was something 
he relied upon in his decision making. Mr K is clearly very unhappy with how things have 
turned out- this is all a big scam company picking on vulnerable parents.
Duologi didnt sell Mr K the course or the loan, but it has some responsibilities to Mr K due to 
certain protections afforded to consumers by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The loan Mr K 
entered with Duologi is regulated by this Act, and there are two sections of the Act which 
provide his with some protection namely section 56 and section 75. 
In summary section 56 has the effect of making the representative who sold the loan the 
agent of Duologi during the antecedent negotiations leading up to Mr K entering into the 
loan agreement, beginning with the first communication he received from the course 
provider. In essence this means Duologi can be held responsible for the things that were 
done or said during the sales process. Section 75 has the effect of allowing Mr K to hold 
Duologi liable for breaches of contract by the course provider, or misrepresentations made 
during the sales process.
Duologi has pointed to a number of documents which were either electronically signed or 
initialled and signed by hand by Mr K on the day in question. He accepts that he completed 
documents. Duologis position essentially is that the documentary evidence from the point of 
sale is overwhelming and is, in short, the end of the matter as Mr K agreed to everything in 
those documents. But I dont agree that position is a complete appreciation of what 
happened here. What was said by the representative is also important as the discussion will 
have started before the paperwork was signed. And Mr K would have considered what the 
representative said in his decision making during the sale.
Mr K has been consistent in what he says about believing he could cancel in the first twelve 
months. He says he believed this because this is what the representative told him. And 
events do support this as it was around the twelve month point when Mr K tried to cancel 
only to be told he couldnt.
I think a particularly important issue here is the reliance Mr K placed on what the 
representative told him. And I also think the context of the origin of this relationship is a key 
consideration. Mr K says he became aware of the provider of the course through his childs 
school. My understanding is that this marketing approach was common place by the course 
provider. I think a parent receiving an introduction such as this from their childs school 
would view this as at least an implicit endorsement or recommendation. I think this would 
have made Mr K more likely to trust what he was being told by the representative in this 
case.
As for the broader context of this sale Im also aware that the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) wrote to credit brokers outlining some key risks for them to consider and act upon. 
The FCA said it had found firms brokering credit agreements with third party finance 
providers had poor oversight of staff, leaving sales practices unchecked and potentially 
increasing the risk of mis-selling, fraud or other poor consumer outcomes. It highlighted in 
particular brokers which sell products in consumers homes as presenting a higher risk of 
consumer harm, especially where sales took place without appropriate oversight and on a 
commission-basis. The FCA did not name individual firms, but Im mindful of the fact that the 
sale here does, at least, fit some of the criteria the FCA identified as presenting a high risk of 
mis-selling.
Importantly I also need to consider that this service has seen a number of cases about the 
course provider and it using credit providers such as Duologi. These include the common 
theme of people understanding that they could cancel at any time or outside the stated 
terms. I havent seen anything that connects these complainants other than they were sold 
courses such as this by the course provider and often took finance to pay for it. That doesnt mean that the representatives always provided misleading or untrue information. But it does 
show that there was a significant risk that such representatives either were unclear on the 
arrangement being entered into or that unscrupulous or incompetent representatives may 
have presented the situation differently to that articulated in the documentation.
This service has also received information that the related company operated informally a 
longer cancellation period than the fourteen days set out in its contracts. I can see the 
existence of official and unofficial cancellation periods of different lengths being a potential 
source of confusion during the sales process, and this again leads me towards a conclusion 
that misunderstandings were not uncommon. And, indeed, Mr K has noted that in his 
discussions with the course provider it accepted that there were differing arrangements 
available for those taking out the educational course taken here. Which I think allows for at 
least the possibility of inconsistency information being provided.
Ive considered what Mr K has said very carefully. And taking everything into account Im 
persuaded on balance that Mr K was told a different story by the representative regarding 
the operation of the agreement to that set out in the documentation provided by Duologi. I 
think it likely he was told that he could cancel in the first year. And it was on this basis he 
entered into the agreement. And similarly I think it is on this basis things should be put right. 
And as Ive described due to the operation of sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974, Mr K can hold Duologi liable for the incorrect information provided by the 
representative in this case. So Duologi needs to do something to put things right.
In response to the views of the Investigator Duologi has said that reliance on one partys 
recollections when compared to its tangible and credible documentary evidence would isnt 
fair. I disagree. Firstly that the paperwork was signed by Mr K isnt disputed. But importantly 
the key issue here is what was said to Mr K before and whilst he signed that documentation 
and what he relied on in deciding to sign. Secondly and more importantly Duologi has only 
described what it considers what would have been said and done by its representative not 
what was actually said. In essence it is relying on the representative describing the matters 
accurately. However it hasnt provided commentary from the representative in this case in 
support of its position. Mr K was there in person and heard what was actually said and I find 
his comments persuasive in light of what we already know. And along with what Ive already 
said with regards to sales such as this more broadly and considering what this service 
knows of sales such as this, means I consider it fair on balance that Duologi put things right 
in this particular case.
  
Putting things right
I direct Duologi to take the following actions:
Cap Mr Ks liability for the loan at the sum of the repayments which were due as of
the date he first contacted either the course provider or Duologi to cancel. Anything 
above this amount must be written off and no longer pursued.
If Mr K has paid more than this capped liability, then any overpayments must be
refunded to him, along with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date he
made each overpayment, to the date he receives a refund.
If Mr K has paid less than this capped liability then an affordable repayment plan 
must be arranged for the outstanding balance up to the cap.
Remove any negative information relating to the loan from Mr Ks credit file and mark 
it as settled from the first date he contacted either the course provider or Duologi to 
cancel. If Mr K has not paid up to this capped liability then Duologi does not need to 
mark the loan as settled until he has paid up to the cap.Arrange with Mr K for the return of any course materials, DVDs and anything else he 
received under the contract, and the ending of any other services supplied under the 
contract. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Duologi to take tax off this interest. Duologi must
give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if Mr K asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold the complaint against Specialist Lending Limited 
trading as Duologi and direct it to put things right as I have set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman