DRN-3387293
The complaint
Mr H complains that Allium Money Limited (Allium), has rejected the claim he made under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel system he 
says were misrepresented to him by the supplier.
What happened
In or around November 2019, Mr H was visited by a representative of a company Ill call P 
to talk about a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. Following the 
visit, Mr H decided to proceed with installation of the system. It was subsequently installed 
and financed through a 10-year fixed sum loan agreement with Allium. 
In February 2020, Mr H made a claim under section 75 of the Act to Allium. He said that P 
had made a number of representations during the sales presentation that had turned out not 
to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had induced Mr H to enter into the 
contract with P. Hes made the following points:
The sales representative explained that the solar panel system wouldnt cost him 
anything and hed generate a monthly profit; and
he was unaware that he was taking out a loan to pay for the panels; and
he let the representative know that his reading wasnt very good, but the 
representative said that hed explained everything verbally and his signature was just 
a formality; and
he contacted Allium and P shortly after the system was installed to cancel the loan 
but was unable to do so; and
the system was installed on his roof but hasnt been activated due to P requesting an 
additional payment Mr H didnt think was due.
Allium issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the provision of the loan had 
been misrepresented to Mr H or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be 
upheld. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our investigator initially didnt think Allium had acted 
fairly. They thought Allium should cancel the loan agreement, refund all payments made, 
arrange for the system to be removed and pay £200 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Mr H accepted our investigators findings. But Allium didnt agree. They said P had agreed to 
remove the system, but Mr H had refused to pay the cancellation costs they wanted. They 
said:
in a call on 28 February 2020, Mr H states that he wasnt informed he was taking out 
a loan but that he would be in receipt of the benefits of the panels through a 
reduction in his energy bills and by selling any additional energy generated. He did 
mention that some companies give away free panels but did not mention that this 
was the case here. All the literature from P details the cash price which would 
indicate to Mr H that the panels were not free; and
Mr H signed the quotation in four places but admitted to not reading the document at 
the time or after the meeting. Allium think its likely that Mr H wouldnt have entered 
the transaction without either reading the documents or completing his own research. 
This is supported by the fact that he contacted P in the first instance rather than the 
other way round; and
Mr H had a responsibility to read documents before signing them; and
Mr H provided his financial details to the salesperson who completed the finance 
application. At 5:03pm the application was sent to Allium to be reviewed by an 
underwriter who approved the application and sent an email to Mr H containing the 
loan agreement at 6:51pm, he signed the agreement and direct debit mandate and 
returned it at 8:14pm. It seems unlikely that Mr H didnt know about the loan 
agreement; and
the credit agreement and quotation contained cancellation rights, but Mr H didnt 
contact Allium or P to cancel until all of the works were completed; and
the point of sale documentation is sufficient to make Mr H aware that the solar panel 
system would pay for itself over an 11-year period; and
the wholesale energy prices have significantly increased since installation which 
means that the electricity savings that Mr H will receive will be higher than stated in 
the quotation; and
P have confirmed that the system is activated but Mr H owes them £900 which may 
be why the excess energy produced isnt able to be resold.
Having reconsidered all the information and evidence available, our investigator changed 
their opinion on Mr Hs complaint. She didnt think Allium had misrepresented the system or 
the loan to Mr H.
Mr H hasnt responded to our investigators findings. So, as an agreement couldnt be 
reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
Mr H said that he was told the panels wouldnt cost him anything as the cost would be 
funded by the benefits. But the system was funded with a fixed sum loan agreement, so Im 
satisfied that section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr H could claim against Allium, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he 
could have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when 
deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr H and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Allium.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both Mr H and Allium. These 
include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Just for you - Your Personal Solar 
Quotation. Ive considered these in detail and whether they support the alleged 
representations made by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mr Hs recollection of the sale.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
Mr H said he told P he struggled to understand written communication. He said he relied 
upon the verbal assurances given by the salesperson at the time of the sales presentation. 
Cost of the system
The loan agreement clearly sets out that the cash price of the goods.
Mr H has suggested that P told him the system wouldnt cost anything and would pay for 
itself. 
Im satisfied that page 37 of the contract part of the quote provided to Mr H makes it clear 
that the cost of the system is £13,162 and a deposit was to be paid of £1,000. This is 
supported by the credit agreement which sets out that the cash price of the system was 
£13,162. The total amount of credit is £12,162 and it goes on to show that the total amount 
payable would be £19,868.02.
Pages 38 to 41 of the quote are entitled Your Agreement. They provide full details of the 
payment options available to Mr H. And as the quote provided by P is clear that there would 
be a monthly loan repayment due, as set out in the table below, Im satisfied that the two 
documents, the quote and the credit agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the 
system was £13,162, it would cost Mr H more than this as an interest bearing loan had been 
agreed to pay for it.
Pages 39 and 40 of the quote include four tables showing repayments over 12 months, 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 120 months as this is the 
length of the loan Mr H entered into with Allium. This table shows the loan as repayable in 
120 monthly payments of £157.38. For each year of the 10-year loan it shows the expected 
grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £157.38, to give an average difference between the 
monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the estimated monthly return Mr H could expect to receive 
from the system. I also think it clearly sets out that the overall returns he could expect to 
receive would not be immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. 
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr H that the system would self-funding.
Ive considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly return from 
the system, and the effect on that return of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand.
As mentioned above, Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-
funding from the start, and I think is clear there would be a difference between the expected 
returns and the monthly loan repayments. However, I do accept that Mr H was told by P that 
the system would be self-funding over a duration of time. 
Page 30 of the quote has a table detailing the performance over 30 years. This is headed 
What will you earn and save per year. It shows that by year 11, the overall benefits that Mr 
H could expect to receive would have exceeded the cash purchase price of the system. But 
it is made clear this is based upon a cash purchase. 
When considering the total amount payable under the loan of £19,868.02, the table shows 
that by year 15 the overall benefits that Mr H could expect to receive would have exceeded 
the total amount payable under the loan agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr H that the system would pay for itself by 
year 15, as supported by the table above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im 
satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the contract, and he subsequently 
suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Performance
Ordinarily, I would go on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in 
line with the contract between P and Mr H. But I understand that there remains an 
outstanding amount to pay by Mr H. So, Allium have confirmed that while the system has 
been activated, Mr H has been unable to register it so that surplus energy can be sold on. As 
a result, there are no statements available to demonstrate the performance of the system 
installed at Mr Hs home.
I have considered the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, expected 
annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. I am 
satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2018 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to 
have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial returns Mr H couldve 
expected to receive from the system. 
Loan agreement
Allium have provided evidence suggesting Mr H gave details of his financial information to P 
to enable an application for a loan to pay for the system. Mr H says he wasnt aware of the 
loan. On balance, the fact that Mr H provided this information appears to contradict his 
recollection. Im unable to find any other reason why the information wouldve been provided.  
Im also aware that Mr Hs loan application was referred to Alliums credit underwriters to 
consider before a decision was made. This resulted in a copy of the loan agreement being 
emailed to Mr H that evening. I can see that Mr H signed the agreement together with a 
direct debit authority and returned it by email later again that evening. So, Im not persuaded 
that Mr H wasnt aware that a loan had been agreed for him to purchase the system.
Cancellation
The solar quote includes a section on page 45 headed Express Request for early supply of 
services. This section was signed by Mr H at the time of the sales meeting. The section 
states I acknowledge that should I choose to cancel in the 14 days cancellation period I am 
responsible for paying for services delivered up to that point. This may include survey fees, 
scaffold costs, the cost of installation and removal and the reduction in value of any items 
supplied and fitted.
From the evidence Ive seen, I believe the system was installed at Mr Hs home in February 
2020. Mr H confirmed he was satisfied with the work completed. But he subsequently asked 
P to cancel the contract and remove the items installed. But P required Mr H to make a 
payment before this could be done. Mr H refused, so the system remains installed at his 
home.
Having considered this, I think the contract is clear that P were entitled to request payment 
for removal of the system. So, I cant reasonably conclude theyd done anything wrong here.
Mr H also contacted Allium two days after installation of the system. He wanted them to 
cancel the loan. The loan terms and conditions are clear that Mr H has 14 days beginning 
with the day afterthe day on which you receivea copy of the executed agreement to 
withdraw his agreement. As I mentioned above, I believe Mr H received and returned a copy 
of the agreement on the evening of the sales meeting. And as he didnt contact Allium until 
late February 2020, the withdrawal period had expired. So, I cant reasonably conclude 
Allium did anything wrong when they didnt cancel the loan.
Summary
Mr H has confirmed that he read neither the solar quote nor the loan agreement before 
signing them. He says that he struggles with his reading, so relied upon the salespersons 
explanation. But I think Mr H still had a responsibility to ensure he fully understood the 
agreement he was entering into. Hed received the solar quote and the loan agreement and 
had both time and opportunity from the date of the agreement to the date of the system 
installation to consider the information provided. He also had opportunity, where appropriate, 
to seek independent and trusted support to do that. 
Im satisfied that the quote formed a central part of the sales process. It wouldve been 
discussed with Mr H, which the original complaint supports. So, Ive not been persuaded that 
the salesperson wouldve said something that would then have been contradicted by the 
quote. To support this, Im satisfied that the Mr H was sent the quote and the loan 
agreement, had time to consider them and to raise any issues prior to installation.Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr H to enter 
into the contract for the system or the loan, and Ive found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
Im aware that Mr H hasnt been making repayments towards the outstanding loan. Allium 
have assured this service they havent recorded anything adverse on Mr Hs credit file. As a 
result of Mr Hs ongoing complaint, he now has a shorter period of time available in order to 
repay the full amount of the loan. So, I think Allium should ensure that Mr H is treated 
positively and sympathetically to ensure that repayment of the loan is affordable for him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman