DRN-3540853
The complaint
N complains that One Sure Insurance Limited failed to ask the required questions when
setting up cover. This meant the insurer later avoided the motor insurance policy back to
inception.
What happened
N is a small limited business. A representative for N took out a commercial motor insurance
policy through One Sure acting as a broker, in July 2020. This was agreed over the phone.
One Sure liaised with the insurer, providing it with the information it needed to agree cover.
In April 2021 the insurer wrote to N to explain the policy had been avoided from inception. It
says One Sure had asked if any driver had previously been convicted of any criminal
offences. To which N had responded, no. But it later identified a criminal conviction had
occurred in 2015 that was declarable for four years plus the length of the sentence that was
given. The insurer says this conviction should have been declared in July 2020.
The insurer referred to the statement of fact One Sure provided to N. This confirmed Ns
answers to the questions One Sure asked - and the requirement for N to highlight any
corrections that were needed.
N says One Sure only asked about motoring convictions. It didnt ask about criminal
convictions that werent related to motoring offences. So, incorrect information wasnt given
when the policy was set up. N also says the statement of fact document wasnt received, so
incorrect information couldnt have been identified.
One Call didnt uphold Ns complaint, so the matter was referred to our service. Our
investigator upheld the complaint. She says having listened to call recordings between N
and One Sure  N was only asked about motoring convictions. She didnt think N had given
inaccurate responses to the question asked. And it isnt reasonable to expect B to
understand One Sure wanted information about criminal convictions as it wasnt obvious this
was relevant.
Our investigator noted there was a question in the statement of fact about criminal
convictions. But didnt think it was reasonable to expect N to have identified this as a
mistake. As this question wasnt asked over the phone and it was for One Sure to be clear
what information it needed. She thought One Sure was responsible for the action taken by
the insurer to avoid the policy.
Our investigator thought it was fair for One Sure to pay £250 compensation, reimburse the
additional cost of insurance, ensure any record of the incorrect cancellation is removed and
provide a letter confirming One Sure is at fault for the incorrect information.
One Sure disagreed with this outcome. It says the question about criminal convictions is
clearly asked and can be heard in the recordings provided. So, it asked for an ombudsman
to review Ns complaint. N agreed with the outcome but thought more compensation was
required for the upset and increased costs incurred.
It has been now been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in May 2022 explaining that I was intending to not uphold Ns 
complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
One Sure was acting as a broker on behalf of N. We take the view that its responsible for
any misrepresentation resulting from its actions or omissions, including where this leads to
action taken by the insurer. In this case Ns insurer acted to avoid the policy back to
inception because of inaccurate information it received.
The actions of the insurer dont form part of my considerations here. N will need to raise a
separate complaint to the insurer if required. My focus is whether One Sure acted
responsibly when obtaining information from N in order to make the application to the
insurer.
I have seen a copy of the statement of fact document. This says the following question was
asked of N, and confirms the response:
Have you ever received a criminal conviction or is there any pending?:
No.
I have also seen the policy documentation that was made available to N via an online portal.
This includes the Insurance Product Information Document, which sets out the key
information and says:
 You should refer to your policy documentation which includes the policy wording,
statement of fact, schedule and any endorsements for complete pre-contractual and
contractual information. Please take the time to carefully check your documentation to
ensure you have provided the correct details, chosen the correct level of cover and fully
understand your obligations pre-contract and throughout your policy period. Please contact
your broker should you have any questions or to amend the details we hold.
The policy document setting out the terms and conditions says:
In deciding to accept this Policy and in setting the terms and premium, We have relied on
the information You have given Us. You must take care when answering any questions We
ask by ensuring that all information provided is accurate and complete.
I think its made clear in the policy documents that N should take care to ensure the
information provided is accurate and if not to take action to report it. The question about
criminal convictions is set out clearly  and it shows no convictions were reported by N.
However, from the information provided, this isnt accurate. There was a conviction in 2015
that N was still required to declare at the time the policy was taken out.
I have listened to the call recordings provided by One Sure, to understand what questions N
was asked when the policy was taken out. Its call handler asks:
Are you authorised to provide data about medical conditions and criminal conviction historyThe response provided is, okay, yes.
The call handler continues the call to ask:
Has any driver ever had any unspent criminal offences or convictions.
The response provided is, No.
In the complaint to One Sure N says it didnt ask about criminal convictions only motoring
convictions. From listening to the call, I dont agree this was the case.
The call handler did ask the following question later in the call:
Do you have any motoring convictions, offences or endorsements, including pending or
fixed penalty in the past five years.
I dont dispute Ns recollection of what was discussed. But I think its clear One Sure asked
about any driver having a criminal conviction. It was then told that no driver to be included on
the policy had an unspent conviction. Based on this evidence One Sure asked the correct
question and it, including Ns response was set out in the statement of fact.
I have thought about Ns comment that the statement of fact wasnt received. We asked One
Sure for evidence this was provided. It says the documents were uploaded to Ns self
service area online. It says its records show N logged onto the self-service area and
downloaded the documents. One Sure reiterates that its Ns responsibility to check this
information is correct and let it know if it isnt.
One Sure has provided a screen shot of its system records. It explains this shows Ns
account was logged into on the day the policy was set up. There are several records that
refer to insurance documents that were downloaded on this date.
Based on this information I think One Sures view is persuasive that the policy
documentation was made available to N and this was accessed online.
Having considered all of this, Im satisfied One Sure did ask N whether any driver had
unspent criminal convictions. A statement of fact was provided along with other policy
documentation advising N should check the information and highlight any inaccuracies. N
told One Sure there were no unspent criminal convictions to declare. And no issues were
highlighted with the information set out in the statement of fact.
The records indicate the policy documents were downloaded. I acknowledge Ns comment
that this information wasnt provided. I dont think its been shown that this is the case. But if
it was, I think its reasonable for N to have notified One Sure of this missing information far
sooner.
In summary, I dont think One Sure treated N unfairly. Im satisfied the correct questions
were asked and policy documentation was made available. I dont think One Sure acted
improperly or is responsible for Ns insurer taking the action it did. So, I cant reasonably ask
it to do anymore.
I said I was intending to not uphold this complaint.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.One Sure responded to say it accepted my provisional decision.
N responded to say that having looked at the facts, acknowledging the call recording, it 
doesnt dispute the fact that at the point of sale it was believed that the sentence was spent. 
N also says its believed that at the point of sale the sentence was days away from being 
spent. 
N says afterwards there were ten months of unspent convictions by the time the insurer 
decided to pull the insurance. This was close to it being in force for a full year. N says this 
caused financial difficulties because due diligence hadnt been completed at the start of the 
policy. 
N says it shows poor management that the policy was allowed to continue for ten months 
before it was cancelled. N also raises concerns that different decisions have been reached 
by this service.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The call recording N refers to in the further comments is the recording where One Sures 
agent asks if any driver has an unspent criminal conviction. A copy of this recording was 
provided to N on request after my provisional decision was issued. 
I acknowledge Ns comments that at the point of sale its representative believed that no 
driver had an unspent criminal conviction. I dont dispute that this was the belief held by its 
representative. But it was Ns responsibility to accurately answer the questions One Sure 
had asked. There was a criminal conviction from 2015 that had to be declared for four years 
plus the length of the sentence. At the time the policy was taken out in July 2020 this meant 
the conviction still had to be declared. 
I note Ns comment that it is believed the sentence was days away from being spent at the 
time the policy as agreed. But this wasnt the case given it had to be declared for the length 
of the sentence plus four years. The date the conviction neednt be declared from was 
actually a number of months after the policy was taken out. 
N says the policy wasnt cancelled for around ten months. I acknowledge the point made and 
Ns view that this demonstrates poor management on One Sures part. I have thought about 
this point  but Ns representative told One Sure that no driver had an unspent conviction. N 
was provided with documentation confirming this and asked to check the information to 
ensure it was correct. 
In the circumstances I think N was given reasonable opportunity to ensure the information 
provided was accurate. Because of this I dont think One Sure behaved unreasonably in 
relying on the information N provided about the conviction. It came to light some months 
later that this information wasnt accurate. But I dont think this is One Sures fault. 
In my provisional decision I set out a different conclusion to that of our investigator. Im sorry 
N is disappointed, but our service provides a two-stage process. One Sure didnt agree with 
our investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. I issued a provisional 
decision to allow the opportunity for any further comments or information to be provided. N 
sent further comments, which I have now considered in my final decision. Although my 
decision differs from that of our investigator, the process has been followed correctly. Having considered all of this and for the reasons explained in my provisional decision, I dont 
uphold Ns complaint.    
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I do 
not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman