DRN-3539486
The complaint
Mr S complains that he had problems with his credit card issued by Bank of Scotland plc  
trading as Halifax (Halifax).
What happened
Mr S had a credit card from Halifax. The limit was  £15,000. He received a replacement card. 
On 23 October 2021, he tried to make an online purchase with a national retailer and the 
payment was declined. He also tried to update the new card with his mobile phone operator 
but had problems with that also. 
Mr S complained. He said that he called Halifax in connection with the first purchase and 
was told there wasnt a problem, when there clearly was. His card had been blocked  but 
Halifax told him it wasnt. And he maintained he had been contacted by Halifax about the 
issue with his mobile phone company. He said hed called Halifax on 3 October 2021 in 
response to their message but gave up after waiting for 30 minutes to get through. He also 
complained that he was annoyed by the fact that each time he logged on online, he was 
asked to consider opting for paperless statements. He didnt want to do that and if there was 
an option to say no thank you  he wouldve opted for that, rather than being bothered each 
time.
Halifax accepted that theyd made an error when they told him his card hadnt been blocked 
when he called about the declined payment on 23 October 2021. He had been misinformed 
on the phone. Mr S had responded to the fraud alert text to say the payment was Ok and it 
had then gone through. For their error, Halifax paid compensation of £40.
Halifax couldnt see any attempts to register the card with the mobile phone provider. 
Payments were being made to it successfully.
Halifax said that customers were offered the option to change their paperless preferences 
when they logged on. But that was their process and it may be that Mr S would experience 
this again going forward.
Mr S brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Halifax acted reasonably. On the 
issue of the payment to the retailer, she said Halifax admitted theyd made an error and paid 
£40 -  she said that was fair. On the issue with the mobile phone company, Halifax said they 
hadnt had a problem with Mr S card on 3 October 2021; nor was there a record of any 
transactions being declined. She could see that three payments were made to the mobile 
phone company between September 2021 and December 2021. She understood the 
frustration about being presented with paperless options on the lead page when logging onto 
Halifaxs website.
Mr S asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint  and so it has come to me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S complaints come after a series of frustrations he says he experienced with Halifax  
and I appreciate that as a busy man, he didnt want to spend time in communicating with 
Halifax to resolve matters.
But let me also explain our role.  We are an informal dispute resolution service which seeks 
to come to fair decisions where there is a complaint from a consumer about a financial 
business. We do this based on the facts of the case as we see them, having taken evidence 
from both parties. We dont take sides.
Also - we cant tell businesses to change their operations, processes, or procedures  thats 
up to them, and we cant interfere. But our role is to decide if customers have been treated 
fairly in the circumstances of their complaint.
Ive looked at Mr S complaint with this in mind.
Payment to national retailer:  Halifax stopped Mr S payment on 23 October 2021  due to a 
fraud check. All banks, including Halifax, have checks in place to check certain payments  
to prevent fraud for the protection of customers and the bank itself. Mr S payment was held 
for this purpose. When Halifax texted him, Mr S confirmed it was a valid payment and it was 
made. Mr S called Halifax and was told there hadnt been a block  which was an error on 
the part of Halifax. For that, Halifax apologised and paid compensation of £40. I agree that 
was a reasonable way to resolve Mr S complaint here.
Registration of credit card to mobile phone provider: This issue is more difficult for me to 
make a decision on. Mr S says Halifax messaged him to say there was a problem with this  
on 3 October 2021. He says that in response to the message, he called Halifax on 3 October 
2021. He waited 30 minutes but then gave up. Halifax say there wasnt any such message 
sent, and that payments to the mobile phone company were being made satisfactorily. 
I can see that Mr S made a call to Halifax for 30 minutes on 3 October 2021  he showed us 
his mobile phone statement. So clearly he did call Halifax. We asked Mr S for a copy of the 
message he received from Halifax but unfortunately he didnt retain it. We asked Halifax to 
provide a copy of all messages sent to Mr S  - which they did. This shows there werent any 
such messages sent to Mr S. There were only two messages  on 5 September 2021 and 
30 September 2021. They reminded Mr S to pay his credit card bill (these wouldve been 
regular reminders). The next message shown in Halifaxs records was on 5 October 2021  
from Halifaxs complaints team to follow up on the complaint he had opened. 
And so here  I have conflicting  information with which to make a decision. If Mr S had got 
through to Halifax on 3 October 2021  we couldve listened to the call; or if he had been 
able to provide a copy of the message from Halifax  that may well have led me to uphold 
his complaint. But without that, I have to go with the evidence that Halifax have presented  
which was that there wasnt a message sent to Mr S. And so - I cant uphold this part of Mr 
S complaint.
But what I can see is that payments were made to the mobile phone provider on 20 
September 2021, 10 November 2021, and 9 December 2021. So  if there was a problem, 
payments were then being made successfully. And therefore, there wasnt any detriment to 
Mr S.Paperless options screen: I can appreciate Mr S frustrations here. He is presented with 
options to go paperless or stay with paper statements each time he logs on. We asked 
Halifax about this. They told us that such options appear on a random basis  to give 
customers the options. But theyve said that will continue. And as Ive said  we cant make 
Halifax change their customer log-on processes -  they are part of their commercial decision 
making. What I will say is that  this isnt something which is specific to Mr S  the options 
are presented in this way to all customers. And so here  I dont uphold Mr S complaint.
I can see that Mr S feels strongly about his complaint and has argued passionately in 
support of it. He will therefore be disappointed by my decision. But for the reasons Ive given, 
I dont uphold his complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman