DRN-2960166
The complaint
Mr O complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham Midshires (BM) 
unreasonably delayed his buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage application which meant he incurred 
additional costs.
What happened
Mr O applied for a BTL mortgage with BM (mortgage 2) on an unencumbered property he 
owned. He wanted to use the funds to pay off another BTL mortgage he already held with 
BM (mortgage 1). The mortgage was approved on 29 April 2020 and completed on 24 July 
2020. Mr O says there was an unreasonable delay which meant he had to make three extra 
payments on mortgage 1, which would have been around £600 cheaper with mortgage 2 
had this completed sooner. 
Mr O says BM asked him (through its conveyancers) to complete a due diligence form which 
he says was unnecessary. He was ill with COVID-19 during this time and says that, as he 
was self-isolating, it was not possible for him to complete the form immediately as it required 
the signature of a witness. In any event, Mr O says this form was not necessary to verify his 
identity or to meet anti-money laundering regulations as, firstly, he was an existing customer 
and, secondly, the transaction did not involve any cash payment to him as mortgage 2 was 
being used to pay off mortgage 1. 
Mr O also complains that once the mortgage application was complete BM made the 
payment to him instead of using the funds from mortgage 2 to pay off mortgage 1. Mr O says 
that BM should have been able to allocate funds from one mortgage to another and that his 
broker was told by BM that there would not be an issue with this sort of transaction.
In relation to Mr Os complaint about the funds being sent directly to him, BM says that it 
would not be able to complete an internal transfer of the funds as it does not have the 
internal process to do this. Although it was unable to trace who informed Mr Os broker 
otherwise, it has paid him £100 to compensate him for the poor service he has received in 
being given the incorrect information.
In respect of the delay, BM says that this occurred due to Mr O being in dispute with the 
conveyancer over the documentation required. It says that Mr O called on a number of 
occasions and the conveyancer consistently advised him that the due diligence form was 
required to progress the application. Therefore, it doesnt believe it is responsible for 
delaying the application. 
Our investigator looked into this complaint and didnt think BM needed to take any further 
action. Although he understood that COVID-19 would have made it more difficult to get a 
witness to complete the due diligence form, this did not mean BM should have bypassed its 
checks. The investigator therefore concluded that it was fair and reasonable for BM to ask 
for this information before progressing Mr Os application and that it didnt delay the 
application. 
Mr O disagrees so the case has come to me to make a decision. He maintains that it was 
not necessary for him to complete the due diligence form as he was already a customer of 
BM and the transaction should not have involved a payment to him. He therefore says that it 
was not reasonable for BM to require that he completed the due diligence form and it has not 
treated him fairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at the evidence I agree with the investigators view for broadly the same 
reasons and I've explained my reasons further below.
Firstly, I will deal with Mr Os complaint in relation to the fact that the advance for mortgage 2 
was transferred directly to him rather than being transferred internally to pay off mortgage 1. 
BM has said that it doesnt have the internal process to do this and that the funds would 
have to be paid to Mr O (or his solicitor) in order for him to them make arrangements to pay 
off mortgage 1. 
Mortgage 2 related to a different property and it was a separate transaction to the 
redemption of mortgage 1. I dont think it was unreasonable for the advance to have been 
processed in this way. I also think it would have been most unusual for the money to have 
been transferred from one mortgage to another in the way Mr O seems to have expected. 
It is unfortunate if Mr Os broker was given incorrect information about this. However, BM 
has compensated Mr O for the poor service received in this regard and I think the payment 
of £100 in respect of this is fair and reasonable. I also understand that Mr O is happy that 
this element of his complaint has been resolved. 
I will now go on to look at the main part of Mr Os complaint regarding the requirement to 
complete the due diligence form and the delay caused by this. 
BM has provided a timeline showing that its conveyancer issued the due diligence form to Mr 
O on 1 May 2020. Ive seen the covering letter sent to Mr O on this date which encloses the 
form and sets out We would be grateful if you would deal with the above points as soon as 
possible as we will be unable to proceed with your mortgage until we have received the 
requested documentation. The form needed to be completed by someone from a 
recognised profession and returned with the required documentary evidence.
Mr O called on 13 May querying the documents and was advised that they were needed. Mr 
O returned the questionnaire on 22 May without the due diligence documents. I can see from 
the questionnaire that Mr O has written on this Please note I have not returned your due 
diligence form. This is not required as this transaction involves no payment to me. The funds 
raised on [mortgage 2] are being used to pay off another mortgage with [BM]. The 
conveyancer called and messaged Mr O on 11 June regarding the outstanding items. Mr O 
called back the same day and was adamant the documents were not required but was 
advised again by the conveyancer that they would be required. The documents were 
received back on 7 July 2020 with some items missing and everything was received on 13 
July following calls to Mr O. The mortgage funds were sent out on 24 July.
In light of the above, I think BM made it clear to Mr O that it required the due diligence form 
to be completed before it could progress the mortgage.
The information on the due diligence form itself sets out that, as the property subject to 
mortgage 2 was unencumbered and due to increases in fraudulent activity on this type of property, additional due diligence checks needed to be carried out prior to completing the 
mortgage and advancing funds. So I am satisfied that BM set out the reason why the form 
was required at the outset.
In his response to the investigators view, Mr O accepted that BM had made it clear why it 
required the information but maintains that it was not necessary. He says that there is 
nothing risky about unencumbered properties in themselves, but that the risk stems from the 
fact that transactions involving unencumbered properties involve payments being made 
directly to individuals. However, he says that there was no such risk in his transaction as it 
did not involve such a payment. 
As set out above, I dont think BM was unreasonable in paying the money from mortgage 2 
directly to Mr O, and it has said it had no internal process enabling it to pay off a mortgage 
on one property with the funds from a mortgage on a different property directly. Mr O has 
said that in his experience it is common for firms to tell customers that they cant do things 
when they really mean those things fall outside their usual processes and they cant be 
bothered to override the process. Whilst it may be Mr Os view that BM could have 
transferred the funds internally, there is no evidence to support this and BM says that this 
was not possible. The funds for mortgage 2 had to be paid to Mr O (or his solicitor) before 
being used to pay off mortgage 1, if Mr O chose to do so. As Mr O had not indicated that he 
wanted the funds to go to a solicitor, the funds were sent to him directly. I am satisfied that 
BM did nothing wrong in paying the money directly to Mr O. 
In light of the above, BM was entitled to take the steps it deemed necessary in order to 
prevent fraud. Whilst I appreciate that it may have been more difficult for Mr O to get a third 
party to complete the form whilst he was isolating with COVID-19, that doesnt mean that BM 
should have abandoned its due diligence checks. I am therefore satisfied that BM has 
treated Mr O fairly and that the requirement for Mr O to complete the due diligence form was 
not unnecessary.
In conclusion, the reason for the completion of the form was explained to Mr O and I dont 
consider that this was unnecessary. It was also reiterated to him on a number of occasions 
when he challenged this that the form was required. However, it took almost two and a half 
months for the form to be returned which is what caused the delay. Whilst I can understand 
why Mr O was frustrated by the requirement to complete the form and it was difficult to get a 
third party to complete it whilst he was ill with COVID-19, I dont think it was unreasonable 
for BM to maintain that it needed the form in order to proceed with the mortgage. I therefore 
dont think that BM (or the conveyancer acting on its behalf) has done anything wrong in not 
proceeding with the application until the form was returned and I dont think it has caused 
any delay. 
I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr O, but I can't say that BM has acted 
unreasonably in the circumstances of this case and I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint and dont require Bank of 
Scotland plc trading as Birmingham Midshires to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Rachel Ellis
Ombudsman