DRN-3611259
The complaint
R (a limited company) complains that Vitality Health Limited (Vitality) is unfairly asking it to 
pay an outstanding premium on an insurance policy.
What happened
R held an insurance policy that provides eligible medical care for its employees, including 
directors. R paid the annual premium for the policy in instalments, and it provided cover from 
1 November 2019 to 31 October 2020. In late October 2020 Mr W, a director of the 
company, cancelled the final instalment due on the policy  about £730. He said he did that 
because of the poor service he  as a beneficiary of the policy  had received.
Vitality didnt think it had held up any claim Mr W might have made. It also said that the 
premium for the policy was an annual one, and although it had agreed to let R pay the 
premium in instalments, the whole of the premium still had to be paid. It said R could pay the 
remaining instalment over 6 months if that helped. It said that if R didnt pay the outstanding 
amount then it might instruct an external agency to collect this on its behalf.
R complained, but Vitality hasnt changed its position.
R brought the complaint to us for review. Our investigator didnt think Vitality had done 
anything wrong. She thought that the terms and conditions on which the policy was sold 
meant that the full premium was due, regardless of whether a beneficiary was unhappy 
about how a claim was handled. She also noted that the policy covered all employees, not 
just Mr W, for the full year, and concluded the remaining instalment was due. She thought 
Vitalitys offer to collect this over 6 months was fair.
R doesnt agree, so Ive been asked to decide this complaint.. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint. I realise this isnt what Mr W, on behalf of R, wants to 
hear, but I will explain how Ive reached this decision.
This decision is only about whether R should pay the outstanding premium  it isnt about 
how Vitality dealt with the claim made by Mr W. Thats the subject of a separate decision. 
The contract for insurance is between R and Vitality. Having looked at the terms and 
conditions of the policy Im satisfied that R agreed to pay the whole of the annual premium, 
even if that was to be in instalments. I dont think it unreasonable for Vitality to expect R to 
keep that commitment as the policy provided cover for all employees for the full year. Im 
satisfied that this is the case even if Mr W, as a beneficiary, isnt happy about a claim hes 
made. Whilst I accept that Mr W is a director of R, the liability for this payment rests with R, 
not him personally. 
In summary, Im satisfied Vitality is fairly asking R to pay the outstanding amount. 
Mr W did say  in his capacity as a director of R  that if Vitality waived the final instalment 
hed withdraw the complaint about how his personal claim has been handled. I dont think 
thats relevant here, as Im not instructing Vitality to pay any compensation. This decision is 
only about whether Vitality has fairly asked R to pay the instalment. It isnt appropriate for me 
to consider here what  if any  compensation might be due to Mr W as a result of a 
separate complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman