DRN-3589162
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim 
they made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system they says were misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr and Mrs P is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In September 2015, Mr and Mrs P was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call 
P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at their home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Mr and Mrs P decided to purchase the system 
and finance it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In June 2021, the CMC made a claim on Mr and Mrs Ps behalf under section 75 of the Act 
to Shawbrook. The CMC said that P had made a number of representations about the 
system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had 
induced Mr and Mrs P to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
The system would be self-funding due to the feed-in tariff income and energy 
savings. 
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr and Mrs P but offered £200 for the time it had taken to respond to the 
complaint.  
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented the 
system to Mr and Mrs P and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
Up to September 2021 Mr and Mrs P received FIT payments amounting to 
£3,044.40. The CMC says this is less than promised in the quote. 
There was an unfair relationship created because P received commission from 
Shawbrook but didnt disclose this to Mr and Mrs P at the time of sale. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr and Mrs P paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees 
that section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr and Mrs P could claim against 
Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way they could have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr and 
Mrs P and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide what happened on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the 
evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr and Mrs P says that during a sales meeting they were told that the system would be 
entirely self-financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both The CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these, along with Mr and Mrs Ps testimony and recollection of the sales 
meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the Mr and 
Mrs Ps version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact. 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
The loan agreement clearly sets out the cash price of the goods.Mr and Mrs P has said that the cost of the system was documented as £10,020.00. they 
have said that this was done to mislead them as this figure did not include any interest 
associated with the loan so hid the true cost of the system, £19,270.80.
On balance Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs P was told that the cost of the system was 
£10,020.00. The quote sets this out clearly. This is also supported by the credit agreement 
which sets out that the cash price of the system was £10,020.00. The monthly payment was 
£107.06. The total amount of credit is £10,020.00 and goes on to show that the total amount 
payable would be £19,270.80.
Having considered all the evidence, including Mr and Mrs Ps recollections, Im satisfied that 
they were told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this 
clear, as set out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote 
and the credit agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was 
£10,020.00, it would cost Mr and Mrs P more than this as they had decided to pay for it with 
an interest bearing loan. 
Mr and Mrs P have said that they were told the monthly loan repayments would be covered, 
or self-funded by the FIT payments. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P as 
well as the Mr and Mrs Ps recollections of their meeting with Ps representative to decide 
what is most likely to have been said. 
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr and Mrs P could 
expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected 
FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT 
scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.
 
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr and Mrs P could expect to receive a total 
FIT income in year one of £505.16, which results in an average monthly income of £42.09. 
As outlined above, Im satisfied that the credit agreement and the quote set out that there 
would be a monthly loan repayment due of £107.06. As a result, Im not able to conclude 
that the consumer was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT 
payment.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr and Mrs P could expect from the 
system. The expected year one electricity savings is £239.98 and, when taking into account 
the optional extras chosen by Mr and Mrs P the combined income and savings in year one 
is shown as £828.47. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
The quote contains a graph titled earnings and savings against monthly payments year 1. 
This clearly shows that the monthly payments exceed the savings and income for most of 
the first year.
 
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months, and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months because this 
is the length of the loan that Mr and Mrs P entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows 
the loan as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £107.06. For each year of the 15-year 
loan it shows the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure 
over 12 months and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £107.06, to give an average 
difference between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in 
each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr and Mrs P could expect to receive from the 
system, by way of FIT payments, as well as their expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. 
Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall benefits they could expect to receive by 
way of FIT income and any additional savings, would not be immediately sufficient to cover 
the monthly loan repayments. 
This supports my finding above that Mr and Mrs P werent told that the FIT payment would 
cover the loan repayment. Ive carefully thought about Mr and Mrs Ps version of events. 
However, as Ive found that the quote did form a central part of the sales process which the 
salesperson went through at the meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that they were 
told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone.
Ill now consider whether P told Mr and Mrs P that the system would be self-funding. In doing 
so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have happened. 
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand and on balance Im also satisfied that 
the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the start. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr and Mrs P were told by P that the system would be self-
funding over a certain duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 20 years. This shows that by year 16 the overall benefits that Mr and Mrs 
P could expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan 
agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr and Mrs P that the system would pay for 
itself by year 16, and this is supported by the table above included in the quote. If that were 
an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced them to enter into 
the contract, and they subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a 
misrepresentation.
The CMC says that Mr and Mrs P have not received the income shown above between 
installation in September 2015 and September 2021. Ive looked at the FIT statements and 
compared this to the quote for the first five full years. This covers electricity generated up to 
19 September 2020. The data provided for year 6 is incomplete since it only shows 
payments for electricity generated up to 17 June 2021 (the last of which was paid in 
September 2021). But I think five years is sufficient for me to judge whether there is a 
significant difference between the estimated and actual income, and whether that shows a 
misrepresentation on the part of P. 
Year Estimated income Actual income Difference
1 £505.16 £457.54 £47.62 less
2 £521.42 £508.77 £12.65 less
3 £538.21 £545.57 £7.36 more
4 £553.32 £573.60 £20.28 more
5 £568.84 £592.26 £23.42 more
Total £2,686.96 £2,677.74 £9.22 less
The difference in year one can mostly be accounted for by the fact that Mr and Mrs P were 
not paid for electricity generated prior to 20 May 2016. This is because they did not apply for 
FIT payments until that date. As such they missed out on payment for 196.6 kWh of 
generated electricity. That wouldve been worth £30.16 in total. The system also generated 
51 kWh less electricity than predicted in year 1. However, I think this is within a reasonable 
margin of error when estimating solar panel generation. 
As shown in the table above, the system has provided an income in line with the estimates in 
the quote. You would expect some variation since the weather, which affects how much 
electricity is generated, is not the same every year. And the actual inflation rate used by the 
FIT scheme (RPI) will not exactly match that estimated by P (as it fluctuates each year).  
So, having considered the actual performance of the system in terms of electricity generated 
and income received through the FIT scheme, Im satisfied the system is performing in line 
with the estimates in the quote. So, there was no misrepresentation in that regard. 
I have looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, expected 
annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. I am 
satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable. 
Ive looked at the evidence provided with regards commission paid by Shawbrook to P. 
Based on the figures in the documents provided, it is clear that no commission wouldve 
been paid to P in regards to Mr and Mrs Ps loan. Their loan was over 180 months at a fixed 
interest rate of 9.9% per year. For such loans the documents indicate that either P was due 
commission of 0% (that is none) or that P subsidised the loan (that is P paid Shawbrook). 
So, given there is no evidence that P received commission in relation to Mr and Mrs Ps 
loan, nor would it have expected to receive any, there was no commission for it to disclose. 
So, Im not persuaded that an unfair relationship was created by virtue of undisclosed 
commission. 
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr and Mrs P 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman