DRN-1152950
 
The complaint
Ms R is unhappy how Gladstone Brookes dealt with her claims for potentially mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
 In July 2019 Ms R instructed Gladstone Brookes to make a number of claims on her behalf. 
Shes unhappy that they delayed in sending her the claims pack, and when she did receive it 
the paperwork was incorrect  there was nothing for her partner to sign for their joint claims. 
Because of this she feels the claims wont have been submitted to the lenders correctly.
Our investigator found that Gladstone Brookes couldve done better. He didnt think there 
was an unnecessary delay in sending the claims pack, but he did find Gladstone Brookes 
hadnt initially sent a Letter of Authority (LOA) for the joint named claims. He also found that 
when they did send Ms R the joint LOA, it was the wrong one.
But he didnt think that Gladstone Brookes had submitted the claims to the lenders 
incorrectly  lenders will check all joint and sole named accounts for claimants to see if they 
had PPI. So he recommended Gladstone Brookes pay Ms R £75 to recognise the trouble 
and upset theyd caused.
Ms R didnt agree with the investigator. Shes unhappy that Gladstone Brookes didnt tell her 
she didnt have any PPI with Lender B until after the deadline for making PPI complaints had 
passed. Shes also said that Gladstone Brookes didnt send her claim to Lender B, so she 
doesnt feel that £75 recognises the stress this has caused her or compensates her for loss 
of opportunity to now make this claim.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Its not disputed that Ms R instructed Gladstone Brookes to look into potential PPI claims for 
accounts she held in her sole name, accounts she held jointly with her partner and accounts 
she held jointly with her daughter. But when she received the claims pack, there were no 
LOAs for the accounts she held jointly with her partner. Ms R contacted Gladstone Brookes 
about this on a number of occasions, but when they eventually sent her a copy of the joint 
LOA they had on file, it was one for claim with her daughter and not with her partner.
I agree with the investigator that Gladstone Brookes couldve done better. They knew Ms R 
wanted to make claims jointly with her partner, and they shouldve sent her the correct LOAs 
to allow her to do this. Not doing so meant she had to contact them about this on a number 
of occasions, so I also agree that Gladstone Brookes should pay her some compensation for 
the trouble and upset this caused.Ive seen a joint LOA for Ms R and her daughter, which was signed on 21 July 2019. As Ms 
R had joint claims with two different people I can understand why Gladstone Brookes wrote 
to her on 8 August, telling her theyd received an LOA signed by herself and her partner, and 
that this had been sent to the lender  it was actually the joint LOA with Ms Rs daughter that 
Gladstone Brookes had mistaken for the one with her partner.
While I appreciate that mistakes happen, I think this was easily avoidable and Gladstone 
Brookes shouldve checked before telling Ms R this, and sending her a copy. By not 
checking, this meant that Ms R needed to contact them again, causing her more 
inconvenience.
Gladstone Brookes needed joint LOAs for Lender L and Lender S, so they could continue 
with these claims. Ive seen two joint LOA for Ms R and her partner  for Lender L and 
Lender S - which were signed by Ms R on 14 August 2019. But they werent signed by her 
partner. So I cant say that Gladstone Brookes didnt send out these LOAs for signing  
albeit later than they should have  and I cant hold them responsible for them not being 
signed by both parties as requested.
Given that the deadline for submitting new PPI claims was 29 August 2019, I think it was 
reasonable for Gladstone Brookes to submit the claims without Ms Rs partners signature, to 
make sure they would be considered. The partners signature could be obtained later in the 
process and Ive seen that Gladstone Brookes wrote to Ms R on 26 September, telling her 
that Lender S cant continue with the claim unless her partner signs an LOA. This letter 
included a new LOA for both Ms R and her partner to sign.
Gladstone Brookes use a two stage process for making PPI claims. Theres an initial check 
to see if PPI has been sold and, if it has, then a formal claim is made. Ive seen that 
Gladstone Brookes made this initial check with Lender B. Ive also seen that Lender B has 
said that Ms R didnt have any PPI on her joint mortgage or overdraft. While its unfortunate 
that Ms R wasnt told about this until after the deadline, this shouldnt affect her ability to 
make a claim.
If Ms R can provide proof that she had PPI, either to Gladstone Brookes or direct to Lender 
B, then the no-PPI finding can be challenged. And Gladstone Brookes have said theyll make 
this challenge for her. So I cant agree that Ms R has lost the opportunity to claim against 
Lender B, or that shell have to do this herself  something she didnt want to do. Because of 
this I think the £75 recommended by the investigator is reasonable to compensate Ms B for 
the trouble and upset caused by Gladstone Brookes not sending her the correct LOAs at the 
start of the claims process, and for mixing up the LOA she signed with her daughter for an 
LOA signed with her partner.
Putting things right
Gladstone Brookes Limited must pay Ms R £75 for the trouble and upset caused resulting 
from them not sending her the correct LOAs at the start of the claims process, and for 
mixing up the LOA she signed with her daughter for an LOA signed with her partner.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Ms Rs complaint. Gladstone Brookes Limited 
must pay Ms R £75 for the trouble and upset caused resulting from the LOAs.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2019.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman