DRN-4340454
The complaint
Mr S complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco Bank) 
unfairly applied a late payment marker to his credit file resulting in him being denied credit 
and losing out on work.
What happened
Mr S has a loan with Tesco Bank that he took out in early 2020. The monthly payments for 
the loan are due on the 15th of each month and are normally made by direct debit. 
Mr S is a self-employed contractor and in March of 2023 he began to have issues with his 
payments from his client arriving late. So, he cancelled his direct debit and made a one-off 
direct payment to the loan on 29 March 2023. In April 2023 Mr S called Tesco to let them 
know he was still experiencing the same problems and would make a payment at the end of 
the month. Tesco advised him that he needed to make his payment by 25 April, or it would 
be reported to his credit file as a late payment. Mr S told the call handler she was wrong as 
he had made Marchs payment later than the 25th and he hadnt had a late marker added to 
his credit file. He reiterated he would make the payment at the end of the month because 
that is when he would be paid, so it wasnt possible before that.
Mr S says he made the payment through his bank at the end of the month, but because this 
was a bank holiday, Tesco Bank didnt receive the payment until 2 May 2023.  Tesco applied 
a late marker to Mr S credit file, as no payment had been received towards the loan in April 
2023. 
Mr S says following this late payment marker being added to his credit file two other lenders 
reduced the credit limits on his credit cards, leaving him on holiday without access to funds. 
He also said that he lost a contract of work because of the late payment marker. He 
complained to Tesco Bank because of this.
Tesco Bank explained that payments are due on the loan on the 15th of each month and if 
payments are not made on time, then it has a duty to record this on Mr Ss credit file. And as 
his payment wasnt made on time it had recorded the late payment marker correctly. 
However, it did say that the call handler had given Mr S some incorrect information when 
she said the cut-off date for payment was 25 April. She should have explained that the cut-
off for payment is the date the payment is contractually due  in Mr S case this is the 15th of 
each month. They offered Mr S £25 to recognise this.
Mr S remained unhappy with Tesco Banks answer and so brought his complaint to this 
service. At that time, he also explained that when calling Tesco to deal with his account he 
had been passed to a third party debt collection company, and he was unhappy with this as 
he hadnt missed any payments and his account was up to date.
Our investigator didnt think Mr S complaint was one that should be upheld. In summary she 
said Mr S hadnt made his contractual payments on time and so Tesco Bank hadnt done 
anything wrong in recording the late payment marker. She also explained that Tesco Bank 
outsource their collections work to the third-party company who deal with the collections of 
late or missed payments on behalf of them. This was why when Mr S called to deal with his 
account, he had been passed through to the third party company.
Mr S disagreed with the investigator, in order to put things right he feels Tesco should 
remove the late payment marker and pay him compensation including loss of earnings. The 
matter has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean that Ive not considered
everything that both parties have given to me. 
For the sake of clarity, I think its also useful to explain here to Mr S the difference between a 
late payment marker and a default. The first is something that is recorded where a payment 
on a credit account has fallen behind and this can be added at anytime from the moment the 
payment is overdue. One late payment marker can have an effect on a credit file but its 
unusual for it to have a large impact.
Whereas a default is generally added to a credit file if an account has been in arrears for 
more than three months and this has a much more detrimental to a credit file. This is 
because its a record that the borrower has defaulted on the contractual terms to pay the 
lender. 
Tesco recorded a late payment marker on Mr S credit file not a default marker. My role here 
is to decide if they did so fairly. Before I do I want to explain that all lenders have a duty to 
accurately report account performance data to the credit reference agencies (CRAs). This 
means if a payment is made late then lenders should record this. So, what Ill be looking at 
here is did Tesco Bank record the information correctly  if they did then I cant fairly say 
they have done anything wrong, regardless of any consequences Mr S feels happened as a 
result of the information being recorded.
Mr S had a contractual payment date of the 15th of each month. I accept what he has said 
that he made a manual payment through his bank at the end of April towards his Tesco Bank 
loan. Tesco has provided evidence showing they only received this payment on 2 May 2023. 
Mr S says this is due to bank holidays, and while that may well be the case, it doesnt negate 
the fact the payment was later than the contractual payment date. So, I cant fairly say Tesco 
Bank did anything wrong in recording the late payment marker in this instance. 
Ive gone on to consider Mr Ss other arguments that he made a payment after the 15th the 
month before and didnt get a late payment marker and that he was given the wrong 
information on the phone.
Its true Mr S made a payment in March that was later than the due date and it appears no 
late payment marker was added to his credit file. Tesco Bank like other lenders share data 
with CRAs periodically  normally monthly. When they provide the information, it is a 
snapshot in time of the account. While I cant definitively say why Mr S account didnt attract 
a late payment marker in March, I can say its more likely than not that when Tesco Bank 
shared the data with the CRAs that month his account was already up to date. So even 
though he didnt get a late payment marker in March it doesnt follow Tesco Bank were 
wrong to record the April payment as late.Although the call handler told Mr S the incorrect information that he needed to make the 
payment by the 25 April 2023 to avoid a late payment marker, I dont think there was any 
detriment caused here. I say that because Mr S didnt make the payment by that date either, 
he made it much later and so he didnt rely on what the call handler had told him about the 
payment date. So, I think the £25 they offered to him in recognition of this was fair in the 
circumstances.
I understand that Mr S strongly feels the consequences of the late payment marker have 
been significant, but as I already explained I cant look at those consequences as Tesco 
Bank recorded the late payment marker correctly. But for completeness here, even if I could, 
the evidence Mr S has provided doesnt support that the things that happened were 
attributed to the late payment marker on his credit file. I say this because the termination of 
his contact was agreed with him on 17 August 2023, much later than the late payment 
marker was added to his credit file. And it makes no mention of the reason for this being the 
late payment marker.
Mr S has also provided a screenshot showing his credit limit on a credit card being reduced 
from 4 May 2023, but again this makes no mention of the late payment marker being the 
cause. So even if I thought Tesco Bank had done something wrong here, which to be clear I 
dont. I wouldnt be able to ask them to compensate Mr S for the things he perceives to be 
the consequences of the late payment marker.
I know Mr S will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in trying 
to resolve his dispute with Tesco Bank can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2024.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman