DRN-2101833
The complaint
Mrs R and Mr S complain that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited unreasonably refused a 
total and permanent disability (TPD) claim for Mrs R under their life and critical illness 
policy. 
What happened
The policy began on 1 October 2016. It offered Mr S and Mrs R decreasing term cover that 
had an initial sum assured of £150,995. Included within the policy was cover for TPD, on an 
activities of daily work (ADWs) basis whereby to succeed with a claim, a policyholder has 
to be totally and permanently unable to perform three of the six listed ADWs. 
Approximately three years ago, Mrs R began suffering with episodes of dizziness, imbalance 
and symptoms of vertigo. These episodes increased until sadly she had to give up her retail-
based employment in September 2018.   
In 2018 and 2019, Mrs R sadly had two accidents from which she suffered injuries. The first, 
a fall caused by a dizzy episode, resulted in a fracture dislocation to her elbow which needed 
surgery and physiotherapy afterwards. 
The second, where Mrs R was a passenger in a road traffic accident, caused injuries to both 
her arm and neck. Specifically, the cars airbag deployed and hit her elbow that had 
undergone surgery. It was discovered thereafter that Mrs R also had carpal tunnel syndrome 
in the affected arm. Following a scan to assess if she had further broken bones, carpal 
tunnel deterioration was confirmed in her right hand as well. These accidents also 
exacerbated her ongoing issues with balance and associated nausea. She and Mr S 
therefore made a claim to Aviva for TPD benefit.  
Aviva wrote to Mrs Rs GP for further information, as well as obtaining her medical reports 
from Mr S (hereafter referred to as Dr S), the consultant orthopaedic surgeon who had 
attended to Mrs R in relation to her surgery. However, whilst her GP confirmed Mrs R had 
difficulties with certain functions, it was not clear if these were permanent. Therefore, Aviva 
arranged for Mrs R to undergo an independent medical examination (IME).  
The IME took place on 11 November 2019 at Mrs Rs home, with her husband present. The 
assessor, Dr W, was made aware of the of the specific ADWs that Mrs R was being 
measured against and was provided with relevant copies of Mrs Rs medical records. Dr W 
concluded that whilst Mrs R couldnt work currently and wasnt able to complete (or could not 
be observed attempting) the ADWs, he saw no medical reason why she should be totally 
and permanently incapacitated by her left elbow injury and her bilateral carpal tunnel 
syndrome. He also noted that the main issue is whether there is some other factor involved 
in her frequent dizzy spells, or whether this is just a reflection of her physical deconditioning. 
That will have to await the outcome of her specialist assessments. In summary, he felt that 
with engagement, weight loss, further support and investigation, Mrs R would be able to 
work again in the medium term. 
Mrs R complained to Aviva in early 2020. She said she felt the medical evidence supported 
her claim and she could provide further information if required. She also said the IME had 
been undertaken unfairly and the assessor had been negative towards her by criticising her 
weight, the choice of medication prescribed by her GP and her inability to be able to undergo 
exercise. Finally, she felt Aviva had unreasonably delayed the claim process. 
Aviva rejected the complaint in February 2020. It did accept there had been unnecessary 
delays in some of the process, and paid Mrs R £150 for the upset caused by this. 
However, in respect of the claim it said the right outcome had been reached because the 
medical evidence did not support that she was totally and permanently unable to perform at 
least three of the six ADWs. Aviva noted it would consider any fresh medical evidence at 
any time, should Mrs R wish to supply it with new information. 
It had also asked Dr W for his response regarding how Mrs R felt following the IME. 
However, Aviva said Dr W had provided an objective and evidence-based report, in which he 
felt Mrs Rs reluctance to undergo lifestyle changes was exacerbating her condition. Though 
he was sorry Mrs R was upset by this, he had needed to highlight the changes which could 
improve her circumstances and losing weight was something that would directly impact her 
health. Further, it was his professional view that Mrs Rs ongoing prescriptions for types of 
opioids were beyond the realms of sensible clinical guidance, and that other therapeutic 
options could better aid Mrs Rs recovery.  
Mrs R referred her complaint to this service. She said she remains in a wheelchair to 
mobilise and is unable to wash, eat or use the bathroom without assistance. She has lost the 
use of both hands and can barely hold a drink because of numbness, pain, and pins and 
needles. Her right hand remained in a splint because of carpel tunnel syndrome, and her left 
remained damaged from the two accidents. As a result of her dizzy spells and her declining 
general health, she finds herself mostly bed-ridden and has had to have emergency buttons 
fitted in her home and worn around her neck. 
Aviva said in addition to the points made regarding the use of her hands, Mrs R was still 
undergoing investigations into the cause of her dizziness. And until those issues are 
resolved and treatment is given for the dizziness (if required), it cannot conclude that Mrs R 
is totally and permanently disabled.
An investigator from this service reviewed the complaint but she did not think it should 
succeed. She did not think that the evidence showed Mrs R was totally and permanently 
unable to carry out three of the six listed ADWs. 
Our investigator did note that at the time of the IME, Mrs R was suffering with dizziness and 
issues with using her left arm. She had also required some use of a wheelchair. However, 
she felt the IME findings objectively demonstrated that Mrs R may make a recovery from 
both her elbow injury and carpel tunnel syndrome. It therefore couldnt be said that she met 
any of the six ADWs.
Mrs R disagreed. She said she felt her consultant surgeon would be able to provide further 
medical evidence to support her capacity, because she had been told that she met Avivas 
TPD policy definition. To that end, she sent across the clinic letters she had been sent from 
the orthopaedic clinic of Dr S. 
However, our investigator did not believe this altered the outcome of the complaint. She 
reconfirmed she could not see evidence to support that Mrs R would be totally and 
permanently unable to carry out three of the specified tasks.  
Mr S said that he and Mrs R wanted the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. Mr S has to act as a carer for Mrs R. He said their lives had been turned upside down by the extent of 
Mrs Rs ill health, and Aviva had made no effort to obtain a report from the consultant 
orthopaedic surgeon. 
Aviva had nothing else to add. The complaint has now been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise both Mr S and Mrs R has explained how incapacitated Mrs R is, and I can see from 
her submissions to both Aviva and this service that her symptoms are substantial; these 
significantly hamper her quality of life. I also recognise Mrs R hasnt been able to work now 
for several years and relies on her family to care for her full-time. I do not doubt Mr S or Mrs 
Rs explanation of her circumstances. But, sadly, a policyholder ceasing work or 
experiencing symptoms which currently impact daily activities doesnt mean a claim is 
automatically payable. 
The policy Mr S and Mrs R hold is not one that gives income protection  so it cant simply 
pay out where the policyholders too ill to work. It offers cover in the event of death or a listed 
critical illness. Unlike some of the other critical illnesses listed on the policy, TPD is not 
payable upon diagnosis of the underlying condition(s) a policyholder may have. Its based on 
when the disablement means the policyholder has no reasonable chance of undertaking 
specific work activities common to all employment, and most importantly that this will be the 
case permanently.
To satisfy a claim, the policy wording must be met in full. In Mr S and Mrs Rs policy, the 
wording says:
"Loss of the physical ability through an illness or injury to do at least three of the six 
work tasks listed below ever again. 
1) Walking - The ability to walk more than 200 metres on a level surface.
2) Climbing - The ability to climb up a flight of 12 stairs and down again, using the 
handrail if needed.
3) Lifting - The ability to pick up an object weighing 2kg at table height and hold for 
60 seconds before replacing the object on the table.
4) Bending - The ability to bend or kneel to touch the floor and straighten up again.
5) Getting in and out of a car - The ability to get into a standard saloon car, and out 
again.
6) Writing - The manual dexterity to write legibly using a pen or pencil, or type using a 
desktop personal computer keyboard.
The relevant consultant must reasonably expect that the disability will last 
throughout life with no prospect of improvement, irrespective of when the 
cover ends, or the member expects to retire [my emphasis].
The member must need the help or supervision of another person and be unable to 
perform the task on their own, even with the use of special equipment routinely 
available to help and having taken any appropriately prescribed medication.
When Mr S and Mrs R first made their claim, a report was sought from the GP. Though he 
gave the view that Mrs R might not be able to perform some of the ADWs listed above in 
tick boxes, he was also asked if he thought Mrs R could ever return to work  and he stated that he didnt know. 
As such, it was reasonable for Aviva to have sought the clinic letters from Dr S, the 
orthopaedic surgeon. However, as our investigator has said, this evidence didnt ever 
address the question of whether Mrs R would be permanently unable to complete at least 
three of the above tasks again. I therefore agree with the need to seek an IME, as there 
simply wasnt enough evidence to confirm any type of longer term prognosis for Mrs R. The 
latest evidence before the IME from Dr S said he had told Mrs R to discard the splint on her 
right hand and referred her for hand therapy though sadly by the time of the most recent GP 
review of September 2019 it was confirmed this hadnt worked. 
I am mindful that Mrs R feels the content of the IME report is unfair. But its evidence which I 
ought to take into account, from a suitably qualified medical professional. It simply isnt 
possible to know what happened at the home IME visit, but that doesnt mean I should 
disregard the findings of the report as a consequence. They are still relevant to assessing 
Mrs Rs capacity, and I have considered these alongside her comments. 
Having considered the report carefully, I dont think the conclusions drawn were 
unreasonable in the circumstances. For example, Dr W accepts in the report that Mrs R 
couldnt currently undertake any of the ADWs  though notably some of these were not safe 
to test, such as climbing, where Mrs R explained the last time she had tried to do so, the 
stair bannister had broken and she was naturally frightened about falling.
However, I believe Dr W was reasonable to conclude that at this stage, it cannot be said that 
Mrs R will remain unable to complete three ADWs permanently. 
He noted that:
I cannot give any meaningful answers as to her current capability or current degree 
of pathology, however there is no medical reason why she cannot make an excellent 
recovery, regaining almost full movement and function in her left arm and full 
movement and function in her right arm. This may take a year or two for her to regain 
both function and confidence, but it could be substantially sooner.
The majority of patients recover fully from moderate carpal tunnel syndrome with 
conservative treatment only; with surgery a swift and complete recovery is expected.
The main issue is whether there is some other factor involved in her frequent dizzy 
spells, or whether this is just a reflection of her physical deconditioning. That will 
have to await the outcome of her specialist assessments. 
Overall, there is no medical reason why she should be totally and permanently 
incapacitated by her left elbow injury and her bilateral carpal tunnel syndrome.
When weighed against Mrs Rs medical records and the clinic letters from the orthopaedic 
surgeon, I dont find the IME conclusions to be unfair or unreasonable. Specifically, Mrs R 
has met with the clinic (Mr T, in Dr Ss absence) again in January 2020. In his letter of 24 
January 2020, Mr T, says:
I have explained to her once more that she is suffering from carpal tunnel syndrome 
and what this means. An option for her would be to have surgery to release the 
carpal tunnel and alleviate pressure over the median nerve.  As with all surgical 
procedures, it is not a 100% guaranteed result and there are risks involved with this 
type of surgery; risks like infection, damage to a nerve or an artery or recurrence of 
symptoms. She seems reluctant to go ahead with the surgery because even though today she is experiencing problems, she would not like it to get worse due to issues 
with her left upper limb. I have explained to her that surgery is an option and she has 
a higher chance of success rather than failure, but she needs to be willing to go 
ahead with that.  At the moment she feels like she would not like to go ahead, and I 
have to note that.
The letter goes on to discharge Mrs R from the clinic. It also states that a medical report can 
be issued by Dr S, but only where Aviva requests it.  
I understand Mr S and Mrs R are particularly unhappy that Aviva has not paid for Dr S to 
compile a report, but I dont think in the circumstances set out by Dr T above that this is 
unfair. Mrs Rs situation is addressed fully within the clinic letters to date. The orthopaedic 
clinic has explained how Mrs R has a treatment option open to her which may directly impact 
her ability to carry out one or more of the ADWs. 
It is of course Mrs Rs choice as to whether she undergoes carpal tunnel surgery and Aviva 
cannot and does not require her to have the surgery. Nonetheless, I cannot therefore safely 
conclude Mrs R has explored every curative avenue open to her. Nor can Aviva confirm that 
Mrs Rs inability to use her right (and potentially left) arm because of carpal tunnel syndrome 
is permanent or total, where there is a reasonable treatment option of surgery outstanding.  
My remit is to look at what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. What is fair in terms 
of treatment will be different in every case and depend on the medical facts. In general 
terms, I wouldnt expect an insurer to require a policyholder to undertake a treatment option 
if it was unreasonable to do so  such as it if was unavailable under public healthcare, had 
no prospect of success or was inherently risky. But Mr T doesnt say that; he suggests the 
proposed treatment of surgery carries a greater chance of success than it does failure. And 
Dr W also explains how surgery is undertaken with the aim to provide a complete recovery.
Further to that, the other aspects of Mrs Rs health  that being the cause of her dizziness 
which affects her mobility (and therefore the walking, climbing, getting in and out of a car 
and bending tasks). This simply isnt explained in the medical records beyond possible 
hypotension causing episodes of faintness. For example there is no evidence of any 
specialist referrals (such as neurology or as the IME suggested, cardiology) or diagnostic 
tests proposed by the IME to understand the cause of the dizziness such as tilt table testing. 
I dont underestimate how unwell Mrs R is. But the definition set out above is a high 
threshold to meet. This is true of TPD definitions generally  it is not specific to Aviva, but 
instead, set out as suggested wording by the Association of British Insurers in model 
wordings for such policies. To successfully make a TPD claim, there needs to be evidence of 
permanency and totality. Where a form of treatment is feasible, there could be a prospect of 
Mrs R being able to undertake work tasks in some capacity in the future; and therefore the 
definition of total and/or permanent isnt met. 
At the time of this decision, Mrs R has a surgical route open to her in respect of her left 
hand, and the matter relating to the cause of her dizziness remains unresolved. It cannot 
therefore be said that reasonable treatment options free to Mrs R have been exhausted  as 
these may improve Mrs Rs health. And without that type of evidence, it is not unfair of Aviva 
to say the policy wording hasnt been met  because the wording expressly sets out that the 
disability will last throughout life with no prospect of improvement. 
Whether my decision is accepted or rejected, Mr S and Mrs R are free to show this decision 
to Mrs Rs GP or any other attending medical professionals as our decisions are published 
with anonymised details to prevent any persons being identified. If as a result of seeking 
further support or undergoing any other investigations or treatment, Mrs R wishes to make a further claim she should take this to Aviva in the first instance, with recourse to this service 
being open to Mr S and Mrs R in the event of any further complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint or make any award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman