DRN-3907755
The complaint
Miss C has complained that British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) didnt complete 
repairs properly at her property within a  reasonable time and that they didnt deal with her 
complaint properly.   
  
What happened
Miss C holds a Homecare policy with British Gas. She is disabled.  
On 12 April 2022 Miss C contacted British Gas Homecare as she noticed a substantial water 
patch on her ceiling. An appointment was made for the next day. 
When the engineer attended, he released an air lock on the hot water. He also cut a hole in 
her ceiling trying to establish where the leak was.  
The following day the leak was still there and so Miss C rang again and asked for the 
engineer to return. The engineer was booked for 16 April. 
British Gas say the engineer attended on 16 April but there was no answer, and so the 
appointment was re booked for 19 April. 
On 19 April the engineer completed a temporary repair but said that he needed a piece of 
equipment to complete the repair. Miss C rang on 20 April to chase what was happening, but 
she didnt get a response. 
The engineer returned on 28 April, but Miss C advised that she had the repair completed 
privately.  
Miss C sent two invoices to British Gas, one for the repair and one for restoration work to the 
hole in her ceiling totalling £450. 
Initially British Gas refused to pay them as the terms of the policy state that they wont offer 
cash in lieu of repairs. However, after Miss C complained, British Gas offered to cover the 
cost of the repairs and pay £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.     
Miss C was unhappy with the compensation offered and also with the complaints process, 
and so she brought her complaint to us. 
One of our investigators has looked into Miss Cs complaint and he thought British Gass 
offer was fair.  
Miss C disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review. 
  
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint. My provisional findings were as follows:
Im intending to uphold this complaint but Im going to make a different recommendation to 
the investigator to resolve it. Because of that, this decision will be provisional, and Ill give 
both sides a chance to comment before I make a final decision.
What I have to decide is whether in dealing with this claim, British Gas have acted in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably. 
British Gas have told us that they were under no obligation to pay the £450 for repairs as the 
terms of their policy state that there is no cover for third party invoices, and Miss C didnt 
attempt to contact British Gas to get pre authorisation for the repair. 
Whilst I accept the terms and conditions dont normally cover third party repairs, I can see 
from the information provided to me that Miss C gave British Gas ample opportunity to do 
the repair before she had it completed privately. The issue was reported on 12 April and 
British Gas completed two visits on 13 and 19 April but had still not completed the repair. 
They then didnt return to try and complete the repair until 28 April. Miss C has provided me 
with her phone bill which evidences lengthy calls made to British Gas on 12,14,16,19 and 20 
April about this issue. Miss C tells me that on 20 April she told British Gas that if they didnt 
get back to her she would get the repair done privately. They didnt get back to her and so 
she had the repair completed on 24 April privately. Im not able to listen to the calls she 
made as British Gas say they havent retained them, but as the phone bill shows a long call 
on 20 April Im satisfied that Miss Cs account of matters is true, and British Gas were given 
notice of her intention.  
In view of that, and of the delay in getting this fairly straightforward repair completed despite 
what British Gas knew about Miss Cs health issues, I think its fair that British Gas meets the 
costs of the repairs. 
Ive then thought about the amount of compensation that British Gas have offered Miss C for 
the inconvenience caused. Ive received some further information from Miss C about her 
disability and the impact that not having a shower had on her, and her carers ability to 
provide her with the care she required. 
Miss C is wheelchair bound, with significant health issues which mean that she requires a 
shower daily with the help of her carer. She says that not being able to adequately wash for 
the 12 day period before she had the repair done had an impact on her mental health, 
caused her loss of dignity, and caused additional pressures for her carer, which in turn 
impacted on her care. She has described how she and her carer had to work around not 
having a working shower, and I can see that this has caused significant inconvenience.   
British Gas have told me that they were aware of Miss Cs vulnerabilities, and prioritised her 
repair, but I dont think they did enough, and I havent seen any evidence of British Gas 
returning the call of 20 April. I also havent seen that any attempt was made to call her prior 
to the visit on 16 April when Miss C says she was inside the property, even though she had 
previously asked to be called in advance due to difficulties answering the door. In view of 
that I propose to increase the award offered for distress and inconvenience caused. 
  
I note that Miss C has found the complaints process less than satisfactory and she has also 
complained about this. However, complaints handling is not a regulated activity and so I 
cant consider that aspect of her complaint.
In the light of these findings, I therefore intended to uphold Miss Cs complaint, and I invited 
the parties to comment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive received comments from both parties and Ive re-considered all the available evidence 
and taken into account the comments made. 
British Gas say that they consider the £50 they have already paid is more than fair and 
reasonable, as they werent obliged to cover any of the costs. However, as I have said 
above, I have considered the impact of the delay on Miss C given her significant disabilities, 
and Im satisfied that an additional £100 bring the compensation more in line with what is 
reasonable. 
And so, in light of the above, Im making my final decision in line with my provisional findings 
Putting things right
I can see that British Gas have already settled the invoices of £450 and paid Miss C £50. 
In order to put things right I am directing British Gas to pay an additional £100 to Miss C for 
distress and inconvenience, bringing the total compensation for distress and inconvenience 
to £150. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding Miss Cs complaint and direct British Gas Insurance 
Limited to put things right as outlined above 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman