DRN-2841680
The complaint
Mr C complains about HSBC UK Bank Plcs (HSBC) refusal to give him two refunds he has 
requested, plus compensation.
What happened
On 12 August 2019 HSBC authorised two purchases made on Mr Cs credit card. Both 
transactions were for £2,428.99 and in respect of an identical item from the same supplier, a 
supplier that I will call E.
The first transaction was debited to Mr Cs account on 14 August 2019.
According to E (and its delivery agent) the item in respect of the above debit was delivered 
to Mr Cs address on 17 August 2019 and signed for.
The second transaction was debited to Mr Cs account on 20 August 2019.
According to E (and its delivery agent) the item in respect of the above debit was delivered 
to Mr Cs address on 24 August 2019 and signed for.
Mr C contacted HSBC to say that he hadnt received either item and having been unable to 
secure refunds from E he would like its help and assistance.
On 24 September 2019 HSBC raised a chargeback with Es merchant in respect of both 
disputed transactions.
On 18 October 2019 two upfront credits were posted to Mr Cs account by HSBC together 
with a fee and interest adjustment.
On 11 November 2019 Es merchant declined both chargebacks.
On 29 November 2019 HSBC reversed the 18 October 2019 credits posted to Mr Cs 
account.
On 5 August 2020 HSBC wrote to Mr C to say that it was now reviewing his claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75)  a claim which it later declined. 
However, it said it would like to offer him £100 for having an incorrect phone number for him 
noted in its records.
Mr Cs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it 
shouldnt be upheld. In summary she said she was satisfied that HSBC had acted fairly and 
reasonably in declining Mr Cs claim and its offer of £100, for having an incorrect phone 
number noted in its records, was appropriate.
Mr C didnt accept the investigators view. so it has been passed to me for review and 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
Its clear Mr C has very strong feelings about this complaint. He has provided detailed 
submissions in support of his view which I can confirm Ive read and considered in their 
entirety. However, I trust that Mr C will not take the fact that my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as 
a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised. The purpose 
of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them. 
I would also point out that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or 
contradictory, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
First I would like to make it clear that based on what both parties have said and submitted 
Im satisfied that Mr C made and authorised both transactions he is now disputing and its on 
this basis Ive made my findings.
Secondly I would like to make to clear that Im satisfied that the times recorded on the 
relevant delivery documentation is UK time and therefore Mr C would have, everything else 
being equal and based on what he has himself said and submitted  been at home.
chargeback 
Chargeback is a process provided by Mr Cs card scheme. It allows customers to ask for a 
transaction to be refunded in a number of situations including where goods or services arent 
provided, where goods or services are defective or where goods or services arent as 
described. 
There's no automatic right to a chargeback. Nor is chargeback a guaranteed method of 
getting a refund because chargebacks may be defended by merchants. 
If a financial business thinks that a claim won't be successful, it doesnt have to raise a 
chargeback. But where theres a reasonable chance of success wed expect a financial 
business to bring a chargeback. 
I should also explain that it isnt HSBC that decides whether or not a chargeback is 
successful. Chargebacks are decided based on the card scheme rules. So, in this complaint, 
I can only consider HSBCs actions in requesting the chargeback. 
The information Ive seen shows that HSBC initiated a chargeback for Mr C. HSBC initially 
credited his account as Id expect it to but then debited his account when the merchant 
challenged the chargeback. 
I cant say that HSBC treated Mr C unfairly here because a financial business isnt obliged to 
continue with a chargeback in circumstances where the chargeback has been defended by a 
merchant.Section 75
The general effect of section 75 is that if Mr C has a claim for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract against E, he can also bring that claim against HSBC provided certain conditions 
are met. 
I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under 
section 75. That means Im not obliged to reach the same outcome as, for example, a court 
might reach if Mr C pursued a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation.
Mr C paid E (under two separate contracts) to deliver two items to him. Mr C used credit 
supplied by HSBC to pay for these contracts. I think it was part of his contracts with E that 
the items would be delivered safely to his address. 
If I thought it likely this didnt happen then I would say the contracts had been breached and 
it would be fair and reasonable to say HSBC ought to refund Mr C. 
Now based on what Mr C has said and submitted its my understanding that he is suggesting 
that the items were delivered and signed for by one or more third parties not residing at his 
address and kept by them. Or that the driver, or drivers, signed for the items and kept them 
for themselves.
Now had the items been delivered to one or more third parties not residing at Mr Cs address 
I see no reason why the relevant documentation wouldnt have reflected this fact  but this 
isnt the case. Therefore Im not persuaded, on the balance of probabilities, this is what 
happened.
So Ive gone on to consider whether the driver, or drivers, signed for the items and kept them 
for themselves.
If I was to accept this was the case Id have to say it was likely that the driver, or drivers, put 
their livelihoods at risk by depriving Mr C of his property and keeping that property for 
themselves. But, Ive seen nothing to suggest any dishonest behaviour by the driver, or 
drivers, in this case.
Mr C tells us the signatures of the person or persons who signed for the items and the 
signature in his passport arent the same. Now I dont disagree. But as I understand it the 
items were signed for on an electronic device. 
I think its fair to say that most signatures done using this method are unlike the signatures 
we might use on an important document like a passport. Moreover, Im not a signature 
expert, so Im in no position to say that the signatures couldnt have been done by the same 
person. Instead, what I do have is information that suggests that the items were sent out for 
delivery and were delivered. 
On balance, I find that the items were most likely delivered to Mr Cs address and signed for 
by someone at that address. I cant say why Mr C hasnt got the items. But I dont have to 
explain this in order to resolve this complaint fairly. 
In summary, for the reasons Ive set out above, I think its most likely on balance that the 
items were delivered to Mr Cs address. It follows that I dont find that it would be fair and 
reasonable to say HSBC has done anything wrong. In particular, I find I Ive no proper basis 
for saying that HSBC must refund Mr Cs money.It's not in dispute that HSBC held, for a period of time, an incorrect phone number for Mr C 
and it was responsible for doing so. But taking everything into account I think HSBCs offer of 
£100 for this is, in all the circumstances, both fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc must pay Mr C, if it hasnt done so already, £100 
for holding for a period of time, an incorrect phone number for Mr C, but it need do nothing 
further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman