DRN-3569768
The complaint
Ms F complains about delays by Scottish Equitable Plc trading as Aegon in paying death 
benefits on a personal pension.
What happened
Ms F was nominated as the beneficiary for the death benefits payable under her husbands 
group personal pension plan. I will refer to her husband as Mr C. 
In May 2020 Ms Fs representative contacted Aegon to notify it that Ms Fs husband had 
died and ask what the process was for payment of benefits. Aegon sent a beneficiaries form 
that needed to be completed and returned. 
The form was returned by email on 2 June 2020. On 11 June Aegon advised that it would 
need to contact all of Mr Cs children, to help choose the appropriate beneficiaries. Aegon 
said this would involve writing to each party up to three times, to ask if they were financially 
dependent on Mr C. If they said they were, they would be given the opportunity to provide 
evidence to support their claim. Aegon also explained that if a third letter had to be sent, this 
would impose a deadline to respond.
The first round of letters was sent on 11 June 2020, with follow ups where necessary in July 
and August. One person ( who I will call Mr G) had said he intended to make a claim to the 
death benefits, and Aegon asked that he provide a completed form with any supporting 
evidence by 11 September. Mr C sent his paperwork a few days before that deadline.
On 22 September 2020, Aegon wrote to Ms F saying it had decided to pay the benefit to her 
and she would be receiving around £52,000. It asked her to return a payment mandate with 
details of her bank account. Aegon wrote to all other parties on the same date advising that 
a decision had been made.
On 23 September 2020, Mr G challenged Aegons decision. In the meantime, Ms Fs 
representative provided her bank details, and asked if she was the sole beneficiary to the 
plan and when payment would be made. 
Aegon explained that the claim had been referred to its legal department. Ms Fs 
representative asked why the claim had been referred. When he didnt get a reply he made a 
complaint on Ms Fs behalf.
In its final response to the complaint Aegon said the claim could not be paid until the legal 
department had investigated Mr Gs challenge, and this was done by 28 October 2020. But it 
acknowledged that Ms F hadnt been kept fully updated from 9 October onwards and offered 
£300 for the distress and inconvenience caused. After further correspondence this was 
increased to £400. Ms Fs representative said this wasnt enough and referred the complaint 
to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said it was reasonable for 
Aegon to carry out a thorough investigation and it had explained the process at the outset. 
He agreed Aegons communication later in the process could have been better, but felt the 
payment of £400 was reasonable. 
Ms F disagrees and has requested an ombudsmans decision. Amongst other things, her 
representative says:
Aegon has a culture of excessive secrecy and information has to be dragged out of it;
it dealt with things in a slow, time wasting manner and didnt explain the process or 
what progress was being made;
the key issue is that on 22 September 2020 Aegon told Ms F it had decided to pay 
the benefit to her, but didnt then tell her it had passed the matter to its legal 
department or that there was an appeal from Mr G, and for eight weeks refused to tell 
her anything.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the rules of the pension plan, the trustees have absolute discretion to decide who to 
pay any death benefits to. Ms F doesnt dispute that. Her complaint is that Aegon took too 
long to deal with the process and failed to keep her informed about what was happening.
There was no set timescale for dealing with this, so I need to consider whether Aegon dealt 
with it in a reasonable time. Ms Fs representative says she had other claims that were dealt 
with much more quickly. I cant consider how other payments were dealt with, or compare 
the actions of those firms with Aegons actions; I can only consider the facts of this case and 
whether Aegons actions were reasonable in the circumstances that applied here. 
Aegon has explained that there are a number of people who could be considered 
beneficiaries. While this includes the person nominated by the deceased, it also includes  
children and other dependants. It was right that Aegon would want to carry out a thorough 
investigation to be certain that any decision it made was appropriate. 
Aegon explained near the start of the process that up to three attempts would be made to 
contact Mr Cs children. The information provided at the start said 
 as the administrator[Aegon] have the responsibility of deciding who receives the death 
benefit lump sum from this plan. We have to carry out a full and thorough assessment before 
we make a decisionthis may involve gathering information from many relevant third 
parties, which may take some time. 
I think Aegon was clear about what the process would involve in email correspondence with 
Ms Fs representative and in their beneficiaries form, which said the process may take some 
time. 
Aegon was liaising with various third parties, and had little control over how quickly they 
would reply. Letters were sent in June, July and August 2020, with the last one setting a 
deadline of 11 September 2020. Im satisfied Aegons actions here were consistent with 
what it had said it was going to do.
After the final deadline, Aegon provided updates in September 2020, before confirming its 
decision on 22 September. Im satisfied it dealt with this in a reasonable timescale and 
provided updates as necessary.
However, it seems Aegon didnt provide further updates until 9 October 2020, in response toMs Fs representative getting in touch. It was only at this point that he was told the claim had 
been referred to the legal department. 
Aegon did have to exercise discretion over what information it could share about the claim. 
Ive seen the correspondence received from Mr G. It wouldnt be appropriate to share any of 
the detail, but I think it was reasonable for Aegon to seek guidance from its legal department 
before confirming the payment. It wanted to confirm that the decision was the right one, and 
that it wouldnt be open to any legal challenge once payment had been made. I wouldnt 
expect it to share legal advice with Ms Fs representative.
Whilst Aegon might not have been able to share all the details of the matter with Ms F, it has 
accepted that communication could have been better. I agree that Aegon could have done 
more to keep her informed after 22 September 2020. At that point she was expecting to 
receive payment, so it would have been upsetting to have further delay without knowing the 
reasons for this. 
Aegon paid £400 to recognise this. Ms F is seeking a higher payment. Ive thought about this 
carefully. I appreciate this was a difficult time and any delay, without a full explanation of the 
reasons, would have been upsetting. But Aegon had made clear at the beginning what the 
process would involve and had provided updates through most of that process. Aegons 
legal team confirmed on 28 October that payment could be made to Ms F and she was paid 
on 10 November. Taking into account the time period involved in the later stages (where the 
communication could have been better) I think £400 was reasonable.
Ms Fs representative has also said interest should be added to the lump sum paid, from the 
date that it notified Aegon of Mr Cs passing. I appreciate that this wasnt a quick claim, but 
much of the time taken was out of Aegons control. Taking into account all the circumstances 
I dont consider it appropriate for interest to be added.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman