DRN-3317406
The complaint
Mr Y complains that HSBC UK Bank plc trading as First Direct, provided poor service to him 
when he contacted it about making a payment from his account.
What happened
Mr Y had an account with First Direct. He contacted it on 10 September 2021 using the chat 
function on its website. He asked First Direct to allow payments to a named supplier to 
resume. First Direct told him that because these payments had been blocked, hed need to 
speak to its Cards Team. Mr Y says he asked for a callback from the Cards Team but was 
told it would take four weeks to get a callback. Alternatively, he could call the Cards Team 
directly, but the wait times would be around thirty minutes. Mr Y requested a callback.
Mr Y expressed his disappointment with what hed been told and asked for the reason why 
there were such long wait times. First Direct said it didnt know the reason but guessed it 
was due to high volumes of calls. Mr Y was not satisfied with this response and said he 
wanted to speak to a manager. He was transferred to the Customer Relations Team. It said 
the reason for the timeframe was purely due to the volume of calls and in the circumstances, 
it would be quicker for Mr Y to contact the Disputes Team directly. He could also register a 
complaint. Mr Y asked for a senior manager to call him back. First Direct said it couldnt 
guarantee that would happen. Mr Y said he wouldnt make any further payments to his 
personal loan account until he got a call back.
First Direct sent Mr Y an email on 16 September 2021. It said that following the chat on 10 
September 2021, it was more appropriate to send him a written response. It said it had 
looked into his complaint and said it was sorry there were long delays. It said this was due to 
high volumes of dispute queries which had impacted call waiting times and callback times. It 
said hed asked to speak to a manager, but a manager wasnt always available. It 
apologised for any frustration or inconvenience hed experienced. It reminded Mr Y he had a 
contractual obligation to make payments to his personal loan account irrespective of his 
dissatisfaction with the service hed received.
Mr Y was not satisfied with this response. He contacted First Direct again by chat and said 
he wanted to make a complaint about the manager whod sent him the email dated 16 
September. First Direct said it had already issued its final response letter, so hed have to 
refer his complaint to our service. He asked for a callback from a manager and was told his 
complaint would be reviewed and someone would be in touch. Alternatively, he could phone 
the Customer Relations team directly.
Mr Y referred his complaint to our service. He also mentioned previous instances where he 
said hed experienced poor service. Our investigator looked into his complaint. He said Mr Y 
had been given the option on multiple occasions, on 10 September, to call the Disputes 
Team and wait until it answered his call. First Direct had provided evidence to our service it 
had unblocked his card, on 27 October. It accepted it hadnt called him to confirm this. 
Although our investigator agreed that this was not the level of service wed expect, overall, 
he thought First Direct had acted reasonably. First Direct said it wasnt always possible to 
speak to a manager. Our investigator thought this was a plausible explanation. He said First 
Direct had taken reasonable steps to resolve Mr Ys issues and its actions hadnt caused 
him to suffer any real detriment.
Mr Y did not agree. He said it was unreasonable to expect him to wait on hold for lengthy 
periods of time, not call him back despite having been told he would get a callback and then 
issue a final response letter before the matter had been resolved. He said he had 
experienced detriment as a result.
Because Mr Y didnt agree, his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id just point out at the outset that in his complaint to our service, Mr Y has raised concerns 
about previous experiences with First Direct. He needs, in the first instance, to raise those 
concerns with First Direct and give it the opportunity to respond. So in this decision, Im only 
dealing with the complaint hes made about the poor service he says he received in 
September 2021.
First Direct offers its customers the opportunity to contact it using the chat function on its 
website. I can see this is described as a means to save you time so you can get on with 
life. The website also describes the types of query that can be handled using chat. For more 
complex queries it says the consumer will be transferred to someone who can help.
On 10 September 2021 Mr Y used the chat function to enquire about being able to start 
making payments again to a supplier. He was told that this type of query would have to be 
dealt with by the Cards Team because a block on his card would have to be removed. First 
Direct gave him the contact number and opening times for the Cards Team.
Mr Y thought First Direct should arrange to call him back, rather than him having to make 
this phone call. First Direct told him it could arrange a callback, but it might take around four 
weeks. Alternatively, he could phone the number hed been given, but the expected wait 
time would be around thirty minutes. Mr Y asked for the callback and this was confirmed to 
him, but he told First Direct he wasnt happy with the service.
Mr Ys main complaint is that it was unacceptable for First Direct to require him to wait four 
weeks to get a callback or wait thirty minutes to get his call answered. 
There may be cases where long waiting times would not be regarded as unreasonable. So, 
Ive thought firstly about the reason First Direct provided for the wait times. It says the 
reason for the long wait times was purely due to the volume of calls it was experiencing at 
the time. It couldnt give any particular reason why that was the case. It said that because of 
the high volume of calls it had decided to prioritise inbound calls over outbound calls. That 
was why the estimated callback time was four weeks. 
Having considered what First Direct has said here, I dont think it acted unfairly or 
unreasonably when it told Mr Y that he could phone the Cards Team and wait for it to 
answer the call. Alternatively, he could wait for around four weeks to get a callback. First 
Direct says it was experiencing high call volumes at the time. It hasnt been able to explain 
why that was. But it decided, in the circumstances, to prioritise inbound calls. I think that was 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances it says it found itself in at the time. It apologised to 
Mr Y for the wait times.Im also satisfied, on balance, First Direct provided Mr Y with enough information to enable 
him to make a choice about what he wanted to do. He chose the callback. And, I think when 
he requested the callback option, he was indicating to First Direct that his enquiry was not 
urgent. So, he would prefer to wait four weeks to get a callback rather than call the Cards 
Team and have to wait around thirty minutes to get a response. 
First Direct didnt call Mr Y back after four weeks. It actioned his request on 27 October 2021 
 which was almost seven weeks after hed contacted it. It hasnt explained the reason for 
that delay, and it hasnt explained why it didnt contact Mr Y, by any means, to confirm to him 
it had actioned his request. So, Im satisfied Mr Y received poor service in terms of how his 
request was administered.
I now need to consider whether as a result of the poor service hes received, it is fair and 
reasonable to require First Direct to pay him compensation. I can award compensation 
where Im satisfied it is fair and reasonable to do so, taking into account any financial loss, 
pain and suffering, damage to reputation or distress and inconvenience Mr Y has 
experienced as a result of what happened.
In this case, Mr Y says he experienced detriment because it was unreasonable to expect 
him to wait on hold for lengthy periods of time, the callback never happened and the final 
response letter was issued before the matter was resolved. 
Although, for the reasons set out above, I dont think that the wait times First Direct told Mr Y 
about on 10 September were unreasonable, it is the case that he chose not to call the Cards 
team  so, he didnt have to wait to get through and didnt have to spend time on hold. He 
chose the callback option. So, I dont think he experienced any loss, distress or 
inconvenience because of the choice he made.
I agree that the callback didnt happen  even after several weeks. But First Direct did 
unblock his card on 27 October and after that date, the payments to the supplier were able 
to resume. As Ive noted above, it didnt appear Mr Y caused First Direct to believe it should 
treat his request as urgent when he contacted it in September and theres nothing to indicate 
he sent any follow up requests to it about unblocking his card. But, despite that Im satisfied 
it was slow to action his request.
Mr Y told us hes experienced detriment but he hasnt told us about any financial loss, 
distress or inconvenience he suffered as a result of the delay actioning his request or the 
failure to call him back. So, I dont think, in these circumstances, it is fair or reasonable to 
require First Direct to compensate him for what happened. It did apologise to him in 
September for the long wait times.
Ive also thought about what Mr Y said about the final response letter having been issued 
before he says the matter was resolved. During the chat on 10 September First Direct told 
Mr Y it would refer his complaint to its Disputes Team, and he would be contacted. Thats 
why First Direct issued the final response letter on 16 September. At that date it had 
investigated the issues he raised during the chat on 10 September and was in a position to 
issue its final response. I think that was fair and reasonable.
Having considered everything here, I think First Direct has acted fairly and reasonably. I 
dont require it to have to do anything further to resolve this complaint. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about HSBC UK Bank plc 
trading as First Direct.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman