DRN-4430942
The complaint
Mr O complained that Quidie Limited trading as Fernovo (Quidie) provided him with a loan
without carrying out the correct affordability checks. Mr O says for the fourth loan Quidie
ought to have reviewed his bank statements.
What happened
Mr O was granted four loans and a table of his borrowing can be found below. While Ive 
included Mr Os total lending history  this has been done for context, Mr O has
been clear that he only wants loan four to be considered.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
monthly 
instalmentslargest 
repayment per 
loan
1 £400.00 29/06/2022 08/07/2022 4 £143.36
2 £150.00 12/07/2022 18/07/2022 3 £72.83
3 £200.00 22/08/2022 07/09/2022 3 £91.36
4 £500.00 09/02/2023 outstanding 4 £206.01
Mr O has also had some problems repaying loan four and by May 2023 no payments had 
yet been received by Quidie.
Quidie considered the complaint and issued its answer in April 2023, and it outlined the
checks that it carried out before it approved the loans. Quidie concluded the checks were
proportionate and showed Mr O could afford the repayments. However, it explained that
should Mr O withdraw his complaint then as a gesture of goodwill it would reduce the
outstanding debt to £653.65 and it also offered to remove all the loans from Mr Os credit file.
Unhappy with this response, Mr O referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
While the case was waiting for a review, Mr O emailed us to confirm that Quidie was still
increasing the balance each day and he had been in contact with it about this issue.
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator who looked at loan four only, and she didnt
uphold the complaint because she said proportionate checks were conducted which showed
Quidie that the loan was affordable.
Mr O didnt agree with the outcome the adjudicator had reached about loan four, in summary
he said:
Quidie failed to ask for bank statements to see how his account was being managed.
Mr O was on a zero-hour contract and so his pay wasnt guaranteed.
Mr O said he hasnt been treated fairly by Quidie because, even though he is on a 
zero-hours contract the loan balance has been increased to close to £1,000 which is 
double the amount that he borrowed.
The adjudicator explained, why Mr Os comments hadnt changed her mind. Mr O remained
unhappy and requested the case be reviewed. 
The complaint was then passed to me, and I issued a provisional decision explaining the 
reasons why I was intending to uphold Mr Os complaint. Both parties were asked to provide 
any new submissions as soon as possible, but in any event, no later than 1 November 2023. 
Neither party responded to nor provided any new submissions in response to the 
provisional decision. As the deadline has now passed, Ive reconsidered everything as 
part of this final decision.
A copy of the provisional findings follows this in smaller font and forms part of this final 
decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Quidie had to assess the lending to check if Mr O could afford to pay back the amount hed
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to
the circumstances. Quidies checks could have taken into account a number of different
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Os income
and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Quidie should have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr O. These factors include:
Mr O having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr O having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time 
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or 
was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr O coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also suggestive 
of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr O. The adjudicator didnt consider
this applied in Mr Os complaint and I would agree as loan four was the first loan in a new
lending chain.
Quidie was required to establish whether Mr O could sustainably repay the loan  not just
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr O was able to repay his loan
sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Os complaint.
Unaffordable lending
For clarity, I am only reviewing what happened when loan four was advanced. And while itwas Mr Os fourth loan, it was actually the first loan of a new lending chain, and this does
have an impact on what a proportionate check may be.
Before the loan was approved, Quidie asked Mr O for details of his income, which he
declared as being £2,000 per month. Quidie says the income figure was checked by cross
referencing information through a third-party report which gave Quidie a high level of
confidence that Mr Os declared income was accurate. Given this was the first loan in a new
chain, it was reasonable for Quidie to have relied on the results of its check.
Mr O has said that at the time of the loan he was on a zero-hour contract, but that
information wasnt reflected in what he told Quidie nor what Quidie received back from the
income check that it carried out. It seems Quidie wasnt aware of Mr Os contract status, and
as such it couldnt make any adjustments that it may have needed to. To be clear, it was
reasonable of Quidie to take what Mr O was saying about his income at face value
especially when its check didnt contradict what Mr O had declared.
Mr O also declared monthly outgoings of £850 which was broken down as £350 for housing,
£50 utilities, £150 for food, £80 for transport and £220 on other outgoings.
Quidie then went about checking this information. Firstly, Quidie said it used an affordability
report provided by a credit reference agency and that report indicated that the amount Mr O
paid each month to his other credit commitments was more than the zero he declared and
likely to be around £120 per month.
Secondly, while Mr O declared monthly housing costs of £350, Quidie took averages of rents
for similar properties in Mr Os postcode, it then increased this cost to £400 per month and
used this higher figure for its affordability assessment.
Thirdly, excluding credit commitments and the rent payments Mr O had declared other living
costs of £500 per month. Quidie says this is much lower than averages provided by the
Money Advice Service (MAS). Using MAS averages for someone in a similar situation to
Mr O  for example having a dependant this should have led to living costs of around £780
and so this is the figure it used for the assessment.
Overall, Quidie using the MAS average of £780, plus the rent cost of £400 plus the credit
commitments of £120 giving total monthly outgoings of £1,300. With an income figure of
£2,000 this left £700 per month in disposable income to afford the repayments of around
£206. Loan four looked affordable.
Before the loan was approved Quidie also carried out a credit search and it has provided the
results it received from the credit reference agency. It is worth saying here that although
Quidie carried out a credit search, there isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone
one to a specific standard. But what Quidie couldnt do is carry out a credit search and then
not react to the information it received if necessary.
The headline data wouldnt have given Quidie cause for concern, it knew that Mr O didnt
have any defaults within the preceding three years, no delinquent accounts within the last 12
months nor where there any Count Court Judgements. It also knew that Mr O had around
£8,500 of existing debt by eight active credit accounts.
As part of the credit search, Quidie was provided details of the open accounts that Mr O had.
It knew about a hire purchase agreement for a car which was costing Mr O £475 per month,
and he also had an unsecured loan opened in September 2022 which was costing £209 per
month. Overall, these two agreements were costing Mr O £684 per month.
The other accounts which Quidie knew about were telecommunication account, two utilities,
a credit card and two current accounts. With one of those current accounts Mr O was close
to his overdraft limit  he was utilising £198 of a £200 overdraft. The credit card at the time
had a zero balance so it doesnt appear that was costing Mr O anything at all.So, the monthly credit commitments declared by Mr O couldnt have been correct when he
declared £0, I appreciate Quidie said it was verified by the credit commitments in the credit
report and so for its affordability assessment it used £120 per month. But Quidie had access
to the credit report which showed the commitments to be greater than that  in fact these
commitments were around £684 each month.
On top of this, Quidie had already increased Mr Os rent cost to £400 per month and had
used the MAS average of £780 per month. Now factoring in the actual credit commitments
that Quidie knew about of £684 this brings Mr Os outgoings to £1,864 per month  leaving
£136 per month of disposable income.
However, the loan repayment Mr O was committed to was £206.01 per month, which clearly
couldnt be made because based on the information Quidie used he didnt have sufficient
income to be able to take on and service this loan.
I am therefore intending to uphold the complaint because the information Quidie was given
as part of the affordability assessment showed Mr O couldnt afford this loan. An
outstanding balance will still be due, and I would remind Quidie of its obligation to treat Mr O
fairly and with forbearance.
Treating Mr O fairly
I appreciate Mr O has some concerns around how he has been treated especially in light of
the fact that he says he is on a zero-hour contract. Further enquires had been made with
Quidie to find out what it knew about that and what help and support it offered to Mr O as it is
required to do by the regulator. Disappointingly though, Quidie hasnt responded to our
request for further information. So, I dont know exactly what help and support it has offered
and why.
I havent seen any evidence to date that after knowing about Mr Os repayment difficulties
that Quidie treated him fairly and with forbearance in line with its regulatory obligations. And
Mr O has contacted us on a number of occasions about the fact the balance was increasing
and that he was having difficulties. In light of the lack of evidence, provided by Quidie Im
satisfied on balance, that Mr O has been caused a degree of distress and inconvenience. So
given that, I am intending to ask Quidie to pay Mr O directly £100 to reflect this.
Mr O is concerned that daily interest was being added to the balance. Quidie wasnt under
any obligation to suspend the interest fees and charges while an investigation took place,
but I would add is that some lenders may take a different approach, but that isnt a reason
that I can uphold this element of the complaint.
The regulator implemented a cost cap for this type of loan, so at worse, Quidie could only
collected 100% of the amount advanced. In this case, the most Quidie could collect from
Mr O would be £1,000. However, as I am now intending to uphold the complaint Mr O
shouldnt need to pay any interest or charges at all. But there is an expectation that Mr O will
need to repay the capital sum he borrowed  in this case £500.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided any new submissions, I see no reason to depart from the findings I 
reached in the provisional decision. I still think, based on the information that Quidie had to 
hand from its own checks that it ought to have realised that loan four wasnt affordable for 
Mr O and so it shouldnt have been granted. In addition, Quidie hasnt provided any further evidence to show it treated Mr O fairly and 
with forbearance and therefore I am recommending a payment of distress and 
inconvenience. 
Ive outlined below what Quidie needs to do in order to put things right for Mr O.
 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Quidie should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened had it not lent loan four to Mr O, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly
there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr O may have simply left matters there, not
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. Or they may have looked to borrow the funds
from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Mr O in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Mr O would more likely than not have taken up any one of these
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Quidies liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Quidie shouldnt have lent loan four to Mr O.
If Quidie have sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back if it is able to do so and then
take the following steps. If Quidie is not able to buy the debt back then Quidie should liaise
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A. Quidie should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance loan four, and 
treat any repayments made by Mr O as though they had been repayments of the 
principal. If this results in Mr O having made overpayments then Quidie should refund 
these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from 
the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled.
B. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then Quidie should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr O and I would remind Quidie of its obligation to 
treat Mr O fairly and with forbearance.
C. Quidie should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Os credit file in 
relation to the loan.
D. Quidie should also pay directly to Mr O £100 for the distress and inconvenience that 
has been caused.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Quidie to deduct tax from this interest. Quidie should give
Mr O a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Mr Os 
complaint about loan four. 
Quidie Limited trading as Fernovo should put things right for Mr O as directed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman