DRN-2982777
The complaint
Mrs P complains AXA insurance UK Plc (AXA) incorrectly told her a notification only 
incident wouldnt impact the cost of future insurance.
Mrs P is assisted by Mr P as her representative. For ease of reference throughout this 
decision Ill refer to Mrs P, even when points have been raised by Mr P.
What happened
In October 2016, Mrs Ps car was hit by a third party who drove away from the scene. Mrs P 
told AXA about this swiftly afterwards. 
Mrs P says she contacted AXA in January 2017. She told it she didnt want the claim having 
an impact on her insurance premium and would get the damage repaired herself. Mrs P says 
AXA told her recording the incident wouldnt impact the future cost of her car insurance.
When Mrs P took out insurance with another insurer in January 2021. She was told the 
notification only incident had been applied to her insurance policy and it meant an additional 
premium of £38.65 needed to be paid.
Mrs P was unhappy with this and brought her complaint to our service. To put things right, 
she wants AXA to correct the misleading information which affected her premium, refund any 
additional premiums shes paid and compensate her for the time shes spent on this matter.
The investigator who looked at things thought AXA had acted appropriately when recording 
the incident on the relevant database, known as the Central Underwriting Exchange (CUE). 
He also noted itd been recorded accurately. Hed requested the call recording that Mrs P 
referred to from 2017 but AXA no longer had the call due to the time that had passed. Even 
so, whilst he recognised Mrs P said she was told on the call that it wouldnt affect her 
premiums in the future, the incident had to be reported and so this having an impact on her 
premiums was always a possibility. And this wouldnt have changed even if she had been 
given the wrong information on the call. 
Mrs P didnt agree. She feels the crux of her complaint has been misunderstood.  This is 
because it isnt about whether the information was recorded, its about the fact Mrs P was 
told it wouldnt affect her premium and it has. Therefore, the complaint is that the premium 
shouldnt have been affected. This matter has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I think is 
more likely to have happened in light of the evidence. Having done so, I have to tell Mrs P I 
consider the investigator reached the right outcome. So, I dont uphold her complaint.
I understand Mrs Ps complaint isnt about whether the information was recorded. Instead, 
its about being told she wouldnt be charged more as a result of this information being 
recorded, which later transpired to be incorrect. Ill explain why. 
Having notified AXA of an incident, it was right to record this on CUE. Notification only 
incidents can affect future premiums although they are treated differently by insurers based 
on their own underwriting criteria. This is the impact of a notification only incident and this is 
irrespective of whether Mrs P was given the incorrect information on the 2017 call. 
Even if Mrs P had been told this wouldnt affect her future premiums, it wouldnt make a 
difference to the overall outcome in this matter. We generally wouldnt ask a business to  
for example here  remove something which was correctly recorded on CUE so the reality of 
the situation reflects what the customer was incorrect told. This is because its important that 
CUE has an accurate record of a consumers claim and notification history. Instead, wed 
expect a business to consider the impact of the consumer being given the wrong information 
and how the discovery of the correct position wouldve made them feel as well and any 
inconvenience it put them to.
So, Ive considered what Mrs P says she was told during the 2017 call. Theres very little 
evidence available about this from the time to show what was discussed. AXA no longer has 
the call recording which, given the time that has passed, I dont find to be unusual. However, 
the contemporaneous evidence Ive seen - the call notes  suggest the correct information 
was given to Mrs P. The notes record Mrs P called and was wanting to close claim as 
renewal due and will deal with repairs themself. Advised would request this. PH wanting to 
know when it has been closed  included this in email to [colleague].
Taking everything into account, I dont think I could fairly say its more likely Mrs P was given 
the incorrect information that a notification only incident wouldnt affect her future premiums 
in the 2017 call. However, as already explained, even if shed been given the incorrect 
information, this wouldnt lead to the notification being removed from CUE or a refund of any 
additional premiums charged. It follows that I dont uphold her complaint in this matter.
I accept Mrs P will be disappointed, but I hope the reasons for my decision are clear. My 
decision now ends what we  in trying to resolve her dispute with AXA  can do for her.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman