DRN-3326977
The complaint
Mr Cs complaint is about Ageas Insurance Limiteds decision to turn down a claim made 
under a contents insurance policy.
All references to Ageas include its appointed agents.
What happened
In January 2020, Mr C unfortunately suffered a burglary. He made a claim under his 
contents insurance policy provided by Ageas. He claimed for six watches and a coin 
collection amongst other items. Ageas appointed a jewellery specialist and a loss adjuster to 
validate the claim.
In November 2020, Ageas turned down Mr Cs claim; it said this was due to a lack of 
substantial proof of ownership and concerns it had with the claim.
Following Ageas final response, Mr C was able to obtain proof of purchase for one of the 
watches and Ageas agreed to settle it. But it maintained its position to turn down the 
remainder of the claim.
Mr C didnt agree and referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator looked at 
everything and recommended the complaint be partially upheld. 
The investigator concluded Mr C hadnt shown sufficient proof of ownership for the coin 
collection, and as such it was fair for Ageas to turn down this part of the claim. 
But the investigator concluded that on balance, Mr C had evidenced proof of ownership for 
three of the watches. And combined with his testimony and a photo which showed him 
wearing a fourth watch, they recommended Ageas settle the claim for all six watches Mr C 
claimed for. 
Mr C accepted our investigators findings. Ageas disagreed. It said it had enough evidence 
to agree settlement for one more watch but didnt accept there was enough evidence to 
settle the remaining watches. It said that it had been advised that all watches being claimed 
for had been bought in the last 3-4 years and as such the receipts from the stores they were 
bought from would still be readily available.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst acknowledging that this case is finely balanced, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Coin collection
Based on the evidence provided, it seems Mr C was simply following Ageas advice 
to provide photos of similar looking coins. So, on the face of it, I dont think Ageas 
subsequent position in questioning the photos is reasonable. But overall, I do agree 
that given the estimated value of the collection, Mr C needed to provide more proof of 
ownership for the claim to succeed. So, I think Ageas has fairly turned down this part 
of the claim.
Watches 
Our services general approach to contents insurance claims is that where a 
consumer has been able to provide evidence for most of the items theyve claimed 
for, we would usually expect the insurer to settle the claim in full.
Whilst I do understand Ageas concerns with the claim, in the circumstances of this 
case I feel its unfair for it to put Mr C to a strict burden of proof for each of the 
watches hes claiming for. I say this because Mr C has confirmed on a signed 
statement that some of the watches were gifts from relatives  so its unlikely that 
hell be able to provide further proof of ownership now. 
On balance, Im satisfied that Mr C has shown some evidence of proof of ownership 
of four of the six watches. This includes photos of him wearing the watches, boxes, 
orders, and receipts. Mr C has supported this with further testimony when he spoke 
to our investigator which I am persuaded by. And the emails Ive seen indicate that 
both Mr C and his broker made reasonable attempts to validate his ownership of the 
watches in the circumstances.
So overall, I am persuaded that the loss Mr C is claiming for is in keeping with the 
type of watches he owned. And as Im satisfied hes shown evidence for most of the 
watches hes claiming for, I think on the balance of probabilities its most likely he 
owned the two watches hes been unable to provide evidence for.
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Ageas should make Mr C a fair settlement offer 
for the six watches hes claiming for.
For these reasons, I uphold this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld. In order to resolve Mr Cs 
complaint, Ageas Insurance Limited should:
Settle Mr Cs claim for all six watches he claimed for.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman