DRN-3987829
The complaint
Mr K complains about Lloyds Bank PLCs (Lloyds) handling of his disputed transaction claim.
Mr K wants Lloyds to pay substantially more compensation than it has to date.
What happened
Mr K runs a motor business and in 2022, he instructed a third party business to carry out 
work on a customers vehicle. The goods were faulty so Mr K raised a dispute with Lloyds. 
Mr K says that Lloyds told him to obtain a report and that either Lloyds or VISA would cover 
the costs of the repair to the vehicle.
It took several months for Lloyds to refund the cost of the faulty goods. Mr K says he spent 
many hours chasing repayment. Mr K was also unhappy that on one occasion, Lloyds staff 
forgot that he was in branch and started to lock up.
Mr K said to Lloyds that if it hadnt told him that he should go ahead with the work and Lloyds 
or VISA would cover the repair costs, he wouldve cancelled the job for his customer. 
Before this service became involved, Lloyds paid Mr K a total of £350 to apologise for the 
poor service and inconvenience to him. Lloyds agreed that it had referred to the wrong 
branch in its final response. Lloyds said that it couldnt find any record of instructing Mr K to 
carry out the repairs on the basis that either Lloyds or VISA would cover the cost but that it 
had no reason to doubt Mr Ks version of events. Lloyds went on to pay a further £25 to 
apologise for not paying compensation into Mr Ks business bank account.
The investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ks complaint be upheld as she thought Lloyds 
had already done enough to put things right. 
The investigator explained that she wouldnt expect Lloyds to cover the costs of the repairs 
to the vehicle. And that this service wouldnt usually tell a business to honour incorrect 
information. 
The investigator said that the question of further repair works would be a civil matter 
between Mr K and the third party who carried out the original disputed work. The investigator 
said that payment for the further repair works wasnt made from Mr Ks business bank 
account so there were no chargeback rights.
Overall, the investigator thought that £375 was reasonable compensation and didnt ask 
Lloyds to do or pay more than this.
Mr K is unhappy with the investigators outcome. Mr K says he wasnt obliged to repair the 
vehicle after the third party carried out the faulty work and could instead have just refunded 
the customer their initial outlay of around £515.
Mr K says an employee of Lloyds told him that he could proceed with the repairs and if hed 
not been told to do so, Mr K wouldnt be out of pocket by more than £1,300. Mr K points out 
that although he carried out the work at his own business, he had to pay his mechanic and 
cover overheads, as well as buying items to carry out the repair. 
Mr K doesnt think £375 goes anywhere near compensating him for the many hours hes 
spent trying to resolve this matter and his travel costs and phone calls.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised Mr Ks complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. The rules that govern this service allow me to do so. But this 
doesnt mean Ive not considered everything that both parties have given to me.
Its agreed that Lloyds made mistakes when handling Mr Ks payment dispute. I dont intend 
setting these mistakes out in detail again. This is not to diminish their importance to Mr K but 
the issue I need to consider is whether I should require Lloyds to do and pay more than it 
already has.
I appreciate Mr K thinks Lloyds told him either it or VISA would cover the cost of the repairs if 
Mr K carried them out. Like Lloyds, I dont have reason to doubt what Mr K says but on the 
other hand Ive not seen any other evidence from Lloyds to suggest such a conversation 
took place. Under the chargeback procedure which Lloyds used to recover the payment from 
the third party, the amount claimed is limited to the amount paid by card and doesnt usually 
include any consequential loss. So, despite what Mr K thinks Lloyds may have told him, I 
think it would be for him to either seek payment from the customer or the third party, if the 
initial faulty workmanship led to additional costs that he cant recover from the customer. 
As the investigator told Mr K, the repair works werent paid from Mr Ks account so wouldnt 
be subject to a further chargeback claim. I realise it will disappoint Mr K but Im not 
persuaded that its reasonable to require Lloyds to pay for the repairs that he carried out.
Mr K would like an award of compensation that takes account of his loss of income when 
dealing with the payment dispute. Instead, I make my award based on the inconvenience Mr 
K suffered because of the mistakes made by Lloyds. I consider Lloyds compensation 
payment totalling £375 is fair. Its within the range of an award we might make where the 
mistakes have caused significant inconvenience and the impact has lasted over weeks or 
months. Our approach to awards like this is on our website.  
Mr K has referred to travel and phone costs. I can see that Lloyds previously asked Mr K to 
provide details of any expenses that hed incurred but I dont have evidence to suggest that 
he did so. If Mr K still wants to provide information about his expenses such as travel and 
call costs, I dont see why Lloyds couldnt consider them. I leave it with Mr K to contact 
Lloyds with any evidence he may have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint in the sense that Lloyds has already 
done and offered enough to put things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Gemma BowenOmbudsman