DRN-3986544
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Everyday Lending Limited, trading as Georgebanco.com, lent to her 
irresponsibly and without carrying out proper affordability checks. She would like all the fees 
and charges associated with the loan refunded.
What happened
In January 2019 Georgebanco.com approved a loan of £4,000 for Mrs C, which was 
scheduled to be repaid at approximately £247 per month over a term of 24 months. It would 
seem that the loan was intended to fund home improvements.
When assessing the application, Georgebanco.com took steps to establish Mrs Cs financial 
circumstances and carried out a credit check before approving the lending.
It would seem that Mrs C kept up with the repayments and the loan was repaid as expected 
in the agreed term.
When Mrs C complained to it, Georgebanco.com didnt accept it had done anything wrong. 
So she brought her case to this service. The investigator thought that Georgebanco.com 
shouldnt have given Mrs C this loan, but Georgebanco.com disagrees. So the case has 
been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold this complaint broadly for the same reasons as those of 
the investigator.
Georgebanco.com is aware of its obligations under the rules and regulations in place at 
the time of this lending decision, including the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), 
so I wont repeat them here. But, briefly, it was required to carry out sufficient checks to 
ensure that Mrs C would be able to repay the borrowing applied for in a sustainable way.
Did Georgebanco.com carry out proportionate checks before granting this loan?
Georgebanco.com asked Mrs C about her income and expenditure; used statistical tools to 
calculate her likely monthly outgoings; and carried out a credit check when considering her 
loan application. The investigator thought these checks were proportionate to the amount 
being borrowed and the term of the loan. I agree that the results of these checks were 
sufficient to decline Mrs Cs application, whilst also accepting the possibility that further 
checks could have provided evidence which supported Georgebanco.coms decision to 
approve it. However, it did not carry out any further checks.
For clarity, I say that because I believe the checks it carried out raised some concerns. 
Specifically, that Mrs C was carrying a large amount of unsecured debt; that her 
disposable income and financial responsibilities did not appear to be balanced; and that 
she had only very recently managed to pay off a defaulted account.
So, ultimately, those concerns ought to have led Georgebanco.com to either decline her 
application or ask further questions and verify her situation more thoroughly before making 
a lending decision.
It did neither.
Did Georgebanco.com respond appropriately to the information it had when deciding 
whether to provide this loan?
Based on what it knew about Mrs C, I dont think Georgebanco.com could reasonably have 
concluded that this loan would be sustainable for her, bearing in mind the regulations in 
force.
The adjudicator thought that the remaining amount of disposable income (£140 per month) 
Mrs C had, once all her financial commitments had been taken into account, was 
concerningly small, and that she needed to spend such a significant proportion of her 
income (almost half of it) on servicing her debts that Georgebanco.com should not 
therefore have lent to her.
It disagreed and raised two key issues. Firstly, that Mrs C had shown no difficulties in 
repaying the loan, thereby proving the repayments were affordable and sustainable for her. 
Secondly, it wanted to know what amount would have been a sufficient and reasonable 
disposable income for Mrs C in her circumstances.
Georgebanco.com is right in saying that Mrs C made all her repayments on time and 
repaid this loan as expected. But that in no way proves that those repayments were 
affordable and sustainable for her, as there is no evidence to show how she managed to 
make them. Simply, it is entirely possible that she borrowed elsewhere to do so, which 
would not equate to the repayments being affordable and sustainable for Mrs C under the 
regulations in force.
Georgebanco.com has asked several times for the investigator to confirm what amount of 
disposable income would have been deemed to be enough for Mrs C. Whilst I understand 
its motivation in doing so, I dont believe it is relevant to the outcome in this case. What 
matters is whether the evidence suggests that the £140 it identified in its assessment was 
a fair and reasonable basis on which to determine that this borrowing was affordable and 
sustainable for Mrs C. Georgebanco.com hasnt made any representations on that point. 
The reasons that lead me to conclude it wasnt remain  regardless of whether I were to 
say that Mrs C needed at least £141 of disposable income, or at least £500. It simply isnt 
material to my findings in this case.
Its important to understand that, although a key concern for the investigator, the question 
of Mrs Cs disposable income per month does not sit in isolation as a reason to uphold this 
complaint. A far more holistic picture of her circumstances leads to that outcome.
I agree with the investigator that the identified £140 ought to have raised concerns as part 
of Georgebanco.coms assessment. I also agree that a key aspect of that concern is that 
she declared she had three dependents. So her disposable income needed to be able to 
meet any unplanned needs for her and her dependents throughout the term of the loan. I 
consider it reasonable to assume that those dependents were children, who, of course, 
grow, and require new clothes and shoes at regular but unpredictable intervals. Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that such, at times significant, costs were factored into Georgebanco.coms estimation of Mrs Cs monthly outgoings. Also, Mrs C declared she 
was a homeowner, meaning that any urgent repairs or broken appliances would also have 
to be met by her from that same amount of disposable income. In aggregate, these are 
potentially substantial and unpredictable demands on her finances. And £140 per month to 
meet them cannot reasonably be described as an unconcerning amount.
Again, I agree with the investigator that Mrs C also required a large amount of her income 
to service her debts, and that this is relevant to an overall assessment of her financial 
health. I can see that Georgebanco.com has itself highlighted that six of Mrs Cs seven 
active credit card accounts were nearly on limit. This clearly suggests that she was 
borrowing heavily, and the credit check completed by Georgebanco.com points to her 
having made only minimum repayments across her revolving credit accounts for a 
prolonged period of time.
Additionally, the credit check revealed that Mrs C had defaulted an account, seemingly 
about two and half years before she applied for this lending. Whilst the default itself could 
be considered to be historic enough not to be relevant, I can also see that she had only 
fairly recently settled the account. It would appear that it took her some time to do so and 
that there were periods of time (including in 2018) where she was seemingly unable to 
make any repayments at all towards that defaulted account.
To summarise, the evidence in this case leads me to uphold the complaint on the basis that 
Georgebanco.coms assessments did not demonstrate that the borrowing was affordable 
and sustainable for Mrs C. Instead, its findings raised a series of concerns, which it neither 
acted on nor investigated further.
Putting things right
It appears that Mrs C repaid the loan as expected. In order to put things right for her, 
Georgebanco.com must do the following:
A) Georgebanco.com must remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan, and treat 
any repayments made by Mrs C as though they had been repayments of the principal on the 
loan. 
B) If this results in Mrs C having made overpayments then it must refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
payments were made, to the date the complaint is settled. 
C) It must remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Cs credit file in relation to this 
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Georgebanco.com to deduct tax from this interest. It 
should give Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited 
to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2023. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman