DRN-4227253
The complaint
Mr R complains about the service he received from AXA Insurance UK Plc when he made a 
claim under his home insurance policy. 
AXA is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As AXA has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agents, in 
my decision, any reference to AXA includes the actions of the agents. 
What happened
In November 2022, Mr R made a claim under his home insurance policy with AXA after 
discovering a leak in his roof. 
AXA appointed its agent to validate the claim and an appointment was made for a surveyor 
to attend Mr Rs property. But the surveyor didnt turn up on the date of the appointment.    
Mr R says he attempted to contact AXA a few times, but he got cut off. Mr R says the leak 
was causing mould on his walls which was impacting his familys health. He arranged for the 
roof to be fixed himself and raised a complaint with AXA.
AXA said the surveyor tried to contact Mr R by phone and email several times but was 
unsuccessful. This was because the handler Mr R had spoken to in November 2022 had 
noted his phone number and email address incorrectly. 
AXA said that as Mr R did not seek authorisation for the repair costs prior to the work being 
carried out, this had prejudiced his claim. It had asked its claims department to contact him 
to discuss his claim and try to validate the damage. It said the onus was on Mr R to evidence 
his claim and assist with validating it. AXA paid Mr R £200 in recognition of the failings in its 
service.
Mr R wasnt satisfied with AXAs response to his complaint. He said hed tried calling AXA a 
few times after the surveyor didnt visit. He said his house was not heating up even with 
heaters on due to the damage the leak caused to the walls. Mould on the walls kept coming 
back and this had caused him, and his family health issues. Mr R said his and his wifes 
mental health had also been impacted. So, he asked our service to consider the matter.
Our investigator looked into Mr Rs concerns but didnt think his complaint should be upheld. 
He thought both AXA and Mr R could have made greater effort to ensure the damage was 
assessed when the claim was raised. He felt the £200 compensation AXA had paid Mr R 
was fair.
Mr R disagreed with our investigators outcome. He said AXA had lied about his details 
being noted incorrectly and it had his contact details on file. It hadnt written to him, despite 
having his address. He said AXA still hadnt contacted him about checking if the work had 
been done. He said hed tried to contact AXA a few times before he arranged the repairs to 
his roof, but his call wouldnt connect or was cut off. He had no choice but to get the work 
done, because the property had shown signs of damage for around nine months. Hed made 
the claim when he found out what was causing the problem. He said AXAs actions had 
impacted him and his wifes mental and physical health. So, the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
To be clear, Ive only considered events complained of that occurred prior to AXAs response 
to Mr Rs complaint dated 17 May 2023. If Mr R has concerns about AXAs actions after this, 
our service may be able to consider these as a separate complaint.
When a policyholder makes a claim, the onus is on them to show that an insured event most 
likely caused the damage. Mr R says that when the leak was discovered in his roof, his 
builders told him the damage was caused by weather. The events covered by the policy are 
listed in the terms and conditions. One of the causes listed as being covered is loss or 
damage caused by storm or flood. And there are definitions for storms and floods in the 
policy terms. 
When Mr R made his claim in November 2022, AXA agreed for a surveyor to visit the 
property to assess the damage in order to validate the claim. Unfortunately, the visit didnt 
happen on the scheduled date. AXA says this was because its handler noted Mr Rs 
telephone number and email address down incorrectly. This meant that the surveyor was 
unable to contact Mr R to confirm the visit. 
Mr R disputes that the handler noted his contact details incorrectly because she reconfirmed 
them to him. But AXA says they were noted incorrectly despite this. I appreciate AXA also 
had Mr Rs correct contact details on file. But it seems that the wrong details were passed to 
the surveyor who tried to contact Mr R to confirm the appointment. 
Mr R says he tried to call AXA a few times, but he couldnt get through. He then arranged for 
repairs to be completed himself.
I appreciate Mr R wanted to get the roof fixed as soon as possible because of concerns 
about the impact of damp and mould on his and his familys health. However, hes sent us a 
copy of a letter he received from AXA which is dated around a week before the appointment 
date. This has the contact details for AXAs agents, but Mr R doesnt appear to have 
contacted them before going ahead with the repairs. The invoice for the repairs is dated only 
two weeks after the missed appointment. 
In the making a claim section of the policys terms and conditions it says:
You must not dispose of any damaged items or conduct permanent repairs because we 
may need to inspect the damage.
So, I think AXA is right in saying Mr R has prejudiced his claim by going ahead with repairs 
without seeking authorisation from it. Nevertheless, it has agreed to consider Mr Rs claim. I 
think this is reasonable. 
In his most recent correspondence with our service, Mr R said a surveyor still hadnt visited. 
However, as explained, Im unable to consider AXAs actions beyond the date of its 
response letter of 17 May 2023 in this complaint. Mr R says hes had to borrow money to fix the roof, and this has placed him in financial 
difficulty. Hes asked that AXA pay for the cost of repairs. However, this isnt something I can 
direct AXA to do without knowing whether or not Mr Rs claim is covered by the policy. 
Mr R says he and his familys health was impacted by the cold conditions in the house and 
the mould on the walls. However, Im not persuaded that AXA is responsible for this. I say 
this because Mr R has told us he first noticed the issues with wet walls and mould around 
nine months before he made his claim. Given that he arranged repairs to his roof only two 
weeks after the surveyors appointment was missed, I dont think AXAs error is likely to have 
increased the length of time Mr R was living with a damaged roof. 
Mr R has also made us aware that he and his wife both experience mental health issues and 
stress has also affected them physically. I dont doubt that this has been a stressful time for 
Mr R and his wife, and I empathise with them. However, when considering a complaint, I can 
only consider the impact of a businesss actions and ask it to pay compensation where I 
think it could have done more. And Ive explained why I dont think AXA is responsible for all 
of the difficulties Mr R has experienced. 
AXA has acknowledged making an error in noting Mr Rs contact details down incorrectly, 
which resulted in the scheduled appointment not going ahead. I also think it could have done 
more to follow this up with him. However, I think the £200 its paid him fairly recognises the 
impact AXAs error had on Mr R. So, whilst I appreciate my answer will be disappointing for 
him, I dont require AXA to pay Mr R any additional compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman