DRN-2646577
The complaint
Mr M has complained that BISL Limited (BISL) increased his premiums without his consent 
after he took out his motor insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mr M used a price comparison website to obtain quotes for his motor insurance on 31 July 
2020.  He chose a policy administered by BISL. The annual cost of the policy quoted was 
£343.35 at the time of sale. 
On 5 August 2020 BISL sent a letter to Mr M giving him the details of a required amendment 
to his policy. And On 6 August 2020 it wrote to him informing him that the non-fault claim 
hed declared in August 2017 had been recorded on the Claims Underwriting Exchange 
database (CUE database) as a fault claim. This resulted in a review of the premium charged.  
The letter said the premium needed to be increased by £119.64 to £462.99. BISL explained 
in the 6 August letter that if the information on the CUE database was incorrect, Mr M would 
need to contact his previous insurers to rectify that information. 
Mr M says he didnt get either letter. Hes asked us to forward copies on to him. And he says 
that his preferences were set to e-mail/online contact. So he says he didnt get any warning 
that BISL would take a further £119.64 from his account. And he has no proof the letter was 
in fact issued.  
So Mr M cancelled his insurance effective 17 August 2020. BISL waived the usual £55 
cancellation fee. BISL refunded the additional £119.64 itd taken. It also refunded £323.17 of 
the initial premium. But it retained £20.18 of the original premium for the period of insurance 
Mr M had received. This was 1 August 2020 to 17 August 2020.
Mr M complained to BISL. He wanted a full refund of all premiums paid, as he felt that the 
cover was never valid.  He also wanted to know what actions BISL had taken in response to 
its error. And he wanted compensation for the time hed spent resolving the matter.
 
BISL investigated the complaint.  It apologised for the additional premium being taken 
without Mr Ms consent. And explained itd provided feedback to the department responsible. 
It offered £25 for the inconvenience the error had caused. But it didnt agree to a full refund 
of premiums. It explained itd retained £20.18 for the time on cover. It also declined 
compensation for Mr Ms time. 
Mr M remained unhappy and referred the complaint to this service. Our investigator 
reviewed the complaint and didnt recommend it should be upheld. He felt that as BISL had 
waived the £55 cancellation fee and had offered £25 compensation that itd done enough to 
put things right.  
Mr M didnt agree. So his complaint has been referred to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know this will be disappointing for Mr M, but Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill 
explain why. 
The initial premium Mr M was charged was based on a non-fault claim from August 2017. 
But when BISL noted that a fault claim had been recorded on the CUE database, it used that 
information to recalculate the cost of the policy. I consider that this is a reasonable thing to 
do. I say this because its consistent with generally acceptable industry practice. 
Mr M says that no evidence has been provided to support the information BISL says it got 
from the CUE database. Our investigator asked BISL for further information. It told him that 
the CUE process is automated. It said that the data it received is what was included on the 
CUE letter that it sent. Im satisfied that the information in the 6 August 2020 letter was taken 
from the CUE database.
BISL said that the CUE check is a semi-automated process. So when theres an update  as 
there was here  its system sends an automated letter to its customer, confirming the 
changes thatve been made. It also confirms what the implications are and what the 
customer should do if they disagree with the update. I know Mr Ms been waiting for an 
explanation about why he wasnt sent this information by e-mail/online. I can see that BISL 
simply told him this is its usual process without going into further detail.
In this case, BISLs 6 August 2020 letter told Mr M that if he didnt agree with the information 
held on the CUE database hed need to contact his previous insurer. They would have to 
confirm the correct details in writing and confirm that theyd updated the CUE database. I 
can confirm that this is the correct process in cases like this one. The insurer who provided 
cover for Mr M in August 2017 is the only insurer who can update the CUE database for that 
claim. So BISL couldnt do anything to help Mr M amend the CUE record.
According to CUE, the price originally quoted was based on incorrect information. So BISL 
was entitled to reassess the risk based on the correct information and ask that Mr M to pay 
the difference. In its 6 August 2020 letter it asked Mr M to pay the difference or offered to 
allow the policy to be cancelled with no cancellation fees. Mr M would only need to pay for 
the time hed had cover. Unfortunately Mr M didnt get that letter. 
Given what Mr M has told this service, I acknowledge that he didnt receive the 6 August 
2020 letter. So I can see that he wouldnt have known that his premium for the policy year 
starting from 1 August 2020 was going to change. So I need to look at what BISL did to put 
things right after it took the additional premium of £119.64 without Mr Ms consent.
BISL acknowledged that it shouldnt have taken the additional premium of £119.64 without 
Mr Ms consent. To put things right, it waived the cancellation fee of £55 and offered £25 for 
the inconvenience. I understand that Mr M doesnt feel that cancellation fee was waived as 
he feels he was still in a period where he could cancel without charge. But he wasnt. He 
didnt start a new policy on 5 August 2020. He just had his premium for the policy year 
starting on 1 August 2020 adjusted on that date. So BISL were entitled to charge a 
cancellation fee as his cover had been in force for more than 14 days on 17 August 2020.
Mr M has said that if BISL had sent the 5 August 2020 and 6 August 2020 letters by his 
agreed data communication choice: then I could and would have had sufficient time to 
cancel my policy without penalty within the fourteen day cooling off period that I am legally 
allowed. I agree that in that case, Mr M couldve avoided a cancellation fee. But BISL could 
then have charged a £30 arrangement fee instead. But I do agree with Mr M to the extent 
that the waiving of the cancellation fee could be seen as only really being worth £30 to him.BISL declined to refund Mr M the remaining £20.18 of his initial premium. I think this was fair 
and reasonable under the circumstances. Mr Ms policy had provided him with cover for 16 
days between 1 August 2020 and 17 August 2020. The cost of the annual policy  allowing 
for the CUE amendment  was £462.99. So 16 days of the policy wouldve cost 
approximately £20. 
In summary, BISL has offered £25 compensation and has waived the cancellation fee to put 
things right for taking £119.64 without his consent. I think this was a fair resolution under the 
circumstances. I understand why Mr M feels strongly about all that has happened. 
Everything wouldve been much clearer and easier if the two August 2020 letters had been 
sent by e-mail/online. But I consider that BISL has acted reasonably and fairly in resolving 
this complaint. So I wont be asking it to do anything else. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman