DRN-4237730
Complaint
Miss C has complained about a high-cost short-term instalment loan Quidie Limited (trading 
as Fernovo) provided to her. 
She says the loan was unaffordable and that shed already been rejected for loans by a 
number of different companies.
Background
Fernovo provided Miss C with an instalment loan for £300 in June 2022. This loan was due 
to be repaid in four monthly instalments of around £123. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Miss Cs complaint and she thought bearing in mind the 
information it had been provided with, Fernovo ought to have realised that it shouldnt have 
provided Miss C with her loan. So she thought that Miss Cs complaint should be upheld and 
that Fernovo needed to put things right. 
Despite being chased for a response on more than one occasion, Fernovo didnt respond to 
our adjudicators assessment. So the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision 
as per the next stage of our dispute resolution process.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including the
key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive referred to this
when considering Miss Cs case.
Having carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Miss Cs complaint. Ill explain 
why in a little more detail.
Miss C was provided with a high-interest loan, intended for short-term use. So Fernovo 
needed to make sure that it didnt provide this loan irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Fernovo needed to find out enough about Miss C such that it could have a 
reasonable understanding of whether she could afford to make the repayments she was 
committing to before it lent to her. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
I know that Fernovo only provided one loan, for what was a relatively low amount, to Miss C 
and this might mean that it wouldnt have needed to find out too much about Miss C in order 
for its checks to have been proportionate. 
Nonetheless, I think that its more important to focus on the information that Fernovo did 
have rather than what it needed to obtain. And, in my view, Fernovo had enough information 
to reasonably have seen that Miss C was unlikely to have been able to make her payments 
in a sustainable manner when it provided this loan to her. 
I say this because what was present in the information Fernovo itself obtained  the bank 
statements - showed that Miss C was already in a cycle of payday and other high-cost 
lending at the time of this application. And it looks like she had a number of outstanding 
loans with other providers. 
This not only called into question the rest of the income and expenditure Fernovo obtained 
but in itself suggested that Miss C was already struggling to make ends meet  particularly 
as the statements clearly show that Miss C was also paying bank charges as a result of 
direct debits being returned unpaid. 
Fernovo says its checks for these loans were proportionate. I dont disagree with this here as 
it obtained bank statements and I cant reasonably have expected it to do more than this. But 
Fernovo still had to properly apply itself to evaluating that information and make a fair 
lending decision. And I think it chose to ignore clear evidence of Miss Cs likely inability to 
sustainably make her repayments and as a result it made an unfair lending decision. 
Miss C had to pay (and as I understand it is still being expected to pay) interest and charges 
on a loan that Fernovo shouldnt have provided her with. So I think that she lost out and 
Fernovo should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Fernovo needs to do to put things right for Miss C
Having thought about everything, Fernovo should put things right for Miss C by:
remove all interest and charges added to Miss Cs loan from the outset. The 
payments that Miss C made, whether to Fernovo directly or any third-party debt 
purchaser should then be deducted from the new starting balance the £300 originally 
lent. If the amount Miss C has already repaid exceeds £300 then Fernovo should 
treat any extra as overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to       
Miss C;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Miss C to the date of settlement;
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, all adverse 
information Fernovo recorded about this loan should be removed from Miss Cs credit 
file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Fernovo to take off tax from this interest. Fernovo must 
give Miss C a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Cs complaint. Quidie Limited should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman