DRN-2478240
The complaint
Mr E complains that Guarantee Protection Insurance Limited (GPI) has declined his claim 
on his insurance backed warranty.
What happened
In March 2011 Mr E had new windows installed at his property. The work came with a ten 
year insurance backed warranty, to provide cover if the company went out of business, this 
was underwritten by GPI.
In April 2020 Mr E was having problems closing one of the windows and he tried to contact 
the company that installed the windows. However they had gone out of business, so he 
contacted GPI to make a claim on the warranty. 
GPI sent out a contractor to inspect the window. The contractor reported that there were 
cracks in the walls of the house around the window. They said this suggested the problem 
with the window was being caused by movement of the building and not an issue with how 
the window had been installed. So it said this wasnt covered under the warranty.
Mr E didnt think this was fair and made a complaint. He said he had also contacted the 
company that provides his home insurance and they had said that when windows are poorly 
installed, this will caused cracks in the building around the frames. So it said the cracks were 
more likely to have been caused by poor installation, rather than movement of the building.  
GPI didnt uphold Mr Es complaint. It said that as Mr Es insurer hadnt conducted a survey 
in person, its conclusions werent reliable. However it also said that even if the insurer was 
right about the cause, the warranty didnt cover poor workmanship so this would still be 
excluded.
Mr E didnt agree this was fair so brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend Mr Es complaint be upheld. She said that she agreed 
neither problem was covered under the warranty so didnt think GPI had acted unfairly by 
declining the claim.
Mr E didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The purpose of an insurance backed warranty is to provide protection to make good
problems that arise with work carried out by a company, if that company responsible ceases 
trading. Its provided by contractors to offer peace of mind to their customers for the work 
they are doing. However in the event that the original company goes out of business, the 
insurer that underwrites the policy is only required to carry out repairs on the things that are 
listed as covered by the original warranty. 
I have looked at the paperwork relating to the original work. Under the heading guarantee it 
states as follows:
The Company guarantees all PVCu frames against warping, rotting, peeling, fading and
flaking for 10 years (12 months for commercial installations) from the date of installation. Any
or all defective parts (excluding shrinkage of defective sealant) will be supplied at absolutely
no charge for materials of labour. The Company will only guarantee sealed units against
condensation between panes of glass; and when this is a curved unit then only for one year.
The guarantee is for 10 years (12 months for commercial installations) under the same
conditions as the PVC frames. This guarantee is invalid if the windows have been misused
or neglected, or if full payment has not been received on completion of the works
So I can see that the warranty only applies where the window frames have warped, rotted, 
faded or flaked. 
GPI originally declined Mr Es claim as it said the issue with his window was caused by 
movement of the buildings structure. And I agree this wouldnt be covered under the 
warranty, as it doesnt fit any of the specific areas described in the guarantee.
I note that Mr E has provided a written account from the provider of his home insurance that 
states the likely cause of the damage is how the windows were fitted. This report was pout 
together following a review of photos of the windows and cracks. So I am less persuaded by 
this account than I am by the report provided by GPIs contractor who visited the property to 
examine the damage in person.  
However, even if I were to accept Mr Es home insurance providers conclusions, this doesnt 
make a difference to the outcome of this complaint. As defective workmanship is also not 
covered by the guarantee. 
So for these reasons, I am satisfied that GPI has acted fairly by declining Mr Es claim under 
the warranty, so I wont ask it to do anything differently.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Es complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman