DRN-2232493
The complaint
Miss B complains about the way Allpropertyclaims Ltd (APC) has treated her in relation to 
escape of water claims shes made on her home insurance policy. Miss B says APC caused 
her very significant amounts of distress and inconvenience.
What happened
Miss Bs property was damaged following escapes of water. Shes claimed on her home 
insurance policy. To help her with her claim, Miss B appointed APC as her loss assessor. 
Miss B wasnt, however, happy with APCs service, and complained to them and then to us.  
She complained about a number of things, including APC failing to make reasonable 
adjustments for her, problems with the alternative accommodation it provided and about the 
excess she was charged.
One of our ombudsmen considered whether or not we could look into everything that Miss B 
had complained about, given that some of the things shed complained about related to her 
insurer and APC had also said that we couldnt look at anything that happened after the 
settlement amount for Miss Bs claim had been agreed. Our ombudsman said that any 
complaints Miss B had that related to the insurer werent complaints we could consider when 
looking into whether or not APC had treated her fairly, but that the evidence showed the 
settlement amount hadnt yet been agreed. So we could consider Miss Bs complaints about 
the way APC had treated her.
One of our investigators then looked at Miss Bs complaints about the way APC had treated 
her, including a complaint that APC hadnt made reasonable adjustments to its 
correspondence. Our investigator only looked at the problems Miss B had had with APC up 
to and including its Final Response. In other words, up to and including 19 July 2019. Our 
investigator agreed with Miss B that APCs response, when she told them that 
correspondence needed to be sent in a particular format otherwise it would be difficult for her 
to understand and deal with, wasnt good enough. But they didnt think APC had otherwise 
done anything wrong. So they recommended APC pay Miss B £200 in compensation. Miss B 
disagreed and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. APC agreed with our investigators 
decision and offered to pay Miss B £200 in compensation as a goodwill gesture.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss B has told us that she has dyslexia, post-traumatic stress and post-concussion 
syndrome. Shes also asked us to write to her in size 16 font on a pastel blue background 
using a dark purple font. Shes explained that gets headaches and struggles to read and 
understand correspondence, amongst other things, if it isnt sent to her in a format like this. 
This is the sort of adjustment someone with dyslexia is likely to ask for  and is one that can 
be reasonably anticipated.
I can see that Miss B told APC that she needed them to make reasonable adjustments when 
writing to her, along the lines Ive mentioned above. That, however, wasnt until May 2019. 
Before that, I cant see that she mentioned this to APC, or more importantly that APC should 
have been aware that Miss B needed adjustments made. Miss B had, until that point, as far 
as APC knew, been happy to receive correspondence in a standard format. That doesnt 
mean APC couldnt have done more sooner. I can see, for example, that Miss B had 
mentioned her dyslexia to her insurer in April 2019 and that she was struggling. Had APC 
asked her if it needed to adjust its communications, its likely that Miss B would have said 
yes and explained how. Either way, I agree with our investigator that APCs response when 
asked to make reasonable adjustments was poor at a number of levels. For example, APC 
said that Miss Bs emails to her insurers and to them were in a standard format  implying 
she was asking for adjustments she didnt need  and said that she could always enlarge the 
text and change the colour of correspondence received  despite the fact that the duty to 
make reasonable adjustments is on the service provider. Worse still, APC said that had it 
known Miss B would not be able to read communications sent in the ordinary course of 
business then it simply wouldnt have entered into a contract with her. Thats not something I 
would expect a business to say  its an inappropriate response.
By the time APC had issued its final response, it had only sent one email in the format 
requested by Miss B. APC has told us that this email was sent from a computer that wasnt 
on its network, meaning that the email wasnt saved on its claims management systems. 
APC has told us that its systems dont allow it to send emails in an alternative format. Miss B 
has told us that APC should be making reasonable adjustments for her under the Equality 
Act 2010. I agree with her  and I also agree that the Equality Act 2010 is relevant law for 
the purposes of this complaint and, therefore, something that I need to take into account 
when deciding whats fair and reasonable. As our investigator has already explained, 
however, our role isnt to say whether or not a business has breached the Equality Act 2010.
The FCA has made it clear that businesses need to treat vulnerable customers fairly, and 
that this involves thinking about every stage of the process. I accept that APC is a small 
business, but I agree with our investigator that being able to adjust the way it corresponds 
with its customers is something that its systems ought to be able to cope with. I dont think 
APC had the number of options I would have expected it to do so in order to communicate 
with Miss B. And, as Ive already mentioned, I think its response, for example, saying that it 
wouldnt had entered into a contract had it known Miss B needed adjustments, was poor. I 
agree with our investigator that Miss B was caused distress as a result.
Miss B has complained about the way APC treated her whilst it was helping her with her 
claim under her home insurance policy. APCs failure to make adjustments to its 
correspondence seems to be one of the issues that most upset Miss B. She did, however, 
complain about other things too. At one point, for example, she complained that shed not 
received an asbestos test report. That issue appears to have resolved itself. And shes also 
complained about people shes dealt with being rude to her. Ive looked at what shes said, 
and having done so I dont agree. 
I can see that this claim hasnt gone smoothly, but I dont agree thats down to failings on 
APCs part. I can see, for example, that Miss B wasnt happy about the standard of 
alternative accommodation arranged for her. Thats in part because she felt shed not 
received like for like accommodation, but also because she felt APC should arrange 
accommodation for her that included meals and access to additional services to make up for 
the distress shed experienced. I accept that Miss B has had a very difficult experience  
dealing with escapes of water and the consequences, including making a claim, can be a 
very stressful experience. But I dont agree that these difficulties were down to APC, whose 
role was to help Miss B with her claim and who wasnt responsible for the original escape of 
water. In short, I think that it would only be fair to award Miss B compensation for the impact APCs response to her request for reasonable adjustments has had. Our investigator 
recommended £200 and I agree, having considered all the circumstances, that this would be 
a fair and reasonable outcome. I know Miss B will be extremely disappointed.
Miss B is very unhappy that APC has said it will be charging her fees etc and deducting 
these following the termination of their agreement. Thats not something that Ive looked at 
given the decision one of our ombudsman gave earlier on in this complaint which set out the 
specific areas we would be looking at.
Putting things right
APCs response to Miss Bs request for reasonable adjustments was extremely poor and 
caused Miss B distress. APC should pay Miss B £200 in compensation as an apology for the 
distress it has caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that Allpropertyclaims Limited should pay Miss B £200 in compensation 
in full and final settlement of her complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before [date] 2021.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman