DRN-2692788
The complaint
Mr H complains that the car he acquired, via a hire purchase agreement with FirstRand 
Bank Limited trading as MotoNovo Finance, wasnt of satisfactory quality.
 
What happened
In August 2019, Mr H entered into a five-year hire purchase agreement for a used car 
with MotoNovo. The car was two years old and had a mileage of 15,250 miles.
Within a short time of acquiring the car Mr H says it started to cut out intermittently. Mr H 
says he raised this problem with the dealership, who were unable to fix the fault and he 
was advised he would need to take the car to a manufacturer approved garage for 
repairs.
Mr H took the car to manufacturer approved garage and, in January 2020, complained 
to MotoNovo about the problems he was having with the car.
MotoNovo agreed to cover the cost of three hours of diagnostic tests to diagnose the 
problem with the car, as Mr Hs warranty only provided for one hour. An issue with the 
cars fuel pump was found and it was agreed that the repair would be undertaken under 
the cars warranty, so at no cost to Mr H.
MotoNovo upheld Mr Hs complaint and said that as the car had now been repaired it 
was closing his complaint.
Mr H was unhappy at MotoNovos response and complained to this service. Our 
investigator recommended that Mr Hs complaint should be upheld, and MotoNovo should 
pay him £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience of dealing with the faulty 
car.
Our investigator said, from the evidence that was available, it appeared there had been a 
failed repair by the supplying dealership. This had resulted in the car having to be taken 
to a manufacturer approved garage, where the repair was carried out under the warranty. 
Mr H had been experiencing an intermittent fault with the cars fuel pump from September 
2019 and, looking at the age and mileage of the car, our investigator said he didnt think 
the car had been of satisfactory quality from the point of sale. However, it appeared that 
the car had now been repaired and returned to Mr H.
MotoNovo disagreed with our investigators view, as it didnt think compensation was 
proportionate. It said the car had been repaired before liability could be established as to 
the cause of the fault. It also said Mr H hadnt made any further contact with it following 
the repairs in February 2020.
Mr H says the car has continued to have issues and, in June 2020, a further repair to the 
fuel pump was carried out. The car then broke down in October 202 and was taken back 
to the repairing garage where, Mr H says, it has remained to date. Mr H says the 
technicians at the garage have been struggling to fix the car and he has provided an 
invoice for the repairs in June 2020, and a breakdown report from October 2020.
As the parties havent been able to reach an agreement the complaint was passed to 
me. I issued a provisional decision along the following lines.
I understood that the dealership hadnt assisted MotoNovo about any contact theyd had 
with Mr H before the car was taken to the manufacturer approved garage, so it wasnt 
clear what repair was attempted before February 2020. However, I had seen further 
repairs were carried out to the fuel pump in June 2020, and that due to the car surging 
for fuel it had broken down and required collecting in October 2020. The report from the 
roadside assistance company also noted that the car appeared to have an ongoing 
fault. Mr H said the car had been returned to the manufacturers approved garage that 
had repaired the car in February 2020, but they had been unable to fix it to date. Mr H 
had been provided with a courtesy car.
When looking at this complaint I needed to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, but I was not bound by them when I considered what was fair and 
reasonable.
As the hire purchase agreement entered into by Mr H was a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service was able to consider complaints relating to it. MotoNovo was 
also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about thier quality.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, there is an implied term that when goods are 
supplied "the quality of the goods is satisfactory". The relevant law says that the quality of 
the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, price and all other 
relevant circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state 
and condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, 
freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the 
goods.
Here, the car was around two years old and had a mileage of 15,250 so, although it wasnt 
new, I thought a reasonable person wouldnt expect issues with repairs and maintenance 
to arise for a reasonable period of time. Mr H said the car had had an intermittient problem 
with cutting out since September 2019, so only a short time after hed acquired it. After a 
lengthy diagnostic, undertaken by a manufactuer approved garage, the fault was found to 
be linked to the fuel pump and this had been replaced under the cars warranty. I didnt 
think a car of this age and mileage would have been expected to have a fault like this 
develop at the time it had, and so I didnt think the car could fairly be said to have been 
durable. From Mr Hs evidence it also sounded as though this issue had been developing 
from the point of sale.
Our investigator recommended compensation of £50 to Mr H from MotoNovo, on the 
basis that the repair had been successful. But, looking at the evidence that has been 
provided, it seemed more likely than not that the car had continued to have a fault that 
was linked to the fuel pump. Id seen further repairs were carried out in June 2020, and 
the car had broken down again in October 2020.While I appreciated Mr H could have done more to keep in touch with MotoNovo, and let 
it know what had happened, I thought it was fair I took into account that it appeared 
more likely than not that the repairs had failed, and the car remained faulty.
I thought that as the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of sale and repairs had 
been attempted but failed that Mr H was now entitled to reject the car and unwind the 
agreement.
When an agreement is ended then the usual remedy is to put the consumer back to 
the position they would have been had the agreement not started. So, I was also 
going to ask MotoNovo to reimburse Mr H his deposit with interest.
I understood that Mr H had been paying his monthly instalments under the agreement and 
Id seen that he had been able to make use of the car, as he had driven a further 3,000 
miles in it, and he had also been provided with a courtesy car. I would expect Mr H to pay 
for the usage he had had of the car and, as he would have had travel costs even if the 
agreement hadnt existed, I was not going to ask MotoNovo to reimburse any of his 
monthly instalments.
However, I thought compensation for dealing with the faulty car would be appropriate, 
as this would have caused him unnecessary distress and inconvenience. I was going to 
ask MotoNovo to pay Mr H £150 compensation.
So, I intended to uphold Mr Hs complaint and I asked MotoNovo to do the following:
Collect the car at no cost to Mr H
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Remove any adverse information relating to this agreement from Mr Hs credit file
Reimburse Mr Hs deposit together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% 
from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Pay Mr H £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience dealing 
with the faulty car has caused him.
While Mr H agrees that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality he has queried why he 
isnt receiving all his monthly payments back under the agreement. He says the car 
has been a nightmare and has spent more time in the garage than being driven by 
him. He says that he thinks £150 compensation is too low to reflect the impact this 
has had on him. 
Mr H also says he thought he would qualify for another car under the Consumer 
Credit Act 2015.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully reviewed my provisional decision and the evidence provided but, although I 
appreciate this will be of disappointment to Mr H, I havent changed my view.
As set out above, I was satisfied that the car had been supplied to Mr H with a fault and that despite attempted repairs this has still not been resolved. Mr H says the car is still at the 
garage and he has been using the courtesy car that has been provided for several months 
now.
Where goods that have been supplied arent of satisfactory quality, then in line with the 
terms of The Consumer Credit Act 2015, the consumer has a right to reject them in particular 
circumstances. Here, there had been failed attempts to repair the car. However, I disagree 
with Mr H that he has the right to have the car replaced by the dealership. When goods are 
rejected by a consumer, they are handed back and the credit agreement is unwound, and 
any deposit repaid. This puts Mr H back in the position he would have been had he not 
entered into the agreement.
When looking at whether the instalments under the agreement should be repaid, I have first 
considered The Consumer Credit Act 2015 which sets out that deductions can be made from 
any repayment if the goods have been used by the consumer. Here, Mr H had driven the car 
for 3,000. I also thought it was fair to take into account that Mr H had always been provided 
with a courtesy car so although he was paying for a case couldnt use, he had also been 
kept mobile at no additional cost to himself. I think that to repay all of Mr Hs monthly 
instalments placed him in a more advantageous position, as he will have then enjoyed 
several months of free travel. This wouldnt have been the case had he not entered into the 
credit agreement for the faulty car. As Mr H would have always faced travel costs, I think its 
reasonable that he still covers those expenses by not having his monthly instalments 
reimbursed.
Mr H says that the compensation I have recommended is inadequate. I appreciate he has 
been without the car for a long period of time, but I also have to take into account that he 
while I accept this was inconvenient and distressing, he has been provided with an 
alternative car to use. Mr H hasnt expressed any dissatisfaction with that courtesy car. 
Mr H says that the car needing repairs has lost him money, but Ive seen that he hasnt had 
to pay for any of the previous repairs and was kept mobile. So, looking at the evidence I 
have, I still think £150 compensation is reasonable to address the distress and 
inconvenience caused to him by dealing with this faulty car.
So, for the reasons given above Im upholding Mr Hs complaint, but I havent altered my 
suggested redress which I still think is a fair outcome.  
Putting things right
Im asking MotoNovo to do the following:
Collect the car at no cost to Mr H
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Remove any adverse information relating to this agreement from Mr Hs credit file
Reimburse Mr Hs deposit together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% 
from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Pay Mr H £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience dealing 
with the faulty car has caused him. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint and Im asking FirstRand Bank Limited trading as MotoNovo Finance to do the following:
Collect the car at no cost to Mr H
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Remove any adverse information relating to this agreeement from Mr Hs credit file
Reimburse Mr Hs deposit together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% 
from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Pay Mr H £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience dealing 
with the faulty car has caused him.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman