DRN-2965001
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as S, complains that Towergate Underwriting Group Limited 
caused its buildings insurance policy to be voided and a claim to be refused.
Mr B, who is a director of S, brings the complaint on Ss behalf.
  
What happened
S owns a number of rental properties. Mr B used a broker, C, to arrange buildings insurance 
to cover S properties. C used an intermediary, M, who had access to a panel of insurers.
One of S properties is made up of 21 flats. Mr B and C say M was aware of that.
By 2015, Towergate had taken over M. It arranged for the cover to be provided by an 
insurer, R, and the policy renewed annually.
After the 2019 renewal, a fire caused damage to three of the 21 flats. Mr B made a claim to 
R for the cost of putting right the damage and loss of rent. R voided the policy, which means 
treating it as if it never existed, and refused the claim. R said it understood there were 10 
flats. And if it had known there were 21, it wouldnt have insured the property.
Mr B complained to Towergate. He thought it was responsible for providing R with the wrong 
information about the number of flats in 2015. And because of that, he thought Towergate 
should pay the amount he would have been able to claim for under the policy with R.
Towergate noted the 2019 renewal documents said the property in question had 10 flats. It 
said Mr B and C had a duty to check the information and let Towergate know if anything was 
incorrect. They didnt do that and accepted the renewal. Because of this, Towergate thought 
Mr B or C was primarily responsible for R receiving the wrong information  and the policy 
being voided. Towergate offered to pay 25% of the amount Mr B had claimed.
Mr B referred his complaint to this service. Towergate increased its offer to 50%. Mr B didnt 
think that went far enough to put things right and an agreement wasnt reached. So his 
complaint has been passed to me.
My provisional decision
In my recent provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this complaint I can only consider the part Towergate has played in this problem. I wont 
be considering the other businesses involved.
The property in question has always been made up of 21 flats, so the true position hasnt 
changed. Towergate seems to have accepted that M was aware of this. And, as a result, 
Towergate should also have been aware of this throughout. But it said there were 10 on the 
policy document  and has accepted that was a mistake.
Mr B would like to know why Towergate had incorrect information about the flats. Towergate 
is unable to explain this. Whilst I can appreciate Mr B would like to know why things went 
wrong, I dont think thats the key point to resolving this complaint fairly. Towergate has 
made a mistake, so I need to consider what it should do to put that right.
Prior to 2019 the policy documents were silent about how many flats were at each property. 
So, in those years, Mr B wouldnt have been aware Towergate had the wrong information. 
As hed previously told M there were 21  and hadnt been told anything to the contrary  he 
reasonably assumed Towergate knew thats how many flats there were.
In 2019 the layout of the policy documents changed, and the number of flats Towergate 
understood there to be at each property was displayed. Im satisfied they were displayed 
clearly  including 10 flats for the property in question. And the documents made it clear that 
Mr B should read all the information and let Towergate know if anything was incorrect. I 
understand the 2019 renewal terms were accepted without Towergate being told any of the 
information was incorrect.
Towergate has offered 50% of the cost Mr B is facing because the policy was voided. I think 
that means Towergate recognises its played a part in the voidance and has contributed to 
Mr Bs financial loss. In Mr Bs view, Towergate should take full responsibility for the costs. 
He notes M had the correct information and so he considers Towergate, when it took M over, 
ought to have continued to use the correct information. And had it done so, this situation 
wouldnt have happened.
Im satisfied Towergate introduced the incorrect information. And because it wasnt displayed 
for a number of years, Mr B couldnt have been aware of it and corrected it before 2019. But 
in the 2019 policy documents the incorrect information was clearly set out  and Mr B had a 
duty to check it and correct it if necessary. Because of that Im not persuaded Towergate is 
solely responsible for the 2019 policy being in place with incorrect information. But Im not 
satisfied it would be fair to treat Towergate and Mr B as equally responsible for it, when Mr B 
had previously provided the correct information and Towergate later changed it incorrectly. 
I consider it would be fair for Towergate to pay for 75% of the financial loss Mr B has 
suffered as a result of his policy being voided by R.
Had R known there were 21 flats, it says it wouldnt have offered cover. And so Towergate 
would have placed Mr Bs policy with a different insurer  and that may have meant different 
policy terms and different cover. But I think its likely another insurer would have provided a 
broadly similar landlord policy to Rs  one that covers property damage caused by fire and 
loss of rent where flats become uninhabitable as a result. Its a common risk to insure and 
Towergate hasnt said that the risk presented by Mr Bs properties would have made it 
difficult to find similar cover with a different insurer. I understand Towergate has considered 
what Mr B would likely have been covered for under Rs policy terms. For the reasons set 
out, I think thats the fair and practical thing to do.
Mr B has provided two estimates for the cost of carrying out the work. Towergate has agreed 
the lower of the two, at £57,600, would be a reasonable amount for the work. Mr B has also 
claimed for £1,600 for new carpets and £1,084 for emergency hotel accommodation for the 
tenants of the three damaged flats. Towergate has agreed these figures are reasonable.
Mr Bs claim also includes loss of rent. For the three flats combined, that comes to £296 per 
week, and starts from 26 September 2019 when the damage happened and the tenants left. Mr B has explained that he wasnt in a financial position to fund the repairs himself and so 
the work hasnt been carried out. Towergate seems to have accepted this and agreed loss of 
rent is a reasonable part of Mr Bs claim.
Because the flats are still damaged, Mr Bs loss of rent claim is continuing to grow each 
week  and will continue to grow until the repairs are complete  so there isnt a definitive 
value for the loss of rent hed like to claim. To ensure my decision brings a final resolution to 
both parties, I think the pragmatic solution is to estimate when repairs are likely to be 
complete and require Towergate to pay loss of rent until that time.
Assuming my final decision is along similar lines to the position Ive set out here, and Mr B 
accepts it, hes likely to receive the award from Towergate in late August. In my experience, 
a project of this value and nature is likely to take a few months to complete and the builder 
may not be ready to start straightaway. Taking all of that into account, I think the repairs are 
likely to be complete  and the flats ready to rent out again  by the beginning of the new 
year in 2022. If loss of rent is paid up until then, that will be 118 weeks. That comes to 
£34,928 in total.
If either party considers a different timescale is more reasonable to base the loss of rent 
duration on, theyre welcome to explain why in response to this provisional decision  and 
provide any evidence they have to support it. But based on the information available to me 
now and my experience of building claims, I think my suggestion is a fair one.
Towergate hasnt suggested any deductions or limits should be taken into account when 
estimating Mr Bs financial loss. Overall that means Mr Bs financial loss is:
Building repairs £57,600
Loss of rent £34,928
Carpets £  1,600
Accommodation £  1,084
Total £95,212
75% £71,409
Im satisfied it would be reasonable for Towergate to pay £71,409 towards the financial loss 
Mr B has suffered as a result of the policy being voided.
In addition, I think it would be fair for Towergate to pay interest on some of this amount to 
reflect the time Mr B has been without funds that he would likely have received much earlier 
had the policy stayed in place and the claim been dealt with by an insurer.
Mr B paid for the hotel accommodation around September 2019. Had the claim been dealt 
with by an insurer, its likely he would have been reimbursed for that cost soon after. So I 
think it would be fair for Towergate to pay interest on this cost from the time Mr B paid it until 
the time Towergate pays the award.
Similarly, Mr B had been incurring a loss of rent from September 2019. And if the claim had 
been dealt with by an insurer, its likely he would have received payments toward that loss 
periodically throughout the claim, rather than waiting to receive a lump sum at the end. 
Where loss of rent payments havent been made promptly, I would usually award interest 
from the time each payment would have been received by the policyholder until the time the 
loss is settled. Im satisfied thats the reasonable thing to do here.
Responses to my provisional decisionMr B accepted my provisional decision.
Towergate asked me to reconsider the proportion of Mr Bs financial loss it should pay. It 
didnt think Id fully considered the role played by Mr Bs broker, C. Towergate said C had a 
duty to check the cover provided was suitable for Mr B and met his needs.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has accepted my provisional decision. Towergates response only questioned how 
much of Mr Bs financial loss it should be responsible for. So the valuation of Mr Bs financial 
loss and the other aspects of my provisional decision arent in dispute. Because of that, Ill 
focus on the only remaining point in dispute.
This complaint is against Towergate  not C. So I cant consider the way C acted or make 
any findings about C. But I have given careful consideration to the point Towergates made.
C was acting for Mr B. He may consider C had some responsibility for checking and 
correcting the 2019 policy documents  or he may consider the responsibility is all his. Thats 
up to Mr B and he can make a separate complaint about C if he wishes. This complaint is 
solely about the way Towergate acted  and whether it treated Mr B fairly. So, for the 
purposes of this complaint, Ive effectively treated Mr B and C as one and the same.
Mr B had a duty to check the information provided in the 2019 policy documents. And if 
anything was incorrect, such as the number of flats, to let Towergate know. Im satisfied the 
number of flats for the property in question was clearly shown as 10. That information was 
wrong and Mr B didnt correct it.
I remain satisfied it would be unfair to hold Towergate entirely responsible and ask it to pay 
100% of Mr Bs financial loss. That would effectively mean removing Mr Bs duty and I dont 
think that would be right.
Towergate offered 50% of the financial loss. If I accepted this were fair, Id be effectively 
holding Towergate and Mr B equally responsible for what happened. However, Mr B gave 
the correct information initially. Towergate later mistakenly displayed incorrect information. 
Mr B didnt correct Towergates mistake.
In these circumstances Im not persuaded it would be fair to treat both parties as equally 
responsible. Whilst both contributed to the problem, it was Towergate that introduced the 
incorrect information. I dont think it would be fair to hold Mr B just as responsible for 
correcting Towergates mistake as Towergate was for making it.
As I think 50% would be unfair on Mr B and 100% would be unfair on Towergate, I consider 
75% is the reasonable proportion to pay. It recognises that both parties had a part to play in 
the problem  but Towergates part was more significant. Im not persuaded Towergate 
should be considered less responsible for its mistake because Mr B had C acting for him. 
Towergate was responsible for maintaining correct information regardless of any 
representation Mr B had.
All things considered, I remain satisfied that it would be fair for Towergate to pay 75% of Mr 
Bs financial loss in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decisionI uphold this complaint.
For the reasons above, I require Towergate Underwriting Group Limited to:
Pay £71,409.
Pay simple interest* at 8% per year on £1,084, from the date Mr B paid this cost until 
the date the award is paid.
Pay simple interest* at 8% per year on each rental payment that was missed, from 
the date Mr B would have received it from the tenants until the date the award is 
paid.
*If Towergate considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give Mr B a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman