DRN-3130615
The complaint
Mrs B has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC registered a marker against her at CIFAS, the 
national fraud database.
What happened
In August 2020, Mrs B opened a current account with Lloyds. Shes confirmed that she 
received her card and PIN. She set up mobile banking on the same mobile phone number 
that she gave to our service, and its recorded that she registered a fingerprint.
The account went unused until September 2020. Then over the course of a week, a series of 
substantial payments were made into Mrs Bs account. The money was then either 
transferred out via an online cryptocurrency trading platform, or withdrawn at cash machines 
in Mrs Bs local area using her card and PIN.
Later, several different people reported that Mrs B had received the proceeds of a scam.
Mrs Bs testimony varied somewhat over the course of the case. At one stage, she said the 
account wasnt hers, but after the bank explained why they knew it was hers she accepted it 
was hers and explained shed totally forgotten opening it. Mrs B said she was completely 
unaware of what had happened. She hadnt been checking her account because shed been 
busy and there wasnt much money in it. At different points she said shed opened this 
account either as a savings account, or to switch from her former bank, or to switch from a 
third bank. 
Mrs B confirmed shed received her card and PIN and registered the mobile banking app. 
She kept her card in her purse or a letter rack, and still had it after the fraud. She may have 
kept a record of her PIN. She didnt keep a record of her online banking details written down 
anywhere. She hadnt paid any money into the account. No one else had access to her 
account and she didnt know how it had been used. The only people who had access to her 
property were two close family members, her landlord, her cleaner, and her dog walker.
Lloyds closed Mrs Bs account and registered a marker against her at CIFAS for misusing 
her facility and receiving wrongful credits.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
couldnt see how someone could have made the payments involved without Mrs Bs 
permission, not least given that her mobile phone, fingerprint, card, and PIN were used. It 
looked like Mrs B had been checking her online banking throughout and was aware of what 
was going on. And they noted that Mrs Bs testimony had been contradictory in places.
Mrs B asked for an ombudsman to look at things afresh, so the complaint was passed to me 
to decide.
I sent Mrs B and Lloyds a provisional decision on 28 September 2021, to explain why 
I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
In order to register this marker, Lloyds were not required to prove beyond all reasonable 
doubt that Mrs B had tried to do something wrong. They did need to have reasonable 
grounds to believe that shed misused her account, which went beyond a suspicion or 
concern, and which had appropriate supporting evidence. Ive carefully considered 
everything that both sides have said and provided. Based on what Ive seen so far, I think 
Lloyds did have sufficient grounds to register this marker. Ill explain why. 
First, Im satisfied from Lloydss technical evidence that the payments out of Mrs Bs account 
used either her genuine mobile banking app, or her genuine physical card and the correct 
PIN. Im also satisfied from the fraud reports that Mrs Bs account received and passed on 
fraudulent money that had been taken from victims of scams. Ive kept these facts in mind 
when thinking about what happened.
Mrs B says she got a message on social media from a man whod been scammed by a 
young woman who had the same name as her. She didnt recognise the man or the young 
woman. I understand she hasnt kept a copy of those messages, so I cant see what was 
said. But from what shes told us, it was a very different scam from the one which her 
account was used for, so it does not appear to be relevant. But in any case, Ive thought 
carefully about the possibility that an unknown fraudster couldve used Mrs Bs account.
The cash withdrawals in question were made using Mrs Bs genuine card  and not a clone. 
Its technically possible that a thief could have stolen Mrs Bs card, and shes said she may 
have kept a record of her PIN, too  so they might have learned her PIN that way. But Mrs B 
still had her card when she spoke to Lloyds after the fraud. So either it was never stolen, or it 
was given back to her. And I dont see any good reason why an unknown thief would go all 
to the effort of finding Mrs B again after the fraud and giving her card back. That would only 
increase the persons risk of being caught with no benefit to them. 
Over the course of the fraud, Mrs Bs mobile banking was used. But as I understand, Mrs B 
still has her phone. And her phone was used to make most of the transactions involved, at 
all hours of the day and over the course of a whole week. I think Mrs B would have noticed if 
her phone was missing for that long or if it was being repeatedly taken so often. And again, 
I cant see why a fraudster would go to all the effort and risk of giving her phone back after.
Mrs B didnt keep her login details written down anywhere and hadnt given anyone else 
access to her mobile banking. So theres no likely or plausible way that someone she didnt 
know could have learned those details and been able to log in without her consent. Further, 
her mobile banking activity was frequently verified using her fingerprint. And an unknown 
fraudster would not have been able to do that.
So I dont see a likely or plausible way that this fraud could have been done by someone 
who Mrs Bs doesnt know.
It is possible that someone known to Mrs B may have made the transactions involved 
without her permission. But I dont think thats likely or plausible, either.Understandably, Mrs B has effectively ruled out that her family members could have done 
this. And as I understand from her testimony, they had moved out of her home by this point 
anyway  so they would not have had the regular access to her property that was needed.
There were other people with access to Mrs Bs property  her cleaner, dog walker, and her 
landlord. But as I understand, she never left them unattended. And these transactions were 
made over the course of a whole week at various times of day from the early morning to the 
late night  so those people would not have been able to access Mrs Bs phone at such 
hours or with such frequency. It would also not have been possible for them to have been 
able to match Mrs Bs fingerprint, and I cant see how they wouldve known her login details.
So I dont think its likely or plausible that someone known to Mrs B did this, either.
Lastly, Ive considered the possibility that Mrs B could have knowingly received the 
fraudulent funds, and either authorised the payments out of her account or let someone else 
use her account with her permission.
As I noted before, some of the activity involved was verified using Mrs Bs fingerprint  which 
only she would have realistically been able to do.
The online payments were made using the same IP addresses that Mrs B had been 
checking her account from before the fraud. These IP addresses were located in Mrs Bs 
local area under the internet supplier she uses. They appear to be Mrs Bs IP addresses. 
And from what Ive seen, only Mrs B knew the login details for her online banking.
The cash machine withdrawals were all made in cash machines near Mrs Bs home, using 
her genuine card  which she still had in her possession afterwards  and the correct PIN.
Mrs Bs account was not used for anything other than the fraud. As far as I can see, she 
opened the account, left it unused for a fair amount of time, and then it was used to receive 
and pass on money from the victims of crime. Mrs B doesnt seem to have tried to use the 
account for anything else. That doesnt particularly fit with this being a genuine account 
intended for genuine use. But it would fit with the possibility that Mrs B opened the account 
in order to help pass on fraudulent funds.
The fraud took place relatively slowly over a number of days, so the person using Mrs Bs 
account does not appear to have been particularly worried that she would discover what was 
going on or stop them. This is only a minor point, but I mightve expected a thief to try to use 
the account more quickly in order to lessen the risk of getting caught. More importantly, 
throughout the period Mrs B appears to have been frequently logging into her online banking 
 so it looks like she was aware of what was going on at the time and knew about how her 
account was being used.There have been a number of inconsistencies in Mrs Bs testimony. For example, shes told 
us and Lloyds different things at different times about why she opened the account and who 
had access to her property, and at one point she claimed it wasnt her account. Further, she 
said she never knew about these transactions and it wasnt her checking her account. But 
aside from the fact that her fingerprint was used to check her account at times, she also 
knew the balance of her account when she spoke to Lloyds afterwards  which she wouldnt 
have known if she hadnt been checking it. Indeed, if she hadnt known about the fraudulent 
credits and had never paid any money in herself, then I might have thought shed have been 
rather surprised to learn there was any money in there at all. I do appreciate that Mrs Bs told 
us she has problems remembering things sometimes. But this sort of contradictory testimony 
makes it very difficult for me to support her side of the story.
Finally, Ive not seen any evidence that makes it seem implausible or unlikely that Mrs B 
couldve authorised the account activity or given someone else permission to use her 
account.
In summary, Im satisfied that Mrs Bs account received fraudulent funds, and that her mobile 
banking, genuine card, and correct PIN were used to pass on the money. Based on the 
evidence, there isnt a likely way an unknown person did this, or that someone known to 
Mrs B did this without her permission. And given the times of the payments and the way they 
were authenticated, the only person who would reasonably have been able to get access to 
Mrs Bs account so often was Mrs B herself. That leaves only one likely possibility  that 
Mrs B passed on the fraudulent funds or gave someone else permission to do so. And so 
I currently think that it was fair for Lloyds to close the account and register the appropriate 
marker with CIFAS. This is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult 
message for Mrs B to receive. But given the evidence I have, and the balance of 
probabilities, Im currently unable to reasonably reach any other conclusion.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
26 October 2021. But neither Mrs B nor Lloyds sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that the only likely possibility is that 
Mrs B passed on the fraudulent funds or gave someone else permission to do so. And so 
I think that it was fair for Lloyds to close the account and register the appropriate marker with 
CIFAS. This is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult message for 
Mrs B to receive. But given the evidence at hand, and the balance of probabilities, Im 
unable to reasonably reach any other conclusion.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 Adam Charles
Ombudsman