DRN-1326194
 
The complaint
Ms J is unhappy that Allay Claims Ltd has charged their success fee for a mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI) claim, that she said she did the work for.
What happened
In May 2019 Ms J signed a letter of authority (LoA) that instructed Allay to act on her behalf 
to pursue PPI claims with her lenders. In June 2019 Allay told Ms J that her PPI policies had 
been looked at previously, they went on to say that they would continue to pursue her claims 
under Plevin. And that she didnt need to do anything.
Ms J said she couldnt understand why theyd been told the claims had been investigated 
previously so she spoke to her lender direct. Ms J said she provided them with further details 
and as a result she received compensation for mis-sold PPI.
Allay on the success of her claim asked Ms J to pay their fee of 20% plus VAT. Ms J said 
theyd told her the PPI claims hadnt been successful, so didnt agree that she should pay 
their fee. She accepted that Allay had done some work for her and that she should pay for 
this but not for the success of her claims. She said it was the work shed done that had 
brought these to a successful outcome.
Allay said they had been clear to Ms J that her claims were still being worked, and her 
lenders had continued to inform them about the claims. So, their fee was justified.
Ms J wasnt happy about Allays response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said Allay could charge their fee as Ms J had authorised them to act on her 
behalf, and she hadnt cancelled this agreement.
Ms J didnt agree, she said the compensation shed received was for mis-sold PPI and not 
Plevin compensation. And the claim wouldnt have progressed if she hadnt dealt with her 
lenders herself and provided additional information.
Ms J has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
I can understand Ms Js frustration as she was told by Allay that her PPI claim had already 
been investigated. But her lender told her they hadnt been. Ms J isnt disputing that she 
authorised Allay to act on her behalf to pursue her PPI claims. But doesnt agree that the fee 
they have charged her is fair.When Ms J signed the LoA in May 2019, the agreement she had with Allay was on a No win 
No fee basis. This means Allay charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon 
the amount of work they did. So, any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done 
for free. Where a claim was successful, Allays fee may be more or less than the value of the 
work they actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. 
After Ms J was told by Allay that her PPI claim had already been investigated, she contacted 
her lender, and she said they told her the claim was still valid. I dont doubt it was the 
information Ms J gave them that progressed her claim to a successful end. But as I outlined 
above the agreement Ms J had with Allay wasnt based on the amount of work, they did but 
on the success of the claim. And from what I can see Ms Js lender was still investigating her 
claim. And the information they needed could only have been obtained from Ms J whether 
this would have been through Allay as her representative or direct form herself.
After Ms J got in touch with her lender, it was decided that she had been mis-sold PPI. This 
meant there wasnt any need for her lender to consider compensation under Plevin. But her 
lender informed both Allay and Ms J of its success. I think this shows that Allay were seen as 
still being Ms Js representative by her lender. The lender said:
 made my decision after reviewing your application form, the information you provided, the 
information provided by Allay Claims Ltd and our internal system evidence.
 And advised:
 If you are represented by a Claims Management Company or any third party you will need 
to settle any fees or charges with them directly.
The information from the lender also shows the difficulty they had experienced in 
investigating Ms Js PPI claims as theyd been unable to find details of the premiums shed 
paid or the terms of her PPI policy. This might explain why Allay told Ms J her claims had 
already been considered. But I think this information would have been given to Allay by 
Ms Js lender and I cant hold Allay responsible for this information mis-leading them.
When Allay told Ms J about her PPI claims, they didnt say they had closed her claims. They 
said they would continue to pursue her lender, but under Plevin. I think this shows Allay 
were actively continuing with her claim. And they said if Ms J didnt want them to continue 
pursuing her claim she could cancel the agreement within 14 days. I havent seen any 
evidence that Ms J sought to cancel the agreement.
I know Ms J will be disappointed with my decision. But taking all of the above into account, I 
think Allay was still authorised to act on behalf of Ms J. And her claim was successful. So, 
Im satisfied that under the terms of her agreement Allay is justified to charge their fee. In 
their terms and conditions this fee is 20% plus VAT.
 
 
 
 
 My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 May 2020.
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman