DRN-3140800
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy because The Co-operative Bank Plc did not reimburse money 
he transferred to a fraudster.
  
What happened
I previously issued my provisional decision on this complaint to both parties. That provisional 
decision forms part of this decision and is copied below: 
What happened
Mr A was looking to purchase a motorhome. He found a suitable vehicle on a popular 
online auction website. The advertised price was £6,500.
Mr A noticed the vehicle didnt have an MOT and asked the seller some questions about 
its history. The seller responded with some general information about the vehicle and 
claimed that all advisories from previous MOTs had been repaired and the vehicle would 
be sold with a new MOT.
The seller explained theyd moved to Scotland and the sale would either need to take 
place using a well-known payment processors escrow service and a delivery company or 
through the payment processors Pay after Delivery service.
Mr A, in response, said that he wasnt comfortable with either method and would not 
continue with the sale. A more detailed response from the seller followed, this time only 
mentioning the escrow and delivery company option. The seller explained that Mr A 
would pay the transport company, not him. Theyd keep the money in their account until 
hed received, inspected and agreed to keep the vehicle. In addition they claimed that a 
5 day refund policy applied  meaning Mr A would be able to get a full refund if he 
wasnt happy with the vehicle.
Mr A responded a few days later and asked whether the vehicle was still for sale. A price of
£6,000 was agreed. The seller said the MOT would be carried out just before the vehicle 
was delivered. Mr A provided his personal details and asked the seller to do the same. 
He was provided with a passport which, he says, matched the details of a company 
director he found online.
The seller sent an invoice to Mr A. They said the payment processor is offering the 
escrow payment service and the delivery company will handle the transport. The invoice 
contained a link to the payment processors Live Help, which Mr A would need to contact 
to obtain the payment details.
He called The Co-op at 8.44am on 21 October 2020. He asked whether hed be 
protected when making a payment like this. He mentioned that he was using the payment 
processors escrow service to pay, by bank transfer, for a vehicle in Scotland he hadnt 
seen and which was going to be delivered to him. The advisor suggested using a more 
secure form of payment  such as a plastic card.
Before making the payment Mr A contacted what he believed to be the payment 
processors live chat service. He says he did this by using a separate device and going 
straight to the payment processors official website. Unfortunately for Mr A, he actually 
visited a different website and spoke to a fraudster pretending to be from the payment 
processor. The advisor confirmed the details broadly as the seller had set out  that the 
vehicle would be delivered but that the payment would be held by the payment processor 
(rather than the transport company, as earlier claimed) until he was happy.
Mr A rang The Co-op to make the payment. The advisor asked what the payment was for 
and when Mr A divulged it was for a vehicle, asked whether hed seen and driven it. Mr A 
said that he hadnt and described how he would pay for and receive the vehicle. He said 
that hed spoken to the payment processor and confirmed everything with them and that 
he was sure that it was the actual payment processor hed been communicating with. 
Based on this, the advisor said they were happy to release the payment.
The seller confirmed the payment had been received and that the MOT had gone as 
planned. When Mr A called a local garage to book the van in for checks, they were 
concerned about the price and thought that Mr A might have been the victim of a scam. Mr 
A called the shipping company who confirmed they would not hold money in the way that 
Mr A had been told.
On 23 October 2020, Mr A reported the matter to The Co-op. It said that it had sufficient 
fraud prevention measures in place but that Mr A failed to carry out sufficient checks 
before making the payment. It said it had tried to recover Mr As money from the bank 
which received it but no funds remained.
The Co-op is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement 
Model CRM Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims 
of APP scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. The Co-op hasnt 
explicitly stated which exceptions it thinks applies here  but it appears to be saying that it 
provided an effective warning to Mr A, which was ignored, and that Mr A lacked a 
reasonable basis for belief in making the payments.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. They didnt think that Mr A lacked 
a reasonable basis for belief. They pointed to the sophisticated techniques used by 
the fraudster  including the fake live chat and invoice. The investigator also felt The 
Co-op should have done more to warn Mr A about the possibility of being scammed 
and, had it done so, the scam would have likely been prevented.
The Co-op disagreed. It said, in summary:
-Contrary to the investigators view, the price of the vehicle was significantly 
lower than it ought to have been and was too good to be true.
-Mr A failed to check whether the vehicles MOT had been renewed before 
making the payment.
-Mr A was not, in fact, reassured by the invoice  he deliberately used a different 
device and claimed to have gone straight to the payment processors website 
(rather
than followed any of the links on the invoice).
-Mr A was very convincing in the call with the bank and the advisor was reassured that hed been in touch with the genuine payment processor.
-Recent case law supported its view that its advisor was entitled to rely on 
Mr As instructions during the call.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully considered the banks representations about the warning it gave and 
whether Mr A had a reasonable basis for believing the transaction to be genuine. 
Having done so, Im persuaded that The Co-op failed to provide an effective warning to 
Mr A and that failure is likely to have had a material effect on preventing the scam.
However, in this case, I think The Co-op has been able to establish that it may choose not 
to reimburse Mr A in full under the terms of the CRM Code. Im persuaded one of the 
listed exceptions to reimbursement applies in the circumstances of this case, namely that 
Mr A lacked a reasonable basis of belief in making the payment.
Under the provisions of the CRM Code that means Mr A should be reimbursed 50% of 
his loss. Im not persuaded that any interest award is appropriate here as I understand 
Mr A borrowed the money from his parents without interest. Ive explained my reasons 
for this below.
As stated, its not entirely clear whether The Co-op are suggesting they provided an 
effective warning. But, for completeness, I dont think The Co-op did. The only interaction 
between Mr A and The Co-op before making the payments was during the two phone calls 
he made on the morning of 21 October 2020.
Neither conversation contained a warning as such. In the first, Mr A was advised that 
paying by bank transfer would not give him any protection  but there was no real attempt 
to discuss the circumstances surrounding the payment or explain what the risk might be. 
In the second conversation the advisor does ask about the purpose of the payment and 
some sensible follow up questions  whether the vehicle had been seen and driven. But 
the advisor ultimately simply asks whether Mr A thought the purchase was legit and does 
not, even after Mr A confirms he hasnt seen the vehicle, set out what the risk is and how 
to avoid it.
I understand why the advisor was reassured based on what Mr A had told her  in 
particular that he was convinced he was speaking to the genuine payment processor. 
But, there was some risk here  in that Mr A was purchasing a vehicle he had not seen. 
Im satisfied that, under the provisions of the CRM Code, there was still an obligation on 
The Co-op to provide an effective warning and explain how purchase scams of this nature 
work, for example by explaining how scammers will provide reasons why a vehicle cannot 
be seen in person and how they will impersonate genuine retailers with convincing 
looking emails.
So, Im satisfied that an effective warning wasnt provided. Under the CRM Code I also 
need to take into account whether a warning is likely to have had a material effect on 
preventing the scam. Here, Im satisfied, on balance, that it is likely to have done so. Ive 
taken into account that Mr A was looking for reassurance during the call and a 
straightforward explanation of how these scams work is likely to have strengthened his 
existing concerns,even if he believed hed been speaking to the genuine payment processor about 
the purchase.
Ive also thought about whether Mr A had a reasonable basis for belief. It would be fair to 
say that Mr A was cautious about the sale  hed been scammed previously and, at 
various points, showed he was suspicious of the seller:
-After the initial contact he said he wasnt comfortable with either 
method of purchasing the motorhome.
-He asked the seller for photographic identification and carried out some 
checks on him online.
-He says he deliberately used a different device in order to contact the 
payment processors live chat and during that chat he asked the agent 
whether the transaction was legit
-He took photographs of the live chat conversation.
-He contacted The Co-op twice that day in part, at least, to seek reassurances.
But I think the relevant question here is whether these were, in the most part, simply 
prudent steps taken by someone whod previously been scammed, without the 
knowledge, belief or suspicion that this particular transaction might be fraudulent or 
whether these were the actions of someone with serious reservations about the legitimacy 
of the seller who, ultimately, decided to proceed regardless.
If I am to conclude the latter, then its also relevant to consider what steps Mr A took to 
reassure himself about the legitimacy of the transaction and whether, in light of his 
concerns, it was reasonable for him to proceed.
From the outset there were reasons to think that the seller might not be legitimate. The 
price of the vehicle, considering its apparent condition and mileage was very low. Its 
difficult to see how this wouldnt have been appreciated by Mr A  who was looking to 
purchase a motorhome at the time.
Given the price, I would have expected Mr A, or anyone else to be put on guard. So, 
when the seller indicated that it would not be possible to view the vehicle in person, this 
ought to have rung alarm bells. Im not surprised Mr A, initially at least, described 
himself as not being comfortable with the payment methods suggested (neither of 
which involved seeing the vehicle prior to purchase).
I think Mr A, rather than simply being cautious, did have reasons to think that the sale 
might not be legitimate. So, Ive gone on to think about the steps Mr A took to reassure 
himself and whether it was reasonable for him to have proceeded in light of the 
reassurance he received.
He asked for photographic identification from the seller  though he didnt ask for proof 
that the motorhome was owned by this particular person. It merely demonstrated that the 
fraudster had access to (or could produce) identity documents in the sellers name. That 
said, the document appears to be genuine and seems to have been provided very 
quickly and without question.
I think what provided most reassurance to Mr A was the belief that hed actually spoken 
to the payment processor and that theyd not only confirmed the legitimacy of the sale but also the account details which he needed to pay. Mr A says that the price of the vehicle 
was
largely irrelevant in his considerations because he believed that if the vehicle had 
been misdescribed he would simply be able to get his money back.
Its crucial then that his belief that he had actually been communicating with the payment 
processor was reasonable. If it was, then I think it was reasonable for him to be reassured 
by that conversation  despite the previous concerns he clearly had.
The invoice he received looks genuine  its free from any obvious errors and contains 
the branding of the payment service provider and the online auction website. However, 
its also clear that Mr A isnt that persuaded by the invoice he received  later he asks 
the agent during the live chat whether the purchase is lidgit [sic]  clearly 
demonstrating he had reservations despite the apparent plausibility of the email.
The emailed invoice contained a number of different links all apparently directing to the 
payment processors live chat. The address the email came from isnt shown and neither 
can I see the web address which sits behind the various hyperlinks in the email. But its 
reasonable to think that it took Mr A to the same page thats visible in screenshots hes 
provided of the live chat.
Mr A says that he went directly to the payment processors website before accessing the 
live chat and suggests that his computer might have been hacked in some way so that 
he was directed to the fraudulent live chat page. While I dont doubt the sincerity of Mr As 
belief that he did this (after all, thered be no reason for him to make this claim before 
making the payment when he was looking for reassurance as opposed to after the 
payment when he might have been looking to justify his actions), it seems much more 
likely that Mr A simply clicked on the link the fraudster sent. I say this because theres no 
evidence and nor is it clear how a fraudster would hack his computer in order to direct 
him to another website. It seems apparent to me that the scam relies on the victim clicking 
on one of the numerous links contained in the fraudulent email and I think thats what 
happened here.
And, unfortunately for Mr A, I think thats significant. Mr As comments in the second call 
to The Co-op show that he knew the importance of independently accessing the payment 
processors website in order to speak to a representative. But, in the absence of any other 
reasonable explanation of how the scam took place, I have to conclude that he followed 
the fraudsters link. As Mr A hadnt taken the very steps he knew he ought to in order to 
protect himself, I dont think his belief that he was talking to the payment processor was 
reasonable.
Finally, Ive considered whether the second phone call provided Mr A with a reasonable 
basis for belief. Its true that Mr A described the scam  including aspects that might have 
been concerning to The Co-op. But, again, the crucial piece of information that seems to 
have reassured the advisor was that Mr A had actually spoken to the payment processor 
by going directly to their website, using a different device. So, the phone call might have 
strengthened his belief that the payment was genuine, but it doesnt allow me to conclude 
that belief was reasonable because it, I think, was based on a mistaken belief that Mr A 
had independently accessed the payment processors website.
Finally, Ive considered whether The Co-op took reasonable steps to recover Mr As 
funds. Im satisfied that it contacted the receiving bank the same day Mr A reported the 
fraud.
Evidence obtained from the receiving bank shows that Mr As money had been removed from that account before the fraud was reported. So, Im persuaded that no 
action by The Co-op could have led to Mr As funds being returned.
Overall, I think Co-Op failed to provide an effective warning to Mr A but he also lacked a 
reasonable basis for belief in making the payment. Under the CRM Code that means that 
Mr A should receive 50% of his loss. Im not minded to make an award of interest here as 
Mr A
borrowed the money from his parents without, I understand, paying any interest. If Mr A 
can evidence any additional costs associated with the lending then Id invite him to provide 
this in advance of my final decision.
My provisional decision
Im minded to uphold this complaint in part and instruct The Co-operative Bank Plc to pay 
Mr A half of his loss - £3,000.
The Co-op had nothing further to add. Mr A disagreed, he made a number of points for me to 
consider in advance of my final decision. In summary he said:
- He was unable to travel to Scotland to view the vehicle because of Coronavirus 
restrictions and was reassured by the claim that the money would be held by the 
payment processor until delivery.
- He disputes that he paid the shipping company rather than the payment processor. 
- He strongly disputes having clicked on any of the links contained in the fraudulent 
invoice. 
- He disputes that The Co-Op contacted the receiving bank straight away as 
suggested. He states that The Co-Op told him they were unable to get through to 
them and that his money was actually being held by another financial business linked 
to the receiving bank.
- The Co-Op ought to have told him that the money was not going to a bank account 
operated by the payment processor  and our investigator has suggested this would 
have been common knowledge to anyone in the banking industry.
- The value of motorhomes was much lower at the time and Mr A has purchased other 
products online at very reduced prices which were entirely genuine. 
- Hed like to be reimbursed for interest his parents would have otherwise earnt on the 
money he borrowed from them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr As further submissions carefully, but my decision remains unchanged. Ill 
explain why below.
With regards to the price of the vehicle, while there may have been a significant increase in 
the price of second-hand vehicles recently, I havent seen any evidence to suggest that the 
price was in line with the market value at the time. The fact the garage Mr A contacted was 
concerned by the price hed apparently paid for the vehicle supports the finding that it was 
advertised below market value at the time. In relation to the recovery of funds, Ive seen evidence from the bank which received the 
money which shows that Nationwide contacted it the same day the fraud was reported and 
that Mr As funds had already been removed from the account which received them. So, no 
action by The Co-op could have led to the recovery of his money.
I accept that there was a good reason why Mr A wasnt able to see the vehicle in person but 
not doing so still represented some risk to him. And, while I understand why he might have  
been reassured by the prospect of the money being held by the payment processor until he 
was happy with the vehicle, that reassurance was only reasonable if his belief that he was 
dealing with the genuine payment processor was reasonable too.  
I explained in my provisional decision that I didnt think that belief was reasonable because 
Mr A knew that he needed to contact the payment processor independently, but I didnt think 
he had. Mr A feels that my conclusion that he must have clicked on one of the links in the 
fraudulent invoice is an assumption. Its not possible for me to know exactly what happened 
so its my role to decide what is most likely to have taken place, considering all the available 
evidence. 
Two explanations have been put forward for how Mr A ended up using the fraudulent live 
chat service rather than contacting the payment processor through their own website. The 
first is the explanation put forward by Mr A  that despite him using a separate device, the 
fraudster managed to divert him to the fraudulent live chat without him knowing. The other 
explanation is that he clicked one of the links which directs to the fraudulent live chat page. 
Ive certainly considered the first possibility, but it seems to be the least likely of the two 
explanations. I dont expect Mr A to necessarily know how a fraudster might do what hes 
suggested  I accept there are technical tricks that might be unknown to him (and me). 
However, as already stated, its clear the scam relies on the victim clicking on one of the 
links in the belief that they will be put through to the genuine payment processor. Theres no 
suggestion that Mr A ever gave control of his computer to the fraudster. And, hes adamant 
he accessed the genuine payment processors website from a different device  making it 
even harder to see how a fraudster might have done what he suggests. 
So, I hope Mr A will understand why I think its more likely that he clicked on one of the links 
in the fraudulent email. 
The suggestion that Mr A should pay the shipping company was made by the fraudster in 
their conversations prior to Mr A making the payment. Later, the fraudster says Mr A should 
pay the payment processor, rather than the shipping company. This is merely background 
information taken from Mr As submissions.  
Mr A says The Co-op ought to have been concerned about the account he was paying  
specifically it should have identified that it wasnt an account held by the payment processor. 
Im not persuaded that it would have necessarily been obvious that Mr A wasnt paying the 
payment processor. While it might have been clear that this was not the personal account of 
one of the payment processors customers  that was not the claim that was being made. 
Instead, it was that it was one of the payment processors bank accounts. Im not sure Id 
expect the advisor to know who the payment processor banked with. 
In any case, in my provisional decision I acknowledged there were aspects of the calls Mr A 
had with The Co-op which ought to have caused it concern. However, I also concluded that 
the advisor was reasonably reassured by Mr As claim that hed spoken to the genuine 
payment processor on a different device. Considering the conversations as a whole, and 
particularly the assurances Mr A gave that hed been in touch with the genuine payment 
processor, I dont think The Co-op were unreasonable to let the payment proceed. But, even if I was of the opposite view  that it should have prevented Mr As loss, then, as Ive set out, 
Id still think Mr A had a role in what happened, and a 50% refund would be the fair outcome.
Lastly, regarding interest, Mr A has provided evidence of the interest his parents have lost 
out on as a result of being without the money since the scam. However, I can only award Mr 
As losses, not those of his parents. And, as he confirms that he is only obligated to repay 
the principal amount of the loan, I continue to make no award of interest.
I know this will be disappointing to Mr A, but my decision remains unchanged.  
  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and instruct The Co-operative Bank Plc to pay Mr A half of his 
loss - £3,000.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman