DRN-2339870
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about The Salvation Army General Insurance Corporation Ltd 
trading as SAGICs decision to decline a claim under their home insurance policy.
All references to SAGIC include their appointed agents.
What happened
In May 2020, Mr and Mrs S broker raised a claim to SAGIC for damage to their property. 
They said the damage was caused by storms in February 2020.
SAGIC appointed a loss adjuster who visited the property in June 2020 to inspect the areas 
of damage. The adjuster provided two reports. In one report he said the damage was caused 
by the long-term deterioration of the flat felt roof which had failed. He added this had caused 
water to seep in and stain the ceiling and wallpaper below. In the other report  which 
covered a leaking pipe in a separate part of the property  he concluded the water leak had 
occurred due to a lack of general maintenance. So he recommended the claim be declined, 
as he couldnt attribute the damage to a one-off storm.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the findings of the adjuster. They said theyd been told the 
leaking pipe would be covered under their policy and wanted the matter clarified. And they 
maintained their position that the damage was caused by storms in February 2020. They 
explained that due to issues with Covid-19 theyd been unable to progress the claim or make 
SAGIC aware sooner than they did.
SAGIC responded to Mr and Mrs S and maintained its position to decline all parts of the 
claim. It accepted there were storms during the period Mr and Mrs S claimed but said these 
storms had highlighted existing damage that was already occurring over a period of time.
Unhappy with SAGICs response, Mr and Mrs S referred the complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked at everything and recommended the complaint not be upheld. He found 
SAGICs decision to decline the claim was reasonable in the circumstances, as the damage 
couldnt be linked to a single one-off event. And he concluded SAGIC had fairly relied on the 
exclusion for wear and tear in the policy terms. So he didnt think it needed to do anymore in 
regard to the claim.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed with our investigators findings and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. So the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on everything Ive seen, I need to consider whether SAGIC has assessed                 
Mr and Mrs S claim fairly under the terms and conditions of the policy. And to do this I need 
to consider:
1. Was there evidence of a storm around the time of the claim?
2. Is the damage typical of the damage that would be caused by a storm?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
In order for the claim to be successful, the answer to all three questions must be yes.
SAGIC has also relied on an exclusion in Mr and Mrs S policy which states This Policy 
does not coverWear and tear, depreciation or any other gradually operating cause. So I 
need to consider if SAGIC has shown this exclusion applies too.
Was there evidence of a storm around the time of the claim?
Mr and Mrs S have named some of the storms which happened in February 2020. And 
SAGIC has accepted there were storms around this time as well. So as this part of the 
complaint isnt in dispute, I accept there were storm conditions around the time set out in the 
claim.
Is the damage typical of the damage that would be caused by a storm?
Ive considered the photographs in the adjusters report and the list of damage thats 
happened. I can clearly see examples of items in the report which would be typical of 
damage caused by a storm. For example, the photos show damage to the felt roof and 
subsequent water ingress into the property. So Im satisfied the damage being claimed for is 
typical of the damage that would be caused by a storm.
Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
SAGIC has relied on its loss adjusters report and photographs to decline the claim.             
Mr and Mrs S provided a report from their own loss assessor.
SAGICs report says the main cause of damage was due to the long-term deterioration of the 
flat felt roof. It said no maintenance had been undertaken to the roof and that the internal 
water ingress and staining of the ceiling/walls was evidence the damage had happened over 
a long period of time.
Mr and Mrs S loss assessor says there was an area of the flat roof which was unable to deal 
with the high winds and the volume of water and as such water is now coming into the 
property.
Having considered everything provided by both parties, I am more persuaded by the 
evidence provided by SAGIC. I say this because the photographs provided in its report show 
areas where the roof has weathered with cracking to the felt. So this supports the loss 
adjusters conclusions that the felt had failed. In addition, the photos which show water 
ingress show staining to the walls and mould, which would indicate the damage happened 
over a period of time.
Ive seen nothing from either report which could reasonably attribute the damage to a single 
storm event. So I think its more likely the damage was as a result of wear and tear over time 
and the storms highlighted it. So I think SAGIC have relied on the policy exclusion fairly to 
decline Mr and Mrs S claim.
Ive also considered Mr and Mrs S comments about the delay in reporting the claim due to 
Covid-19. But from what Ive seen, theyve also said the damage occurred in February 2020, prior to the impact of Covid-19. So I havent seen anything to explain why this should have 
reasonably prevented them from reporting the damage earlier. 
Damage from leaking pipe
SAGICs loss adjuster has reported the water damage from the pipe has been happening 
over a period of time. Hes also said Mr and Mrs S are unable to provide a cause of damage 
to the pipe such as a plumbers report. He concludes the damage is most likely due to a 
failed seal around the bath area.
Ive not seen anything in the report or other evidence to show the leaking pipe has occurred 
as result of an insurable one-off event. So I think SAGICs decision to decline this part of the 
claim is fair and reasonable and I wont require it to do anything further here either.
Ive considered if any of the damage in Mr and Mrs S claim could be covered under the 
accidental damage section of their policy. But the exclusion SAGIC has relied on is a general 
exclusion that covers all sections of the policy. So as Ive agreed that gradual damage was 
the likely cause of damage in both areas of the property, I think its fair for SAGIC to decline 
the claim under this section of the policy also. So Im not going to require it to do anything 
further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman