DRN-4109661
Complaint
Mr C has complained about a loan Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) provided to him. He says the 
loan was unaffordable.
Background
L2G provided Mr C with a loan for £1,500.00 in May 2021. The loan had an APR of 253.7% 
and a 24-month term. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of £4,344.00, which 
included interest, fees and charges of £2,844.00, was due to be repaid in 24 monthly 
instalments of £181. 
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that L2G didnt act unfairly 
when providing this loan. Mr C disagreed with our adjudicator and so the case was passed 
forward for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
My provisional decision of 17 April 2023
I issued a provisional decision  on 17 April 2023 - setting out why I intended to uphold      
Mr Cs complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of my 
findings. 
I started out by saying that weve set out our general approach to complaints about 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending - including the key rules, guidance and good industry 
practice - on our website. And that I had used this approach to help me decide Mr Cs 
complaint.
I explained that L2G needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is L2G needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether   
Mr C could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
L2G said that it carried out an income and expenditure assessment with Mr C prior to 
providing him his loan. It also carried out credit checks. L2Gs said its checks suggested           
Mr C had more than enough to cover the payments to these loans and so it was reasonably 
entitled to lend. 
I carefully considered what L2G said. But it was clear to me that L2G wasnt persuaded by 
the income and expenditure information it received from Mr C. In particular, I was mindful 
that Mr Cs income was determined to be less than the amount he declared. Even then the 
information relied upon suggested that the payments this loan would take Mr C right to the 
margin of his calculated disposable income.
Furthermore, the credit checks L2G carried out showed Mr C had a history of difficulties with 
credit. He had a number of defaults and an active county court judgement. 
So I was persuaded by what Mr C had said about already being in a difficult financial 
position at the time. And while it was possible his credit file reflected his choices rather than 
because he was struggling, I added that my experience of these types of cases suggest this 
was unlikely, I was satisfied that further checks would have been proportionate here.
And I thought that if L2G had carried out further checks before providing this loan, it would 
have seen that Mr C was struggling to manage his finances. Indeed, most of his income was 
being taken up by his existing living costs and repayments to his existing commitments.     
Mr Cs bank statements also showed the real reason for his difficulties too. 
Bearing all of this in mind, I was satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would
more likely than not have demonstrated that Mr C would not have been able to make the
repayments to this loan without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty. And, in 
these circumstances, I found that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely 
than not have alerted L2G to the fact that Mr C was in no sort of position to make the 
payments to this loan without suffering significant adverse consequences.
As L2G provided Mr C with this loan, notwithstanding this, I was minded to conclude that it 
failed to act fairly and reasonably towards him. As Mr C ended up paying and was being 
expected to pay interest, fees and charges on a loan he shouldnt have been provided with, I 
concluded by saying that it was my intention to find that Mr C lost out because of what L2G 
did wrong and that it needed to put things right.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr C confirmed that he agreed with my provisional decision and that he had nothing further 
to add.
L2G confirmed receipt of my provisional decision and that it didnt have anything further for 
me to consider. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in some detail why I intended to uphold Mr Cs complaint in my provisional decision 
of 17 April 2023. As Ive not been provided with anything further by the parties, Ive not been 
persuaded to alter my conclusions. So Im still upholding Mr Cs complaint. And I remain 
satisfied that L2G needs to put things right. 
Fair compensation  what L2G needs to do to put things right for Mr C
Having thought about everything, I think that L2G should put things right for Mr C by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments Mr C made, whether to L2G or any third-party debt purchaser, should be 
deducted from the new starting balance  the £1,500.00 originally lent. If Mr C has already repaid more than £1,500.00 then L2G should treat any extra as 
overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to Mr C;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Mr C to the date of settlement
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, all adverse 
information L2G recorded about this loan should be removed from Mr Cs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give    
Mr C a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision of 17 April 2023, Im 
upholding Mr Cs complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited should put things right in the way Ive set 
out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman