DRN-4071732
The complaint
Miss R complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc (Clydesdale), trading as Virgin Money, 
irresponsibly granted her a credit card she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Miss R entered into an agreement with Clydesdale to have access to credit with a credit card 
account. The account was opened in August 2019 with a credit limit of £6,700. There were 
no credit limit increases.
In April 2022, after Miss R got into persistent arrears, the outstanding balance was sold on to 
a third party.
Miss R says Clydesdale didnt complete adequate affordability checks when it opened the  
account. She says if it had, it would have seen that it wasnt affordable for her. Miss R also 
says Clydesdale didnt do enough to help her when she got into difficulty or warn her about 
the impact it might have on her credit file. 
Clydesdale says it carried out the proper credit checks before granting her the credit. It also 
says it acted appropriately when she got into difficulties with paying her account. 
Our adjudicator said that Clydesdale shouldnt have granted Miss R the credit because she 
didnt have enough disposable income to afford the card. 
As Clydesdale disagrees with our adjudicators finding, the complaint has come to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Clydesdale needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss 
R could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks 
could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Clydesdale should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss R. These factors include:
the lower a Miss Rs income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that prolonged 
indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Clydesdale says it looked at the information Miss R included in her application as well as 
checking her credit file before granting her the account. Miss R told Clydesdale her annual 
gross income was £32,000. This works out to represent a monthly net income of around 
£2,100. Clydesdales credit check showed she had around £9,500 in unsecured debt to 
other creditors elsewhere. Ive also seen that Miss R had requested to make balance 
transfers totalling around £5,500, using up most of the available credit on the account. So if 
Miss R was to be able to make sustainable monthly payments to reduce her debt, its likely 
she would be using up a significant proportion of her income. I therefore think Clydesdale 
ought to have carried out a better search in order to gain a more thorough understanding of 
Miss Rs financial circumstances before it granted her the credit limit. 
I also think it would have been proportionate for Clydesdale to have verified Miss Rs 
financial circumstances, for example by requesting copies of her bank statements. Ive seen 
bank statements for Miss Rs current account from the three months leading up to the 
lending decision. Having noted the points raised by Clydesdale in response to our 
adjudicators view, I asked Miss R to provide us with some further information. I understand 
Miss R doesnt wish these to be shared with Clydesdale, so I have looked at them alongside 
the bank statements she previously sent us. 
The statements show that Miss R was making very heavy use of gambling sites which, when 
taken alongside her regular monthly expenses and existing credit, meant her outgoing 
expenditure substantially outstripped her monthly income. In June 2019 she spent around 
£5,500 on gambling, in July around £6,300 and in August around £2,050. Whilst her 
gambling expenditure was being funded in part by drawing funds from a separate ISA 
account, it wasnt enough on its own to cover what she was spending on gambling as well as 
the existing credit and monthly household costs Miss R needed to find. In any event Ive 
seen this separate account had been used up by early September 2019. I think all of this 
amply demonstrates that Miss R didnt have enough disposable income to sustainably afford 
the additional borrowing and opening credit limit provided by the card. If Clydesdale had 
made better enquiries into Miss Rs financial situation it would have seen this.
It follows that I dont think Clydesdale should have granted Miss R the account. 
Did Clydesdale act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Miss R is also unhappy about the way Clydesdale responded when she got into difficulties 
with her arrears as well as the information it gave her about the potential impact on her 
ability to get further credit. 
Ive seen that in early 2022, Clydesdales customer records show that Miss R was able to 
agree a number of arrangements with the aim of helping her manage the outstanding 
amount she had on the card, including payment holidays. I can see from these that Miss R was told on several occasions that that being in arrears could still lead to adverse markings 
being added to her credit file. For example, I see Clydesdale told her this when agreeing a 
breathing space for her account between May and July 2022. Ive also seen that 
Clydesdale told Miss R that arrears and interest will continue to be added to her account. In 
August and September 2022 Clydesdale wrote to Miss R to let her know that the persistent 
arrears on her account could affect her credit file. And in October 2022 Clydesdale sent 
Miss R an income and expenditure form to complete but it was not returned. 
From all the evidence and information Ive seen, Im satisfied that Clydesdale did enough to 
make Miss R aware of the potential consequences of building up arrears on her account. 
Putting things right  what Clydesdale needs to do
Clydesdale shouldnt have granted Miss R the opening credit limit of £6,700 on 31 August 
2019. Clydesdale therefore needs to do the following: 
Rework Miss Rs account to ensure that all interest and charges should be 
removed from the account for balances over £6,700. All late payment and over 
limit fees should also be removed; and
If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments 
have been made, Clydesdale should contact Miss R to arrange an affordable 
repayment plan for the account. Once Miss R has repaid the outstanding balance, 
it should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Rs credit file from 31 
August 2019 onwards. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss R, along with 8% simple interest per year on the 
overpayments from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of 
settlement. Clydesdale should also remove any adverse information from Miss Rs 
credit file from 31August 2019.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Clydesdale to take off tax from this interest. 
Clydesdale must give Miss R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she 
asks for one.
My final decision
I therefore uphold this complaint and require Clydesdale Bank Plc to pay compensation as 
set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman