DRN-1394708
 
The complaint
 Ms G is unhappy with the way in which Vanquis Bank Limited has administered her credit 
card account.
What happened
Ms G held a credit card account with Vanquis. In 2016, she fell behind with her payments 
and agreed a repayment plan. The plan was updated in July 2018.
In July 2019, Vanquis sold a number of accounts that were on long-term payment plans to a 
debt recovery agency, who Ill refer to as A. Ms G says that she wasnt told this was going to 
happen. She adds that she only found this out when she tried to log in to her online account 
to make a payment. Ms G phoned Vanquis and was told her account was now being 
administered by A.
Vanquis told Ms G that A will continue to maintain the current payment arrangement, but she 
would need to speak to A directly for further information about her account.
Ms G complained to Vanquis. She said she was unhappy the account had been sold, as it 
wasnt in default. Ms G was also concerned about the impact the missed payment would 
have on her credit file. She asked for a breakdown of her payments and a settlement figure 
to close her account.
Vanquis didnt uphold Ms Gs complaint. It said it had sold Ms Gs account on in line with the 
terms and conditions of her account. It said there had been a delay with A telling customers 
it now owned the account, so in the meantime Ms G could continue to contact Vanquis. 
Ms G didnt accept Vanquis response, so she referred it to our service. Our investigator 
looked at everything and recommended Vanquis compensate Ms G for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. He found it was reasonable for Vanquis to assign the debt to A, and 
explained that Vanquis had agreed the transfer of the debt wouldnt affect Ms Gs credit file. 
But he couldnt see any evidence that Vanquis told Ms G it would be assigning the debt to A, 
so he recommended it pay £50 for the inconvenience caused. He also said Ms G could refer 
some of her concerns to A as the owner of the debt as he couldnt hold Vanquis responsible 
for As actions.
Vanquis agreed with our investigators findings. Ms G didnt think £50 was enough for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. She felt that £100 would be more realistic to cover her 
phone calls, recorded delivery, and time spent complaining.
Ms G asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint, so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. Ill explain why below.
Ive checked the terms and conditions of Ms Gs account to see if Vanquis has acted fairly in 
selling the account. The terms state, We may assign this agreement or transfer any of our 
rights or responsibilities to any company or person who is licensed under the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974We will give you such notice of any transfer or assignment as is required 
by law.
So I cant say that Vanquis has acted unfairly by selling Ms Gs account to A based on the 
terms and conditions. And there is nothing here that states the account needs to be in 
default before Vanquis takes such action.
Vanquis has said there was a delay in notifying Ms G about her account because of a 
technical issue at A. This meant Ms G wasnt sent a notification of assignment until 
September 2019. But as the delay in notifying Ms G was down to A, I cant reasonably hold 
Vanquis responsible for this. Ive checked the relevant rules which cover the selling of debt, 
and there is nothing specific with regard to who needed to notify Ms G. But I do think it would 
have been fair and reasonable for Vanquis to tell Ms G her account had been sold as well. 
So I think it should compensate Ms G for the distress caused here.
I can understand why Ms G is concerned about the transfer of her account to A. And I agree 
that Vanquis should have reasonably told her this was going to happen. But in deciding fair 
and reasonable compensation, I can only determine on the actions of Vanquis and the 
impact they have had on Ms G, and not those of A. 
I can see that Vanquis has confirmed Ms Gs credit file wont be affected by the delay in 
transferring her account, and if there are any issues here, she can raise them with A who will 
correct any errors. And it has already told Ms G she will need to contact A to request a 
statement of her account and a settlement figure, as it is no longer responsible for the 
account. I dont think this is unreasonable. 
Ive considered Ms Gs comments about why she thinks £100 compensation is realistic. I 
acknowledge Ms G will have incurred some costs due to the phone calls and recorded 
deliveries. But having looked at everything I think £50 fairly reflects the distress and 
inconvenience caused by Vanquis here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Vanquis Bank Limited to pay    
Ms G £50 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Vanquis Bank Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Ms G accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2020.
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman