DRN-1826254
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) hasnt offered them 
a fair settlement for their home insurance (buildings) claim.
All references to RSA include its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D made a claim on their home insurance (buildings) policy with RSA for damage 
to their property from a storm.  RSA appointed surveyors to inspect the damage and validate 
their claim. 
The surveyor calculated the costs of repairs to their vestibule to be £5,175. Mr D thought this 
was too low. Hed already obtained a quote from a contractor to complete the works for 
£8,260 (excluding VAT). The surveyor told Mr and Mrs D that they could send them a repair 
estimate before accepting the settlement of their claim.  
Mr and Mrs D passed on the quote from the contractor (L) but were later asked to provide a 
quote from another contractor. The quote from the second contractor (W) was £4,532 
(excluding VAT). RSA said it would settle Mr and Mrs Ds claim based on that amount, with 
an additional £475 for decoration works.
Mr and Mrs D werent happy for their claim to be settled on this basis. Mr D said their 
preferred contractor (L) had previously undertaken similar work to the property. So, he felt it 
better understood the scope of the work involved. He was concerned that if he accepted the 
cash price based on RSA surveyors estimate, or if they appointed a contractor, their 
workmanship might be of a lesser standard (than Ls) given the price difference. He was also 
concerned that there were several caveats in the quote from W.
RSA said it was up to Mr and Mrs D to choose which contractor they wanted to use to 
complete the works. But it was only willing to settle on the most competitive quote theyd 
provided, in line with the terms and condition of the policy.
Our investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Ds concerns but didnt think their complaint should 
be upheld. She thought RSA had handled the claim fairly and reasonably, in line with the 
policys terms and conditions.
Mr and Mrs D disagreed with our investigators opinion, so their complaint has been passed 
to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules say that an insurer should handle a claim promptly and fairly. RSA says the settlement offer its made to Mr and Mrs D to settle their claim is in line with 
following term in the policy:
Where repairs are carried out, the amount well pay will be either:
 the cost of the work if it was carried out by our nominated contractor, or
 the cost of the work based on the most competitive estimate or tender you got from
   your nominated contractors.
Well pay whichevers the lower amount.
It says its made a settlement offer of £4,532 which is net of VAT and the additional 
decoration works that needs adding at £475. The settlement would also be subject to the 
policy excess of £100. VAT would be payable on receipt of the final VAT invoice showing 
that Mr and Mrs D had to pay this.
Mr D says RSAs surveyors didnt properly assess the damage. Hes referred to a 
handwritten note he was given at the time and has expressed concerns about the wording 
unknown damage.
Ive seen a copy of the paperwork Mr D has referred to. Unknown damage is written in the 
external damage section of the document in relation to the flat roof. But it also says this 
isnt covered by the terms of the policy. So, I dont think its unreasonable for RSA not to 
have assessed the damage to it.
Although Mr D was only given a one page handwritten document to sign on the day of the 
surveyor's visit, I can see that he was also emailed a more detailed scope of works 
document the following day.
In any event, RSA has offered to settle the claim based on the quote from W, rather than the 
estimate from the surveyor. So, Ive considered the information I have from W and compared 
it to what I have from Mr and Mrs Ds preferred contractor, L.
The scope of the works listed in both quotes are broadly the same. The quote from W didnt 
include the cost of decoration works. But RSA has offered to increase the amount of the 
settlement to cover this.
Mr D says he was concerned about caveats included in the quote from W that he doesnt 
believe applied to his quote from L. The quote from L lists the scope of works but doesnt 
include any terms and conditions. So, its difficult to compare this with the more detailed 
document from L which lists several client responsibilities. But having reviewed these, I 
cant see anything particularly unusual or onerous. So, I think its reasonable for RSA to 
base the settlement on this estimate.
If while doing the repairs, the contractor had found that further work needed to be done that 
wasnt included in the quote, Id have expected RSA to cover the cost of these as long as the 
cause was linked to the insured event. But I havent seen anything to suggest that additional 
work needed to be completed.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs D might have felt more comfortable using the contractor 
who had previously completed similar work. And I can appreciate their concern that W might 
not have completed the work to the same standard as L, given the price difference. But 
theres nothing to show me that this would likely have been the case.As RSA has offered a cash settlement, Mr and Mrs D had the opportunity to decide who 
completed the repairs. But RSA was only required to settle the claim in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy. And having considered everything, I think RSAs settlement 
offer is fair. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman