DRN-3329690
The complaint
Mr R has complained on behalf of his company, S, about documents he received from U K 
Insurance Limited (UKI) about his business insurance policy.
For ease, I will normally refer to Mr R, rather than to the company, S.
What happened
Mr R complained to UKI when he received a letter telling him his insurance policy had 
expired. He said the letter was misleading, as he had a policy in place and that he then had 
difficulty contacting UKI to check whether he had cover in place.
When UKI replied, it said that in 2020 Mr R told UKI he didnt want his policy to auto-renew. 
When the policy lapsed the following year, Mr R was sent a letter telling him this. The letter 
included the applicable policy number. It didnt agree that it had caused confusion or led Mr 
R to believe the new policy he had taken out had lapsed. UKI also said that although it 
wasnt possible for customers to send it emails, it did have a webchat facility, which Mr R 
was aware of.
So, Mr R complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. He said 
he didnt think it was reasonable that UKI sent a letter saying that policy was no longer in 
place, as Mr R had, in effect, renewed the policy. He said UKI should pay £100 
compensation for the disruption this had caused to the day to day activities of the company, 
S. However, he said that although UKI didnt allow customers to email, it had responded to 
Mr R through the online messaging system within reasonable timescales.
As UKI didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 9 February 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I was planning not to uphold the complaint. I said:
In September 2020, Mr R contacted UKI to say he didnt want his policy to auto-renew. 
However, Mr R agreed to renew his policy for that year and paid the premium. UKI changed 
its records to only allow manual renewals, which meant Mr R would need to contact UKI 
each year to say he wanted the policy to renew and to pay the premium.
In September 2021, Mr R decided not to renew the insurance cover he had in place. Instead, 
he took out a new policy with UKI for the same purpose. UKI has confirmed that this involved 
Mr R going through the sales process for a new policy, including answering a range of 
questions. Mr R provided this service with a copy of the confirmation he received of the new 
policy he had purchased. This thanked Mr R for buying the policy and had a different policy 
number to the policy that was due to renew.
Mr R also provided a copy of a reminder he received inviting him to renew his policy, which 
included the policy number for the existing policy. It explained the policy could be renewed 
via a messaging service, SMS, scanning a code or phoning UKI. It also said:
If anything needs changing or doesnt reflect your current circumstances, please let us 
know. Otherwise any claims you make could be affected.
By this time, Mr R had bought the new policy. Mr R told this service that he decided to 
ignore the reminders as I checked online and it appeared that I was going to be insured.
Mr R also provided a copy of the email from UKI telling him that his cover had expired. This 
had a heading that said the policy had ended and in the body of the email said Mr Rs 
company no longer had Business and management consultancy Insurance cover with us. 
Although Mr R might have interpreted this email as referring to the new policy that he had 
recently taken out, the email included the policy number for the policy that had been due to 
renew, not the new policy. This email was also a follow on to the renewal reminder email, 
which said the policy was due to expire and contained the relevant policy number. 
I can understand that Mr R might have been concerned to receive the email telling him the 
policy had expired. However, Mr R didnt renew the policy, so it had come to an end. The 
policy Mr R had purchased was bought through a sales process and had a new policy 
number. It was a new policy, not a renewal of the old one, even if it offered the same policy 
terms. 
I also havent seen anything to suggest that UKI had told Mr R that his policy had renewed, 
even if Mr Rs understanding was that it had. Mr R had taken out a new policy, with a new 
policy number and with a different premium to the one he had been offered at renewal. So, I 
think it was reasonable that UKI wrote to Mr R to tell him the cover he previously held had 
expired because that is what had happened. This was in line with Mr Rs request that the 
policy didnt renew unless he asked UKI to do this. Mr R didnt ask UKI to renew the policy or 
pay the renewal premium. 
Although I accept that Mr R would have been concerned to receive an email that said he no 
longer had insurance cover with UKI, I think this needs to be considered in a wider context. 
Mr R asked for his policy not to auto-renew, which UKI complied with. Mr R didnt agree to 
renew the policy, which UKI also complied with. Mr R bought a new policy, which UKI 
provided. UKI also sent renewal reminders explaining the policy would expire, which Mr R 
received and largely ignored, although he did look online to see if there were policy 
documents. The renewal reminder email also invited Mr R to get in touch if it didnt reflect his 
current circumstances. UKIs emails about the policy renewal, including the email saying Mr 
R no longer had cover, and for the new policy each contained the relevant policy numbers to 
identify what policy they were referring to. 
So, in the context of everything that happened in the lead up to that email being sent, Im not 
currently persuaded that UKI acted unreasonably by sending the email or that what the email 
said was unreasonable. Mr R didnt renew the policy he had with UKI, so UKI didnt renew 
the policy and wrote to tell him that it had expired.
Mr R has also suggested changes to the wording in UKIs emails. It isnt for me to tell UKI 
what it should write in an email, as that is a business decision for UKI to make. Mr R has 
also complained that it wasnt possible to email UKI. However, Im aware that UKI offered 
options to get in touch, including by phone and online. But, again, it is a business decision 
for UKI to make about how customers can get in touch and it isnt for me to tell it what 
contact methods it should use. 
So, thinking about all of the above, I dont currently intend to uphold this complaint or to 
require UKI to do anything further.I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 9 March 2022. Both parties replied before that date.
Mr R sent a number of comments that he said were to correct factual inaccuracies. Ive 
summarised these as follows:
Mr R had said he didnt want the policy to automatically renew, he received a renewal 
reminder, he tried to renew online but the system crashed, he phoned to renew the 
policy and successfully renewed it. So, he said it wasnt correct to say he largely 
ignored the renewal notices and he said he wasnt sure what he was supposed to do 
with them when he had already renewed.
He has the same policy with no significant changes in terms and conditions or cover and 
there was continuity of cover.
UKI never said Mr R had cancelled the policy and taken out a new policy, it merely sent 
the latest policy details.
UKI didnt write and say the policy had expired, it said Mr R didnt have insurance.
UKI agreed with the decision. It added that as soon as Mr R came through on the web chat 
that he was informed straight away that the policy lapsed letter was for the lapsed policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to maintain my decision not to uphold this complaint and for 
the reasons given in my provisional decision. This includes taking into account the 
comments from both parties. Im aware that Mr R remains of the view that he renewed the 
policy and his reasons for this. However, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for UKI to send 
the letter and for the reasons previously given.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman