DRN-3758050
The complaint
The estate of Mrs L complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC dealt with an account 
closure and complains about a letter sent by it. The estate is represented by its solicitor 
whom I will call Mr P.
What happened
Mr P says that Barclays failed to close all of Mrs Ls accounts which resulted in extra legal 
work. He also says Barclays wrote to Mrs L after she passed away which caused her 
husband Mr L, an executor of the estate, distress. Mr P says Barclays didnt follow 
instructions and didnt address the issues in its final response letter. He says an executor, Mr 
L, had to attend his office as a result of what took place and would like the extra-legal fees 
incurred, paid by Barclays as well as compensation for what took place.
Barclays says it received the account closure information on 7 January 2022 but accepts 
there was a problem closing one of the accounts. It says it normally would have taken about 
15 working days to close the account and pay the estate the proceeds but says in this 
instance the money was paid on 2 February 2022, which was a delay of about five days. 
Barclays accepts it addressed the complaint letter to Mrs L and has apologised for both 
mistakes. It says it has paid £150 compensation.
Mr P brought the complaint to us and says the extra-legal fees amount to just over £1,400.
Our investigator upheld the complaint and thought Barclays hadnt explained to Mr L in 
sufficient detail that the compensation offer of £150 was for both issues. The investigator 
thought Mr L was entitled to further compensation for the distress he was caused when 
grieving and recommended total compensation of £400.
Mr P doesnt accept that view and says that award amounts to about just over an hour of 
legal work, which isnt sufficient.
Barclays has agreed to pay the £400 recommended by the investigator.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional view on this complaint and thought that Barclays had made a fair and 
reasonable compensation offer which I thought fairly took into account the inconvenience the 
estate was caused by Barclays delay in closing the account. I said I would explain why I 
couldnt award compensation for the distress caused to Mr L by Barclays letter, which was 
part of the reason I decided to issue a provisional decision on this complaint.
I said I make clear to the parties here that the complainant is the estate of Mrs L and not Mr 
L or the solicitors. I had not seen any evidence that Mr L was a joint account holder of the 
account in question. I said it follows that I cant consider the distress caused to Mr L by 
Barclays mistake in writing to Mrs L following the complaint being raised. I had no doubt he 
was caused distress by that letter and said it is of course open to Barclays to pay 
compensation as it has done for that mistake, but I hoped the parties appreciated why I 
couldnt award compensation for any distress caused.
 I explained there was no issue here that Barclays made a mistake by not closing one of the 
accounts when directed to do so. I was satisfied that meant in practical terms that there was 
what I thought was a relatively short delay of some days in the estate receiving the proceeds 
from the account. I accepted that Mr L asked Mr P for advice about that issue. But I was 
satisfied that Barclays has made a fair and reasonable compensation offer which I thought 
fairly reflected the level of inconvenience caused and any reasonable extra costs incurred by 
the estate. I made clear that I thought the issue was resolved in a relatively short time period 
and didnt justify the legal costs Mr P says were incurred by the estate. I had not seen 
specific details of the actual legal costs or evidence that the estate had paid them. And 
thought that there would have been work incurred by the solicitors in any event in dealing 
with the estate.
Overall, I accepted that Barclays ought to have dealt with, what should have been, a 
straightforward matter of closing an account more appropriately. But I was satisfied that its 
made a fair and reasonable total compensation offer of £400 which reflects the 
inconvenience the estate was caused by its mistake and the delay in it receiving the money. 
Mr P accepts my provisional view on behalf of the estate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view that I reached in my provisional 
decision and for the same reasons.
Putting things right
Barclays should pay the estate £400 compensation as its agreed to do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order Barclays Bank UK PLC to 
pay the estate of Mrs L £400 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs L 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman