DRN-3353336
The complaint
Mr W complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a personal pension plan.
Beacon IFA Limited is responsible for answering this complaint and so to keep things 
consistent, Ill refer mainly to Beacon.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ws employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation 
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which 
included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined 
benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their 
benefits to a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ws employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
Mr W was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and was referred to 
Beacon which is responsible for providing the pension advice. Information gathered about 
his circumstances and objectives at the time of the recommendation were broadly as follows:
Mr W was 54 years old, divorced, with adult children. He was described as being in 
good health and at the time of the advice he had accrued around 11 years of pension 
benefits with the BSPS.
Mr W lived in a home valued at around £110,000 with no mention of a mortgage 
outstanding. He had another property also worth £110,000.
Mr W earned around £32,000 per year. After expenses he had over £1,200 per 
month disposable income. Mr W had easy access savings of £44,000.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Ws BSPS was approximately 
£127,194 (this was later revalued and increased modestly). The normal retirement 
age (NRA) was 65.
Beacon set out its advice in a financial strategy report on 28 September 2017. In this it 
advised Mr W to transfer out of the BSPS and invest the funds in a type of personal pension 
plan. Beacon said this would allow Mr W to achieve his objectives. Mr W accepted this 
advice and so transferred out. In 2021 Mr W complained to Beacon about its advice, saying 
he shouldnt have been advised to transfer out to a personal pension. 
Mr W referred his complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the 
complaint and said it should be upheld. In response, Beacon said it hadnt done anything 
wrong and was acting on the financial objectives Mr W had at the time. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Beacon's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, Beacon should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Ws best interests. 
Ive used all the information we have to consider whether transferring away from the BSPS 
to a personal pension was in Mr Ws best interests. 
I dont think it was, so Im upholding his complaint. 
Financial viability 
Beacon referred in its transfer analysis and financial strategy report to critical yield rates. 
The critical yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required 
on the transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity 
benefits as the DB scheme. In this case, Beacon used the existing scheme (BSPS) for the 
critical yield comparisons, rather than the new BSPS2. 
However, before assessing the critical yields in Mr Ws case, I think its important to point out 
that Beacon should have waited a short time to compare the benefits of the BSPS2 with 
transferring out, rather than just using the current BSPS for comparisons. I say this because a few weeks before this advice, which was dated 28 September 2017, 
BSPS members had been told that if the RAA was approved, they would have a choice  to 
move into a new scheme (BSPS2) or into the PPF with the old scheme. A newsletter was 
put on a microsite that had been set up to support BSPS members and I think Beacon would 
have been following these events closely. 
Its true the situation was dynamic in that changes were being proposed at that very point, 
but we know a great deal about the timeline because weve seen many similar complaints to 
this one. And although the advice was delivered to Mr W at the end of September 2017, 
most of Beacons analysis referred to figures obtained at the start of August. So, I think its 
reasonable to say that Beacon should have waited for these new details (BSPS2) to emerge 
as the existing scheme (BSPS) was clearly no longer an option. Using the existing scheme 
rather than the new one, to make comparisons with, wasnt giving Mr W the best opportunity 
to make an informed decision about what to do.
Ive also noted Beacons comments about us using an over reliance on critical yield rates 
when assessing the suitability of pension transfers and I understand the point being made. 
But as Ill show, the critical yield is only a part of a range of different things which help 
demonstrate how likely it is that a personal pension could achieve the necessary investment 
growth for a transfer-out to become financially viable. I think its also fair to say that despite 
some uncertainty at the time, the BSPS2 critical yields were likely to be between the BSPS 
and PPF yields, but most likely much closer to the existing scheme.
Having said all that, Beacon said that the critical yield required to match the benefits at the 
age of 65 in the BSPS, was 11.6% if Mr W took a pension without a tax-free lump sum. If 
taking a tax-free lump sum, the critical yield was 9.44%. In my view, it should have been 
obvious to Beacon that these critical yield figures were high and probably not achievable.
However, Beacon also made several references to Mr W wanting to retire at 60. Im not sure 
how accurate this was, as Ive noted the fact-find actually referred to an age range of 
between 60-65 as being when he might want to retire, rather than specifically at the age of 
60. I mention this because the critical yields for an earlier retirement were much higher. At 
the age of 60, for example, the respective critical yields were 22.11% and 17.6%.
So, in my view, it was clear that growing a personal pension in excess of these critical yield 
rates was most unlikely - and there would be little point in Mr W transferring out to a personal 
pension plan only to receive lower overall benefits at retirement. Also, for the much higher 
critical yield figures relating to a retirement at 60 years old, Beacon conflated these very high 
rates with the much smaller hurdle rate when it set out its recommendations to Mr W. The 
hurdle rate compared the growth required to buy a much inferior pension, with far less 
benefits. So, when Beacon told Mr W that the hurdle rate was much more achievable, I think 
this was somewhat misleading.
What Beacon should have been pointing out to Mr W here was that achieving any of these 
critical yield rates was unlikely. In my view, theres plenty of evidence to support this.
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case.
The relevant discount rate published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period 
before 1 October 2017 was only 3.8% per year for 10 years to retirement (calculated to age 65). And calculated against retiring at 60, the discount rate was just 3.1% per year. As these 
discount rates are well below the critical yields, I think they show Mr W was very unlikely to 
grow his pension by enough to make transferring worthwhile from a financial perspective.
Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's upper projection rate was 8%, the middle projection 
rate was 5%, and the lower projection rate was 2%. At the time, Beacon assessed Mr Ws 
attitude to risk (ATR) as lowest medium, but Ive also noticed it was referred to elsewhere 
as cautious. In any event, everything Ive seen shows Mr W wanted very little risk and he 
had absolutely no experience of these types of investments. So, I think a growth assumption 
at the lowest point of the regulators projections was most relevant. Again, this was 
substantially below the critical yield figures for the BSPS, so I think this too showed that 
achieving the critical yield(s), year-on-year, upon transferring out just wasnt likely. 
Ive noted too, that Beacon said in its transfer analysis that in order to purchase an annuity to 
provide benefits of an equal value to the existing scheme at retirement at the age of 65, the 
funds required would be over £330,000 which is much higher than his CETV. This, in my 
view, provides a revealing window into the real value Mr W would lose if he transferred out to 
a personal pension.
Elsewhere in its transfer analysis, Beacon also made mention of the PPF, which it described 
as a compensation scheme providing a safety net for pension schemes when the 
sponsoring employer becomes insolvent. Beacon said the critical yields to match the 
benefits available through the PPF at age 65 were lower. But they were still 8.17% and 
7.48% respectively. These yields also related to the reduced benefits available with the PPF 
and Beacon itself says Mr W wouldnt have wanted to transfer to this scheme. Its also 
important to remember here that the effect of charges and fees associated with a personal 
pension would have further reduced the likely growth. 
So, I think its fair to say that from a financial comparison perspective, Beacons figures, 
shown in its financial strategy report and transfer analysis documents, showed that 
transferring to a personal pension plan would mean Mr W would likely receive lower pension 
benefits in the longer term, when compared against the BSPS. But as Ive said, Beacon 
should have waited and recalculated the comparisons for Mr W when the situation with 
BSPS2 became clear  we know this was imminent. 
Nevertheless, Beacon still said in its recommendation that, the transfer value analysis has 
confirmed that comparable pension benefits can be achieved on transfer to a money 
purchase scheme. It also said that by taking the pension benefits at the scheme retirement 
age of 65, a personal pension could support the same level of pension income, within the 
BSPS, until Mr W reached the age of 96. 
In my view, this was also misleading. Beacon was not comparing like-for-like benefits here 
and was also assuming a growth rate far higher than the regulators growth assumptions for 
someone with Mr Ws ATR.
Of course, according to Beacon, its recommendation that he should transfer out to a 
personal pension was not wholly based on the financial comparisons with his current 
scheme alone. Rather, Beacon said Mr W also had other reasons to transfer away, so Ive 
thought about all the other considerations which might have meant a transfer was suitable 
for him, despite providing the overall lower benefits mentioned earlier. 
Ive considered these below. 
Flexibility and other needsBeacon recommended a transfer to a personal pension based on what it said were Mr Ws 
wider objectives. I have summarised the following themes as supporting the 
recommendation to transfer away:
It said he could capitalise on the high CETV and be able to access a higher tax-free 
amount as a lump sum.
Beacon said hed have complete control over the funds if he transferred out, and 
what these were invested in. He could access the funds flexibly to take the income 
he needed.
There would be more flexible access to death benefits in a personal pension. He 
could nominate his adult children as beneficiaries.
So, it seems the supporting reasons that Beacon recommended the transfer out to a 
personal pension was for the flexibility and control it offered to Mr W. I have therefore 
considered all these issues in turn. 
More tax-free cash
In the course of recommending that Mr W should transfer to a personal pension, Beacon 
promoted that Mr W could access more tax-free cash. Its usually the case that more tax-free 
cash can be accessed from a personal pension when compared against a DB scheme; this 
is because the values and benefits of the two schemes are calculated differently. But 
Beacon should have been telling Mr W at the time that extra tax-free lump sums being 
removed from a personal pension, also came with consequences in that the amount left for 
his later retirement years would obviously decrease. 
Ive also seen nothing that shows Mr W had the need to access large amounts of cash by 
withdrawing it from his pension. Beacon itself pointed out that he already had what were 
significant savings. And for a single man in his position, nothing Ive seen points to Mr W 
needing more cash for a specific purpose, particularly at a time where interest rates were 
very low. In any event, he already had £44,000 in liquid assets and two properties which he 
evidently owned outright.
Theres simply no evidence that Mr W therefore needed to access higher amounts of cash 
and I think his circumstances showed that his needs were much more aligned to him 
accessing a DB pension in the way it was originally intended.
Flexibility and control
I cant see that Mr W required flexibility in retirement in the way Beacon suggested, but in 
any event, flexibility was poorly defined by Beacon. I therefore think this was no more than 
a stock objective used to help justify the recommendation to transfer out to a personal plan.
Beacon also mentioned several times in documents from the time of the advice that Mr W 
had said he wanted to retire early. And it implied hed need to access cash more flexibly 
because of this. But as Ive pointed out, this all seemed very uncertain and no more than a 
general aspiration which many of us might have to retire early. It was actually recorded on 
the fact-find that his potential retirement was in the age range of between 60-65. Mr W was 
still only 54 and whilst I dont doubt that he might have genuinely hoped to retire early, Ive 
seen nothing that shows retirement was anything more than something he aspired to do at 
that stage, as opposed to being part of a formulated plan. Even if I were to consider that Mr Ws retirement plans were more fixed - and he really did 
want to retire early - I think Beacon should have better assessed the possibility of achieving 
this goal whilst being a member of the BSPS2, for example. Early retirement under the 
BSPS2, or indeed the PPF, would still have been an option for Mr W, although this would 
have meant Mr Ws pension benefits would have been somewhat different due to him 
accessing the pension earlier and for longer. 
The estimated benefits at the age of 65 in the BSPS were an annual pension of £7,741 or a 
tax-free lump sum of £34,202 and a reduced annual pension of £5,130. But I dont think this 
was realistically discussed with a view to assessing whether remaining in a DB scheme was 
more in Mr Ws best interests. It was discounted by Beacon and the advice simply focussed 
on him transferring away completely.
I also dont think Beacon took enough account of Mr Ws second pension  his employers 
new defined contribution (DC) scheme which hed joined. Mr W and his employer were 
making significant contributions to this of 6% and 10% respectively. So, even a few more 
years worth of being in this pension would have mattered - there could have been a 
reasonable amount in this DC pension to complement his deferred DB scheme (in BSPS2). 
Ive noted he also had another DC pension with almost £40,000 invested. 
The point Im making here is that Ive seen nothing that shows Mr W had a need for flexibility 
in his income going forward. Moreover, under the auspices of a DB scheme and Mr Ws 
other financial resources, I think he could probably hope to enjoy a very satisfactory 
retirement from a financial perspective - whenever Mr W chose to draw his pension benefits, 
I think he was in a relatively good position. By retirement  whenever it came - on one hand 
Mr W could have had a long-standing DB pension in the BSPS2, with all the guarantees and 
benefits this type of scheme brought. And on the other hand, hed have built up a reasonable 
DC pension pot over a few years, which, if he later found he did require any greater 
flexibility, this could have helped provide this, together with his other assets. 
As far as desiring control over his funds, again I think this was poorly defined and no more 
than a stock objective used to help justify the transfer-out advice. Beacon provides no 
evidence whatsoever that Mr W had either the desire or capacity to exercise personal control 
over his pension. The evidence here is that Mr Ws previous exposure to investing was 
extremely limited and he wanted no risk. So, I think hed have been likely to need help with 
exercising any control over these funds. As a consequence of this, hed incur fees and 
charges in the years ahead. Alternatively, whilst remaining in a DB scheme  such as the 
BSPS2 - run by trustees, was the much more suitable option for Mr W.
I therefore think Mr Ws circumstances here were much more aligned to him transferring to 
BSPS2 and retiring from that when he felt he was ready to do so. Because he also had a 
smaller second DC pension, this supported that strategy in my view. 
Death benefits 
Beacon says that death benefits were discussed at the time and a personal pension would 
better enable the retention of the value of his funds if Mr W died. It said these could be 
passed to his adult children if this happened, whereas in a DB pension this wasnt possible.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was probably made to look like an attractive feature to Mr W. But 
whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr W might have thought 
it was a good idea to transfer the BSPS to a personal pension because of this, the priority 
here was to advise him about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Beacon explored to 
what extent Mr W was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher 
death benefits.
I can understand that as a divorced man with no current intention to remarry, the spouses 
pension benefits in a DB scheme such as BSPS2 may have seemed of no use to Mr W at 
the time. But although its true Mr W could have nominated his adult children as beneficiaries 
of his pension if he transferred to a personal plan, the question here was whether this one 
restrictive aspect of the existing DB scheme options warranted him irreversibly transferring 
out to a personal plan. I dont think it did. 
In my view, Beacon shouldnt have encouraged Mr W to prioritise the potential for higher 
death benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement. Mr W was still only 
54 years old and apparently in good health and there may not have been a large sum left 
anyway in a personal pension upon Mr Ws passing, particularly if he lived a long life. So I 
dont think the advice should have implied his children would benefit more from a personal 
pension. Furthermore, it doesnt appear that Beacon took into account the fact that Mr W 
could have already nominated someone as the beneficiary of any funds remaining in his DC 
scheme. 
I cant say much about the extent to which life insurance was discussed in this case although 
I note Mr W was provided with a whole life quote which was expensive. But at 54 years old, 
a modest term life insurance policy may have been an affordable product if Mr W really did 
want to leave an additional legacy for his adult children. 
So, to this end, Mr W already had plenty of different options ensuring part of his pension 
wouldnt die with him. Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a 
transfer to a personal pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr W. 
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme 
Its clear that Mr W, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and 
Beacon said he lacked trust in the company. Hed heard negative things about the PPF and 
Beacon said he could have more control over his pension fund. 
So, its quite possible that Mr W was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and a negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was Beacons obligation to give Mr W an objective picture and recommend what was in his 
best interests.
By the point of the advice being delivered details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely 
it was going ahead. So, I think this should have alleviated any concerns about the scheme 
moving to the PPF.
However, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that Beacon 
should have reassured Mr W that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he 
thought. The income available to Mr W through the PPF would have still probably provided a 
significant portion of the income he would have needed at retirement, and he was still 
unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out, given his ATR and the effect of pension 
charges and fees. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the income 
was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, I dont think that these 
concerns should have led to Beacons recommendation to Mr W to transfer out of the DB 
scheme altogether.
SummaryI dont think the advice given to Mr W was suitable. 
He was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2. By 
transferring to a personal pension, the evidence shows Mr W was likely to obtain lower 
retirement benefits. And I dont think there were any other particular reasons which would 
justify the transfer and outweigh this. I think Beacon ought to have advised him against 
transferring out of his DB scheme for this reason, particularly as it meant hed be worse off in 
retirement.
So, I dont think it was in Mr Ws best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
I think it was clear to all parties that the BSPS2 was likely to be going ahead. Mr W still had a 
few more years before he intended to retire. So, I don't think that it would have been in his 
interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would have faced by the scheme entering the 
PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. By 
opting into the BSPS2, Mr W would have retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme 
nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. The annual indexation of his pension when in 
payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. 
On this basis, I also think Beacon should have advised Mr W to opt into the BSPS2.
I have considered, given the circumstances of the time, whether Mr W would have 
transferred to a personal pension in any event. I accept that Beacon disclosed some of the 
risks of transferring to Mr W, and provided him with a certain amount of information. But 
ultimately it advised Mr W to transfer out, and I think Mr W relied on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr W would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, 
against Beacons advice. I say this because Mr W was an inexperienced investor and this 
pension accounted for most of his retirement provision at the time. So, if Beacon had 
provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it 
wasnt in his best interests, I think he would have accepted that advice.
Im also not persuaded that Mr Ws concerns about the PPF were so great that he would 
have insisted on transferring his pension, knowing that a professional adviser, whose 
expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his 
best interests. So if Beacon had explained Mr W was also unlikely to exceed the benefits 
available to him through the PPF if he transferred out, and that he could meet his income 
needs in retirement without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that would have carried 
significant weight.
In light of the above, I think Beacon should compensate Mr W for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr W, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for Beacons unsuitable advice. I consider Mr W 
would have most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the personal pension 
if he'd been given suitable advice. So, Beacon should use the benefits offered by BSPS2 for 
comparison purposes.On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr W several times whether he preferred any redress to be 
calculated now, in line with current guidance, or wait for any new guidance/rules to be 
published. His representative didnt make a choice when we asked, so as set out previously 
Ive assumed in this case he doesnt want to wait for the new guidance to come into effect. 
I am therefore satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a 
loss is identified, will provide fair redress for Mr W. 
Compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance. This calculation should be carried out as at the date of 
my final decision and using the most recent financial assumptions at the date of that 
decision. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or 
submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ws 
acceptance of the decision.
Beacon may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ws 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ws SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ws pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr W as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr W within 90 days of the date Beacon receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Beacon to pay Mr W.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Beacon to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
I have also considered the impact on Mr W of the unsuitable advice and transfer. Our 
investigator recommended that a sum of £300 should be paid to Mr W by Beacon for what 
he referred to as the distress and inconvenience caused by this unsuitable transfer. Ive 
taken into consideration Mr Ws age, circumstances and the substantial amount hed built up 
in his pension to that date. Also, by retirement this DB pension would still have been a 
significant part of his overall pension entitlement so I think the thought of losing benefits 
would have negatively impacted Mr W. So, I agree that Beacon should also pay Mr W £300 
for the distress and inconvenience caused by the unsuitable advice which has likely had an 
impact on his retirement planning
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I am upholding this complaint and I now direct Beacon IFA 
Limited to pay Mr W the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Beacon IFA Limited to pay Mr W any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Beacon 
IFA Limited to pay Mr W any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Beacon IFA Limited pays Mr W the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr W.
If Mr W accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Beacon IFA 
Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr W can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr W may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2023.
 
Michael CampbellOmbudsman