DRN-3600960
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Northern Bank Limited (trading as Danske Bank) wont refund her after 
she fell victim to a scam.
What happened
Mrs S was having some building work done on her house. She received an email from the 
firm carrying out the work, asking for payment and providing the details of where to pay to. 
Mrs S later arranged to make the payment from her Danske Bank account.
Because the payment was unusual compared to her regular account activity, Danske Bank 
held the payment and contacted her directly. The asked her to confirm that shed agreed to 
the payment, and that the bank details provided were correct. They discussed email 
intercept scams, and Danske Bank suggested contacting the builder directly. She confirmed 
they could go ahead with the payment.
The next day Mrs S discovered that the email providing the bank details hadnt been sent by 
the builders at all but had been sent by a fraudster. She contacted Danske Bank, who in turn 
contacted the receiving bank. Unfortunately, none of the money remained to be returned to 
her.
Danske Bank looked into Mrs S complaint but didnt think theyd done anything wrong. They 
said in their conversation with Mrs S theyd made her aware of an increase in email intercept 
scams and offered to keep the payment on hold until shed spoken to her builders. But it was 
Mrs S who decided to go ahead with the transfer. Theyd contacted the receiving bank as 
soon as Mrs S had got in touch with them, but no funds remained. They declined to refund 
Mrs S.
Unhappy with this answer Mrs S referred the complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. They accepted 
Mrs S had been the victim of a sophisticated scam, but that the warnings given on the phone 
call by Danske Bank were reasonable. They said Danske Bank had followed a legitimate 
instruction given to them by Mrs S, and they didnt think it was fair to ask the bank to refund 
her.
Mrs S disagreed. She said that Danske Bank are the experts in this situation and should 
have held the payment until she checked with the builders by phone that the payment details 
were correct. She also said the receiving bank would be unusual for her builder to use, 
which Danske Bank could have picked up on. As no agreement could be reached the case 
has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will likely come as a 
disappointment to Mrs S, but Ive reached this conclusion for the following reasons.
Mrs S has said the payment wasnt authorised, as she didnt know she was talking 
with a fraudster. But for a payment to be considered authorised under the relevant 
regulations, its not necessary for the underlying reason or destination of the payment 
to be known. What the regulations say that a payment is considered authorised if the 
consumer goes through the process of authenticating the payment instruction, and 
consents to the payment being made. In this case its not disputed that Mrs S set up 
the payment herself, using the details provided. She expected the payment to be 
made, and then went on to confirm to Danske Bank they could release it. Im satisfied 
the payment is an authorised one. As such the starting position here is that Mrs S is 
liable for the transaction, not Danske Bank.
Banks are expected to have measures in place to detect and monitor potentially 
fraudulent transactions, which is why Danske Bank held up the payment initially and 
discussed it with Mrs S. Considering the previous history of the account, and the 
value of the payment, this was reasonable. The key question for me to consider is 
whether Danske Bank should have done anything more in their interactions with 
Mrs S to uncover and prevent the fraud.
Having listened to the call between Danske Bank and Mrs S, I can hear the advisor 
gives her some background on email intercept scams and questions her about the 
invoice shes received, but Mrs S seems clear that shes received the correct details 
from the builder. The advisor offers to keep the payment held until shes had the 
chance to speak to the builder, which is a reasonable. But its Mrs S who asks for the 
payment to be made, and confirms she is happy for it to go through. 
There is a balance to be struck between banks protecting their consumers from 
financial harm, and carrying out their instructions without undue delay. I consider the 
level of intervention from Danske Bank here reasonable. If Mrs S had any doubts at 
the time the offer to keep the payment on hold should have prompted her to contact 
the builder directly. 
I dont consider the receiving bank to be particularly unusual or notable that it should 
have prompted Danske Bank to investigate further. The firm is established for 
business customers, and I dont consider its use would suggest to Danske Bank that 
a payment was fraudulent.
Taking this all in to account Im satisfied Danske Bank have met their obligations to 
Mrs S, and asked appropriate questions at the time. There was nothing in the 
answers she gave that would suggest the payment was for a fraudulent purpose. And 
the offer to hold the payment to allow Mrs S to check with her builders was 
reasonable. On that basis I cant fairly say Danske Bank should have prevented 
Mrs S making the payment or be held liable for this loss.
Im satisfied that the money was moved on from the receiving bank before Mrs S 
noticed the scam and reported it to Danske Bank. So even though they took just over 
an hour to contact the receiving bank, which does seem longer than I would expect, I 
dont think this would have prevented any loss. The receiving bank have confirmed 
there were none available by the time Mrs S contacted Danske Bank.
Im sorry to hear that Mrs S has fallen victim to such a cruel and sophisticated scam; and Im 
very sorry to hear of the impact this has had on her. But for the reasons given above, I cant 
fairly say that Danske Bank should bear responsibility for the loss. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman