DRN-3390671
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Society of Lloyds hasnt fully settled a claim they made on their
travel insurance policy.
What happened
In December 2019, Mr and Mrs L took out a single trip Topsail travel insurance policy to
cover a sailing trip theyd planned around the Caribbean islands. They departed the UK on 9
March 2020. They were due to return to the UK on 27 March 2020, after ending the sailing
trip on 24 March 2020 and spending the last three days of their holiday on an island Ill call
M.
However, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development
Office (FCDO) advised against all but essential travel abroad on 17 March 2020. On the
same day, Ms government announced it was closing its borders.
So on 21 March 2020, Mr and Mrs L decided to disembark from their boat and cut their
sailing trip short. Instead, they stayed in a hotel on another island for three nights.
Subsequently, on 23 March 2020, the FCDO advised all UK nationals abroad to return to the
UK.
Mr and Mrs L curtailed their trip and returned to the UK on 24 March 2020. They made a
claim on their travel insurance policy for the costs associated with the cutting short of their
trip.
Lloyds turned down Mr and Mrs Ls claim. It said the policy terms didnt cover the
circumstances of their claim.
Mr and Mrs L were unhappy with Lloyds decision and they asked us to look into their
complaint.
I issued a final decision upholding Mr and Mrs Ls complaint on 26 October 2021. In
summary, I noted that the curtailment section of the policy didnt cover changes to FCDO
advice. But the policy specifically excluded any cover at all if a policyholder travelled against
FCDO advice. I didnt find that the combined effect of these policy terms had been made
sufficiently clear to Mr and Mrs L. And I decided that Lloyds hadnt brought this information
to Mr and Mrs Ls attention in a clear and prominent way. On that basis, I concluded that the
fair and reasonable outcome would be for Lloyds to treat Mr and Mrs Ls claim as covered
under the curtailment section of the policy and to reassess their claim in line with the
remaining policy terms and conditions.
Mr and Mrs L accepted my final decision, which meant the decision became legally binding
on both parties and Lloyds duly calculated settlement. Ultimately, it settled the cost of the
lost three days of the sailing trip, less Mr and Mrs Ls policy excess of £100 per person  a
total settlement of £436.40. However, it said the following costs werent covered by the
policy terms:
Alternative accommodation after Mr and Mrs L disembarked from the boat;
The purchase of a local mobile telephone whilst Mr and Mrs L waited to return to 
the UK
Taxi fares;
An amendment fee for rescheduling the return flight.
Lloyds stated that these costs werent irrecoverable unused travel or accommodation
expenses, which had been pre-paid or which Mr and Mrs L had been contracted to pay.
Mr and Mrs L didnt think that Lloyds had calculated the settlement fairly. They considered
their claim should be settled in full and so they asked us to consider a new complaint about
the settlement theyd been paid.
Our investigator concluded that Lloyds had settled the claim fairly. He noted that my final
decision had directed Lloyds to reassess Mr and Mrs Ls claim in line with the remaining
terms and conditions of the policy and he was satisfied that it had done so. He wasnt
persuaded that Mr and Mrs Ls outstanding claim costs were covered by the curtailment
section of the policy. He also felt itd been fair for Lloyds to apply two excesses to Mr and
Mrs Ls claim, as the policy terms stated that it would apply an excess per insured person. In
this case, both Mr and Mrs L had been named policyholders. So overall, he didnt think
Lloyds needed to pay Mr and Mrs L anything more.
Mr and Mrs L disagreed. In summary, they considered that Lloyds had behaved unfairly by
seeking to rely on obscure cover terms. So they felt the insurance contract had been
unlawful from the start and that therefore, the only fair way to assess quantum was in line
with common law principles which apply, rather than in accordance with an artificial
construct. They stated that theyd been required by the terms of their booking contract to
take out travel insurance  and the insurance contract was one of good faith. They felt
Lloyds had breached its duty of good faith and therefore, the available remedy was to avoid
the contract. Upon learning about Lloyds unlawful conduct and its lack of good faith, theyd
called for their loss to be assessed by reference to fair alternative policies available on the
market at that time. They also argued that the fair outcome might be for Lloyds to refund
their premium and to pay damages for their loss, less the premium theyd have had to pay
for an alternative policy. They provided extracts from a legal textbook in support of their
position.
I issued a provisional decision on 1 March 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I though Lloyds had settled Mr and Mrs Ls claim fairly. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. So
Ive considered, amongst other things, the terms of Mr and Mrs Ls policy and the costs for
which theyve claimed in deciding whether Lloyds has handled their claim fairly.
First, its important I make it clear that this decision will not readdress the merits of Mr and
Mrs Ls original complaint to this service. Mr and Mrs L accepted the redress I awarded and
the decision therefore became legally binding on both parties. While it seems Mr and Mrs L
consider I made an effective finding that the policy was unlawful from inception, this was not
the case. Had I done so, any likely remedy wouldve been to direct the voidance of the policy
from the outset and to refund the premiums Mr and Mrs L paid for cover, meaning they
wouldnt have been entitled to make any claim  taking into account whether any
compensation for material distress and inconvenience should be paid. I made no finding that
Lloyds had not acted in good faith when it accepted the insurance business proposed to it
by Mr and Mrs Ls broker, Topsail Limited.
Instead, my conclusion was that I didnt think Lloyds had acted fairly when it turned down Mr
and Mrs Ls claim. So in this decision, I will simply be assessing whether Im satisfied that
Lloyds has now settled the claim in line with its contractual obligations. I must also make itclear that my decision on Mr and Mrs Ls previous complaint did not require Lloyds to pay
any particular settlement or direct it to meet all of their claim costs. My direction was to
reassess their curtailment claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
As such, Ive carefully considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of
Mr and Mrs Ls contract with the underwriter of their insurance. The sale of their policy by
Topsail Limited was a separate arrangement between Mr and Mrs L and Topsail.
As theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs L cut short both their sailing trip and their stay abroad,
I think it was reasonable and appropriate for Lloyds to assess their claim under the
Cancellation and disruption section of the policy, which covers cancellation, curtailment and
get-you-there expenses. This says Lloyds will provide the following cover:
We will pay the following expenses incurred:
1.1 Up to the amount shown in the Schedule of Benefits on page 7 for any unused travel
and accommodation expenses which have been pre-paid and cannot be recovered,
and any other pre-paid charges that are contracted to be paid if a pre-arranged Trip is
cancelled or curtailed.
1.2 Up to the amount shown in the Schedule of Benefits on page 7 for additional travel and
accommodation expenses that are necessary to fulfil a pre-arranged Trip, including the
use of alternative local accommodation of a similar standard to that already booked if this is
necessary following an occurrence in specified occurrence e) below.
1.3 Up to £/€750 for additional travel and accommodation expenses that are deemed
necessary, including the use of alternative local accommodation, following an occurrence
in specified occurrence f) below. (Emphasis added).
Ive set out specified occurrences e and f below:
e) Damage caused by a storm, flood or fire which results in the accommodation in which
You had previously booked to reside during the Trip being uninhabitable, including any
waterborne vessel or craft.
f) Where the vessel that You are sailing in is stolen, incurs actual or constructive total loss,
or requires repairs that are likely to exceed 7 days and render the vessel uninhabitable.
I think the policy wording makes it clear that Lloyds covers unused, irrecoverable travel and
accommodation expenses and that additional travel and accommodation expenses are only
covered in the specific circumstances Ive set out above.
In this case, Lloyds accepts that Mr and Mrs L cut short their sailing trip by three days and
has settled an accordingly proportionate amount of their unused, pre-paid and irrecoverable
trip cost. I find that this part of the claim has been settled appropriately in line with the policy
terms.
Mr and Mrs L have also claimed for flight amendment charges, taxi fees and alternative
accommodation costs between 21 and 24 March 2020. None of these costs were pre-paid
before Mr and Mrs L travelled abroad and none of the costs were unused. So I dont think
these costs are covered under section 1.1. And as Ive stated, sections 1.2 and 1.3 only
provide cover for additional travel and accommodation expenses if either a policyholders
pre-booked accommodation has been rendered uninhabitable due to storm, fire or flood or if
the sailing vessel is stolen, suffers total loss or requires repairs rendering the vessel
uninhabitable. Theres no evidence here that Mr and Mrs Ls trip was curtailed because ofany damage to their boat or the theft or total loss of it. So Im satisfied it was fair for Lloyds
to conclude that Mr and Mrs Ls additional travel and accommodation expenses simply arent
covered by the curtailment (or any other) section of the policy.
Id add too that the curtailment section of the policy provides no cover for the purchase of
new mobile telephones. So I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to decline to pay this cost.
Mr and Mrs L were also concerned about the excess Lloyds applied to their settlement.
They didnt consider itd been reasonable for Lloyds to apply two excesses to their claim.
The policy defines an excess as: The amount that You must pay towards each and every
loss. You is defined as: Any person shown in the Certificate Schedule as being an Insured
Person.
Having considered Mr and Mrs Ls policy schedule, I can see that Mrs L is named as an
insured person on the policy. As such, Im satisfied that Lloyds was entitled to deduct an
excess in respect of Mrs L as well as Mr L. The policy shows that in respect of curtailment
claims made on a single trip insurance policy, an excess of £50 per person applies, which is
doubled in the case of policyholders aged over 65 years. As both Mr and Mrs L are over 65
years of age, I find it was reasonable for Lloyds to apply an excess of £100 per person to
their claim settlement.
I note that Mr and Mrs L feel that their claim should be assessed by reference to fair,
alternative travel insurance policies available on the market. As Ive set out above, this was
not my direction and Im satisfied that Lloyds has complied with the award I made. I would
add though for completeness that the curtailment section of many travel insurance policies
only cover a policyholders unused travel and accommodation costs, rather than any
additional costs they incur.
Overall, Im currently satisfied that Lloyds has now settled Mr and Mrs Ls claim fairly and
reasonably. So Im not planning to direct it to pay anything more.
Lloyds accepted my provisional findings.
Mr and Mrs L didnt accept my provisional decision and Ive summarised their response:
Mr L had previously incorrectly referred to the common law principle of avoidance, 
rather than the legislative provisions of the Insurance Act 2015;
Relevant case law states that where an ombudsman departs from the law, they must 
give reasons for doing so. And that a party to a complaint must know why theyve 
won, or lost, in clear and comprehensible terms;
There was no express contract term relating to Lloyds breach. But this breach fit 
nicely into the common law category of an implied term, which requires Lloyds to act 
in the utmost good faith;
To remedy such a breach, it isnt enough to ignore the insurers wrongdoing. To 
apply the full terms of the policy would not achieve justice;
In my previous final decision, I had found that Mr and Mrs L wouldnt have taken the 
Topsail policy had they been aware of the FCDO exclusion. This leads on to common 
law principles that the measure of loss is the extent of cover which wouldve been 
provided by a comparable policy;
The civil litigation process of disclosure would yield examples of similar policies 
which were available on the market at that time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided that Lloyds has now settled Mr and Mrs Ls claim fairly and 
reasonably and Ill explain why.
The Financial Ombudsman Service was established following the passing of the Financial 
Services and Markets Act (2000). Section 228 (2) states: A complaint is to be determined by 
reference to what is, in the opinion of the ombudsman, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case. This duty is also set out in the DISP rules, under which we 
operate. In deciding what I consider to be fair and reasonable, I have also taken into 
account, amongst other things, relevant law, good industry practice and relevant regulators 
rules and codes.
It may also be helpful if I explain that we were established to provide an informal alternative 
to the courts. Its for me to determine what evidence I need to make a fair and reasonable 
decision. So I dont agree that the litigation process of disclosure is appropriate or necessary 
here.
Ive carefully considered the points Mr and Mrs L have raised. In summary, it appears they 
consider that the failure of Lloyds to sufficiently highlight the FCDO exclusion represents a 
breach of an implied contractual term. As such, they believe that its unfair to limit the scope 
of settlement under the policy to the contract terms themselves. 
As I set out in my provisional decision, I made no finding in my first final decision that Lloyds 
had acted in bad faith. I found that on a strict application and interpretation of the contract 
terms, Mr and Mrs Ls curtailment claim wasnt covered by their policy. But I found that 
Lloyds policy documentation didnt sufficiently draw the FCDO exclusion to Mr and Mrs Ls 
attention. And I felt that had the documentation been clearer, Mr and Mrs L wouldve likely 
been able to find a policy which did cover curtailment due to changes in FCDO advice. I 
therefore drew the conclusion that Mr and Mrs L had been left in an unfair position and that it 
was fair and reasonable for Lloyds to assess their claim as if curtailment cover had been in 
place. As such, my direction was simply for Lloyds to reassess the claim in line with the 
policy terms and conditions. (Emphasis added).
Mr and Mrs L accepted my final decision and accordingly, they accepted the award I made. 
Acceptance of my final decision rendered the award binding on both parties. I did not direct 
Lloyds to pay the full claim, or indeed, to further act outside of the contract terms when it 
assessed the claim. If Mr and Mrs L were unhappy with my direction, it was open to them to 
reject my decision and perhaps seek redress through the courts. However, they did sign 
their decision acceptance and therefore, the award I made remains legally binding on both 
parties. Its not open to me to revisit that award or amend the direction. Neither shall I further 
revisit the fairness of that award, nor consider alternative bases of settlement.
I appreciate that some of the costs for which Mr and Mrs L have claimed have been 
excluded from the overall settlement. For the reasons Ive set out above, Im satisfied that 
Lloyds was entitled, by the terms of the contract, to limit the settlement to those costs which 
are covered by the curtailment section of the policy  in this case, Mr and Mrs Ls 
irrecoverable accommodation and transport costs. Their additional expenses simply dont fall 
within the scope of curtailment policy cover, as their vessel was not damaged, nor stolen and 
it hadnt suffered constructive total loss.
For completeness, Id reiterate that many travel insurance policies limit curtailment cover to a 
policyholders unused travel and accommodation expenses. I dont find Lloyds cover to be 
unusual in this regard.Overall, I still find that Lloyds has complied with my direction to reassess Mr and Mrs Ls 
claim in line with the policy terms and conditions. And Im satisfied that it has now settled Mr 
and Mrs Ls curtailment claim in accordance with the terms of the insurance contract. It 
follows then that Im not directing Lloyds to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman