DRN-4221687
The complaint
Mr V complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) failed to carry out his instructions to 
transfer funds from his currency account to his sterling account when asked, resulting in a 
large foreign exchange loss. 
What happened
Mr V says he wrote to Barclays in late September 2022 by recorded delivery requesting a 
transfer of US dollars (USD) 250,000 from his USD account to his sterling current account. 
Mr V says as he hadnt heard from Barclays he sent a chasing letter but still heard nothing 
back. Mr V says he then telephoned Barclays on 17 October 2022 and was informed the 
transfer hadnt gone ahead as Barclays were unable to identify his account details from the 
letters he had sent in because he had used Xs rather than the full account details. 
Mr V says he gave similar instructions before to Barclays and these had been implemented 
as requested and hed also instructed other banks in this way without any issues.
Mr V says as a result of the delay in the transaction, which was carried out after he called 
Barclays, he has lost several thousand pounds on the exchange rate movement and wants 
Barclays to reimburse him for that. 
Barclays says the instructions in the written request provided by Mr V werent clear, as he 
had used Xs in place of certain numbers for his account details and sort code, so it wasnt 
able to carry out the transfer as it couldnt locate Mr Vs account details from the information 
it had.
Barclays says it didnt telephone Mr V on the phone number on the letter provided as it was 
unable to verify this from its contact details. Barclays says it hasnt made any error here.
Mr V wasnt happy with Barclays response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says although there is no doubt Barclays received the transfer instructions in 
September 2022, these were not clear as Mr V had used Xs in place of certain numbers for 
his account details  therefore Barclays werent able to carry out the transfer for security 
reasons.
The investigator says although Mr V provided his contact telephone number on the 
instruction letter, Barclays have explained its process only allows it to use contact numbers 
held on file for security purposes.
The investigator says although Mr V felt Barclays should have tried to contact him sooner 
regarding this matter, it wasnt his role to tell Barclays what security measures it should have 
in place in these circumstances. The investigator also felt given the sum involved it wasnt 
unreasonable for Barclays to take a more cautious approach here.
Mr V didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision.
I can understand it would have been upsetting and frustrating for Mr V to have gone to the 
lengths of providing written instructions by recorded delivery to Barclays, to transfer funds 
from his USD account to his sterling account only for those instructions not to be carried out 
until he rang them the following month.
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Barclays acted reasonably when it took the 
decision not to carry out the written instructions Mr V sent in late September 2022, to 
transfer funds from his USD account to his sterling account with them. 
The first thing to say here, theres no dispute over the fact the USD transfer instruction letter 
Mr V sent Barclays in late September 2022 was received by Barclays as Mr V says. The 
issue here and the centre of Mr Vs complaint is the instructions to carry out the transfer of 
USD 250,000 wasnt carried out, as there was insufficient information contained in those 
instructions for Barclays to do so. 
From the information I have seen, the letter Mr V sent in September 2022 and a follow up 
letter in mid-October 2022, had the letter X in place of certain account details. Mr V feels this 
is a reasonable security measure to take and adopted by governmental departments 
themselves and he has in fact employed this method before with Barclays some time back 
and more recently with other financial businesses without any issues. Additionally, Mr V feels 
Barclays, rather than not carrying out the transfer, should have made contact with him by 
phone or letter.  
While I understand the points Mr V makes here Im not fully persuaded by his argument. I 
say this because while Mr V may not agree, it remains his responsibility to provide Barclays 
with the full details of the bank accounts he holds with them, so it can clearly identify that it 
has a genuine authority to conduct the transaction in question. 
Barclays have confirmed to this service if its unable to trace the bank account from the 
limited information it has been presented with at any time, its process is that it wouldnt then 
write to the address on such an instruction, for security reasons - this is what happened 
here. Although Mr V says hed carried out similar transactions with Barclays some years 
before without issue, and that may have been the case, its unreasonable to expect Barclays 
given the volume of transactions its presented with to alter its standard process to identify its 
customers on occasions like this  after all these processes are in place in part, to protect its 
customers from fraud. 
While Mr V says other banks have acted on similar types of instructions  I can only consider 
Barclays processes here and it isnt for me to tell it how its processes must work in these 
circumstances. 
While Mr V will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Barclays 
here. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman