DRN-2058881
The complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
Mr H bought the policy in 1995 when he took out a loan. He applied for the loan and the PPI 
at a meeting with Lloyds. The premium for the policy was added to the loan.
The loan was due to be repaid over 12 months. The PPI policy would have covered Mr Hs 
monthly loan repayments until he returned to work if hed made a successful claim for 
accident or sickness, and for up to 12 months per successful claim for unemployment.
Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I need to decide what I thinks most likely 
based on the information I have.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Lloyds no longer has a copy of Mr Hs signed application form or loan agreement. I dont 
think thats surprising, given that the sale took place so long ago. But its provided a 
sample of the sort of loan agreement that was used when loans were taken out in 
branches at the time. And I think it's likely to be representative of what Mr H would have 
seen. Theres a section about PPI which is headed Optional Loan Repayment 
Protection. There are two boxes next to this, marked Yes and No. Theres also a 
separate column of costs for the PPI policy, which is described as optional.
I acknowledge that Mr H says he didn't know PPI had been attached to the loan. He says 
he wasnt aware that the PPI was optional, and it was added without his consent. But the 
meeting took place many years ago, and I wouldn't expect Mr H to have a detailed 
memory of what was said. From the evidence available, I think its more likely the adviser 
discussed PPI with Mr H as they were going through his loan application. And I think its 
likely Mr H decided to take the PPI, knowing he had a choice about it.
Mr H and Lloyds agree that Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr H. This means it had a 
responsibility to make sure that it was suitable for him. But it doesn't look as if it was 
unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time.
Mr H has told us he was self-employed when he took out the loan and PPI. So he 
wouldnt have been entitled to any sick pay or redundancy pay. And he didnt have any 
savings or other means he could have fallen back on if he was sick and unable to work. 
So I think the PPI could have been useful to him at what its likely would have been a 
stressful time.
Based on the sample loan agreement Ive seen, I think Lloyds could have explained the 
cost of the policy better. It looks as if the cost of the loan and the PPI over the full term of 
the loan would have been shown, along with the monthly repayments. But its unlikely 
that the total interest on the PPI, or the total cost of the PPI including interest, were 
shown. However, Im satisfied that the interest would have been a relatively small 
amount compared with the loan amount and the PPI premium, which Mr H would have 
been aware of. And Im not convinced that knowing about the interest hed have to pay 
on the premium over the term of the loan would have put him off taking the PPI.
I've also borne in mind that looking at the likely total cost of the PPI (including the interest 
Mr H is likely to have been charged by Lloyds) and his likely monthly loan repayment 
amount, if Mr H had made a claim, he could have got back quite a lot more than he paid 
for the PPI.
It's true that Mr H would have received a limited refund of the PPI premium if he 
cancelled the policy early. I dont know if Lloyds thought about this when it recommended 
the policy, or whether it explained the situation clearly to Mr H. But Ive seen nothing to 
suggest he thought hed repay it early. So I dont think this made the policy unsuitable  
or that better information about this wouldve stopped Mr H from buying it.
Its possible Lloyds didn't point out the main things the policy didn't cover  for example 
existing medical conditions or unusual employment arrangements. But from what Ive 
seen of his circumstances at the time, its unlikely Mr H would have been affected by any 
of these. Mr H has suggested that the fact that he was self-employed would have meant 
that he couldnt claim on the policy. But while some PPI policies weve seen made it 
harder for a self-employed person to claim successfully, Im satisfied that this one didnt.
Ive taken account of all Mr Hs comments, including what hes said about not having 
been told that he could buy PPI elsewhere. But Lloyds wasnt obliged to tell Mr H about 
products that might have been available from other providers. So this doesnt change my 
conclusion.
Taking everything into account, I think Mr H had an interest in the policy and decided to 
buy it. And for the reasons Ive set out, I dont think more information about the policy 
would have made him change his mind. This means that I dont find that Mr H is worse 
off as a result of anything Lloyds may have done wrong. So theres nothing that Lloyds 
needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Juliet CollinsOmbudsman