DRN-3736634
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about the property valuation that was carried out after they applied 
for a lifetime mortgage with Pure Retirement Limited (Pure Retirement).
What happened
Mr and Mrs C applied for a lifetime mortgage with Pure Retirement in 2021. Their application 
was declined because Pure Retirement said their property was an ex-park home, amongst 
other things. Pure Retirement took that decision after the surveyor that carried out the 
valuation of the property said the property was an ex-park home.
Mr and Mrs C say the valuation report is inaccurate as their property was never a park 
home. They say there have never been any park homes on their estate; that they previously 
had a mortgage on the property (something they wouldnt have got if the property had been 
a park home) and that other people on their estate have mortgages that would be 
unavailable to park homes. Mr and Mrs C have also provided documentation from their local 
council that suggests it doesnt think the property is a park home. Theyve also provided a 
copy of another valuation (also from 2021) carried out by a third party on their property. That 
doesnt say that Mr and Mrs Cs property was a park home.
Mr and Mrs C think that the surveyor that carried out the valuation for Pure Retirement was 
young, inexperienced, and made a mistake. 
Pure Retirement said it hadnt done anything wrong. It said the surveyor it instructed was 
suitably qualified and registered with the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors. It said it 
queried the report with the surveyor after Mr and Mrs C complained. However it remained of 
the opinion that the property was not suitable for lending purposes due to the report of a 
conversion taking place in around 1960 altering the property from a park home to a 
bungalow. 
Mr and Mrs C remained unhappy so they complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator looked into the matter. She didnt think Pure Retirement had done anything 
wrong. She said she reviewed the valuation report carried out for Pure Retirement and the 
valuation carried out for a different lender. She said she could see that the valuation carried 
out for Pure Retirement was carried out by independent surveyors so she thought it was 
entitled to rely on it. She could also see that it was against Pure Retirements lending policy 
to lend money on a park home. 
Mr and Mrs C remained unhappy and asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs C are adamant that their property isnt a park home. So they think Pure 
Retirement was wrong to decline their application for a lifetime mortgage on the basis that it 
was.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Cs position and the evidence theyve provided to support what they 
say. However, I think its helpful for me to start by saying that its up to Pure Retirement to 
set its own lending policy. Its allowed to use its commercial judgement to put in place a 
policy in relation to mortgages which reflects its regulatory obligations and its attitude to risk. 
Where a complaint is about the exercise by a lender of its commercial judgement (as it is 
here) my role is to decide whether that judgement has been exercised fairly and reasonably; 
it isnt to substitute my own judgement for that of Pure Retirement. In other words, I have to 
decide if Pure Retirement took into account all relevant factors and gave proper 
consideration to them before reaching its decision. It is only if I thought no lender could 
reasonably have made the decisions Pure Retirement made in this case that there would be 
any basis for intervention on my part. The Financial Ombudsman Service has no power to 
set lending policy for Pure Retirement.
Having considered all the available evidence Im satisfied that Pure Retirement considered 
Mr and Mrs Cs application for a lifetime mortgage fairly and reasonably. It got professional 
advice from a qualified surveyor as I would expect it to do. As a result of that advice it had 
concerns about lending to Mr and Mrs C. The surveyor thought the property was of an 
unusual construction because it had been altered from a park home to a bungalow in the 
1960s. The surveyors report also mentioned a number of other points and says that the 
property had a 100% flat roof  something that was also against Pure Retirements lending 
policy.
As Mr and Mrs C didnt agree with the surveyors conclusions, Id expect Pure Retirement to 
put their objections to the surveyor for further consideration. It did that, and the surveyor 
didnt change his mind. In those circumstances, Im satisfied it was reasonable for Pure 
Retirement to rely on the professional opinion of the qualified surveyor that this property 
wasnt suitable security for Pure Retirement. 
Pure Retirement has provided a copy of its lending policy. Thats clear that Pure Retirement 
can choose not to lend on a property that is of an unusual construction and in cases where 
the relevant surveyor has raised concerns about lending. I can see that happened here. So 
Im satisfied Pure Retirement was entitled to take the commercial decision it did not to lend 
to Mr and Mrs C. I dont think its relevant that theyve had other lending on this property in 
the past, or that their neighbours have been able to get mortgages. Each lender sets its own 
criteria and relies on the opinion of its own surveyor. Even if another lender reached a 
different decision, that doesnt mean Pure Retirements decision was unreasonable.
I think it would have been helpful if Pure Retirements final response said more about all the 
reasons why Pure Retirement decided not to lend. If it had done that I think Mr and Mrs C 
would have been in a position to understand Pure Retirements decision better and not be 
left with the feeling that a mistake had been made. But taking the matter as a whole, I cant 
say that Pure Retirement made a mistake when it decided not to give Mr and Mrs C a 
lifetime mortgage. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman