DRN-3865216
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) restricted their 
accounts which meant they couldnt access the funds contained within them. During this time 
NatWest wouldnt give them any indication as to what was happening and why it had done 
this.
This decision relates to Mr and Mrs Hs joint accounts, but I note that Mr H has been leading 
the complaint so at times I may refer to him alone during this decision. 
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs Hs accounts were blocked on 6 October 2021. 
Following the block Mr and Mrs H couldnt access their accounts online and see the 
balances and transactions on the accounts. When calling NatWest to query what was going 
on Mr H was told they couldnt discuss the matter with him and hed need to wait for a call 
from the central office to find out more. He says he wasnt given a timeframe for this. 
Mr H complained on their behalf and NatWest issued a final response on 11 October 2021. 
In this it confirmed it hadnt made an error in blocking the accounts and it had followed all its 
internal processes and procedures correctly. It explained it didnt have to share its reasons 
for blocking the accounts. It told Mr H the block would remain in place for now and it would 
be in touch in due course but couldnt provide a timescale for this. 
The account restriction was lifted on 14 October 2021 and Mr and Mrs H were able to 
access their accounts and money after this date.
Mr and Mrs H referred their complaint to our service, explaining that the block had left their 
family destitute with no money to buy food or pay bills as money was stuck in the blocked 
accounts. When asked about the impact, Mr H explained that they didnt have any 
substantial losses to recover but was more aggravated by how NatWest could do this to 
customers and would want to prevent it happening to anyone else. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She explained that NatWest hadnt provided enough 
information for her to conclude it had blocked Mr and Mrs Hs accounts fairly on this 
occasion. She recommended it pay Mr and Mrs H £100 in recognition of the impact the block 
had on them. Despite NatWest not agreeing with the investigators findings, it agreed to pay 
the £100. However, Mr and Mrs H remained unhappy. Mr H has said the amount doesnt 
reflect the stress and damage caused by the block. 
Because Mr and Mrs H disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest has a wide range of legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when providing
account services to its customers. These obligations are ongoing so dont just apply at
account opening stage. To comply with these obligations, it may need to review accounts
and the activity taking place on them. Sometimes these reviews will lead to the accounts
being blocked. If NatWest didnt do this, it could risk serious sanction. 
NatWest isnt under any obligation to reveal to a customer why it blocked an account. This 
information is often commercially sensitive. So, I dont think NatWest did anything wrong in 
not communicating its reasons for blocking the accounts to Mr and Mrs H at the time of the 
block, or since. 
However, NatWest does need to provide information to this service so we can fairly decide a 
complaint. NatWest hasnt done so on this occasion, and it means I cant fairly and 
reasonably conclude it has complied with the legal and regulatory obligations when blocking 
Mr and Mrs Hs accounts. 
Ive considered what NatWest has said about why it wont provide further information to our 
service about the reasons for the block on Mr and Mrs Hs accounts. This service has the 
power to request evidence of this nature under the dispute resolution rules (DISP) and Im 
not persuaded the reasons given by NatWest exclude it from complying with these rules.  
Taking this into account, I agree NatWest should pay Mr and Mrs H compensation for the 
trouble and upset they faced by having their accounts blocked. 
NatWest agreed to pay £100 as recommended by our investigator. Whilst I appreciate Mr 
and Mrs H think they should receive more; I dont feel this would be warranted in the 
circumstances. I dont dispute being unable to access their accounts for just over a week 
wouldve been distressing, especially as their joint current account was used regularly. But 
Mr H has said they didnt suffer any substantial losses as a result of the block. Instead, he is 
frustrated that NatWest would do this to its customers. I therefore feel the £100 is fair and 
reasonable for the distress and frustration caused. 
Putting things right
I direct NatWest to pay Mr and Mrs H £100 for the distress and frustration caused by 
blocking their accounts.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint against National Westminster 
Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Sarah Brimacombe
Ombudsman