DRN-3568000
The complaint
Mr S wants JN Bank UK Ltd to remove its search from his credit file because it declined his 
loan application after telling him it was accepted in principle. 
What happened
Mr S applied for a loan to JN Bank after an online search told him he had a 70% chance of 
approval, subject to final lender, fraud and identification checks. Another message said hed 
been approved in principle. So Mr S went ahead and submitted a full application to JN Bank. 
He gave his consent to a full credit check. JN Bank asked for some additional information 
and went on to decline Mr Ss application.  
Mr S says having the search on his file is preventing him from applying successfully to other 
lenders. He wants it removing and compensation. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ss complaint. He found the lender had made no errors 
and all its communications made clear a full credit check would be completed prior to final 
approval, and that an in principle decision did not guarantee a loan would be offered.
Mr S disagreed with this assessment and asked for an ombudsmans decision, so the 
complaint was passed to me.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr S feels the 70% chance of approval and youve been approved in principle messages 
were misleading and JN Bank did not make clear a full credit check would be completed. I 
disagree with both points. I think the lenders communications were clear throughout the 
process. And the wording should not have misled Mr S to believe that his application would 
definitely be accepted. I accept that was his interpretation, but I cant fairly find this was the 
fault of the lender. It is also made clear on JN Banks website that a full credit search is 
completed as part of the application process.
As Mr S applied and a full search was completed JN Bank has to report this to the credit 
refence agency(ies) it uses - to remove it would put in in breach of its reporting obligations.
It follows I have not found JN Bank made any errors it needs to correct. There are therefore 
no grounds to award Mr S compensation.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman