DRN-3422362
The complaint
Mr B complains that a car acquired with finance from Black Horse Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
In June 2020 Mr B was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement with 
Black Horse. At the point of supply the car was around 7 years old and had covered around 
87,000 miles.
In September 2020 the service light illuminated and there was a noise coming from the 
gearbox. Repairs were carried out which included a filter change and two new tyres, the 
costs of which were covered by Black Horse. Black Horse also paid compensation of £200 
for distress and inconvenience.
In July 2021 the engine management light illuminated, and the car lost power. A third-party 
garage diagnosed a blockage in the catalytic converter and a crack in the exhaust manifold. 
It also said the turbo required replacement. Repairs were carried out at a cost of £2,597.47.
Mr B complained to Black Horse and asked it to cover the repair costs. Black Horse rejected 
the complaint. It said there was no evidence that the fault was present or developing at the 
point of supply.
Mr B remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said there was no evidence to suggest that 
the problems with the car which occurred in July 2021 were present or developing at the 
point of supply.
Mr B didnt agree. He said he appreciated that there would be wear and tear on a car of this 
age and mileage, but he didnt expect the car to require such major repairs so soon after it 
was purchased. Mr B said he thought Black Horse should contribute towards the cost of 
repairs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account the age and 
mileage of the car and the price paid. The quality of goods includes their general state and 
condition, as well as other things including fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, 
freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
I would expect a second hand car, such as that supplied to Mr B, to have a degree of wear 
and tear and to require repairs and maintenance more often than a brand new car. So, in 
order to uphold this complaint, I would need to be satisfied that the car had a fault which was 
present or developing at the point of supply which made it of unsatisfactory quality, as 
opposed to a  fault which developed due to general wear and tear.
Ive looked at the available evidence to decide whether theres a fault with the car. Based on 
the information Ive seen from the third-party garage, Im satisfied that the car had a fault 
which required repairs to be carried out in July 2021.
Ive gone on to consider whether the fault made the car of unsatisfactory quality. In doing so, 
Ive looked at the available information to decide whether the fault was present or developing 
at the point of supply. This is important, because even thought the car had a fault, it doesnt 
necessary follow that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply. If the fault 
wasnt present of developing at the point of supply, Im unable to say that the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality.
I can see that Mr B experienced some issues with the car in September 2020. Repairs were 
carried out at no cost to him, and these issues havent reoccurred. Im therefore of the view 
that those repairs were successful.
Ive had regard to the age and mileage of the car. As Ive already said, Id expect a second 
hand car to require more regular repairs than a  brand new car. Ive also had regard to the 
time and mileage elapsed since the point of supply. In this case, the fault occurred in July 
2021, around 13 months from the start of the agreement. The car had covered mileage of 
around 9500 miles during this time.
Looking at the nature of the faults which were repaired in July 2021, I think its likely, given 
the age and mileage of the car, and the number of months and the mileage covered since 
the agreement started, that these issues wouldve occurred earlier on in the agreement if 
they had been present or developing at the point of supply. I dont think Mr B would have 
been able to cover the mileage hes covered over that 13 month period if the faults had been 
present or developing at the point of supply.
Ive considered the information from the third-party garage. However, theres nothing to 
suggest that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply. Mr B has said that 
hes been told by other garages that the fault couldve been developing at the point of supply 
but that this would be difficult to prove. Based on what Ive seen, there isnt enough evidence 
for me to say that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply.
Under the relevant legislation, where a fault occurs after the first 6 months of the point of 
supply, the burden of proof is on the consumer to show that the fault was present or 
developing at the point of supply. Based on what Ive seen, there isnt enough evidence for 
me to safely conclude that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply. 
For the reasons Ive given, Im unable to uphold the complaint and I wont be asking Black 
Horse to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Emma DavyOmbudsman