DRN-4152089
The complaint
Mr M was a victim of fraud. He transferred money to a fraudulent company from a current 
account he held with Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax. He wants Bank of Scotland to 
refund him the money he transferred. 
What happened
The core facts which led to this complaint are not in dispute. 
In outline, someone Mr M knew told him about an opportunity to invest in a third-party 
company (the company). Mr M went to meet the company and it seemed to him that it was a 
legitimate organisation which could offer him a good rate of return on his money. It told him 
that if he invested, he would receive regular payments each month and after one year would 
have the option to get his investment back in full, or to reinvest for a further term. 
In late April 2018, Mr M invested a large sum in the company, some in cash and some from 
his current account. He used a faster payment transfer to send money from his current 
account to the company. 
Following Mr Ms investment, the company sent him two monthly payments, but these 
stopped in July 2018. After Mr M didnt receive the August payment, he contacted the 
company to find out why. The company told him that it was having financial difficulties and 
would not be able to send him any further payments or give him back his original investment. 
Mr M believes that the company behaved fraudulently and never had any intention of making 
all the monthly payments or returning his investment. I accept Mr Ms view on this and Im 
very sorry indeed to hear about it. Fraud is extremely upsetting and distressing. Mr M has 
my sincere sympathy. 
One of our investigators has already looked into Mr Ms complaint and didnt think that Bank 
of Scotland had acted unfairly. The investigator didnt recommend that Bank of Scotland 
should give Mr M any money back. Mr M didnt agree with the investigators findings and 
asked for an ombudsman to re-assess his complaint. So, it has come to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr Ms complaint is that he believes Bank of Scotland should have stopped him 
making the transfer to the company and that as it didnt, it should now refund his investment 
to him. 
`
There is no doubt that Mr M followed Bank of Scotlands normal process when he made the 
transfer. By doing so, he instructed Bank of Scotland to move the money. I fully accept that 
he only did this because of fraudulent actions by the company, but he effectively authorised 
Bank of Scotland to make the transfer. Frauds of this type are often called Authorised Push 
Payment (APP) frauds. 
While banks are normally expected to act on their customers instructions, APP fraud is a 
significant concern in the banking industry and at the time of Mr Ms investment in the 
company, I would have expected Bank of Scotland to look out for anything noticeably 
unusual about the transfer. And if it saw anything, I would have expected it to check with Mr 
M if he wanted to proceed. The decision to go ahead or not would then lie with Mr M. 
Bank of Scotland has told us that Mr M had previously made some large payments from his 
current account and that they were usual for him. However, from the statements it has sent 
us, the largest payment in the previous twelve months was significantly less than Mr Ms 
transfer to the company. So, I do not agree with Bank of Scotlands view. It seems to me that 
the value of the transfer to the company was noticeably larger than Mr M usually made from 
his account. And he had not made any previous payments to the company. I therefore think 
that Bank of Scotland should have questioned the payment with Mr M. It didnt do this. 
Bank of Scotland has also pointed out that shortly before Mr M made the transfer to the 
company he had switched a similar sum from a savings account to his current account. It 
has said this shows the transfer was probably for a legitimate purchase. I disagree. I still 
think that Mr M making such a large payment to a third-party company he had not used 
before was sufficiently unusual that it should have triggered some questions from Bank of 
Scotland.
However, even if Bank of Scotland had questioned Mr M about the transfer, I think its likely 
he would have gone ahead with it anyway. Hes told us that his meeting with the company 
was face-to-face in a professional looking office, that it gave him a contract and other 
relevant paperwork and that it told him convincingly that his investment would be secured 
against a property which it had shown to him. And, of course, he had found out about the 
company from someone he already knew. So, it seems that Mr M was satisfied the company 
and its investment opportunity were legitimate. I doubt that questioning from Bank of 
Scotland would have changed his mind. And Im not aware of any other reason why Bank of 
Scotland should have stopped the transfer. 
Once Mr M had reported the fraud to Bank of Scotland, it was obliged to act promptly to try 
to recover his money through the companys bank. Recovering money from fraudsters like 
this can be extremely difficult, as they usually move it away from the receiving bank very 
quickly. Mr M has told us that he called Bank of Scotland to report the fraud in August 2018, 
as soon as the company told him it wouldnt be making any further payments to him. Bank of 
Scotland has told us it has no record of this and didnt know about the fraud until much later, 
when it tried, but failed, to recover Mr Ms money for him. 
With this conflict of views, I cant tell with certainty when Mr M actually did report the fraud to 
Bank of Scotland, but as the earliest seems to have been around three months after Mr M 
made his investment in the company, I think its very unlikely that Bank of Scotland would 
have been able to recover his money for him, even if it had acted immediately. 
So, in summary, I think Bank of Scotland should have questioned Mr Ms transfer to the 
company. But I think that even if it had done so, Mr M would still have considered the 
company to be legitimate and would still have authorised the transfer. And I also think that 
once Bank of Scotland knew about the fraud it was too late for it to have a realistic chance to 
recover Mr Ms money. So, I am not going to tell Bank of Scotland to refund Mr Ms 
investment. My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr Ms complaint against Bank of 
Scotland plc, trading as Halifax. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman