DRN-1976668
 
The complaint
Mr D complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited (trading as Cashplus) failed to 
close his account when he asked it to.
What happened
Mr D had a credit account with Cashplus which he was repaying each month. In June 2020 
he contacted Cashplus to inform it that he was having financial difficulties and wouldnt be 
able to make the monthly payments. As a gesture of goodwill Cashplus agreed to refund the 
most recent payment. However it explained that this was a one off arrangement.
 
Later that month Mr D called Cashplus again and asked for the account to be closed. It 
explained that as there was a remaining credit balance left on the account, this wouldnt be 
possible as this would need to be paid off first. 
Mr D wasnt happy with this as he said he wasnt able to afford to make the repayment and 
he just wanted the account to be closed. He made a complaint to Cashplus.
In response to Mr Ds complaint Cashplus said it would credit the account with the amount to 
settle the remaining balance. It would then close the account as the balance would be paid.
Cashplus paid the amount into Mr Ds account. However Mr D subsequently removed this 
credit from his account. This meant money was still owed on the account.
A few days later Mr D called Cashplus to check the account had been closed. It explained 
that as the credit had been removed, it wasnt able to close the account. Mr D wasnt happy 
with this and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
He said that as the money credited to the account was removed, he didnt think it was fair to 
ask Cashplus to pay it again.
Mr D disagreed and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has explained that he is struggling to meet the required payments due to financial 
difficulties. In situations like this we would expect the lender to respond sympathetically and 
positively to its customer, in order to account for the difficulties. So I have considered the 
action taken by Cashplus to decide whether it has treated Mr D fairly in the circumstances. 
When Mr D signed up to the account, he effectively took out a contract with Cashplus. And 
as part of this he agreed to make payments each month in order to pay off the credit he had 
borrowed. Each payment reduces the balance and once it is paid off, no further payments 
would be required. However, while money is still owed, payments are still required. So the 
account will be kept open while money is owed.
When Mr D first contacted Cashplus about his financial difficulties it agreed to refund the 
most recent monthly payment to the account. This meant, Mr D had one month without 
making the required payments. I think this was fair in the circumstances. 
However after this, Mr D continued to struggle with his finances. And he told Cashplus that 
he wouldnt be able to continue making payments. He explained this was due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic and the fact he was on benefits. Cashplus then agreed to credit his 
account with funds to pay off the remaining balance, so that the account could be closed and 
Mr D wouldnt have to make any further payments. I think this was a fair and reasonable 
approach given the circumstances. As Mr D had explained his financial situation was unlikely 
to improve, so he would likely continue to struggle with the repayments. Cashplus offered a 
sokution that would mean he would no longer need to make any payements.
However Cashplus hasnt been able to close the account as this amount was subsequently 
removed, so money is now owed again.
I understand Mr Ds concerns about being able to continue with the payments. And that he 
just wants the account to be closed. However Cashplus has already responded to these 
concerns and attempted to close the account. As the credit was removed, its not been able 
to do this.. And I dont think it would be fair to ask Cashplus to make the payment again or to 
close the account while Mr D still has an outstanding balance. I am satisfied that it has 
listened to Mr Ds concerns about his finances and taken positive and sympathetic action in 
order to try and assist him. 
For these reasons I think Cashplus has treated Mr D fairly in the circumstances so I wont 
ask it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I wont require Advanced Payment Solutions Limited to do 
anything differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2020.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman