DRN-2955070
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Credit Karma UK Limited wouldnt close his account without him 
giving them some personal data.
What happened
Mr D wanted to close his account with Credit Karma. They asked Mr D for his date of birth in 
order to identify him for security purposes. Mr D declined to give this information over, so 
Credit Karma didnt close his account.
Mr D continued to receive emails about his Credit Karma account, and he complained. 
Credit Karma locked his account and stopped any more emails from going out, but explained 
he still needed to confirm his date of birth before they could properly close the account.
Mr D came to our service, and filled out a complaint form which contained his date of birth. 
Credit Karma used that to close his account.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
explained that it was reasonable for Credit Karma to have such security processes in place. 
Credit Karma followed their process to keep Mr Ds account secure, and they ultimately 
closed his account as he wished.
Mr D didnt agree. He said hed given us his date of birth in order that we could look at his 
complaint, and he wasnt happy that Credit Karma had used this data to close his account.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator, and for much the 
same reasons.
Its reasonable for Credit Karma to want to make sure theyre speaking to the right person, 
especially when it comes to things like closing an account. Keeping accounts secure is 
important. As part of that, they asked Mr D for his date of birth, and theres nothing wrong 
with that  its a normal thing to ask for, and it was not an unreasonable or onerous request. 
Given that I think it was fair for Credit Karma to ask for Mr Ds date of birth, I also think it was 
fair that they didnt close his account when he didnt give them the information they needed. 
They were trying to keep things safe.
Further, I think it was reasonable that Credit Karma used the date of birth from Mr Ds 
complaint form to help process his account closure. Ultimately, closing his account is exactly 
what Mr D had asked them to do.
Lastly, when Mr D would not give over the information needed to close his account, but 
remained unhappy with the emails he was receiving, Credit Karma took action to stop those 
emails. That seems like good practice.
I cant see that Credit Karma did anything wrong here.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman