DRN-2945950
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy Aviva Insurance Limited didnt offer to renew their home 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P have held a particular brand of home insurance with Aviva for many years. 
Aviva told Mr and Mrs P it wouldnt offer to renew their policy in 2021.
Mr and Mrs P complained about this. They were concerned the company who originally sold 
the policy had incorrectly recorded details about the way the property had been built  and 
that was the reason Aviva wouldnt renew the policy.
Aviva said it was discontinuing this brand for all policyholders. This was a business wide 
decision and didnt relate to the way Mr and Mrs Ps property had been built. It said it offered 
cover for the type of property Mr and Mrs P have and they could contact Aviva to arrange a 
new policy if they wanted to.
Mr and Mrs P referred their complaint to this service. Our investigator thought Aviva had 
acted fairly. Mr and Mrs P disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva has decided to withdraw a brand of policy. I understand it stopped selling this brand to 
new customers several years ago and has recently chosen to withdraw it for existing 
customers as well. Im satisfied thats a commercial decision Aviva is entitled to make.
Mr and Mrs P are concerned that Avivas decision has been made as a result of the 
information it holds about the way their home was built. I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest this was the case. Im satisfied Aviva has taken this decision for all policyholders 
under this brand. That means Mr and Mrs P have been treated consistently with other 
policyholders and havent been singled out in any way. For these reasons, I think Aviva has 
treated them fairly.
Aviva has been clear that it does insure properties built the way Mr and Mrs Ps is. Its also 
been clear that they can arrange a new policy through Aviva if theyd like to. And its let them 
know they also have the option to approach other insurers if they prefer. So I think Aviva has 
set out what Mr and Mrs P can do to keep their home insured. And it did this a reasonable 
amount of time before the renewal date, giving Mr and Mrs P reasonable time to make 
arrangements for continued cover.
If Aviva withdrawing this brand had left Mr and Mrs P unable to arrange similar cover, either 
with Aviva or other insurers in general, I may find that Aviva should take steps to ensure their 
commercial decision doesnt unreasonably impact Mr and Mrs P.
I havent seen anything to suggest Mr and Mrs P have found themselves unable to arrange a 
similar policy or have had difficulty approaching the insurance market as a new customer. 
On the contrary, Aviva has said it would offer them a policy with one of the brands its 
continuing. So Im not persuaded Avivas decision to withdraw this policy brand has caused 
Mr and Mrs P any detriment.
My final decision
My final decision is not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman