DRN-3581825
The complaint
Mr C complains that Monzo Bank Limited wont refund an unsuccessful cash machine 
withdrawal that debited his account but didnt dispense all the cash he requested.
What happened
On 5 September 2021, Mr C attempted to withdraw £100 from a cash machine using his 
Monzo account card. Mr C says the cash machine only dispensed £70, not the £100 he had 
requested. Mr C checked his account and found it had been debited for £100. 
Mr C reported this issue to Monzo. Whilst they investigated the case Monzo debited his 
account with £30. Monzo carried out a review of Mr Cs complaint and advised Mr C it would 
be re-debiting the £30 as it hadnt found any issues with the transaction.  
Mr has provided the following details about what happened:
He needed to withdraw a £100 as he needed £90 to pay a tradesman. The remaining 
£10 was to be used for general spending. 
Mr C says he went to a cash machine the next day to withdraw the extra money he 
needed to pay the tradesmen which wasnt dispensed the day before correctly. 
Mr C contacted Monzo on 7 September 2021 via their online chat to explain what had 
happened.
Monzo has explained the following when defending the complaint:
The journal roll from the day hasnt highlighted any discrepancies and issues. 
Information from the cash machine shows Mr C entered his PIN number and 
requested £100. 
There is no evidence to show the full amount was not dispensed. 
Mr C should take up any concerns he has with the cash machine provider. 
Our investigator reviewed the available evidence and thought Monzo should credit Mr C with 
£30. He explained Monzo had not provided enough evidence to demonstrate Mr Cs cash 
had been dispensed correctly. 
As Monzo did not agree with the investigators, the case has been referred to me  an 
ombudsman  for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Monzo should refund the amount of the withdrawal to Mr C. Ill 
explain why below. 
Where there is a dispute over whether money was dispensed from a cash machine, there is 
certain documentary evidence we usually expect to see, such as the journal roll, purge bin 
report and balance history of the machine. I appreciate Monzo isnt the owner of the cash 
machine in question here. But the relevant regulations say it is still its responsibility to show 
the cash was dispensed correctly and not affected by a technical breakdown or some other 
deficiency with the machine. And so it is for Monzo to speak to the owner of the cash 
machine to get any relevant evidence. 
To defend its position Monzo has sent us copies of the journal roll for Mr Cs attempted 
withdrawal. The journal roll essentially shows Mr Cs request for £100, and Monzo explains 
that as the balance for the cash machine has decreased by this amount this means the cash 
was correctly dispensed. However, Im not satisfied this necessarily means there was no 
error or technical problem with the cash machine. As we havent been sent a copy of the 
purge bin report, we cant see whether the cash went in there and wasnt dispensed properly 
as a result. We also havent been able to review a balancing certificate for the machine.  
Monzo has said that it has followed the necessary chargeback guidance provided by the 
owner of the cash machine and it is satisfied there was no error here. But Im not satisfied by 
that reasoning. Based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think Monzo has done enough to 
show that the cash was dispensed correctly. Mr C has been consistent throughout his 
complaint in explaining what happened and has given plausible explanations of what the 
withdrawal was for and what he did as a result of not receiving the cash. I find him credible 
and see no other reason to doubt what he has said. 
Based on the evidence I have in this case, I think its more likely than not that the cash 
wasnt dispensed correctly. So, I think Monzo should refund the amount of the attempted 
withdrawal to Mr C.
I can see Mr C think he should receive additional compensation from Monzo. Mr C has had 
£50 compensation already from Monzo, and I think that is a fair amount. 
Putting things right
Monzo Bank Ltd should refund the £30 withdrawal in dispute.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Monzo Bank Ltd to put things right by doing what Ive set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman