DRN-3273043
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain about Fairmead Insurance Limiteds handling of a subsidence claim 
they made on a landlords insurance policy.
Where I refer to Fairmead within this decision, this includes agents and representatives 
acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R insure a property they rent out with Fairmead. When the property was 
damaged by subsidence, they made a claim on the policy. Fairmead accepted that the claim 
was covered.
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy with the way that Fairmead has handled the claim. They say that 
there have been lengthy delays to the claim, that the proposed settlement of the claim is 
unreasonable and that Fairmead should pay for the loss of rental income from the property. 
Fairmead accepted that the service Mr and Mrs R could have been better and offered £250 
compensation. As Mr and Mrs R remained dissatisfied they referred their complaint to our 
service. Our investigator thought that Fairmeads settlement proposal was fair and it didnt 
have to pay the loss of rental income. But she thought that the £250 compensation didnt 
properly reflect the impact on Mr and Mrs R and said Fairmead should pay an additional 
£350, making £600 in total. 
Mr and Mrs R didnt agree with this outcome. Neither did Fairmead. As no agreement could 
be reached, the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill consider Mr and Mrs Rs concerns about the proposed settlement, claim for loss of rental 
income and compensation separately. 
Im only looking at Fairmeads actions up to 29 September 2021, which is when it issued its 
final response to Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. Anything which happened after that isnt the 
subject of this complaint and wont be addressed in my decision.
Settlement
Theres damage to the front and rear of Mr and Mrs Rs property, and its agreed that 
vegetation is causing this. Fairmead proposes different settlement options for the front and 
rear of the property. Its agreed to cover the stablisation at the front of the property, but 
believes that the removal of the vegetation is sufficient in the first instance at the rear of the 
property. Mr and Mrs R believe that both the front and rear should be stabilised.
In making my decision on this point, my starting point is that Fairmead needs to cover a 
lasting and effective repair to the property. Nothing Ive seen suggests that the removal of 
the vegetation which is causing the subsidence wouldnt allow for a lasting and effective 
repair to take place  if the vegetation is removed then its hoped that the movement causing 
the subsidence will cease. 
Fairmead has elected to stabilise the front of the property as the vegetation causing the 
damage there is owned by a local authority. It considers that pursuing the local authority to 
remove the vegetation in question will take a long time. The vegetation at the rear of the 
property is owned by a neighbour of Mr and Mrs R and the neighbour has agreed to remove 
it. 
I havent seen anything to suggest that the removal of this vegetation and monitoring of the 
property will take an unreasonable amount of time or cause such serious disruption or 
inconvenience to Mr and Mrs R that it isnt a reasonable or feasible option for Fairmead to 
pursue. I understand Mr and Mrs Rs preference that all of the property be stabilised, but that 
isnt what Fairmead are liable for. I think the suggested settlement proposed by Fairmead is 
fair in these circumstances.
Loss of rental income
At the time the damage occurred, Mr and Mrs R had a tenant at the property. Theyve said 
that when the damage occurred, the tenant moved out, saying they had concerns about the 
structural integrity of the property. They say Fairmead should pay the loss of rental income 
which has occurred because of the damage to the property.
Mr and Mrs Rs policy says that loss of rental income will be covered During the period the 
home is made uninhabitable (subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy). 
Theres nothing thats been provided which suggests that the property has, at any time, been 
uninhabitable. While I dont have anything in writing from the former tenant saying why they 
moved out (Mr and Mrs R have told us that the issues with structural integrity were informed 
to them verbally), a tenants concern with the structural integrity of the property isnt enough 
for me to conclude that the property was uninhabitable. The engineers and surveyors whove 
inspected the property during the course of the claim havent indicated that the property cant 
be safely lived in, and Im unaware of any loss of use or utilities at the property caused by 
the damage.
Im not satisfied that the policy terms and conditions cover a claim made by Mr and Mrs R for 
loss of rental income in the circumstances theyve described.
Compensation
Fairmead has recognised that it could have handled the claim better and that avoidable 
delays did occur due to its errors. It offered £250 compensation to recognise this. Our 
investigator thought that having considered all of the evidence available, a total amount of 
compensation of £600 was appropriate, so Fairmead should pay an additional £350. Neither 
party agreed with this.
While its not unusual for insurance claims, especially those made for subsidence, to take a 
significant period of time to resolve, and also cause distress and inconvenience to 
policyholders, insurers must handle claims promptly and effectively. Its accepted that there 
were occasions during this claim when this wasnt the case.
Representatives appointed by Fairmead to carry out investigations at the property failed to 
identify a drain at the property, and then when reattending having been informed of this 
didnt inspect the correct one. In addition, there was a period of around two months following a report being prepared that no obvious action was taking place to progress the claim. The 
inadequate investigations and lack of action contributed to what I think can be estimated as 
around six months of avoidable delays to the claim. In addition, there was a lack of pro-
active updates to Mr and Mrs R, meaning that they were regularly contacting Fairmead to 
find out what was happening with the claim.
I think that the impact of these delays and poor handling would have been considerable on 
Mr and Mrs R. They were caused significant inconvenience by the delays, errors and lack of 
progress on the claim. Its also been over a lengthy period, and unnecessarily delayed the 
claim by around half a year. When making an award of compensation, our services role isnt 
to punish financial businesses. Taking into account our guidelines and what I think is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances, I think that £600 in total is a suitable amount of 
compensation. As Fairmead has already offered £250, it should increase the amount it pays 
Mr and Mrs R by £350.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint in part. To put things right, Fairmead Insurance 
Limited must pay Mr and Mrs R an additional £350 compensation, making £600 in total. 
Fairmead must pay this amount within 28 days of us telling it that Mr and Mrs R accept our 
final decision. If it does not, it must pay simple interest at a rate of 8% per year from that 
date until the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman