complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold in 1997 with a 
store card. Were now looking at this complaint against AXA France IARD (AXA). This is 
because Financial Insurance Company Limited has transferred responsibility for PPI 
complaints like this to AXA. Aside from which company were looking at this against, nothing 
else has changed. 
AXA France IARD (AXA), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for this sale. So to keep 
things simple in my decision Ill just say AXA when Im referring to the PPI seller or to AXA. 
Miss R says AXA mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Rs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
I think its likely AXA made it clear Miss R didnt have to take out the PPI and that she chose 
to take it  although I can understand why she cant remember this over 22 years later. I say 
this because in order to get cover, Miss R had to tick for it on the application form. The 
application isnt entirely easy to read but it does look like the box for PPI is ticked and Miss R 
signed the application form which denotes her agreement with its contents. Ive noted that 
theres no language on any documentary evidence that suggests the credit is dependent on 
taking out PPI.  
I know that Miss R has been very clear that she did not tick the box for the cover, that she 
did not give her consent to the PPI. I have considered everything Miss R told us about this. I 
dont doubt that Miss Rs testimony is given in good faith and represents her best 
recollection of these events. But having considered all the submissions made in this case, 
and considering the time that has passed since these events, I have seen insufficient 
evidence to think that her version of events is more likely than that she agreed to the cover 
at the time, as suggested by the application form.   
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Miss R, so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure she got the information she needed, so she could decide if it was 
right for her.
DRN-1539735The information AXA gave Miss R about the PPI probably wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But I think its likely Miss R would have had some understanding that it would pay a 
benefit if she wasnt able to work because she was sick or became unemployed. And based 
on what Ive seen of Miss Rs circumstances at the time, it seems that she was eligible for 
the cover this policy could provide and it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the 
exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover  so it would have been useful for her if something 
went wrong. 
And it appears that Miss R would have benefited from the cover. I say this because Miss R 
told us that whilst she had good sick pay initially, it wouldnt have lasted longer than three 
months. And whilst Miss R told us she had some savings she could have relied on, Miss R 
hasnt been able to provide any evidence of them or been able to recall how much they 
amounted to. Having the PPI would mean the policy would pay out for longer than her 
employer would pay her sick pay at her full rate of pay and it would reduce her reliance on 
any savings she may have had to repay the store card. So I think the PPI could be useful for 
her.
So having considered everything, I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put Miss R off taking out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 May 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman