DRN-4371281
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that QIC Europe Limited (QIC) has recorded an incident as a claim under
his home insurance policy.
QIC are the underwriters of this policy. Part of this complaint concerns the actions of its
agents. QIC is accountable for the actions of its agents, so in my decision any reference to
QIC includes its agents.
What happened
In November 2020 Mr H noticed water streaming down a bedroom wall following a storm.
After taking advice from a local builder, he contacted QIC and said that he thought water
was entering his property from around the chimney area of the roof. QIC agreed that there
were storm conditions and sent out a surveyor to assess the damage. The surveyor
concluded that the storm was not the cause of damage and that this was due to deterioration
of a previous repair around the chimney. QIC declined the claim.
When renewing his policy Mr H noticed that a claim had been recorded against his name. He
queried this with QIC and was advised that this related to the incident in November 2020. He
complained to QIC and said that he didnt make a claim under his policy, but simply asked
QIC whether he could make a claim. He asked that QIC remove any record of the claim.
QIC said that the incident had been correctly logged. It said Mr H had agreed to the surveyor
attending and that it had properly advised him that he was making a claim.
Mr H didnt agree and brought his complaint to this service. He said that during the initial call
to QIC he had trouble hearing what the call handler was saying due to a poor connection. He
says he would never have agreed to the surveyor attending had he known that it would be
logged as a claim. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as she thought that QIC had
acted fairly by registering the incident as a claim. Mr H asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My provisional decision
On 27 July 2023 I made a provisional decision. I said:
QIC has provided a recording of the telephone conversation between Mr H and QIC which
forms the basis of this complaint. Mr H says that its not fair to rely on this as he couldnt
hear the call handler clearly throughout the call and doesnt think the recording accurately
reflects what he hears.
Ive listened to the call and thought carefully about what Mr H has said. I accept that he says
at one point that hes struggling to hear  and asks if the call handler is still there. However,
the call handler repeats the information she provided, and Mr H says that he understands. If
he hadnt heard, he could have queried this again. I think the conversation flows and makes
sense and I dont get the impression that Mr H is not hearing what is being asked of him. His
replies all seem appropriate to the questions asked.
So, Ive gone on to consider the contents of the conversation. At the beginning of the call Mr
H says that he wants to know if the damage is something thats claimable or not. I think its
clear that hes asking QIC for advice on this  and not necessarily wanting to make a claim.
The call handler advises Mr H to get some temporary repairs and says that if he does want
to claim he should get a report and quote from his roofer. QIC says that Mr H is then advised
what will happen if he proceeds with the claim  that it will be logged against his policy and
could affect his future premium. I agree that this is what is said, but at this stage Mr H hasnt
said he wants to claim, and the call handler is simply advising what will happen if he does.
The call handler then asks Mr H if hed like to proceed with the claim and Mr H says yes.
However, he then immediately says So sorry when you say proceed with the claim does
someone need to come and assess it to say that its claimable first. The call handler replies
Yes so what wed do is send a surveyor. wholl use special equipment to have a look at
your roof. Hell look at your roofers report and if hes happy with what he sees and the plan
for the permanent repair and how much thatll cost then hell say yes Im happy with
everything Ive seen theres a valid claim  well continue further for you. Ok? Mr H replies
that hed like to go ahead with that.
I dont think from this conversation that QIC made it clear to Mr H that sending out a
surveyor will be treated as a claim. I appreciate that an insurer wouldnt normally send out a
surveyor to advise a policyholder if damage is claimable  but I dont think this was
explained to Mr H and I dont think it reasonable to assume that Mr H would know this.
Mr H was advised in two separate emails from QIC that the call handler read out a statement
saying Going beyond this point, will result in logging a claim and may have the potential to
affect the future premiums. If you proceed past that point, then it becomes a claim
registered, we also cannot provide information on if it is a coverable event in these situations
at the notification stage, as we do not know the outcome until a surveyor has been out. Mr
H says this wasnt read out and had it been, he wouldnt have agreed to the surveyor
attending.
I dont think theres any dispute now that the statement wasnt read out in its entirety. QIC
says that whilst the statement may be considered mandatory it doesnt expect its advisers to
read it word for word. I understand this but I dont think the relevant information was given to
Mr H. He wasnt told that QIC couldnt tell him if his damage was coverable until after the
surveyor attended - or that if he proceeds past this point a claim will be registered.
Bearing all the above in mind, I dont think QIC treated Mr H fairly. I intend to uphold this
complaint and require QIC to remove any record of a claim on both internal and external
databases. If Mr H has paid more for his insurance due to the incident being recorded as a
claim, then QIC should refund this to him with interest at 8% from the date of payment to the
date any monies are returned to him.
Mr H should be aware, however, that most insurers will record information about all
incidents, including those that dont proceed to a claim. These are usually recorded as
notifications only - and can still affect the cost of insurance premiums.
Response to my provisional decision
Mr H accepted my provisional decision. QIC didnt and raised a number of points. 
It said that whilst some parts of the telephone conversation had a poor connection, these 
were not during the relevant discussion of the complaint. Mr H was advised during the call 
what would happen if he proceeded with the claim  and that the call handler would have assumed at that point that Mr H did wish to claim and so proceeded to the next stage. QIC 
point out that Mr H said he wanted to proceed when asked and that he was aware a claim 
was being made and that it could affect his future premiums. It accepts he then questions 
this but says that its clear from listening to the telephone recording that Mr H was given all 
the relevant information.
QIC suggest that the call recording should be listened to independently of what either party 
states they were, or werent, aware of.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure QIC that Ive listened very carefully to the call recording a number of 
times and noted what was actually said and the way it was said by both the call handler and 
Mr H. My role is to independently assess all the evidence. Ive not approached this case 
from any particular viewpoint  but have made my decision based on the evidence and what 
I think is fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances of this case.  
Ive already dealt with most of the points raised by QIC in my provisional decision, so I 
havent gone over them at length here. I agree that the poor connection didnt appear to 
unduly affect Mr Hs understanding of what was being said to him  and I said this in my 
provisional decision. I also accepted that Mr H was advised that if he proceeded with a 
claim, it will be recorded against his policy and could affect his future premiums. QIC have 
gone on to say that the call handler could assume after this conversation that Mr H wanted 
to make a claim, but I dont agree. Mr H hadnt said that he wanted to claim  and I dont 
think it fair to assume that he did.
At the point of the conversation where Mr H says hed like to proceed, he immediately 
qualifies his reply as noted above. I dont think the call handlers response made it clear to 
Mr H that he was actually making a claim. He wasnt advised that going past this point would 
be logged as a claim. Nor was he told that he couldnt be advised at this stage whether the 
claim would be coverable. I think this is important as this is what Mr H said he wanted. At no 
point was he told that, despite it being part of the script that call handlers are encouraged to 
read out.
Having considered all the evidence, I think Mr H was left with the impression that he wasnt 
making a claim unless the surveyor accepted the damage was covered by the policy. I dont 
think QIC made its position clear. But would it have made a difference if it had? Mr H says it 
would and that he wouldnt have gone ahead if hed known he was making a claim. Ive 
considered this point carefully. Im satisfied that Mr H made it clear during the call that he 
didnt want to make a claim yet. He said from the outset that he was looking for advice about 
whether he could claim. He repeated this during the call. Hed already had builders round to 
assess the damage and been told there was a leak around the chimney. He didnt need the 
surveyor to tell him what the problem was - he wanted to know if it was something he could 
claim for. On balance I think it unlikely that Mr H would have gone ahead with the surveyors 
visit had he known he was logging a claim.
Having considered everything thats been said I havent seen anything new that makes me 
change my mind. I dont think QIC treated Mr H fairly and I uphold this complaint for the 
reasons given above and in my provisional decision. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require QIC Europe Ltd to:
remove any record of a claim being made from internal and external databases;
refund to Mr H any increase he has paid in his insurance premium as a result of the 
incident being recorded as a claim - upon production of evidence from Mr H if 
required; and
pay interest at 8% on the above from the date Mr H made payment to the date QIC 
refund any sums to him.
If QIC considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should also give Mr H a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman