DRN-1617848
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy Legal and General Assurance Society Limited postponed her joint term 
assurance and critical illness policy after she was diagnosed with sepsis. Mrs C believes 
Legal and General Assurance Society Limited caused a delay when she was applying for 
her cover when it wrote to the wrong GP surgery. If it wasnt for this delay Mrs C says her 
policy wouldve started before her diagnosis. She didnt feel the offer of £100 for the delay 
was fair. 
What happened
On 28 February 2019 Mrs C completed her joint application with her husband to L&G. L&G 
then wrote to the wrong GP surgery. Following some communication on 12 March 2019 from 
a third party company, L&G discovered it had written to the wrong GP. It then wrote to the 
correct GP on 14 March 2019. 
On 2 May 2019 Mrs C was admitted to hospital and she was diagnosed with sepsis on 3 
May 2019. L&G offered Mrs C a policy on 9 May 2019. It later found out, following a 
conversation with Mrs C, about the hospital visit and sepsis. As the diagnosis had occurred 
before the start date of the policy, L&G postponed its offer of a policy for Mrs C.
Our investigator felt this complaint should be upheld. He said based on the available 
evidence, if it wasnt for the delay caused by L&G Mrs Cs cover wouldve started before she 
was admitted to hospital and then diagnosed. So, he didnt think it was now fair that L&G 
was postponing her part of the policy as it wouldnt have been able to consider her hospital 
admission and diagnosis if it hadnt made a mistake. 
L&G has asked for an ombudsman review. It didnt feel the investigators assumption could 
be fairly applied here because it wasnt possible to say with certainty Mrs Cs GP wouldve 
responded in time if L&G hadnt made its mistake. So, it had fairly applied its underwriting 
criteria by considering Mrs Cs hospital admission and her subsequent conditions. 
Ive recently written to L&G asking it to accept Mrs Cs original application and to pay her an 
extra £100 in compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
L&G accepts that it wrote to the wrong GP despite being given the details by Mrs C. I 
understand the point being made by L&G that there are no set time scales for a GP to 
respond. But I believe the fairest thing to do would be to consider the timeframe that the 
delay of L&G writing to the wrong surgery caused. In this instance it was 14 days between 
L&G writing to the wrong GP and then being made aware of its error. So I think its fair and 
reasonable to assume that if L&G hadnt written to the wrong GP, cover under this policy 
wouldve started  on the balance of probabilities  14 days before the policy was accepted 
on 9 May and subsequently before Mrs C was admitted to the hospital on 2 May 2019. So, I believe its fair to conclude L&Gs mistake and the subsequent delay led Mrs C to no 
longer having the cover she wanted before her sepsis. I also believe it wouldnt be fair for 
L&G to now consider the sepsis and the heart issue which followed when offering the policy. 
These details wouldnt have been known to L&G before the policy started if it wasnt for its 
mistake. 
Putting things right
I believe L&G should now offer Mrs C cover as if this policy had started before she was 
admitted to hospital and on the same terms it offered her cover on 9 May 2019. The start 
date of the policy should be from 25 April 2019 which is 14 days before cover was offered on 
9 May 2019. This means L&G is entitled to the premiums from Mrs C for this policy from 25 
April 2019. If Mrs C cant make the payment up front, then L&G should arrange an affordable 
repayment plan for her to pay the premiums. 
I note L&G has already offered £100 in compensation to Mrs C which she accepted. Ive 
reviewed this figure and I think this should be increased by a further £100 totalling £200. 
L&Gs error has led to a very distressing decision to postpone cover. And this was made at a 
time where Mrs C was dealing with a troubling diagnosis and further tests.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Legal and General Assurance Society 
Limited should do the following;
1. Accept Mrs Cs application on the same terms it offered on 9 May 2019 with the 
policy starting on 25 April 2019. 
2. Set up an affordable repayment plan of the premiums Mrs C wouldve paid from the 
start date mentioned in point 1 above if Mrs C requests it to do so. 
3. It should also pay Mrs C an additional £100 in compensation. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman