DRN-2837994
The complaint
Mrs O complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) misrepresented a fixed sum
loan agreement to her by leading her to believe she could pay off the loan within twelve
months avoiding interest. She would like the extra payments she has made refunded.
What happened
Mrs O says she took out a fixed sum loan agreement in 2018 for some home improvements.
She says in the sales meeting she was led to believe that the loan would be interest free if
she paid it off in total within 12 months by making 12 payments of £250.80 and a one-off
payment of £3,820.85.
Mrs O says she believes she made the above payments but then discovered that
Shawbrook were still taking payments from her.
Shawbrook said the details of the loan agreement were clear and that Mrs O hasnt been
able to evidence that the loan was misrepresented to her.
I issued a provisional decision in which I found :-
I had two pieces of information to consider, the contract and the handwritten note Mrs 
O says the salesman gave her
The fixed sum loan agreement clearly set out the terms on the front page. The 
agreement was for 36 months. The total cash price was £7,046, a deposit of £99 was 
paid leaving a credit advance of £6,947. Monthly repayments were noted as being 
£250.80 with interest at 17.9% giving a total amount payable of £9,127.80
There was an early settlement clause in the agreement which explained that all or 
part of the balance could be repaid early at any time. It also explained the process for 
doing this which included getting a settlement quote. It explained that in the event of 
early repayment interest was payable although there might be a reduction according 
to rules within consumer credit legislation.
Mrs O had the full details of the loan available to her. And although the loan was a 
flexible one that allowed for early full or partial repayment no mention is made of 
making payments in such a way as to avoid any interest. Based on this information 
and on the statements Shawbrook has provided I cant see any evidence that it has 
wrongly or over charged Mrs O for the loan.
Mrs O gave us a handwritten note which she says confirms the figures she has told 
us she understood. It notes a first payment of £3,820.85 and twelve following 
payments of £250.80.
As the note wasnt signed or dated, I couldnt be sure who wrote it. I was concerned 
that the figures didnt match the credit advance payment.  The note also didnt make 
any reference to paying off the loan in full or any comment about making payments to 
avoid interest. So, I didnt find it very credible
Mrs O made her first monthly payment of £2590.80 in February 2019. If she was 
following the information on the handwritten note, I would have expected a first bulk 
payment of £3,820.85.
If I understood Mrs O correctly, she has told us she did make this payment, but it was 
returned. Thats not evidenced on the statements. But even if it were, she then didnt 
make this one-off payment until June 2020 which doesnt accord with what she says 
the salesman told her to do.
I wasnt persuaded that the handwritten note was enough evidence for me to 
conclude that Mrs O was misled about the agreement she signed. And as the 
agreement is clear, and with the correct terms including early repayment, I thought 
even if Mrs O believed she could repay the loan within a year without any interest 
being charged that she would have realized from the agreement that this was not the 
case.
The loan was misrepresented to Mrs O. So, on that basis I couldnt reasonably 
expect Shawbrook to refund payments over and above the credit advance. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shawbrook has accepted my provisional decision. It didnt make any  comments for me to 
consider but it did provide some clarification, when requested , on the first payment of 
£3,820.85 that Mrs O made.
Mrs O didnt accept my provisional decision. She has helpfully sent in copies of her bank 
statements which show her  first large payment of £3,820.85 , in February 2019 and the 
same payment in June 2020. Mrs O has told us the first payment was returned in May 2019.
Shawbrook has explained that  the first payment of  £3,820.85 was returned in May 2019 as 
the reference given on the payment was insufficient to make the payment. And the name 
given didnt match the account holder. Given this information I dont think Shawbrook made 
any mistake in returning this payment. 
Mrs O has told us that she didnt realise the payment had been returned until nearly a year 
later as she didnt use that account very much. I am surprised she  didnt check the payment 
had gone through since it was a large sum of money,  or that she didnt notice the payment 
had been returned. There are a reasonable number of transactions on the statements I have 
seen so it does seem to be an account that was used.
The statements Mrs O have given us also show a payment in February 2019 of £250.80 to 
Shawbrook. I havent seen all of Mrs Os statements but as £250.80 was the monthly 
payment stated on the contract, I think the February payment was her first regular one. I 
apologise the for confusion in incorrectly noting this figure in my provisional decision,
I accept Mrs Os point that there is nothing in the contract to say she cant pay more than the 
specified monthly amount . As I explained in my provisional decision the contract explains 
that the loan can be repaid early and explains the process for doing so.  Had Mrs followed this process she could have got a formal quote rather than relying on a conversation and 
figures jotted down on a piece of paper
The piece of paper with figures for repayment Mrs O gave us   was unsigned and undated, I 
cant be sure who wrote the figures on it. And the figures dont quite match up with what is 
on Mrs Os agreement. I would have been more persuaded had the figures been on headed 
note paper and  signed by the salesman but as they arent. I dont feel this information is 
sufficient to say the loan was mis represented to Mrs O.
But even if I were to accept the figures on this piece of paper as what Mrs O agreed to as 
she didnt make the lump sum payment specified  within twelve months as she didnt provide 
the right information for the payment to be made. So she didnt do , what she says she 
believed she needed to do , to pay off the loan in full.
Unfortunately, even with the additional information Mrs O has given us I dont feel I can 
reasonably conclude that Shawbrook did something wrong that it must put right. Mrs O didnt 
make the full payment for the loan within twelve months . And I have  also seen no 
information that persuades me that Shawbrook has over charged Mrs O .
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman