DRN-2949920
The complaint
Mr C complains that LEBC Group Limited changed the investment make-up of his portfolio 
without letting him know which he says caused him a financial loss. 
What happened
Mr C received advice in March 2017 about transferring two of his existing pensions into an 
Income and Growth portfolio managed by LEBC. The first transfer was completed in 
August 2017, and the second in October 2017.
In June 2019 Mr C was contacted saying that an investment which made up part of the 
portfolio, the Woodford Equity Income fund (WEIF), had been suspended. Mr C didnt recall 
seeing WEIF listed in the portfolio when he received the advice to transfer so he complained 
to LEBC. 
LEBC said that WEIF wasnt part of the portfolio when Mr C received the advice and it was 
added between that time and when the pension transfers took place. They said Mr C was 
made aware of WEIF being part of the portfolio when in July 2018 he was sent a review 
document. This review recommended to reduce the holdings in WEIF from 20% to 5% of the 
portfolio. Mr C signed and returned a form accepting this change so LEBC didnt uphold the 
complaint. 
Mr C was unhappy with the response so brought his complaint to this service where one of 
our investigators looked into what happened. They thought LEBC shouldve made Mr C 
aware of the change in the portfolio. However they didnt think there was any financial loss 
as Mr C would probably have invested in the portfolio even if hed known that the WEIF was 
included. They also thought the make up of the portfolio, including the WEIF, matched the 
attitude to risk from when the advice was taken.
Mr C disagreed saying LEBC shouldve contacted him to let him know about the changes to 
the portfolio before the transfers took place. Because they didnt do this he feels he suffered 
a financial loss which LEBC should make up for. So the complaint has come to me for a 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear to me how strongly Mr C feels about what happened. I want to assure him that Ive 
read and considered everything provided even if I dont mention it in detail. Ive summarised 
the complaint which reflects the informal nature of our service.  
All parties agree that Mr C wasnt told about a change which meant WEIF made up part of 
his portfolio. This was because WEIF was added to the portfolio after Mr C received advice, 
but before the transfer of both pensions was finalised. 
Ive looked at the Pension Transfer Report prepared when Mr C was given advice. This 
explains that there would be reviews of the portfolio and annual rebalancing. It was during 
one of these reviews that WEIF was added to the portfolio. 
This was unfortunate timing, and I think it wouldve been prudent of LEBC to let Mr C know 
that the make-up of the portfolio had changed from when he originally received the advice. 
But I think LEBC were able to make the changes they did as part of a rebalancing review, 
and I dont think they made any errors, or made any changes they werent authorised to do.
Where I think a business has made a mistake I need to consider what position the consumer 
would be in had that error not occurred. Here Mr C has said that had he known that WEIF 
was in his initial portfolio he probably wouldve agreed to invest. So from this perspective I 
dont think there is any financial loss as the position would be the same.
Looking at the make-up of the portfolio I think the investments all suited Mr Cs attitude to 
risk. This includes the WEIF and the investment which was sold when it came into the 
portfolio. The performance of an investment isnt something that I can look at, but Im 
satisfied the portfolio matched Mr Cs attitude to risk, which is how I would expect LEBC to 
act.
LEBC wrote to Mr C after a review in July 2018 recommending that the holdings of WEIF be 
reduced from 20% to 5% of the portfolio. Mr C accepted this change by signing and returning 
a form to LEBC. This made Mr C aware of WEIF being in the portfolio, if he wasnt aware of 
it before. If at that time there were any concerns about WEIF they couldve been raised with 
LEBC. However Mr C didnt raise any concerns until after WEIF was suspended sometime 
later.
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im not persuaded any direct financial 
loss was caused by the actions of LEBC, so I wont be asking them to take any further 
action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman