DRN-2725994
The complaint
Mr P has complained about Amtrust Europe Limiteds decision to decline a claim he made
under a home insurance policy. Amtrust avoided his policy for misrepresentation.
What happened
Mr P bought a home insurance policy through a broker in January 2020. In March 2020 he
reported damage to a retaining wall outside the property following a storm. An abnormal sea
swell caused the wall to partially collapse.
Amtrust instructed a loss adjuster to inspect the damage. He reported back to Amtrust, but
they raised concerns about the construction of Mr Ps property. Mr P said his property was
constructed of a mixture of timber and concrete, with a slate roof.
Amtrust decided to avoid Mr Ps policy as it said he didnt take reasonable care in answering
its question about the construction of the property. It said that if it had known the true
construction of Mr Ps property, it wouldnt have offered him a policy. So it avoided his policy
and this meant it didnt cover his claim.
Mr P complained to Amtrust. He believed he answered the key question correctly, but found
it ambiguous. Amtrust said its decision was correct. Mr P explained that as a result of his
policy being voided  this had to be declared to other insurers- which made it more difficult to
obtain cover and when he did find a policy, it was more expensive.
Mr P asked us to look at his complaint. Our investigator followed the Consumer Insurance
(Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) to give his view. He didnt think the
question Amtrust had asked Mr P was clear. And so he didnt think a qualifying
misrepresentation had been made by Mr P. It followed that he thought Amtrust hadnt fairly
avoided Mr Ps policy and rejected his claim.
So the investigator made a number of recommendations for Amtrust to put things right for Mr
P:
Amtrust didnt agree. It said its question was clear. 
I issued a provisional decision on 3 March 2021. I thought Mr Ps complaint should be 
upheld, but my intended recommendations to resolve his complaint were different. 
Both parties accepted my provisional decision. Mr P provided proof of the replacement policy 
and payment for completed repairs. So the case has been passed back to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accepted my provisional decision, my final decision is along the same lines.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation)
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
It is for an insurer to show that a misrepresentation took place. In order to show this, we look
at what question was asked, what answer was given and if the answer given was correct.
The key question that Amtrust relied on to make its decision says:
Is the property built solely with;
 Brick (including timber frame), stone, or concrete (not prefabricated walls)
 Slate, tile or concrete roof (other than flat roof sections)?
Mr P answered; (X) Yes 
Mr P says that on checking the Statement of Fact, he found the question was ambiguous as
it doesnt distinguish between brick or timber frame. Mr P said that his property is built of a
mixture of timber, concrete and a slate roof. So he believed he had answered the question
honestly and correctly.
Amtrust said that it considers the property has no brick, stone or concrete work at all so they
are clearly not part of a brick wall structure.
But I agree with Mr P. I dont think the question Amtrust asked about the construction of the
property supports the view Amtrust has taken. It doesnt ask whether the property is
constructed of a brick wall structure, as Amtrust has interpreted. And the question includes a
timber frame in the list of different materials for the propertys construction. So I dont think
Mr P gave Amtrust incorrect information. I think he answered the question honestly and
accurately. Photos of the property seem to show the construction as Mr P described. It
therefore follows that in line with CIDRA, I dont think Amtrust has shown that a
misrepresentation took place. So I think Amtrust should consider Mr Ps claim under the
remaining terms and conditions of the policy it unfairly avoided.
Where an insurer meets a claim, it has met its obligations under the policy and therefore the
yearly premium is usually due. But because of Amtrusts decision, Mr P needed to obtain
alternative insurance much sooner than he would otherwise have needed. If Amtrust had
dealt with Mr Ps claim and not avoided his policy, he would have continued to pay for cover
at the agreed premium with Amtrust until renewal in January 2021.
However, in this case Mr P said he bought a replacement policy. So if Amtrust didnt provide
a pro rata refund of premium, Mr P will have effectively paid twice for cover for a period of up
to eight months.
Mr P provided evidence of the policy he bought to replace the avoided one with Amtrust. So 
in line with my provisional decision, I think the fairest outcome is what Ive set out below.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Amtrust Europe Limited to do the following:
Consider Mr Ps claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the avoidedpolicy.
If Amtrust meets Mr Ps claim, I think it should only charge him the premium for 
the duration of the policy up until Mr P bought a replacement policy.
So, if Amtrust kept the whole yearly premium, it will need to provide a pro rata 
refund. If it refunded the premium, it can deduct the pro rata amount from any 
settlement sum it pays.
If Amtrust meets Mr Ps claim, as hes provided proof of payment for repairs, 
Amtrust should reimburse Mr P.
Remove any cancellation marker against Mr Ps record if there is one.
Pay Mr P £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience its
decision caused. I think Mr P was put to considerable worry and inconvenience 
by having his claim rejected for misrepresentation.
Mr P can provide a copy of my final decision letter to the insurer of the replacement policy 
and ask it to recalculate the premium it charged him based on the avoidance.
If Mr P has any concerns about the insurer of the replacement policy, he can raise a
separate complaint with them, which we can consider if he remains unhappy.
Amtrust Europe Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr P accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate of 
8% a year.
If Amtrust Europe Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr P a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman