DRN-3698167
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) gave her loans she couldnt afford to 
repay.
Mrs B also says at the time she applied for the loans she was on maternity leave and had
significant adverse information on her credit file including County Court Judgements (CCJ)
and she was behind with her repayments on other loans.
What happened
For this complaint, Mrs B was advanced four home collected loans between March 2020 and
July 2021. Ive included some of the information weve received about these loans in the
table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £400.00 05/03/2020 14/12/2020 34 £20.00
2 £550.00 06/01/2021 14/07/2021 34 £27.50
3 £200.00 24/03/2021 12/07/2021 34 £10.00
4 £700.00 14/07/2021 outstanding 35 £35.00
Mrs B had some problems repaying loan four and Morses told us that an outstanding 
balance remains due.
Before these loans listed above, Mrs B had around 21 previous loans from a loan company 
that Morses purchased as well as Morses. These loans ran from around November 2013 to 
when the final loan was repaid in April 2018. These loans have already been considered by 
Morses and final response letters (FRLs) have been issued about them.
In addition, there is around a two-year gap between the repayment of a loan and when loan
one in the table above was granted. So, it was reasonable for Morses to have treated 
Mrs Bs application for loan one afresh. And given this gap and the previous FRLs I say no 
more about these earlier loans as they have no impact on my findings for the loans listed 
above.
For the avoidance of doubt, this decision will only be dealing with the loans in the above 
table.
The weekly repayment column in the table above is the cost per week per loan. Where
loans overlapped the cost per week was increased, for example when loans two and three
were running at the same time Mrs Bs weekly commitment to Morses was £37.50.
Following Mrs Bs complaint Morses wrote to her to explain that it wasnt going to uphold her
complaint about the above loans. Mrs B didnt accept the outcome and referred the 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint and he didnt uphold the complaint about these loans.
He explained that Morses checks didnt need to go any further  such as asking for
evidence that may have shown the loans were unsustainable.
While, it took slightly longer than anticipated to repay loan one (seven additional weeks)
there was then a gap before loan two was taken and he didnt think, taking account of the
lending history that there was enough to uphold the complaint.
Finally, the adjudicator couldnt conclude that the agent had amended the data within the
application forms to allow Mrs B to be approved for her loans due to a lack of evidence.
Morses didnt respond to the adjudicators assessment.
Mrs B didnt agree with the proposed outcome, she sent several emails with further
comments and Ive summarised these below.
The first three loans were repaid late.
Mrs B had a number of outstanding loans at the time.
Mrs B says the information contained about the repayment term and amount are
wrong  but no further information as to why was provided.
Her account history clearly shows she was having problems repaying these loans.
Mrs B says the agent didnt ask for information about her income and expenditure.
Apart from the first visit to her home, Mrs B had no input from the agent.
The adjudicator went back to Mrs B to explain why, in his view, these comments hadnt
altered his assessment of the complaint.
Mrs B didnt agree and asked for her case to be considered by an ombudsman.
I then issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to uphold 
Mrs Bs complaint. A copy of my provisional findings follows this in italics and smaller font 
and forms part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mrs B could afford to pay back the amounts
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks couldve taken into account a number of
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mrs Bs
income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs B. These factors include:
Mrs B having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mrs B having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a longperiod of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mrs B coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mrs B.
Morses was required to establish whether Mrs B could sustainably repay the loans  not just
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mrs B was able to repay her
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mrs Bs complaint.
Like the adjudicator, Ive not seen quite enough to be able to conclude that the agent in
some way manipulated the data to make these loans appear affordable. I appreciate Mrs B
feels strongly about this, but I dont have the evidence to be able to conclude this. However,
Ive still upheld her complaint for the reasons Ive outlined below.
For all of these loans, Morses asked Mrs B about what her declared weekly income and what
her declared weekly expenditure was.
For loan one Morses has recorded that her weekly income was £482 with outgoings of
£363.50. For loans two  four her income has been recorded as between £361 and £364 per
week with outgoings of between £173 and £299.
So Morses, wouldve reasonably concluded, based on this information that Mrs B could afford
the largest combined weekly repayment of £37.50, based solely, on the income and
expenditure it gathered.
Given this was still quite early on the lending relationship which means, in my view, Morses
could rely on the information Mrs B had provided.
However, for loan one Morses carried out a credit check and it has supplied the results of
the check. It is important to note here, that Morses wasnt required to carry out a credit
search, let alone one to a required standard. The information Morses may have received
from the credit reference agency could differ from the information Mrs B may see from her
credit report that she can obtain. This is because, Morses may only ask to see certain pieces
of information and/or other creditors (especially recent ones) may not yet have updated its
records with the agency.
In saying that, what Morses cant do, is do a credit search and then not react (if appropriate)
to the information it has been given. Having looked at the credit report it received, there is
some concerning information which I think ought to have prompted Morses to do more. Ive
summarised this information below;
Morses was aware of three CCJs which could be a cause for concern. However, the
most recent of these three was recorded over three years before the first loan was
approved. So, I dont think, this on its own wouldve led Morses to conclude that Mrs B
would have problems repaying her loans at the point when they were approved. But it
was information that Morses needed to consider.
The same goes for the one default Morses was aware off  this had been recordedover three years before so in my view not something for it to be overly concerned
about.
Mrs B had 36 active credit accounts  which is a significant number, of which five had
a zero balance. This meant, Mrs B was using 31 credit accounts  which could be
loans, store or credit cards to name a few. This does seem a particularly high number
of active credit accounts that couldve been being used.
Mrs B had opened 13 credit accounts in the last three months. This is on average four
credit facilities a month. Again, this is a significant number is likely that some or all of
these new credit facilities would likely be high cost short term creditors.
Morses was also aware, that in the previous three months Mrs B had borrowed
around £5,000.
In my view, Mrs Bs credit file information suggested that she was, for whatever reason
having to borrow fairly large amounts of credit on a regular basis and had been doing so for
at least the last previous three months. As Ive said, given the number of active and newly
opened accounts it is likely these related to high cost credit  or payday loans and so could
indicate she was having wider financial problems.
So, knowing this information, I do think Morses ought to have carried out further checks into
Mrs Bs financial position for all of these loans. Especially because Mrs Bs indebtedness to
Morses increased (as well as the weekly repayment) and she had some problems repaying
her loans. So, I dont think Morses checks were proportionate for any of the loans.
Instead, I think that Morses needed to have a complete and thorough understanding of
Mrs Bs financial position and it ought to have verified the information she had provided.
Morses couldve done this a number of ways, it couldve asked for example to see a copy of
her wage slip and or bills. Or it couldve asked to see a copy of her bank statements from
around the time these loans were approved.
Unfortunately, Mrs B hasnt provided the Financial Ombudsman with copies of her bank
statements, but I have seen that she has brought a number of other complaints to the
Financial Ombudsman about similar issues with other lenders. Ive therefore considered the
information contained within the other complaints to see what they show me about Mrs Bs
overall financial position.
Looking at the information that I do have, I can see that Mrs B was significantly in arrears with
two home credit loans with a well-known home credit provider. Mrs B clearly had experienced
significant repayment problems and still owed this company over £2,500.
In addition to this I can see, from the other complaints that Mrs B had a number of high cost
(both short term and longer-term) loans as well as credit cards and catalogue shopping
accounts.
In the months before loan one was approved, I can see that Mrs B was making monthly
repayments of at least £350 to just one credit card and two catalogue shopping accounts. It
seems that there was potentially at least one other shopping account that was active at this
time  but I dont have the information about what the monthly repayments may have been.
In addition, in the month before this facility was approved Mrs B was advanced nearly £1,000
in capital from two high cost lenders. One of which led to repayments of at least £120 per
month  the other I dont have information on what the payments may have been. But this is
clearly a significant amount to have been advanced given her weekly income of £482.
So, Im satisfied, based on Morses credit check and the limited information I have been able
to obtain from Mrs B other complaints that she was likely regularly opening high cost credit 
which is supported by her credit check results.
Mrs B also was having difficulties with existing home credit debt and having a not insignificant
amount outstanding due to other catalogue shopping and credit card companies. I dont
think, that had Morses carried out a proportionate check it wouldve likely felt that Mrs B couldafford to take on loan one because she was already having money management problems
and was, in my view already over-indebted to other lenders.
Based on what I can see her situation didnt appear to change throughout the life of her
lending relationship with Morses. Indeed, Mrs B does appear to also have repayment
problems with Morses after all it took her seven weeks longer than scheduled to repay loan
one.
Moving forward, she continued to have significant repayment problems with the other home
credit provider, continued to use her catalogues shopping accounts and just before loan four
was granted she took out a five-month instalment loan with repayments due of over £400 per
month. So, like loan one, I dont think Morses ought to have provided loans two to four
either.
Im therefore intending to fully uphold Mrs Bs complaint and Ive outlined below what Morses
will need to do in order to put things right.
Response to the Provisional Decision
Both Morses and Mrs B were given the opportunity to supply any further information and 
evidence as soon as possible, but no later than 16 September 2022. 
Mrs B responded and accepted the findings in the provisional decision. 
Morses didnt agree with the proposed findings and Ive summarised its response below;
Morses expected there to be some adverse data recorded on Mrs Bs credit file.
While Mrs B had a high value of outstanding debt this was considered as part of the 
affordability assessment.
The disposable income Morses calculated shouldnt be needed for existing 
commitments as it had already taken the repayments into account. 
Morses hasnt seen anything to suggest Mrs B was using other loans to meet her 
repayments. 
Mrs Bs income was verified through the credit reference agencies. 
Morses also used figures from the Office of National Statistics (ONS) and pre-
populated minimum figures for expenditure which included rent, council tax, utilities, 
insurance, transport, groceries, media and childcare. 
Mrs B had sufficient disposable income to afford the loan repayments. 
Only a small portion of Mrs Bs income was needed in order to meet her commitment 
to Morses. 
Morses spoke to Mrs B about why loan 1 exceeded the repayment term and she 
explained that this was due to a combination of reasons including COVID-19. 
There was a break in lending of three weeks between loans 1 and 2. 
Loans 2 and 3 were manged remotely by Mrs B.
Morses only became aware of Mrs Bs change in circumstances in October 2021. 
As both parties have responded to the provisional decision, I see no reason to wait for the 
deadline set in the provisional decision to expiry in order to issue the final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive carefully considered what Morses says in response to the provisional decision but these 
points havent changed my mind about the outcome of Mrs Bs complaint and Ive explained 
why below. 
The gap of three weeks that Morses mentions is too small to either break the chain or to 
have any bearing on the types of checks that it ought to have carried out. I also, dont think 
the portion of income that Mrs B had to use in order to repay Morses is a factor either and 
isnt the reason why I upheld the complaint. So, I say no more about this. 
I partly agree with Morses about the credit file, while the CCJs and defaults were historic it 
was information that was available to Morses to at the time. However, I didnt and still dont 
think that the mere presences of a CCJ, in this case, is the sole reason to uphold the 
complaint. But in saying that, it is clear, from the credit checks that Mrs B was making 
regularly use of other credit facilities. 
She had 31 active accounts (according to the information Morses received) had borrowed 
just over £5,000 within the last three months leading up to her first loan. On average she had 
opened at least four new credit facilities, each month within the last three. Knowing this, 
ought to have made Morses realise that Mrs B wasnt coping and appears to have been 
constantly in need for credit. Indeed, given how frequent new accounts were being opened, I 
think its highly likely these new credit accounts were high cost short term credit loans.
Arguably, this is information alone is enough to uphold the complaint. However, I suggested 
that it may have been fairer to have carried out further checks to get to the bottom of why 
Mrs B was borrowing fairly large amounts and opening lots of new credit facilities. 
I appreciate, bank statements werent required to be checked, but I think that was at least 
one method Morses couldve used to establish what was going on in Mrs Bs finances. As it 
is, I didnt view bank statements because I didnt have them. But I was still able to uphold the 
complaint based on other information that I had to hand  and which Morses wouldve likely 
discovered had it made better checks. 
I was able to review other complaints which Mrs B had raised with the 
Financial Ombudsman Service and those other complaints confirmed what I suspected. 
Mrs B was already spending a not insignificant sum making repayments to other lenders and 
was already (at the time of loan 1) in arrears with another home credit provider. She already 
owed this provider over £2,500. Knowing that Mrs B was struggling to repay outstanding 
home credit loans ought to have led Morses to conclude that all her loan repayments werent 
sustainable. 
While, Morses has now provided some screen shots of contact notes made between itself 
and Mrs B I dont think these change the outcome that Im reaching. They provide context as 
to why for example loan 1 was repaid late, but I dont think this loan ought to have been 
granted given what the credit showed and what further checks wouldve likely highlighted. 
So, although, as Morses says Mrs B appeared to have sufficient disposable income to afford 
her repayments, I dont think these loans ought to have been granted given the information 
Morses was aware and what further checks may have highlighted about Mrs B  that she 
was already over indebted and already having payment problems serving existing debts. 
Ive therefore reached the same outcome that I did in the provisional decision for the same 
reasons and I dont think Morses ought to have granted any of the loans to Mrs B. Ive 
outlined below what Morses needs to do in order to put things right for her. Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened had it not lent to Mrs B, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly there are a
great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs B may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Mrs B in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Mrs B would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have provided any of the loans.
If Morses has sold the outstanding debt, it should buy it back if it is able to do so
and then take the following steps. If Morses is not able to buy the debt back then it
should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A. Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs B towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything Morses have already refunded.
B. Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs 
B which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs B originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Morses should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mrs B as though they had 
been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mrs B 
having made overpayments then Morses should refund these overpayments with 8% 
simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Morses should then refund 
the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mrs B. However, if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Morses should try to agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Mrs B.
E. Morses should remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Bs credit file in 
relation to all of these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should
give Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Mrs Bs 
complaint.
Morses Club PLC should put things right for Mrs B as directed above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman