DRN-3445640
The complaint
Mr W complained that Loans 2 Go Limited didnt do proper affordability checks and so lent 
to him irresponsibly and provided loans that were unaffordable. 
What happened
Mr W took out loans with Loans 2 Go as follows:
Loan Date taken Loan amount Monthly 
instalmentsMonthly 
repaymentLoan paid
1July 2019 £250 18 £57.14 by loan 2
2February 2020 £642.91 18 £146.94 by loan 3
3August 2020 £809.09 18 £184.92 February 2021
The loan purposes werent recorded on the applications. 
When Mr W complained to Loans 2 Go it didnt uphold his complaint so he brought his 
complaint to us. One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Loans 2 
Go shouldnt have provided any of the loans. Our adjudicator recommended that the 
complaint should be upheld and set out directions indicating what Loans 2 Go should do to 
put things right.  
Loans 2 Go disagreed with our adjudicators view in part. Whilst it now agreed that loan 1 
should be upheld, it said the information it saw on Mr Ws credit reports showed the majority 
of his payments were up to date and there wasnt anything else that suggested he was 
struggling financially when he took out loans 2 and 3.
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved, it comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also 
require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify 
the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
As Loans2Go has agreed to uphold Mr Ws complaint about loan 1 and do what is needed to 
put things right in line with our adjudicators recommendation, then I dont need to consider 
this loan further save to include it in the redress. 
For loan 2, Loans 2 Go asked Mr W about his income and expenses  including what he 
spent on his credit commitments. It also did its own credit check to understand Mr Ws credit 
history. Loans 2 Go verified that Mr Ws minimum monthly pay was around £1,532. After 
reviewing the information it had gathered, Loans 2 Go boosted the monthly expenditure 
figure that Mr W had declared and calculated that he would need to spend approximately 
£1,214 in total each month. It also took into account nationally available statistics when 
thinking about Mr Ws likely spending and allowed for a buffer of 10% of his verified 
expenditure to account for any fluctuations in his monthly income or expenditure. Based on 
this, Loans 2 Go said Mr W shouldve been able to afford the monthly repayment on this 
loan.  
Our adjudicator didnt think those checks were proportionate, but I dont need to make any 
findings on this point because I think Loans 2 Go had already gathered information that 
shouldve prompted it to decline this loan application.
Despite recording information that led Loans 2 Go to conclude that Mr W had enough spare 
cash each month to cover the loan monthly repayments, I think Loans 2 Go shouldve 
realised that it couldnt rely on this information. Thats because what Mr W had declared was 
significantly at odds with what Loans 2 Go saw on its credit checks showing Mr Ws credit 
history. 
Whilst having an impaired credit history or other borrowing wouldnt be unusual for a 
borrower applying for this type of expensive borrowing, and it wouldnt necessarily be a bar 
to lending, I dont think Loans 2 Go thought carefully enough about what the information it 
had gathered showed about Mr Ws overall financial situation and the likelihood of him being 
able to pay its loan in a sustainable manner. 
I say this because Mr W had a credit card over its limit and he was 3 payments in arrears on 
that account. He had used almost all of the available credit on his other credit cards and 
been in default on a loan just two months earlier. On top of this, it was apparent that Mr W 
was over his £2,000 overdraft limit at the bank. 
Ive taken carefully into account everything Loans 2 Go has said in response to our 
adjudicators assessment about the way it assessed affordability. And I've thought carefully 
about what I think a responsible lender should have made of all this information and in particular whether it was enough for Loans 2 Go to make a fair decision to lend, particularly 
as it doesnt seem to have known how Mr W intended to use the money.
I think our adjudicator was right to say that all the indications were that Mr W was 
already struggling financially. 
To my mind, it shouldve been apparent that Mr W probably didnt have the amount of 
disposable income that Loans 2 Go calculated - or indeed any spare cash. Given that 
Mr W was having difficulty maintaining payments he already owed to creditors and 
bearing in mind his overdraft substantially exceeded the amount of his monthly 
income, this meant he would most likely have to rely on using borrowed money 
from the bank to cover his monthly outgoings and credit commitments for some 
time. 
All the signs were that his finances were, in reality, under significant stress and his 
debt was already unmanageable. I dont think Loans 2 Go was reasonably able to be 
satisfied in these circumstances that Mr W would be able to make its loan repayments 
in a sustainable way. 
Also, bearing in mind the repayment of this loan on top of the credit commitments Loans 2 
Go saw in its credit checks, I think its fair to say that Mr W needed to pay a significant 
portion of his income towards credit. And in my opinion, as a responsible lender Loans 2 
Go shouldve realised that Mr W would likely struggle to repay this loan  especially 
bearing in mind the 18 month loan term.
So thinking about all the information Loans 2 Go had gathered, I cant reasonably say 
that it made a fair lending decision based on the information in front of it when it 
provided loan 2. 
When Mr W applied for loan 3, this was the second time that hed applied for a top up 
 which he used to repay loan 2, taken out just 6 months or so earlier and also provide 
him with some extra cash. Loans 2 Go took Mr W through the same loan application 
process and updated the information it used in its affordability checks.
I think its fair to say that Mr Ws financial situation hadnt significantly improved 
despite the fact this was now his third loan from Loans 2 Go. He hadnt made all his 
payments on time for loan 2 and he was now a payment in arrears on two of his credit 
cards. His verified income had decreased during the period hed been borrowing from 
Loans 2 Go - whilst at the same time his borrowing with Loans 2 Go was increasing 
and his loan repayments were escalating. Mr W was still committed to paying such a 
significant proportion of his income towards meeting his credit commitments when he 
was already over-stretched financially that, realistically, I think it shouldve been 
apparent that this loan wasnt likely to be sustainably affordable for him.  
I think thats borne out by the payment problems he soon ran into. The fact that he 
settled the loan early isnt enough to persuade me that he was able to do so in a way 
that was sustainable. 
And so Loans 2 Go shouldnt have provided loan 3 and it needs to put things right. Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr W to repay the capital amount that he borrowed 
because he had the benefit of that lending - but he shouldnt repay more than this. 
Loans 2 Go should do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr W received as a result of having been given 
loans 1,2 and 3. The repayments Mr W made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Mr W having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Loans 2 Go should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr W bearing in mind the need to 
treat him positively and sympathetically if he still needs further time to pay what he 
owes.
Whilst its fair that Mr Ws credit file is an accurate reflection of his financial history, 
its unfair that he should be disadvantaged by the decision to lend these loans. So 
Loans 2 Go should remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ws credit file 
regarding loans 1,2 and 3. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
should give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to take the steps I've set out above to 
put things right for Mr W. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman