DRN-3161033
The complaint
Mr W complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited loaded a marker against him on 
the National Fraud database. And hed like the marker removed. 
What happened
Mr W placed five separate orders for televisions in August 2015 via a website Ill call V. 
These were bought via a credit agreement with Shop Direct. 
Shop Direct explain that all five televisions were delivered to Mr Ws home address, however 
Mr W didnt make any payments so they contacted him to chase up the balance. Mr W 
initially explained  on at least three separate occasions  that he didnt receive all five 
televisions and asked Shop Direct to provide proof of delivery, however he wasnt specific in 
how many he did receive. After further email correspondence, and a telephone call from the 
police Mr W confirmed with Shop Direct he did have five televisions in his possession  
although one was damaged. And he agreed to return them. However, before doing so Mr W 
listed one of the televisions on an online shopping website called E.
 
As further payments werent made towards the account, Shop Direct moved Mr Ws account 
to collections and passed the outstanding balance to a debt collection agency. In 
January 2016 Shop Direct also recorded a negative fraud marker against Mr W for falsely 
reporting the items werent received. 
In 2020 Mr W applied for a Bounce Back Loan which was rejected. On carrying out some 
research he discovered a fraud marker was loaded against his name. 
Mr W complained to Shop Direct that he hadnt committed fraud  and Shop Direct had 
failed to accept responsibility for the damaged television and delivering five televisions 
instead of one. 
Shop Direct assessed Mr Ws complaint  but didnt think theyd acted unfairly in loading the 
negative marker against him. 
Mr W wasnt satisfied with Shop Directs response so complained to our service. He also 
highlighted that Shop Direct said the police had attended Mr Ws home which wasnt true. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ws complaint but didnt uphold it. They explained 
they thought Shop Direct had sufficient evidence to meet the requirements to load a marker. 
Mr W didnt agree. In summary he said:
One television was delivered damaged and Shop Direct didnt accept responsibility 
for it.
The Police advised is was a civil matter over the phone and they didnt attend his 
address.
As Mr W didnt accept our investigators opinion, its been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator has provided a detailed timeline of events and outlined the burden of proof 
required to load a fraud marker on the National Fraud database, so I wont repeat this in full. 
What I need to consider is if theres sufficient evidence to show that Mr W has attempted or 
committed fraud or a financial crime. And from what Ive seen, I think there is. Ill explain why 
below. 
Mr W has generally accepted that he ordered five televisions from Shop Direct  although 
hes mentioned that this was only to check the orders were working. One of the important 
questions here is whether, or not, Mr W actually received five televisions in August 2015. 
From the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied that he did. I say this because all the five delivery 
notes that the business has provided are signed - although one signature is slightly different 
to the others. In Mr Ws email correspondence with Shop Direct, after initially claiming 
otherwise he accepts that he has five televisions in his possession. And early on in the email 
exchange he confirms that his neighbour signed for one of the televisions. So, overall Im 
satisfied they were delivered and Mr W received them.
 
The question I need to consider is whether Mr W was deliberately dishonest when informing 
Shop Direct he didnt receive, and have possession, of the televisions. And Im satisfied he 
was. I say this for a number of reasons:
Mr W advised Shop Direct on at least three occasions in October and 
November 2015, more than 2 months after the items were delivered, that he hadnt 
received all five televisions. And therefore it wasnt possible for him to return them. 
However, after receiving contact from the Police he advised hed found the extra 
television. Considering Mr W appears to have signed four of the delivery notes and 
was aware the other one was delivered to a neighbour I dont find this explanation 
plausible. Id also have expected Mr W to check before informing Shop Direct he 
hadnt received items priced at over £3,000 each. 
Mr W accepts that hed listed one of the televisions for auction on a shopping website 
called E. On being asked why this was case by Shop Direct he explained he was 
only intending to demonstrate what they are actually worth. Ive thought about Mr Ws 
explanation however I find this highly unlikely  Im unable to understand why Mr W 
would want to establish how much the televisions were worth and why at a time he 
was informing Shop Direct he hadnt received all the items he was listing one for sale 
on a shopping website.
Mr W advised our investigator that he sold a couple of the televisions. I find this an 
odd thing for Mr W to do considering he was likely to be at a loss based on the funds 
he owed to V. 
Mr W responded to our investigators view by saying that one of the televisions was 
damaged, and Shop Direct didnt accept responsibility for it. I can see this would be 
frustrating for Mr W  however whether Shop Direct accepted liability for the damaged 
television, or not, wont impact on whether they fairly loaded a fraud marker against him. My 
conclusions are based on whether Mr W acted dishonestly when informing Shop Direct that 
he didnt receive all the televisions  and for the reasons Ive outlined above Im satisfied this 
is the case. 
Mr W also advised that the Police informed him this was a civil matter  I dont dispute this 
might be the case. But, Mr W doesnt need to be arrested or prosecuted for a crime to enable Shop Direct to load a negative marker against him. Instead there needs to be clear, 
relevant and rigorous evidence that a fraud or financial crime was attempted or committed. 
And Im satisfied Shop Direct have shown this.
 
For the reasons Ive explained above I wont be asking Shop Direct to do anything further 
here. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman