DRN-2850449
The complaint
Mr R complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited mishandled his claim on
his motor insurance policy.
What happened
For the year from June 2019, Mr R had his vehicle (and his wifes vehicle) insured on an LV
policy. He paid a premium of over £1,100.00 for his vehicle. The policy covered his vehicle
for repairs or for its market value immediately before any accident or loss. Each claim was
subject to a policy excess of £400.00.
In early January 2020, his vehicle was in an accident. It sustained damage to its front and
nearside. LV said his car was would be written off as a total loss. Its pre-accident valuation
was £5,800.00. Mr R accepted that. LV deducted the excess and paid him £5,400.00.
Mr R didnt immediately get a new car or ask LV to add a new vehicle on the policy. So LV
cancelled the cover. It didnt refund any of his premium.
A few months later, Mr R saw someone driving his old vehicle. Mr R complained to LV that
this upset him as it had incorrectly said the vehicle was beyond repair. He complained that
LV should increase the valuation. By a final response dated September 2020, LV said it had 
paid Mr R £50.00 for his upset. Unhappy with that, Mr R brought his complaint to us in early 
October 2020 for our opinion.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She thought that
the valuation of £5,800.00 was a fair valuation for the vehicle. But - as LV had been unable
to provide her with the estimated cost of repairs - she didnt think that LV had acted fairly
when deciding to not repair Mr Rs vehicle. She said that buying a new car, along with all the
other admin that comes along with that, is no small inconvenience.
The investigator recommended that LV should award Mr R £250.00 compensation for the
inconvenience and upset caused.
Mr R also complained that LV should refund his premium for the period of about half a year
from January to June 2020. LV is dealing with that as a separate complaint.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr R 
and to LV on 11 May 2021. I summarise my findings:
Notwithstanding the fast-track total loss - LV delivered the outcome for Mr R that I 
would expect any insurer to have delivered. 
I wasnt minded to find it fair and reasonable to direct LV to pay Mr R any more than 
the £50.00 it had already paid him.
Subject to any further information from Mr R or from LV, my provisional decision was that I 
didnt uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company 
Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
LV said it had nothing to add in response to the provisional decision.
Mr R disagrees with the provisional decision. He says, in summary, that:
LV incorrectly said that after the accident his car had become a total loss and could 
never again be considered roadworthy. 
The damage was all of a panel nature and could be replaced.
LVs letter of 1 September 2020 incorrectly claimed that there was also some 
structural damage.
He told L.V that he required his car to be repaired as it was his legal right and still his 
property, but they refused outright. LV did not seek a quote for the damage.
LV asked its own engineer employees to estimate, from photographs, a quote for the 
repairs and this came back to an outrageous £7,000.00. It was not obtained from an 
independent source, which is the normal practice, and could be subject to bias.
He believes that even if all the panels in the car were to be replaced, it would have 
cost far less. The replacement of car panels is a much easier task today than it was 
formerly, as there is now no labour- intense panel- beating, filling and sanding as 
new car panels are readily available and are simply bolted on to the frame and 
sprayed. Together with the facility to buy its correct paint colour according to its 
number usually contained in car documents and at main dealers.
All of the foregoing has become redundant as his car was sold off, without his 
permission, and successfully restored.
DVLA had no knowledge that the car had ever been written off and unroadworthy 
and as far as they were concerned it was fit for the road.
He only accepted LV's settlement price because they had convinced him that his car 
would be forever written off as a total loss and could never again be considered 
roadworthy, but this was later proved to be quite wrong.
L.V. are still refusing to refund the unused portion of his paid premium with the value 
of around £600.00.
LVs terms and conditions have to be fair and reasonable by law and if not they 
become subject to judgement by law.
He considers the provisional decision to be an unprovoked attack on the worthiness 
of his claim and his integrity.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive said, LV is dealing separately with Mr Rs complaint that LV should refund his 
premium for the period of about half a year from January to June 2020.
I have to take into account the relevant law, regulation and good practice. Above all, I have 
to decide whats fair and reasonable. 
Ive noted the make, model and specification of Mr Rs car. It had first been registered in
2009. He had owned it since at least 2011. I accept that it was in very good condition and
had below average mileage.
Ive noted what Mr R has said about the cost of replacement vehicles. However, I place
more weight on the retail prices quoted in the trade guides. For a vehicle like Mr Rs in
January 2020, LV said the guides contained figures as follows:
Glass £5,750.00
CAP £5,744.00
Parkers £5,830.00
And Ive found the following figures:
Glass £5,750.00
CAP £5,725.00
Cazana £6,226.00
The average of those three figures is about £5,900.00. But LVs figure of £5,800.00 was
within the range of those figures. So I dont find it unfair or unreasonable.
After the accident, Mr R wanted LV to repair his car. But  although he still owned the car at 
that stage  Mr R had no legal right to insist upon its repair. The legal rights and obligations 
stemmed from the policy terms. Those terms provided that it was for LV - not Mr R - to 
decide whether it would repair the car or pay Mr R its pre-accident value. I will consider 
whether LV made its decision fairly.
I find that LV had access to the trade guides. So it knew the maximum pre-accident value of 
the car. And it noted that there was damage to the front and side of the vehicle.
Its not unusual  and I dont find it unfair - for insurers to look at the pre-accident market 
value and to decline to pay repair costs that are more than about 60% or 70% of that value. 
It is that ratio which determines whether an insurer will pay to repair a vehicle or pay its pre-
accident market value. The insurers decision doesnt depend on whether the vehicle is 
unroadworthy after the accident. The insurers decision doesnt depend on whether the 
vehicle is structurally damaged  although that will usually increase the cost of repairs.
In Mr Rs case, LV reached a decision through a fast-track process. So the vehicle didnt 
go to a repairer for assessment. Rather, LV made a decision from the likely value and the 
nature of the damage. The context was of a vehicle over ten years old that had damage to 
the front bumper, bonnet, nearside wing and door.
One of the photographs in particular shows quite serious damage to the front nearside
corner of the car. The retrospective assessment in 2021 says that repair costs wouldve been more than 100% 
of the pre-accident value of the vehicle. I accept that the retrospective assessment was less 
than independent. But Mr R hasnt said he has expertise in the cost of car repairs. So I place 
more weight on LVs assessment. So  unlike the investigator  I dont find that LV treated 
Mr R unfairly by declining to repair the vehicle.
LV paid Mr R its pre-accident valuation less the policy excess. He accepted that reluctantly
at the time. And the policy terms provided that the damaged vehicle then became the
property of LV. LV had the right to sell it.LV sold the damaged vehicle through its salvage 
agent. Someone mustve bought it, repaired it and/or sold it on. Theres no evidence of how 
much time and money that person spent on the car.
I dont doubt that Mr R was upset to see someone else driving it. Mr R went to the trouble of
contacting DVLA which confirmed the vehicle had road tax. But - whatever Mr R may have
understood from DVLA, I find it likely that the vehicle still carried a publicly-accessible record 
of having been a write-off of category S.
LV couldve given Mr R the option to keep his damaged car. That wouldve had advantages
and disadvantages for Mr R. An advantage wouldve been that he could get his car repaired.
But a disadvantage wouldve been that Mr R wouldve had to find and pay someone to repair
it. The only evidence Ive seen is that this wouldve cost over £7,000.00.
Another disadvantage wouldve been that LV wouldnt have paid Mr R the amount of
£5,400.00 if it allowed him to keep the car. It wouldve proposed the deduction of a salvage
payment by Mr R to LV. That wouldve been a percentage (say 15%) of the pre-accident
value. Another disadvantage wouldve been that  however well repaired  the car would 
always carry the record of having been a write-off of category S.
So  notwithstanding his upset that someone else has the benefit of the repaired car  Im
not persuaded that LV treated Mr R unfairly by not suggesting that he should salvage the
damaged car.
Overall, I find that  notwithstanding the fast-track total loss - LV delivered the outcome for 
Mr R that I would expect any insurer to have delivered. I dont find it fair and reasonable to 
direct LV to pay Mr R any more than the £50.00 it has already paid him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman