DRN-3188725
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy that Zurich Insurance PLC has declined to pay a claim she made on her 
travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms M was on holiday abroad in a country Ill refer to as A. She departed on 3 March 2020 
and was due to return on 20 April 2020. On 11 March 2020 the World Health Organisation 
declared Covid-19 to be a global pandemic. And on 23 March 2020 the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Development Office (FCDO) advised all UK citizens to return home. 
Ms M arranged a flight home and cut short her trip on 26 March 2020. She explained that 
she had to book with another airline because they were the only carrier offering flights to the 
UK. Ms M claimed on her travel insurance policy for her additional costs under the 
Catastrophe section of the policy which offers a benefit of up to £500. Zurich declined the 
claim on the basis that the policy didnt offer cover for Ms Ms circumstances. However, they 
did offer £100 compensation as an apology for delays in handling the claim. Unhappy, Ms M 
complained to our service as she wanted Zurich to pay her claim of £500.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt 
think the policy covered the circumstances in which Ms M found herself in or that the 
catastrophe cover applied. So, he thought the claim had been fairly declined. Ms M didnt 
agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. She said that the investigators 
view was absurd and couldnt be reached be any reasonable person. So, I need to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Zurich has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And, they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The policy terms and conditions
Travel insurance policies dont cover every eventuality. The policy terms set out what is, and 
isnt, covered under the policy terms. 
The terms of Ms Ms policy cover for cutting a trip short in certain circumstances. The terms 
say: 
Section 1 - Cancellation or curtailment charges
What IS covered
We will pay You up to £5,000 for any irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costs 
(including excursions up to £250) and other prepaid charges or pre-paid course fees which 
You have paid or are contracted to pay together with any reasonable additional travel 
expenses incurred if:
a) cancellation of the Trip is necessary and unavoidable or
b) the Trip is Curtailed before completion
as a result of any of the following events occurring:
1. The death, Bodily Injury or illness or complications arising as a direct result of pregnancy 
of:
a) You
b) any person with whom You are travelling or have arranged to travel with
c) any person with whom You have arranged to reside temporarily
d) Your Close Relative
2. You have attended a hospital due to Your Bodily Injury, illness, disease, or 
complications arising as a direct result of pregnancy (although You have not been 
repatriated back to Your Home Area) which strictly necessitates Your absence from Your 
course.
3. Compulsory quarantine, jury service attendance or being called as a witness at a Court 
of Law of You or any person with whom You are travelling or have arranged to travel with.
4. Redundancy (which qualifies for payment under current United Kingdom redundancy 
payment legislation and at the time of booking the Trip there was no reason to believe 
anyone would be made redundant) of You or any person with whom You are travelling 
or have arranged to travel with.
5. You or any person with whom You are travelling or have arranged to travel with are a 
member of the Armed Forces, Police, Fire, Nursing or Ambulance Services or employees 
of a Government Department and have Your/their authorised leave cancelled for 
operational reasons, provided that such cancellation or Curtailment could not reasonably 
have been expected at the time when You purchased this insurance or at the time of 
booking any Trip.
6. The Police requesting You to remain at or return to Your Home due to serious damage 
to Your Home caused by fire, aircraft, explosion, storm, flood, subsidence, malicious 
persons
or theft.
Section 11 of the policy offers cover for catastrophes and natural disasters. It says: 
What is covered
We will pay You up to £500 should You be forced to move from Your prepaid 
accommodation as a result of fire, explosion, storm, flood, earthquake, medical epidemic, 
or the local or national government directive for the following:a) the cost of alternative accommodation of a similar standard to that You have booked if 
You have been advised by Your tour operator, hotelier or the local authority to leave 
Your booked accommodation
b) necessary additional travelling expenses incurred so You can continue Your Trip.
Was the claim unfairly declined?
I have a lot of empathy with Ms Ms position, and the circumstances in which she found 
herself. She made an understandable decision to return home in a time of uncertainty and 
when international travel was unpredictable. However, I dont think Zurich has unreasonably 
declined her claim because: 
The policy terms and conditions dont offer cover for cutting a trip short due to the 
FCDO advising Ms M to return home. Its not a specified or listed event under the 
policy terms. So, its not covered under the policy terms and conditions. 
Ms M hadnt travelled to A against FCDO advice. And Zurich has confirmed that had 
she stayed until her intended departure date shed still have been covered under the 
policy. And, taking into account the policy wording, I think its unlikely Zurich would 
have been able to fairly withdraw cover if Ms M had stayed abroad.  
Ive taken into account that the catastrophe/natural disaster section of the policy does 
cover medical epidemics. But the cover is limited to the cost of alternative 
accommodation and travelling expenses to continue a trip. Ms M isnt claiming for 
costs of alternative accommodation or additional travel expenses to continue her trip 
as she returned home. 
The policy doesnt offer a fixed benefit of £500 in the event of a medical epidemic. It 
only covers the costs Ive referred to. So, I dont think I can fairly conclude that Zurich 
should pay Ms M a benefit under the policy as she had to return home. 
Im aware that Ms M has approached the airline she booked her original return flight 
with and theyve declined to give her a refund. Im also aware that her travel provider 
has since gone out of business. However, as our investigator explained, Ms M may 
be able to recover the cost of her original return flight by contacting the regulator of 
the airline industry. Whilst theres no guarantee Ms M will be able to recover her 
losses via this route it offers her a further avenue to recover some of her expenses if 
she wishes to pursue the matter further. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman