DRN-2833946
The complaint
Mr B complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank refused the claim 
he brought under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. He wants the refund of 
monies hes paid for a vehicle supplied with the wrong warranty.  
What happened
Mr B tells us that he ordered a new vehicle in June 2017 from a dealer Ill call L, having 
paid a deposit using his Tesco Credit card. The price he paid included a warranty extending 
the manufacturers warranty from three to four years. He states that L failed to supply the 
additional warranty with the vehicle and only processed a three year warranty. Mr B feels 
this has resulted in him incurring additional cost for repairs that wouldve been covered by 
the extended period of warranty.
Tesco told us that it accepted that L had been in breach of contract in failing to supply the 
fourth year of the warranty that Mr B had paid for. But together with L, it said it had agreed to 
provide Mr B with the same warranty cover as if the fourth year had been originally provided. 
And that this would extend from 1st July 2020 to 30 June 2021.
Our investigator thought Tescos offer to supply Mr B with cover that mirrored the four year 
warranty was fair and reasonable. And he said he wouldnt ask it to do anything more. 
Mr B didnt agree with this. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr B feels strongly about this matter. And I understand his concern and 
disappointment when he discovered hed not got the warranty cover that hed paid for.
The basic facts surrounding what happened arent in dispute. An error by L meant that the 
fourth year of a warranty which Mr B had purchased at the time of supply, wasnt processed 
correctly. This has meant that Mr B hasnt been able to obtain repairs directly under the 
manufacturers extended warranty during the fourth year of the agreement.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
I think its important to set out my role here. Im not determining the outcome of a claim that 
Mr B might have under Section 75. Rather, Im required to decide what, if anything, Tesco 
should do to resolve this complaint.  
I do this in accordance with the Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP) set out by the Financial 
Conduct Authority. DISP 3.6.1 reads:
The Ombudsman will determine a complaint by reference to what is, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
When determining whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account (amongst 
other things) any relevant law. Relevant law includes Section 75.
In summary, in some limited circumstances, Section 75 gives a consumer an equal claim 
against the provider of finance as they would have against the supplier of the goods or 
services about which complaint is brought. It requires there to have been a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier of the goods or services.
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which induces a consumer to enter an 
agreement and incur a loss. A breach of contract might occur when a specific item or service 
is not supplied in accordance with an agreement. 
I dont apply the law  directly  so its not for me to determine if whats occurred amounts to 
a breach of contract and / or a misrepresentation. Here theres an admission that there was 
a breach of contract by L. And Tesco has accepted that it has an obligation under Section 
75. 
Broadly speaking, when theres been a breach of contract the law sets out to give effect, as 
far as is possible, to the original agreement which the parties had reached.
This can be brought about in a number of ways such as providing financial compensation or 
by fulfilling the terms of the contract as it was originally envisaged by the parties.
In these circumstances, I think its fairly clear-cut to separate out that aspect of the initial 
agreement which wasnt provided. And whats required to put things right.
Tesco has agreed to honour the terms of a fourth year warranty in a way which mirrors the 
terms that wouldve been included if it had operated from the outset. This additionally 
includes the facility to obtain a report from a third party and seek to have repairs done other 
than by L. Our investigator sent Mr B a link - which Tesco provided - with the specific details 
of what the warranty covers.
Mr B has pointed out that under the terms of the manufacturers fourth year warranty he 
could have had the vehicle repaired by any garage within the manufacturers network. And 
not just L  in which he says hes lost confidence.  And that having to obtain a separate 
report is likely create additional delay and expense.
As Tesco has agreed to mirror the terms of the fourth year warranty, I would expect that to 
cover any additional expense that Mr B reasonably incurs as a direct consequence of the 
substitute arrangements. Ive seen no information to show that it would not do so.
Im aware Mr B doesnt think this enough. And hes seeking the refund of most, if not all, of 
the sums hes paid towards the vehicle. But the obligations of the parties as set out in the 
initial agreement have been substantially completed. These included the supply of a vehicle 
together with warranty cover for four years. And as far as I can see its only being suggested that its the last year of the warranty thats missing.
To make an award for the refund of most of the sums paid by Mr B towards the vehicle 
would, in my opinion, put him in a substantially better position than if a breach of contract 
hadnt occurred. And not just restore him to the same position as had been initially agreed. It 
would, in my view, be disproportionate.
Its not possible to turn back the clock and duplicate every precise detail. And as Ive referred 
to above, my role is to determine if Tescos offer amounts, in my opinion, to a fair and 
reasonable resolution of this complaint. Not that its perfect in every respect. I find that the 
proposal made by Tesco is in line with what Id have required it to do if it hadnt already 
made the offer.
I recognise that not only is it important that the offer should be fair but that it has also to work 
in practice. In other words, Tesco needs to ensure that it fulfils the terms of its offer if the 
necessary circumstances arise.
Im aware that Mr B has provided information to show that hes incurred expenses that 
probably wouldve been covered by a fourth year warranty. As the invoice (for a bonnet 
latch) Ive seen is from December 2020 it didnt form part of the original complaint. And its 
not for me to determine if this item would be covered by the extended warranty. Im unclear if 
hes yet sought a refund. So Mr B might wish to take that matter up directly with L or Tesco if 
he believes that is an item which is covered.
Hes also made reference to a fault which occurred with the air-conditioning. But as this 
occurred within the three year warranty cover thats not something for which Tesco would 
currently appear to have any liability under Section 75.
Whilst I understand that Mr B is likely to be disappointed by my decision, I find that Tesco 
has tried to resolve this complaint by trying to restore, as far as is practicable, the terms of 
the original agreement.
It made an offer which I believe is a fair and reasonable resolution of this complaint. And I 
shant ask it to do anything more.
Putting things right
Tesco should provide Mr B with warranty cover or a guarantee in the terms set out in its final 
response letter of 6 October 2020 and email of 19 February 2021, namely: 
1. For a period of one year from 1 July 2020 to 30 June 2021, Tesco must provide to Mr 
B the equivalent cover as detailed in the relevant vehicle manufacturers three year 
warranty.
My final decision
Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank has already made an offer which I 
consider to be fair and reasonable. So my decision is that Tesco Personal Finance PLC 
trading as Tesco Bank should take the action that Ive stipulated in the preceding section.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Stephen RossOmbudsman