DRN-1352826
The complaint
Mrs N complains that AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a monthly premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2003 in connection with a store card.
What happened
Mrs N says she bought a PPI policy in 2003 at the same time she applied for a store card. 
PPI premiums were added to her store card account. The policy was sold in store. 
AXA has taken on responsibility to look at this complaint. So for ease, I will refer to AXA as 
the PPI seller.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld because she thought AXA hadn't 
ensured Mrs N was eligible to buy PPI. AXA disagreed with our adjudicators view and 
asked for the matter to be looked at again.
AXA added Mrs N had given conflicting information on her complaint forms about her 
employment hours; so it concludes there was no evidence Mrs N was working less than 
16 hours a week.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ns case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ns complaint for the reasons Ive set out below.
Both Mrs N and AXA agree the sale was non-advised. So for non-advised sales, AXA 
had to give Mrs N enough information which was clear, fair and not misleading so she 
could make an informed choice about the policy. This includes information about whether 
Mrs N was eligible for the policy.
AXA produced a copy of Mrs Ns store card agreement which she signed in 
September 2003. It sets out the eligibility criteria to buy PPI. One of the criteria is that 
she had to be in permanent paid employment for 16 hours a week. The only answer 
Mrs N could give to this question was Yes to be eligible to buy PPI. She wasnt able 
to tick a No response because that was not an available option. And if any of the 
answers was No, then the form said she had to see a member of staff. 
I looked very carefully at the form. Mrs N hasnt ticked any of the boxes, although the 
rest of the form has been filled with her personal details, so she has otherwise 
diligently completed the form and signed it. So I can reasonably conclude there is no 
evidence from the time of the sale to show Mrs N was in permanent paid employment 
for 16 hours a week. And from my knowledge of PPI insurance policies, a consumer 
cant make a claim on the policy if he/she hasnt satisfied all of the eligibility criteria. 
This is important, because Mrs N recently told us she was working in a permanent job 
at the time of the sale for 10 hours a week. So I dont think there is enough evidence to 
show Mrs N satisfied the eligibility criteria for the policy  which means she wasnt able 
to make a successful claim on the policy.
AXA said there was conflicting information from Mrs N about her working status on her 
various complaint questionnaires. However, I think its reasonable to believe Mrs N was 
working for 10 hours a week for the type of work she told us she was doing at that time.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied from the evidence that Mrs N was not eligible to 
buy the PPI policy because she did not satisfy the eligibility criteria. Eligibility is a 
fundamental requirement to buy PPI, so I am also satisfied that I dont need to look for any 
other reasons to uphold the complaint.
Putting things right
I think AXA - which has taken responsibility for this PPI sale - did something wrong so it 
needs to do something to put things right for Mrs N.
My final decision
AXA France IARD should put Mrs N in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt 
taken out PPI.
A. AXA France IARD should find out how much Mrs N would have owed when 
she closed her store card account if the policy hadnt been added. So, it should 
remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-
sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA France IARD should then refund the difference between what Mrs N owed when she 
closed her account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs N made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA France IARD can take off 
what she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B. AXA France IARD should add simple interest on the difference between what 
Mrs N would have owed when she closed her account from when she closed it 
until she gets the refund. The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
C. If  when the AXA France IARD works out what Mrs N would have owed each 
month without PPI  Mrs N paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA 
France IARD should also pay simple interest on the extra Mrs N paid. And it 
should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs N wouldve owed AXA 
France IARD something on her store card. The interest rate should be 8% a year. 

D. AXA France IARD should tell Mrs N what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA France IARD to take off tax from this 
interest. AXA France IARD must give Mrs N a certificate showing how much tax its 
taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or reject my decision before 23 September 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman