DRN-4398438
The complaint
Mr L complains about Homeserve Membership Limited (Homeserve) who failed to cancel his 
home emergency policy, when he requested it to.
What happened
Mr L held a policy with Homeserve.  He was unhappy with the service he received and 
decided to cancel the policy. He said that in February 2023, he called Homeserve and 
requested that the policy was cancelled. However, Homeserve said that there was no record 
of the call.
Mr L said that he believed that Homeserve either deleted the call or didnt record it. But 
Homeserve said that it did locate a call in March 2023. Homeserve said that Mr L hadnt 
passed security and even though he wished to cancel the policy, this was unable to be done, 
due to his failure of passing security. 
Mr L said that he sent an email requesting that the policy be cancelled. But it wasnt 
cancelled until May 2023, after Mr L completed a complaint form online. Homeserve, 
cancelled the policy and backdated the cancellation and refunded some of the premiums 
that Mr L had paid. 
Mr L complained to Homeserve as he felt that it deliberately didnt comply with his specific 
instruction to cancel the policy. So, he wanted Homeserve to provide a breakdown of the 
refund that he was given, as well as £500 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
In its final response, Homeserve maintained its position. It said that it was unable to 
complete the cancellation earlier, as there was no record of Mr L having called in February. 
And as he had declined to complete the security questions as he was required to do, 
Homeserve were unable to cancel his policy, in March 2023. 
As Mr L had been given his referral rights, he referred a complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said that the 
policy terms and conditions outlined how policyholders were to cancel policies. That would 
be either via a phone call or a letter by post. As there was no record of the phone call in 
February and as Mr L had refused to answer security questions, Homeserve were unable to 
cancel the policy. He also said that Homeserve had refunded some of Mr Ls premiums, 
which he thought was fair. His view was that Homeserve had acted in line with the policy 
terms and conditions.  
Homeserve accepted the view, Mr L did not. He said that: legislation in this country held that 
emails were acceptable as being equivalent to letters. And that legislation by Parliament 
should override any terms and conditions that insurers impose. So, he asked for a decision 
from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Mr L, but I hope my findings 
go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Ive considered both parties comments, and the evidence theyve provided. The main issue 
of this complaint is whether Mr L cancelled the policy in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. 
I think the starting point of this complaint is what was stipulated within the policy terms and 
conditions, regarding how policies could be cancelled. The policy states: 
If your policy does not provide the cover, you need or you wish to cancel for any other 
reason, please contact us first by:  Calling us on (phone number given); or  Writing to us at 
Freepost RLYC-LXAL-GEEH, Customer Admin Department, HomeServe, Cable Drive, 
Walsall WS2 7BN. Remember to include your policy number.
So, the policy terms that Mr L agreed to abide by (once he had taken out the policy and at 
each renewal) stated that the two methods of cancellation were either via a phone call or for 
Mr L to write to Homeserve. 
Mr L said that he called in February 2023 to cancel the policy. But Homeserve said that there 
was no record of this call. I cant see that Mr L has provided any corroborative evidence to 
show that the call was received by Homeserve, for example an itemised phone bill. And as 
Homeserve said that there was no record of a call having been received, Im satisfied that no 
call was received by Homeserve in February. 
The only call where there was some corroborative evidence happened in March 2023. When 
Mr L called to cancel his policy. But, during the call when the advisor asked Mr L to confirm 
security questions, he accepts that he didnt give the details required to pass security. As a 
result, and after Mr L had been warned that a failure to give security responses would mean 
that the policy couldnt be cancelled, Homeserve were unable to verify who was calling and 
so were unable to cancel Mr Ls policy. 
Despite Mr L not passing security, Homeserve confirmed that it did cancel his policy from 
March 2023 and refunded part of Mr Ls premiums, that he had paid.
Having reviewed all the evidence, I think that Mr L hadnt followed the policy terms and 
conditions on how a policy ought to be cancelled. He didnt write a letter, nor did he call 
Homeserve to successfully cancel the policy. The only recorded call disclosed that Mr L 
failed security and as this was done, I think Homeserve were correct not to cancel the policy. 
Im pleased that Homeserve cancelled his policy, after Mr L completed a complaint form, 
which I note still wasnt the correct way to cancel. Also, that Homeserve backdated and 
refunded the premiums, which I think was fair. 
Consequently, I cant agree that Homeserve did anything wrong here. I understand that this 
is likely to be a disappointment to Mr L, but I wont be asking Homeserve to do anything 
further to resolve this complaint. My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman