The complaint
Mrs S, represented by a claims management company (CMC), complains that she was 
given unsuitable investment advice by Lloyds Bank PLC.
What happened
In 2007 Mrs S was advised to invest £7,000 into a stocks and shares ISA, in the Monument 
Income Portfolio. At the time she was aged 66, no longer working, married and had no 
outstanding liabilities. She held around £32,000 in cash, along with premiums bonds and a 
small holding of building society shares. 
She had little investment experience and her attitude to risk was duly categorised as 
'cautious'. The recommended fund was consistent with this categorisation, as it invested 
primarily in bonds but with a small proportion of equities. In 2015 the investment was 
surrendered, and Mrs S received back just under £9,800.
In 2019 Mrs S' CMC made a complaint to Lloyds saying that the adviser had failed to make a 
suitable recommendation to Mrs S or to advise her with reasonable skill and care. The 
CMC said the adviser hadn't given proper consideration to low cost funds as an alternative. 
The recommendation also lacked diversity and Mrs S had been seeking growth, not income. 
Lloyds didn't uphold the complaint. It felt the recommendation had been suitable for Mrs S, 
that she'd been provided with comprehensive documentation about the investment, and it 
was consistent with her cautious attitude to risk. 
The complaint was then referred to this service where our investigator reached the same 
conclusion as Lloyds. He said, in brief:
It was recorded that Mrs S had disposable income available and £26,000 earmarked
for an emergency fund.
Her categorisation as a 'cautious' investor appeared reasonable given her answers to
the questions on the risk profiling questionnaire.
The recommended fund matched this profile and its factsheet confirmed it was
suitable for meeting growth and income objectives.
The fund itself was diversified across different asset groups and the recommendation
left Mrs S with a wider portfolio that was diversified across risk groups.
Alternatives were discussed and Mrs S was already using premiums bonds,
cash ISAs and deposit savings.
The charges were clearly documented.
In summary, the recommendation was suitable for Mrs S' needs and circumstances.
Mrs S' CMC didn't accept the investigator's view. It said:
DRN-1837013Actively-managed funds, such as those contained in the Momentum Income 
Portfolio, involve higher costs and higher risks than low-cost equivalents such as 
index funds. And the Portfolio is a fund of funds with an extra layer of unnecessary 
costs.
There is indisputable evidence, from academic studies and independent 
organisations, that expected returns are lower when fund costs are higher.
There's no evidence the advantages of low-cost funds were explained to Mrs S, 
so she wasn't given the information necessary for her to make an informed decision.
The investigator wasn't persuaded to change his view that the advice had been suitable, 
because it was a reasonable amount to invest at an appropriate level of risk. The 
CMC reiterated its points about cost and suitability and said that advisers had a legal duty 
not to expose their clients to excessive and unnecessary costs. It said this service had 
previously upheld complaints on the basis of low-cost alternatives being more suitable - for 
instance, self-invested personal pensions versus stakeholder pensions.
As no agreement could be reached, the matter was referred to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
Looking at Mrs S' circumstances at the time of the advice there doesn't seem to be any 
reason why it wasn't suitable to advise her to invest £7,000 in a cautious environment. The 
recommendation left her with significant free cash, and she maintained the investment for 
around eight years, suggesting there were no affordability issues. I'm also satisfied that the 
Momentum Income Portfolio did represent a cautious investment, with its heavy reliance - 
around 85% - upon bonds. 
But that said, it's not really these general suitability issues that the complaint focusses on. 
Rather, it's issues of diversity and, above all, cost considerations.
In respect of the former, I don't have any concerns with the recommendation. The 
Momentum Income Portfolio itself, while weighted towards corporate bonds and GILT based 
funds, also had some equity and tracker fund exposure. And overall the recommendation 
formed a relatively small proportion of Mrs S' total assets - less than 20%.  
And while I've noted the CMC's points about lower cost funds and the adviser's apparent 
failure to make any comparisons with these for Mrs S, I'm not persuaded that this in isolation 
means the complaint should be upheld. Ultimately, it was the adviser's responsibility to make 
a recommendation to Mrs S that he felt was suitable for her needs and circumstances and to 
ensure she was fully informed about it in terms of associated costs and their impact on 
performance, along with any other important terms - term, lack of capital protection, etc - 
which I'm satisfied she was. Mrs S was provided with an illustration that showed all the 
costs, what they were for and what she might expect to get back depending on 
different rates of growth - all standard information that I would expect to see provided to her. 
There may well have been cheaper ways in which Mrs S could've invested. But that doesn't 
mean that what she was recommended was unsuitable. While I accept that there's no 
evidence she was specifically told that alternatives could be cheaper, the very fact that she 
was given clear information about what her investment in the Momentum Income Portfolio 
would cost suggests that she would've had an awareness that cost was a factor in investing. The CMC has said that the adviser had a legal responsibility not to expose Mrs S to 
excessive or unnecessary costs. But I've not seen that he did this. Clearly there were costs 
associated with the recommendation and, as noted, alternative options might have been 
cheaper. But this doesn't mean that the costs of the Momentum Income Portfolio were, by 
default, excessive and unnecessary.  
Lastly, I note the CMC's point that 'good industry practice' is not relevant here. Rather, there 
is legal precedent in respect of the importance of costs in investment. But the Financial 
Conduct Authority DISP Rules which govern how this service operates and how 
ombudsmen make decisions say that in considering what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of a case, I will take into account relevant law and regulations, regulators' 
rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
So, good industry practice is relevant, as is relevant law. But I am not bound by either. And 
as such, I'm satisfied the advice provided to Mrs S was suitable and that Lloyds did not act 
incorrectly or unreasonably in any way.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28July 2020.
James Harris
Ombudsman