DRN-3574830
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy with how AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) 
handled a claim on their home insurance
What happened
Mrs and Mrs G made a claim on their home insurance. They said a storm had lifted 
corrugated sheeting from the north side of their outbuildings roof, which had damaged the 
wooden joists and the wall of the outbuilding.  
AA declined to cover the claim and Mr and Mrs G complained. They said theyd had to spend 
over 40 minutes on the phone to AA clarifying that their property had two bedrooms, not five, 
and that it wasnt being used for commercial purposes. And they were also unhappy theyd 
not been given a copy of AAs surveyors report.
AA issued its final response letter (FRL) to Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. It said it was correct to 
decline Mr and Mrs Gs claim. It said satellite images showed the roof of the outbuilding had 
failed before the storm and the roofs failure had damaged the brick work and timber. It said 
the roof was at the end of its natural lifespan because of wear and tear. But it apologised for 
the incorrect information its surveyor had noted about the number of bedrooms and the 
propertys use. 
Mr and Mrs G brought their complaint to us. They provided photos they felt showed that the 
damage to the outbuilding was caused by the storm and not wear and tear. They said the 
outbuilding was old but wasnt at the end of its useful, natural life. They said AAs surveyor 
had told them during his visit that the principal cause of the damage was the storm. 
Our investigator issued his view and didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. He said the 
main cause of the damage was more likely to be wear and tear rather than the storm. And he 
felt that AAs apology for its error about the number of bedrooms and the propertys use was 
fair. Our investigator said that if Mr and Mrs G commissioned an independent surveyors 
report which said the roof was in a good state of repair before the storm with no signs of 
wear and tear, he would be willing to consider their complaint further.
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree with our investigators view. They said the gusts had been 98mph 
and not 56mph as stated in our investigators view. They said that the main cause of the 
damage had been the storm because the wind had come from a northerly direction and only 
the roof on the north side of the outbuilding had been affected. Our investigator didnt 
change his view and suggested again that Mr and Mrs G consider commissioning their own 
experts report into the main cause of the damage. 
Mr and Mrs G asked for an ombudsmans decision. They provided further information and 
confirmed theyd decided not to consult an independent expert.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that there was a storm with winds of more than 55mph which would meet 
the definition of a storm included in Mr and Mrs Gs policy wording. But there is dispute 
about whether the main cause of the damage to the outbuilding was the storm or wear and 
tear.
  
Damage caused by wear and tear isnt covered under the terms of Mr and Mrs Gs policy. 
And when this service considers complaints about declined storm damage claims, we think it 
reasonable to take into account whether the main cause of the damage was most likely a 
storm or whether it was something else. 
Ive reviewed the photographs of Mr and Mrs Gs outbuilding. I can see gaps in the 
remainder of the outbuildings roof and I can see that the corrugated roof sheets have rusted 
and deteriorated around their edges. I can see as well that a corrugated sheet that has 
detached from the roof also shows signs of rust. So I dont think its unreasonable for AAs 
experts to conclude that the roof had suffered wear and tear.
  
AAs experts reached the conclusion that there was evidence of wear and tear and that the 
main cause of the damage wasnt the storm. So for me to say these conclusions are wrong, 
Id need to see a report from another expert that says the main cause of the damage was the 
storm. Mr and Mrs G were invited to provide this service with their own experts report but 
declined to do so. So I cant say - on balance - AAs conclusions about the main cause of the 
damage are wrong. And so, it wouldnt be fair for me to require AA to pay Mr and Gs claim 
for storm damage. 
Mr and Mrs G say that AAs surveyor told them the principal cause of the damage was the 
storm. There is no record of this conversation, only Mr and Mrs Gs testimony. Because of 
this, and because AA went on to decline Mr and Mrs Gs claim because of evidence of wear 
and tear, it wouldnt be fair for me to award Mr and Mrs G compensation because of what 
they said they were told by AAs surveyor. 
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy that AA questioned them about information it held about them 
and their property. Its fairly common for an insurer to check the information it holds when a 
claim is made. Ive listened to the call and I cant say AA acted unreasonably in checking the 
information it did with Mr G. And I think the apology AA made to Mr G in its FRL for the 
incorrect information its surveyor had noted is a fair and reasonable resolution. So I wont be 
requiring AA to do anything further here.
In conclusion, I dont think AA has acted unfairly or unreasonably in its handling of Mr and 
Mrs Gs claim or in declining it. So I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Ruth Peek
Ombudsman