DRN-3650473
The complaint
Mr K has complained that Santander UK Plc registered a marker against him at CIFAS, the 
national fraud database.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with the case, so Ill summarise things in brief.
In January 2020, Mr Ks Santander current account received the proceeds of fraud. This was 
then quickly paid on, through attempted cash withdrawals using Mr Ks card and PIN, and 
through transfers to another account in Mr Ks name using his mobile phone. Then in 
February 2020, a suspicious cheque was paid into Mr Ks account at a branch, again using 
his card and PIN.
Santander asked Mr K for evidence he was entitled to these funds. Mr K initially suggested it 
might be money from his employer, and said hed get evidence. He later confirmed it wasnt 
from his employer, he didnt recognise the account activity, and he didnt know anything 
about what had happened. He said he hadnt made any of those payments or paid in the 
cheque. Mr K confirmed his card was always with him and he still had it, but later said it had 
been lost or stolen. He confirmed he hadnt let anyone else have his PIN or security details. 
He still used the same mobile phone afterwards.
Santander closed Mr Ks account and registered a marker at CIFAS. They didnt see a likely 
way that anyone could have paid on the fraudulent funds without Mr Ks permission.
Our adjudicator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr K didnt 
agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to register this marker, Santander were not required to prove beyond all reasonable 
doubt that Mr K had done something wrong. They did need to have reasonable grounds to 
believe that hed misused his account, which went beyond a suspicion or concern, and which 
had appropriate supporting evidence. Having carefully considered everything that both sides 
have said and provided, I think Santander did have sufficient grounds to register this marker. 
Ill explain why.
Im satisfied from Santanders technical evidence that the online transfers were made using 
Mr Ks mobile phone, with one-time passcodes sent to the same phone number he still uses 
now. Im satisfied that Mr Ks genuine card and the correct PIN were used to pay in the 
cheque, and that this was also the case for the disputed cash withdrawals. And I can see 
from the official report that the funds Mr K received were the proceeds of fraud.
In order to withdraw and send on the fraudulent funds, the person making the payments 
needed Mr Ks physical card, the correct PIN, his mobile phone, and his online banking 
security details.
Mr K says he lost his card. But theres no record of him reporting it as lost or stolen at the 
time  he only said this after the fact. Indeed, having listened to the calls involved I can see 
that he previously confirmed that he still had his card and that it was always with him. And 
most importantly, I can see that Mr K made genuine, undisputed card payments after the 
disputed ATM withdrawals. So he did have his card at the time. And if Mr K had his card 
before and after, then its difficult to see how anyone used it without his permission. It is not 
likely or plausible that a fraudster would steal Mr Ks card but then needlessly give it back to 
him, nor that they could do so without him noticing.
Similarly, Mr K did not report his mobile phone as lost, and I can see that he was still using it 
afterwards. The person using his online banking also needed Mr Ks security details, which 
he confirmed no one else knew. And the number the one-time passcodes were sent to was 
the same number that Mr K still uses now. So Im satisfied that Mr K received those one-time 
passcodes. These passcodes were then used to pass on the fraudulent funds  again, using 
Mr Ks registered mobile device. As far as I can see, there is not a likely or plausible way that 
someone could have made these payments using Mr K's mobile phone without his consent 
and without him noticing.
It also looks like Mr K was frequently checking his online banking at the time, and that he 
would have seen the fraudulent funds coming into his account, as well as the cash 
withdrawals and transfers out. Indeed, he continued using his online banking to make 
genuine transfers afterwards. It would have been clear from the recipients name and the 
payment reference that the fraudulent credits didnt relate to any payments he was 
expecting. And if Mr K didnt make the cash withdrawals or online transfers, they would have 
stood out to him  not least given that they involved hundreds of pounds leaving his account. 
Yet despite seeing these on his online banking, Mr K didnt tell Santander anything was 
wrong until later, when they got in touch with him. Again, he only said that the payments 
were unauthorised after the fact. And it is unlikely that Mr K would not report the payments at 
the time, if they were really made without his consent.
There was a separate payment for about £65, which Mr K received a text about. I know that 
Mr K has made a number of points about this payment, as he says he responded to that text 
and reported it as unrecognised. But Im afraid that payment isnt relevant. It was just a 
transfer Mr K made of his usual wages, to his other account. As far as I can see, it was not 
related to the fraud. And as far as I can see, Mr K did not report any of the actual fraudulent 
activity to Santander at the time, despite seeing it when using his online banking.Its also important to note that the fraudulent funds were transferred to another account in 
Mr Ks name. And it appears that Mr K made genuine, undisputed payments to that same 
account as well. So it looks like Mr K benefitted from the fraudulent funds himself. Indeed, 
Ive got no evidence that anyone other than Mr K benefitted from them. And Ive not seen 
any evidence that makes it seem implausible or unlikely that Mr K could have passed on the 
fraudulent funds or given someone else permission to make the payments on his behalf.
I appreciate why Mr K would like to see CCTV footage. But CCTV footage is only available 
for a short time  usually about a month or so  so it wont be available now. And even if it 
were, it wouldve only shown what the person making the transactions looked like. It would 
not have shown whether they had Mr Ks permission to use his account or not. Because 
even if I accept that Mr K wasnt present at the transactions himself, it was still possible for 
him to have given someone else permission to make them. And Im afraid that all the 
evidence I went through above points to this being a much more likely and plausible 
possibility than the payments being unauthorised.
In summary, Mr K received fraudulent funds, which were then passed on such that they 
couldnt be easily recovered, and Mr K appears to have benefitted from the fraud. Im 
satisfied that Mr Ks genuine card, PIN, security details, and mobile phone were used to pay 
the funds on. Based on the evidence, there isnt a likely or plausible way someone did this 
without Mr Ks consent. The only likely possibility is that this happened with Mr Ks consent  
either by making the payments himself or giving someone else permission to make them. 
This is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult message for Mr K to 
receive. But given the evidence I have, and the balance of probabilities, Im unable to 
reasonably reach any other conclusion.
So based on everything Ive seen, I think its fair that Santander registered the appropriate 
marker against Mr K at CIFAS. It follows that I also think its fair they closed his account, 
which they were allowed to do in situations like this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
This final decision marks the end of our services involvement in the case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman