DRN-1915458
The complaint
Mr W complains about the way LRUK (Retail) Limited treated him. Mr W wants LRUK to 
remove the default that it recorded on his credit file and pay him compensation.
What happened
Mr W took out a credit agreement with LRUK in 2019. In August 2019, LRUK sent Mr W a 
statement but no payment was received so it applied late payment charges to his account.
In early October 2019, Mr W asked LRUK to remove the late payment charge. Mr W 
explained that hed not made a payment due to an oversight.
LRUK said it would remove one of the two charges on the account as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr W didnt think that LRUK was doing enough to help him. He told LRUK that it should sell 
the debt on if it wasnt willing to remove all of the fees.
LRUK sent Mr W a default notice in December 2019. As no payment was received, LRUK 
reported the default to the credit reference agencies at the start of January 2020.
The investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ws complaint be upheld. She was satisfied that 
Mr W hadnt kept to the terms of his agreement when he missed payments. And that it was 
reasonable of LRUK to apply late payment charges. 
Although LRUK didnt reply to some of Mr Ws emails, it had already told him that it would 
only remove one of the charges. The investigator didnt think that it was reasonable of Mr W 
to withhold payment as a result.
Mr W disagrees with the investigators recommendation not to uphold his complaint. Mr W 
indicated that he was going to give detailed reasons why, but I cant see that he has done 
so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint and I will explain why. Mr W was due to 
make payments in line with the terms of his account. I cant find that it was unreasonable of 
LRUK to apply late payment charges when Mr W failed to pay on time.
LRUK offered to remove one of the late payment charges as a gesture of goodwill. But as 
LRUK didnt make any mistake about the charges, I cant say that it shouldve agreed to 
remove both.
I appreciate Mr Ws frustration when LRUK didnt reply to all his emails about the charges. 
But Im satisfied that LRUK had already told Mr W that it would only remove one of the two 
charges. So, I dont consider that the failure to reply mean that it was then unfair of LRUK to 
keep asking for payment. Or that LRUK should have placed Mr Ws account on hold for 
longer.
LRUK continued to contact Mr W about the outstanding arrears on the account. And it sent 
him a default notice in December 2019. Mr W didnt reply to the default notice in time. It 
follows that I dont find LRUK was wrong to apply the default to Mr Ws credit file. 
As I dont find that LRUK made a mistake in relation to the default, I cant reasonably require 
it to remove the default or pay compensation. 
My final decision
My fdecision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman