DRN-3870355
The complaint
Miss P complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund her the money she lost when she fell 
victim to a purchase scam.
What happened
Both sides are aware of the circumstances of the complaint. But I will begin by briefly 
summarising what happened.
Miss P holds a current account with Monzo. She received a message from a friend 
recommending a seller of designer trainers and saying theyd received their order from the 
seller. Miss P says the seller appeared to have a lot of followers and over 100 reviews.
Miss P contacted the seller using the link provided in the message and after some 
discussion, she ordered trainers from the seller. The seller would only accept bank transfer, 
so Miss P sent a payment of £420 by Faster Payments transfer from her Monzo account. 
But the seller claimed the payment hadnt arrived and tried to get Miss P to send the money 
a second time. Miss P realised something wasnt right and contacted Monzo to report shed 
been the victim of a scam. Monzo tried to recover the money Miss P had sent, but none 
remained. 
Monzo has agreed to adhere to the provisions of the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) which can offer additional protection from 
Authorised Push Payment scams (APP scams) such as this one. But Monzo said it wouldnt 
refund Miss P because it didnt think shed taken enough steps to check who she was paying 
and what for. 
Miss P didnt agree and referred a complaint about the outcome to this service for review. 
I issued my provisional findings on the merits of Miss Ps complaint on 7 December 2022. In 
my provisional findings, I explained why I didnt intend to uphold Miss Ps complaint. An 
extract of that decision is set out below and forms part of this final decision:
Im sorry to hear about what happened to Miss P. I can understand why she wants her 
losses to be refunded to her. However, while I have sympathy for Miss P in what 
happened, I have to recognise that the principal cause of her losses here were the 
scammers who deceived her. I must also take into account that Monzo has a primary 
obligation to carry out the payment instructions its customers give it. As a starting point, 
a customer is therefore assumed liable for a payment they have instructed to be made.
As Ive mentioned above, the CRM Code provides additional protection for the victims of 
APP scams. Im satisfied that the payment Miss P made falls within the scope of the 
CRM Code. But despite offering additional protections, the CRM Code includes 
provisions allowing a firm not to reimburse APP scam losses fully where the firm can 
establish that the customer failed to take sufficient care when making the payment (often 
referred to as the exceptions to reimbursement). 
Relevant here, this includes where the customer made a payment without a reasonable 
basis for believing that the person the customer was dealing with was legitimate, selling 
genuine goods, or that the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay.
Monzo says this exception applies here. It reviewed Miss Ps claim against the CRM 
Code, but it didnt think it was required to reimburse her. 
In deciding this complaint, I must first determine whether Monzo has established this 
exception to reimbursement can be fairly applied  in other words, that Miss P made the 
payments without having a reasonable basis for believing it was legitimate. 
In determining these points, I have carefully considered everything Miss P has submitted 
as well as the evidence submitted by the bank. 
This scam had some features that made it seem more genuine, such as Miss P getting 
the link to the seller from a friend whose message said theyd received the goods they 
paid for. But there were other features that I think should have led Miss P to have 
genuine concerns that all might not be as it seemed.
Miss P explains she received the link from a friend in a message sent on the same 
social media platform. It seems unlikely to me that a friend would suggest Miss P should 
try to buy something from a place that was an outright scam. That suggests two 
alternative possibilities. 
Firstly, that the seller was actually legitimate, but for some reason Miss Ps order wasnt 
fulfilled. If that was the case, then this would likely be a normal buyer/seller dispute. That 
would mean this wasnt an APP scam under the terms of the CRM Code and as such I 
could not require Monzo to reimburse Miss P.
To my mind the other main possibility is that the friends account had been hacked and 
so the message she believed came from her friend was not actually from her friend but 
instead from someone whod hacked into her friends account  sending it with the intent 
of encouraging her to buy from a source shed otherwise not have been using.
Of the two options, I am more inclined to think the second is the most likely scenario. In 
other words, I think Miss P did fall victim to a scam here, and I dont think Miss Ps friend 
recommended her to use a seller who was not legitimate.
Miss P explains that there was no advert or similar shown to her, because shed simply 
used the link her friend provided, and the discussion was then all carried out through 
chat on the social media app. She says some of the conversation was deleted by the 
seller but has provided screenshots showing much of it.
Its unclear what was deleted from the message history. It seems to me that if the seller 
had deleted messages before Miss P had even sent a payment this would have a been 
a cause for concern for her  it wouldnt have seemed like something a legitimate retailer 
would do. If the seller deleted some parts but not others after the payment had been 
made then its difficult to understand what the motivation for that could be  by this point 
the seller already had her money. It also seems surprising that if they went to the trouble 
of later deleting messages they would not have also deleted other messages such as 
the ones including the payment details. 
In any event there are no obvious gaps in the conversation Ive seen - what Miss P has 
been able to provide looks to provide a series of contiguous messages covering the 
relevant parts of what was discussed.Ive reviewed the messages, which start with You replied to their story and then Miss P 
saying Hi, I was interested in getting size 4 in these please. The seller replies that 
these are in stock. Miss P asked whether the seller also had a pair of Jordan 1s in stock 
in size five, which the seller said they did.
I can see Miss P requested to make her payment by way of a method that she was 
aware would provide with more protection than a bank transfer - a sensible precaution in 
the circumstances. However, the seller said they couldnt accept that, insisting on bank 
transfer. I think being prevented from using the safer alternative payment method shed 
suggested should have prompted her to be yet more cautious before making this 
payment.
After the discussion about payment options, Miss P said Okay I wanted to get the black 
and white balanciaga in size 4and the yeezys in size 11. 
There was then a discussion about whether a pair could be returned if it wasnt the right 
size, with the seller saying that would be fine. Miss P said Okay thats great I want to 
proceed with the order please.
The seller said that will be £420 inclusive with next day delivery []. Miss P queried 
Because my total is coming up to 420 would i be getting the jordan?. The seller said 
 yes indeed and Please choose from our range of Jordan 1s to which Miss P said 
she wanted the pair shed asked about before. The seller sent her bank details which 
were for a personal rather than a business account and Miss P sent the money.
So, on my reading of the messages to this point, Miss P had placed an order for 
Balenciaga trainers in size four plus Yeezys in size eleven, and would also be getting a 
pair of Jordan 1s in size five included in the price of £420.
Miss P recalls thinking she was only buying two pairs, the Jordan 1s and the Yeezys. 
But reading over the conversation from the time I have to conclude that she was actually 
purchasing all three pairs. 
I can understand why this would have seemed an attractive deal. On their own a pair of 
Balenciaga trainers would normally retail for the same total price or more. 
In all, I think this offer was too good to be true. The price was low even for the two pairs 
Miss P now says she thought she was buying. There was nothing to explain how the 
seller was able to offer these models of trainers at such a cheap price.
Miss P acknowledged that she was sceptical about sending the money. I think her 
instincts were right here - she was right to have doubts about the seller.
Miss P says she was convinced it must be legitimate because she had been 
recommended by a friend and there appeared to be reviews. But I think what the seller 
was saying was implausible. I think that meant Miss P was justified in being sceptical. 
There was enough here that Miss P ought to have had serious doubts that this was 
indeed a legitimate seller offering legitimate goods for sale, and less persuasive 
evidence for the opposite case.
In terms of the CRM Code, where a customer made a payment without having a 
reasonable basis for believing they were paying for legitimate goods from a legitimate 
seller, or that they were paying the person they believed they were, then their bank does 
not need to refund them for their loss even when this was due a scam. I think Monzo is 
entitled to rely on that here  I think it has done enough to establish that Miss P didnt have a reasonable basis for believing this was legitimate.
Based on what Monzo could reasonably have known at the time, this payment wasnt 
one which would have particularly stood out as being at risk of being connected to a 
fraud or scam. With this in mind I dont think Monzo needed to give an Effective 
Warning under the terms of the CRM Code, so I cannot find it at fault for not doing so 
here. And I dont think Monzo needed to take specific steps at the time, such as 
intervening directly before it would release Miss Ps payment. 
When Monzo was made aware of what had happened it acted appropriately and tried to 
recover the funds, although none remained.
In short, I dont find Monzo is to blame for Miss Ps losses. I dont find it is liable to 
refund Miss P under the terms of the CRM Code either. And as explained above, if this 
was a seller who had been trading legitimately and just didnt fulfil Miss Ps order then 
that wouldnt change the outcome Ive reached because Monzo wouldnt be required to 
refund under that scenario.
In saying this, I want to stress that I am very sorry to hear about what happened to Miss 
P and I am sorry she has lost out here. She was the victim of a scam designed to 
defraud her of her money. I appreciate that shes lost a significant amount because of 
what happened. But I can only look at what Monzo was and is required to do  I have no 
power to consider the actions of the criminal scammers who were ultimately responsible 
for Miss Ps loss. And I dont find Monzo is required to refund her under the CRM Code, 
nor that the bank was at fault in making the payment Miss P had instructed it to make or 
for any other reason.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss P responded to my provisional decision. She explained that she had only enquired 
about buying the Balenciaga trainers and ended up not paying for these because the seller 
was asking for too much money. She said she thought shed only tried to buy the Yeezys 
and Jordans and that the seller had deleted parts of the chat which meant it was unclear 
what shed bought and paid for. Monzo didnt submit further comments.
My further review
Ive reviewed everything afresh in light of Miss Ps comments. I understand her point about 
the seller deleting part of the conversation. Ive carefully reconsidered the chat history to look 
for signs of where there might be missing or deleted messages. But I havent been able to 
find any obvious signs of where the flow of messages has been interrupted. And the 
message Miss P sent saying Okay I wanted to get the black and white balanciaga in size 
4and the yeezys in size 11, followed by Okay thats great I want to proceed with the order 
please, leads me to find that Miss P was buying the Balenciaga trainers as well  even if 
she doesnt now recall that was what was happening.
But more importantly, I think the price she was being offered was too good to be true even if 
it didnt include the Balenciaga trainers (which I think it did). The other trainers were specific 
models which at the time would resell for more than the total asking price, even before 
delivery was added. Based on a well-known website that tracks the sales price of trainers over time, the combined price for the exact models Miss P was buying (if we exclude the 
Balenciaga trainers) would normally be around £700 in January 2022. That website is the 
one linked to the screenshots Miss P provided to show the model of trainer and includes the 
exact reference number for these models. The one price that was quoted in the chat of £150 
(for the Jordan 1s) was well below what appears to have been the normal market price for 
that specific version at the time, which was over £400.
Besides the price, there were other features here that should have caused Miss P to doubt 
this would be a legitimate seller  they seemingly had a full range of sizes available in less 
readily available models of trainer and when Miss P asked if shed be also getting the 
Jordans included she was told  yes indeed and Please choose from our range of 
Jordan 1s  so was essentially offered a free choice of items in her chosen size after the 
total cost had been already given to her. That seems unlikely.
There was no real explanation of how all of this could be possible or why, if they were 
genuine, the seller wouldnt simply resell these at the normal going rate. Given the very low 
prices, even if the seller had intended to send any items, there was the real risk these would 
turn out to be counterfeit. In short, this seller and what they were offering simply didnt look 
legitimate.
Miss P said she was sceptical about sending the money, and I think she should have trusted 
her instincts here. This scam was cynically offering items that were in demand, but 
seemingly without any intention of providing what was paid for. I am sorry that she fell victim 
to the scammers deception and has lost out as a result. Unfortunately buying an item using 
a bank transfer does not provide the same protections available through credit card and 
debit card purchases. Having looked into all the evidence thats available to me, I dont think 
Monzo is required to reimburse Miss P under the terms of the CRM Code (or for any other 
reason). I am really sorry to have to disappoint her, but I cant fairly hold Monzo responsible 
for the money she lost here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above and in my provisional decision, I do not uphold Miss Ps 
complaint about Monzo Bank Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman