DRN-2832110
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with esure lnsurance Limiteds valuation of his car and the deductions it 
has made for damage and a missing stereo.
 
What happened
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said after looking at the 
specifications of Mr Ms vehicle she was satisfied the offer from esure (£1,889, minus the 
excess and £389 for damage to the car and a missing stereo) was fair and in line with the 
trade guides used by this service.  
Mr M disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said the advertised vehicles he 
had seen, which were similar to his car, would cost more than the offer from esure. He also 
didnt think any of the deductions esure had made to the value of his car were fair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Ill explain why below.
I appreciate Mr Ms concern that he hasnt been able to find a replacement car of equal 
value with the settlement esure has offered. Mr Ms policy says esure will settle the claim by 
paying him the market value of his car at the time of the loss. But that sum isnt necessarily 
the same amount that the car was purchased for or advertised prices.
Its not this services role to provide an exact valuation of the car. We consider if the offer 
being made is reasonable based upon the trade guides we use. Those guides are based on 
likely selling prices rather than advertised prices, which allow a margin for negotiation. 
Ive considered the trade guides used by this service which vary, as do the prices of the 
same make and model of cars across the country. But I believe the valuation offered by 
esure sufficiently considers Mr Ms cars age, mileage and condition. I believe an insurers 
valuation is fair and reasonable if its within the ranges of the various guides we use. And I 
note the valuation is within the ranges from the trade guides. So, I believe this is a fair offer 
in the circumstances.
I agree with the investigator that the deductions esure made for the damage to the vehicle 
and the missing stereo are fair. One of the guides Ive seen values the stereo at £677 to 
replace. So, I dont think esure unreasonably deducted £389 from the valuation of the car for 
the stereo and the damage. And I dont think it would be fair to ask esure not to deduct the 
excess. The excess being taken from the valuation of Mr Ms vehicle is standard process for 
claims such as this and explained in Mr Ms policy. 
So, Im not going to ask esure to do anything more here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman