DRN-3589604
The complaint
Mrs Q is unhappy with the way Cova Insurance plc (Covea) handled and then declined her 
claim for repairs following an escape of water. Mrs Q is the sole policyholder of the buildings 
insurance for her home, underwritten by Covea.
What happened
Mrs Q called her plumber out to investigate loose tiles in her bathroom and a water stain on 
her kitchen ceiling. The plumber lifted some tiles and found the floor underneath was 
saturated. On further investigation he found leaks from the shower waste pipe, the shower 
valve behind the stud wall, and from the sink.
Mrs Q notified Covea and it asked her to provide photos of the damage and a quote for the 
repairs. Covea said it usually asked for two quotes if the repairs would cost more than 
£1,000. Mrs Qs plumber had already confirmed the work would be more than that, but 
Covea said it would assess the one quote to begin with to see whether it was happy with the 
costs.
Covea received the information from Mrs Q two weeks later. The next day it asked her to 
provide a more detailed quote, showing a breakdown of the repairs and costs. Mrs Q said 
that work had already started because she couldnt manage without a bathroom.
Over the next four weeks, Covea asked for further information and it also spoke with the 
plumber. After Mrs Q chased an update from Covea, it confirmed that it was declining her 
claim. Covea said the main cause of the damage was failed grout, which wasn't covered 
under the policy.
Mrs Q complained that:
Covea didnt investigate the extent or cause of damage itself.
It didnt follow its normal processes of asking her for two quotes.
Covea spoke to her plumber without her permission. 
The delay telling her the outcome of her claim caused inconvenience and distress 
because she and her children were without a bathroom for six weeks.
Covea didnt agree that it had done anything wrong by speaking with the plumber, although it 
couldve checked with her first. It said Mrs Q wouldve needed to repair her bathroom 
anyway because her claim wasn't covered under her policy, so its delays didnt cause any 
loss. But Covea did agree it couldve handled matters sooner and it offered her £2,500 
compensation.
Mrs Q declined the offer and brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Qs complaint. She thought the evidence supported 
Coveas decision to decline the claim based on the grout failure. Our investigator also said 
that while thered been some minor delays, and Covea hadnt expressly asked for 
permission to speak with the plumber, it hadnt contributed to any loss. 
Mrs Q didnt agree. She said Covea breached data protection rules by speaking with her 
plumber. Mrs Q also said that the plumbers report confirmed the leaks were the main cause 
of the damage and that Covea shouldve inspected the damage and asked for a second 
quote in line with its usual processes.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise this isnt the outcome Mrs Q hoped for, Ive decided not to uphold her 
complaint. Ill explain why.
To begin with, Id like to reassure Mrs Q that Ive listened to the calls shes referred to 
throughout her complaint, and Ive taken into consideration all the evidence provided. I wont 
be commenting on every piece, and our rules dont require me to. Instead, Ill comment on 
the evidence which I think best helps me explain the reasons for my decision.
Declined claim
When Mrs Q made her claim, her responsibility was to show that shed suffered loss from an 
insured peril. In this case an escape of water. The plumber confirmed that the bathroom floor 
was saturated, and the water had caused some damage to the kitchen ceiling below. This 
isnt disputed.
In order for Covea to decline the claim, it would need to show that the policy doesnt provide 
cover for the main cause of the damage. Covea said the main cause was the failed grout 
and it confirmed that the policy didnt provide cover in the circumstances.
Ive looked at the policy booklet and I can see that Covea, like most insurers, doesnt cover 
damage by gradually operating causes:
The policy does not cover wear and tear repairs and work necessary to maintain the 
home or contents in a good condition, or damage through causes that operate 
gradually the policy does not provide cover for damage caused by the lack of, or 
the poor condition of appropriate grout and/or sealant around a bath, sink or shower 
fitting.
So, providing that the failed grout was the main cause of the damage, Im satisfied that 
Covea wouldve declined the claim fairly and in line with the policy terms and conditions.
Main cause of damage
So, Ive gone on to look at the evidence Mrs Q and Covea provided to explain what caused 
the damage.
Having listened to the call between Covea and Mrs Qs plumber, its clear that the plumber 
concluded failed grout was the main cause. While he said there were some slight leaks in 
the bathroom pipes, he said they were minimal and wouldve taken years to become 
apparent. The plumber also confirmed that the saturated floor wouldve flexed under any 
weight, which wouldve caused one of the leaks to occur only intermittently when someone 
walked on the bathroom floor.The plumber went on to describe the workmanship of the bathroom installation, stating he 
didnt think it had been done by a proper plumber. To substantiate that claim, he said the 
pipes werent supported or clipped into place, the bathroom wasn't tanked to accommodate 
the wet room style, and the tiles had been grouted straight onto chipboard. As the grout 
failed, the water soaked through to the chipboard and saturated it. Had the bathroom been 
tanked, the membrane wouldve directed any water to the drain. Instead, the water seeped 
through the grout and soaked the whole of the chipboard floor underneath the tiles, 
spreading further to affect some parts of the joists beneath.
I noted that, during the call, Covea pressed the plumber to be clear about whether the leaks 
themselves couldve caused the damage. But the plumber repeatedly stated that the lack of 
tanking and the failed grout was the main cause of the damage.
Two months or so after the plumber inspected and started work on Mrs Qs bathroom, he 
provided a letter which stated the leaks were the main cause of the damage. Its not clear 
why he had a change of opinion. 
Mrs Q made some assumptions about the plumbers personal circumstances at the time of 
his oral statement. I also understand she sought to reduce the fees payable. But in the 
absence of any other evidence I can only consider the facts of the oral statement and the 
letter. The oral statement is by far the more persuasive of the two, with the plumber 
repeatedly describing the poor workmanship and the certainty that the failed grout allowed 
water to seep through to the untanked bathroom floor which was the main cause of the 
damage.
Based on the evidence of the plumber who had attended, and subsequently started repairs, 
it was reasonable for Covea to rely on his expert opinion of the cause of the damage, 
particularly as hed been adamant about the cause when Covea challenged his view. 
Therefore, Im satisfied that Covea fairly declined the claim under the policy exclusion for a 
gradually operating cause.
Permission to investigate
This brings me to Mrs Qs complaint that Covea didnt seek her permission to speak with her 
plumber. Mrs Q is aware that I cant decide on data breach, so I wont comment on that 
directly. Insurers investigate claims and in doing so they will seek information from other 
parties. Covea asked the plumber for information in very broad terms and the plumber 
responded in a manner which suggested sharing the information wasn't an issue.
While that doesnt mean it was acceptable for Covea to ask for the information without first 
asking Mrs Q, she is expected to cooperate with any investigation it makes into her claim. 
Mrs Q confirmed she wouldve given permission.
Nevertheless, Covea accepted that it couldve handled this element of the claim better and 
took this into consideration when it offered compensation. Ill address that at the end of my 
decision.Coveas processes and procedures
I understand that Mrs Q is unhappy Covea didnt ask for a second quote. Having listened to 
the call between her and the claim handler, I havent identified anything which indicates 
Covea failed to handle Mrs Qs claim fairly. 
Covea did confirm its normal process was to obtain two quotes if the cost was expected to 
be over £1,000. Mrs Q had already received an estimate from her plumber which exceeded 
that amount. Theres no indication on the call by how much that amount would be exceeded, 
and the claim handler said, if you prefer, send one [quote] and then see from there. The 
claim handler went on to say if Covea wasnt happy with the costs it may need to ask for 
another quote.
The tone of this conversation was clearly to make the process easier for Mrs Q. Had Covea 
considered the quote reasonable, it may not have asked for a second quote but simply 
authorised the work to go ahead based on the plumbers quote. But as Covea declined the 
claim because the cause of the damage wasn't covered under the policy, I fail to see how 
obtaining a second quote wouldve benefitted Mrs Q. 
Therefore, I cant reasonably say that Covea caused Mrs Q any detriment by not asking for a 
second quote as it would ordinarily in line with its processes and procedures.
Damage inspection
Mrs Q said Covea shouldve arranged an inspection of the damage. Its not uncommon for 
an insurer to ask for photos first, which is what it did. I see it also received a video of the 
bathroom which the plumber recorded. This, in addition to its conversation with the plumber 
who confirmed the main cause of damage, meant Covea had a reasonable understanding of 
the circumstances. It's worth noting that Mrs Q told Covea that repairs had already started 
when they spoke just two weeks after the claim started. So, even if Covea had arranged an 
inspection, the bathroom wouldnt have been in the same state as that which the plumber 
saw first-hand and described to Covea.
I havent seen any evidence that Coveas decision not to inspect caused Mrs Q any loss and 
I wont be making any requirement in respect of this point.
Delays
Mrs Q said Covea didnt handle her claim quickly enough and its lack of engagement meant 
she was without a bathroom for six weeks. Looking at the timeline of events, Covea declined 
Mrs Qs claim around six weeks after she first notified it of the damage. For the first two 
weeks, Covea was waiting for information from Mrs Q. After that, there some minor delays 
and Covea offered Mrs Q £2,500 for the overall inconvenience she experienced.
When an escape of water causes damage to this extent, its not uncommon for the claim to 
take some months. Thats because the insurer needs to arrange for contractors, drying, 
repairs and materials. However, in Mrs Qs case, her claim wasn't covered by the policy. So 
Covea had nothing to arrange once it concluded that the main cause of damage wasnt an 
insured peril.
If Covea had delayed accepting the claim, then I can see how that wouldve inconvenienced 
Mrs Q. But because Covea had no responsibility for the repairs  repairs which Mrs Q 
confirmed had already started anyway  I cant reasonably see how its actions caused a 
significant detriment. I understand Mrs Q will have needed to make arrangements to pay for the repairs, and shed 
hoped that would be covered under the policy. But as the repairs would never have been 
covered, the only shortfall Ive seen is Coveas delay telling her the claim was declined.
Compensation
Covea offered £2,500 for its shortfalls and I see Mrs Q declined the offer. I wouldnt have 
required Covea to pay compensation for a relatively short-lived delay of this type, nor would I 
have required this amount for the failure to seek permission to speak with Mrs Qs expert. 
So, I wont be asking it to do any more here.
In summary, while I sympathise with the situation Mrs Q finds herself in, Im satisfied that it 
was reasonable for Covea to rely on her experts first and repeated opinion of the main 
cause of damage being failed grout. As the gradually operating cause is not covered under 
the policy, Coveas decision to decline the claim is in line with the policy terms and 
conditions and is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman