DRN-3117113
The complaint
Miss G has complained about the poor service she received and the repairs carried out her 
to her car when she made a claim under her car insurance policy with Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited. 
All references to the insurer, Advantage in my decision includes its agents. 
What happened
In January 2020 Miss Gs catalytic converter was stolen from her car and she reported it to 
her insurer, Advantage. 
Miss G wanted her car to be repaired by a dealership garage for the manufacturer of her car. 
But Advantage didnt agree in line with the terms of the policy  and so Miss G reluctantly 
agreed for an approved repairer (AR) to repair her car. 
Miss G had to return her car to the AR multiple times as it was making a loud noise. During 
the return visits to the AR, two independent engineers (IA) agreed the repairs hadnt been 
carried out properly  the second IA assessment having taken place in November 2020. 
Miss G didnt want to return her car to the AR anymore. She paid for the manufacturer 
dealership to provide an estimate (which Advantage reimbursed Miss G for). They said the 
cause of the loud noise from Miss Gs car was due to the replacement parts being 
unsuitable. They provided an estimate to replace the part with a genuine manufacturer part. 
In November 2020 Miss G complained to Advantage. It said its engineer would consider the 
estimate she provided  and it paid her £175 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it had caused her. 
However, it didnt contact Miss G with an update and so she asked us to look at things for 
her. 
Our investigator thought that given Miss G had returned her car multiple times and the issue 
hadnt been resolved, it was more likely that the issue was with the replacement part. And so 
he thought the fairest outcome was for Advantage to pay the costs for the manufacturer 
dealership to replace the parts and repair Miss Gs car. And he thought Advantage should 
pay Miss G a further £100 compensation for the ongoing delay and poor service.
Since the investigator issued his view, Advantage asked for a more detailed estimate from 
the dealership. Its agreed to meet the costs of the further estimate  and Miss Gs car is 
booked in for a future date in November 2021 to provide it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont intend to repeat the timeline in the same level of detail as the investigator did in my 
decision  and I dont think this is disputed between the parties. I think its clear that Miss G 
has been caused considerable distress and inconvenience  by having to live with the 
returning noise to her car from the exhaust after each repair  and by having to take her car 
to the AR and the dealership garage on multiple occasions since January 2020.
I think its fair that Advantage should reimburse Miss G for the costs shes paid the 
dealership garage to provide estimates - as this relates to putting right issues with the 
repairs carried out by the AR. 
Advantage paid Miss G £175 compensation for the inconvenience it had caused. But I think 
it should pay a further £100 for failing to provide Miss G with an update after committing to 
resolve her complaint  and when it said it would consider the estimate shed already 
provided. 
Miss G says she just wants her car to no longer make a noise and to drive as it was before 
the theft. I think in this case the fairest outcome is for Advantage to meet the costs for the 
dealership garage  Miss Gs preferred garage  to carry out suitable repairs to her car. 
Advantage says it will do this  or if the costs exceed the market value of Miss Gs car  it 
will deal with the claim as a total loss. I think this is reasonable and in line with the policy. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited to do the following:
Meet the costs to repair Miss Gs car by the manufacturer dealership. If the 
estimate exceeds the market value of the car, Advantage can proceed to settle 
Miss Gs claim on a total loss basis. 
Pay any costs Miss G needs to pay the dealership to provide the requested 
estimate if it hasnt already done so. 
Pay Miss G a further £100 compensation in addition to the £175 its already paid 
for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Advantage must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Miss G accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at a simple rate of 8% a year.
If Advantage considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss G how much its taken off. It 
should also give Miss G a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman