DRN-2679547
The complaint
 Mrs W complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA). Her complaint relates to 
the service she received from RSA under her home plan policy in response to a leak at her 
house.
 
RSA uses agents to administer and provide services under the policy, as well as to deal with 
claims and complaints. Any reference to RSA in this decision includes those agents. 
 
What happened
 Mrs W had a home plan policy with RSA covering plumbing, electrical and gas supply. In 
November 2020 Mrs W contacted RSA in the early hours of the morning about a fast leak 
behind the washbasin in her bathroom that she was unable to contain. She was also unable 
to locate the stop cock to turn off the water supply and contain the leak through that means, 
so she had to continuously mop up the water from the leak using towels.
 
RSA told Mrs W that a plumber would attend. Mrs W phoned RSA a further four times at one 
to two hour intervals, but by 9am a plumber had not come as the most recent call indicated 
would happen. Mrs W phoned RSA again and was told that they had been unable to find a 
plumber to attend, that she should contact a plumber directly and that RSA would reimburse 
her for the cost. Mrs W was able to contact a plumber from a local trade guide leaflet, who 
attended soon after being contacted by Mrs W and fixed the leak.
Mrs W was unhappy at the service she had received and the way that RSA had dealt with 
the incident and complained to RSA. RSA upheld her complaint. It acknowledged that it had 
not provided the standard of service it aimed to provide to customers. It offered Mrs W £150 
in compensation for the inconvenience she had suffered, as well as reimbursing the £90 cost 
of the plumber that attended.
 
Mrs W was unhappy at the outcome of her complaint and complained to this service in 
January 2021. She requested that RSA acknowledge their breach of contract and the stress 
that the incident had caused her, particularly as an elderly person living alone. She also 
requested substantial compensation.
Our investigator concluded in February 2021 that RSA needed to do more to resolve the 
matter. Our investigator concluded that it was right for RSA to reimburse the cost of the 
plumber Mrs W located. But they did not consider that the £150 offer of compensation was 
sufficient given the impact of the incident on Mrs W as a vulnerable person living alone and 
the length of time she had to deal with the incident before being told that she should source 
her own plumber. The investigator recommended that RSA should increase its offer of 
compensation to £300.
Mrs W disagreed with the investigators conclusions and view, stating that she should 
receive more than £300 in compensation. RSA also disagreed with the investigators 
conclusions and view, stating that it had taken Mrs Ws vulnerability into account when 
offering £150 in compensation and noting that the leak was fixed within a 24 hour period.
As both parties disagreed with the investigators conclusions, a second investigator 
considered the complaint and the circumstances of the case. The second investigator 
concluded that £300 was a fair and reasonable sum in compensation given Mrs Ws 
vulnerability and the stress she had suffered during the incident.
RSA disagreed with the second investigators view and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 My role here is to decide whether RSA has acted fairly towards Mrs W.
Ive looked at the RSA notes on the case, and these confirm the number of times Mrs W 
called. The notes also indicate that RSA contacted all the plumbers that they use, but none 
of them were able to provide assistance to Mrs W at that time. While Im satisfied that RSA 
did try to secure assistance for Mrs W, the fact remains that they were unable to do so and 
in the end Mrs W had to secure assistance herself to fix the leak.
Its clear that Mrs W suffered a very stressful experience and that RSA did not provide the 
kind of service that Mrs W would expect to receive, and the 24 hour nature of the emergency 
service was a key consideration in her taking out the policy. Having to try and mitigate a fast 
leak, in the middle of the night, was clearly distressing for her and its understandable that 
she phoned RSA several times to find out what was happening and when she was going to 
receive assistance.
 
Ive also considered what Mrs W has said about the impact of the incident on her, 
particularly as an elderly person living alone. An incident of the nature that occurred would 
be stressful for any person, but it would have been particularly distressing to someone in Mrs 
Ws circumstances. Ive also taken account of what Mrs W has said about the impact the 
incident has had on her feeling able to live alone, and the worry about what might happen 
should a similar incident occur in the future.
Ive not been provided with any recordings of the calls between Mrs W and RSA during the 
incident, so Im not able to assess exactly what was said about the action being taken in 
response to the incident and what Mrs W was told. But its clear from the RSA case notes 
that they were aware of Mrs Ws position, and Mrs W has said that she made RSA aware of 
her circumstances. RSA has also said that it did take Mrs Ws vulnerability into account 
when offering her the sum of £150 in compensation. However, given the significant impact 
on Mrs W and the distress and inconvenience that she suffered, I dont think £150 was 
sufficient.
 
Ive therefore concluded that RSA need to do more to put things right. Mrs W has asked for 
£2,000 (the limit on a plumbing claim under her policy) to reflect RSAs failure to provide her 
with assistance and the stress she suffered. But I dont think the figure requested by Mrs W 
fairly and reasonably reflects the impact RSAs wrongdoing had on her either. Based on the 
factors set out about, I consider that £300 in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience she experienced is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Ws complaint. I require Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc to pay £300 to Mrs W in compensation for the distress and inconvenience that 
she has suffered (or a further £150 in compensation if it has already paid the £150 
compensation that it offered Mrs W).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman