DRN-1706021
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1995. Mr and Mrs S paid for the PPI 
with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered Mr S in case he was 
off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ss case.
I am not upholding Mr and Mrs S's complaint. I'll explain why.
Mr and Mrs S said that the adviser told them they would not get the mortgage without PPI. 
Their mortgage loan was for around £19,000, the policy cost £6.90 per month for £100 per 
month of cover. This sale was two and a half decades ago and the accounts involved have 
long since closed, so I think its understandable that neither side has the original documents 
from the time. I dont doubt Mr and Mrs S have given us their best recollections. But I also 
need to be conscious that memories can, and do, fade over time, that this sale was 
particularly long ago, and that the sale of insurance is not often memorable. Ive thought 
carefully about whats most likely to have happened based on the limited information I have.
It would have been a very serious failing for Halifax to have misled Mr and Mrs S into 
thinking PPI was compulsory. I have not seen any wider problems with Halifax's sales 
process from this time. And this sale was too long ago for me to reasonably expect Halifax to 
be able to produce evidence from the time to defend itself now. So I dont think I have a fair 
basis on which to conclude that Halifax misled Mr and Mrs S. I think it more likely that it 
followed a relatively standard sales process, gave them a choice, and that they chose PPI at 
the time  even if, understandably, they no longer recall doing so after so long. So, I can't 
fairly uphold Mr and Mrs S's complaint on this ground.
Its not clear whether Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs S, or not. The 
requirements were stricter on Halifax if it did recommend it. So to be fair to Mr and Mrs S Ive 
assumed that it did. That means Halifax had to check the policy was right for them. It also 
had to give them information that was fair and clear about the PPI so that they could make 
an informed choice about whether to buy PPI. Based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think PPI was suitable. In reaching this decision I have taken 
into account Mrs S circumstances too, as this was a joint mortgage. 
I think PPI was suitable because:
It looks like Mr S was the majority earner as Mrs S was working part-time. So he was 
eligible for the cover. 
I can't see that he was affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations. So, as he 
could've benefited from everything the policy offered, I can't see that having more 
information about what the policy didn't cover would've stopped them buying it.
Mr S said he would've got sick pay through work, between 6 to 12 months' 
worth.  The PPI would've paid out on top of Mr S's sick pay and for up to 12 months 
per successful claim. It would've allowed them to use their other income to meet 
other household expenses. Mrs S was working less than 16 hours per week at the 
time, given what they've said about her employment, I think they would've found it 
difficult to rely solely on Mrs S's income if Mr S wasn't working. Mr S would've also 
been eligible to claim for unemployment if he lost his job. 
Mr and Mrs S said they had some savings. But, I think it would've been important to 
them to hold on to these, given that they didn't use them to reduce their borrowing. 
So, I can't see that their other resources made the policy unsuitable for them.
The policy appeared affordable and as it was a monthly paid premium Mr and Mrs S 
could've cancelled it at any time without losing out financially.
 
Its possible that the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs S about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. But as I explained above, Mr S wasnt affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for them in case something 
went wrong.  Overall, I dont think that better information was likely to have put them off 
taking out the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 June 2020.
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman