DRN-3424608
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J are unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) declined a claim made
on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
In September 2019, Mr and Mrs J took out an annual premier multi-trip travel insurance
policy, underwritten by URV (the policy). The policy covered the period 6 September 2019
to 5 September 2020.
In October 2019, Mr and Mrs J booked a holiday abroad to the USA. They were due to
depart the UK on 10 March 2020 and leave the USA on 24 March 2020, returning to the UK
on 25 March 2020.
Whilst abroad, on 19 March 2020, Mr and Mrs J received notification from their airline that
their return flights to the UK had been cancelled. They managed to book an indirect return
flight to the UK, with a different airline, departing on 23 March 2020. That flight ended up
being delayed, and Mr and Mrs J returned to the UK on the date they were originally due to
return; on 25 March 2020. However, the rearranged flights returned to a different UK airport
to the one they departed from. So, Mr and Mrs J incurred additional costs hiring a car once
back in the UK to get home and additional petrol costs.
They promptly made a claim on the policy for the cost of additional flights back to the UK, the
cost of the hire car and petrol.
URV declined the claim. It said that the circumstances which led to the claim werent
covered under the section of the policy terms and conditions entitled: if you have to cut your
trip short (the curtailment section of the policy). And nor did the circumstances amount to a
major incident under the section of the policy terms and conditions entitled: if a major
incident occurs while you were away (the trip disruption section of the policy).
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs J complained to URV. It maintained its position. So, Mr and Mrs J
brought a complaint to our Service.
Mr and Mrs J have confirmed that they received a refund from the airline who cancelled their
original return flights and accept that this should be deducted from the amount they claimed.
The total amount they seek from URV to put things right is now around £837.
Our investigator concluded that URV had fairly concluded that the claim wasnt covered
under the curtailment section of the policy. However, he did think it was fair and reasonable
to conclude that Covid-19 pandemic was a major incident as defined by the trip disruption
section of the policy, as it amounted to an act of nature. 
Our investigator recommended URV to accept the claim under the trip disruption section of 
the policy subject to the remaining policy terms and any applicable limits/excess. He also 
recommended URV to add simple interest at the rate of 8% per annum to the claim amount, 
from the date of the claim to the date of settlement.
URV disagreed. In summary it said:
Its unreasonable to interpret an act of nature to include Covid-19.
An act of nature is equivalent to a natural disaster. Covid-19 isnt a geologic process
and so isnt an act of nature. A natural disaster is a major adverse event resulting
from natural processes of the Earth; examples are floods, hurricanes, tornadoes,
volcanic eruptions, earthquakes, tsunamis, storms, and other geologic processes.
The use of the word act indicates a specific major one-off event, rather than an
ongoing long-term problem.
An act of nature is an event where the effects of which could not be prevented or
avoided by the exercise of due care or foresight. And Covid-19 is an event that can
be prevented, or measures can be taken to exercise care.
This complaint was passed to me to consider everything afresh and decide. I issued my 
provisional decision in March 2022 explaining in more detail why I also was intending to 
uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint. And why I was intending to direct URV to reassess Mr and 
Mrs Js claim on the basis that a major incident includes the Covid-19 pandemic and, so is 
covered under the trip disruption section of the policy.
An extract of my provisional decision is set out below:
URV has an obligation to handle insurance claims fairly and promptly. And it mustnt
unreasonably decline an insurance claim.
Curtailment claim
Page 18 of the policy terms and conditions set out the section on curtailment. It says it will
pay up to £5,000 for stipulated costs if:
You had to cut short your trip because the following unexpectedly happened after
you left home:
-you, a travelling companion, a family member, a business associate, or the
person you were staying with became ill, was injured or died;
-you were advised by the Police that your home, had been burgled, or suffered
serious fire, storm or flood;
-your pre-booked accommodation was damaged by a natural disaster, and
alternative accommodation is not provided;
-you were called for jury service or required as a witness in a court of law;
-you, or a travelling companion as members of HM forces had your leave
orders cancelled.
Natural disaster is defined as:
volcanic eruption, flood, tsunami, earthquake, landslide, hurricane, tornado or
wildfire.
Mr and Mrs Js return flight was cancelled on 19 March 2020, resulting in them having to
rebook a return flight with another airline. They ended up returning to the UK on the same
date as they originally planned to. So, Im not persuaded that the trip was cut short and as
such, I dont think URV has unfairly and unreasonably declined cover under the curtailment
section of the policy.
Although the airline which cancelled the return flight didnt give a specific reason for doingso, given the global impact of the emergence and spread of Covid-19 at the time  and what
I know about the reasons for many flights being cancelled in various countries around the
world at the time  I think its fair to assume that it was due to the impact of Covid-19.
So, Im also satisfied that the circumstances which led to Mr and Mrs Js claim doesnt fall
within one of the specific, listed insured events for which cover is provided under the
curtailment section of the policy.
Trip disruption claim
The policy also provides cover if Mr and Mrs Js trip was disrupted due to a major incident.
Page 31 of the policy terms and conditions sets out the section on travel disruption. It says:
If your trip was disrupted due to a major incident. This is what we will do:
-We will pay you up to £1,000 for reasonable additional travel expenses to
enable you to return home, or move to a safer area.
-We will pay you up to £100 for each 24-hour period for up to a maximum of
£700 for additional accommodation.
-We will pay you up to £30 for each 24-hour period for food up to a maximum
of £210.
-We will pay you up to £150 for the emergency replenishment of baby
essentials or prescription medication, if your existing supplies run out during
the period that you are delayed.
Trip in this section is defined as:
travel that was booked or taken during the period of insurance.
Mr and Mrs J bought the policy in September 2019. They booked their trip in October 2019
which began on 10 March 2020. So, Im satisfied that the trip was booked and taken during
the period of insurance. Im also satisfied that Mr and Mrs Js trip was disrupted due to the
Covid-19 pandemic.
So, the crux of the issue for me to determine is whether the Covid-19 pandemic can
reasonably be said to amount to a major incident.
Under the trip disruption section of the policy, major incident is defined as:
war, invasion, acts of foreign enemy, hostilities or warlike operation (whether war be
declared or not), civil war, mutiny, military rising, insurrection, rebellion, revolution,
military or usurped power, climatic conditions, volcanic eruption and other acts of
nature which first arise during your trip.
But the phrase other acts of nature isnt defined under the policy.
In the absence of the phrase being defined by the policy, Ive carefully considered whether
URV has fairly and reasonably concluded that this phrase doesnt include a virus pandemic.
And I dont think it has. Ill explain why.
The dictionary definition
Ive first taken into account the definition of nature in the Cambridge English Dictionary.
Although not definitive, I think its relevant that nature is defined as all the animals, plants,
rocks, etc. in the world and all the features, forces, and processes that happen or existindependently of people, such as the weather, the sea, mountains, the production of young
animals or plants, and growth.
So, the dictionary definition doesnt expressly include a microscopic virus. However, I think
the definition  taken as a whole  is wide enough to include it. After all, a virus is organic
material that invades living cells and uses its chemical machinery to exist and to replicate
itself. As such, a virus could be viewed as part of the natural world. And given that the policy
doesnt define nature or other acts of nature, I dont think the policy contradicts the
dictionary definition of nature.
The legal position
Investors Compensation Scheme Limited v West Bromwich Building Society and Others is
relevant caselaw which sets out several principles for the construction of contracts (the
principles). They include:
Interpretation is the ascertainment of the meaning which the document would convey
to a reasonable person having all the background knowledge which would
reasonably have been available to the parties in the situation in which they were at
the time of the contract.
That background knowledge is subject to the requirement that it should have been
reasonably available to the parties and that it is not part of previous negotiations
between the parties. It includes anything which would have affected the way in which
the language of the document would have been understood by a reasonable person.
The meaning which a document (or any other utterance) would convey to a
reasonable person is not the same thing as the meaning of its words. The meaning of
words is a matter of dictionaries and grammars; the meaning of the document is what
the parties using those words against the relevant background would reasonably
have been understood to mean.
The rule that words should be given their natural and ordinary meaning reflects
the commonsense proposition that we do not easily accept that people have made
linguistic mistakes, particularly in formal documents. On the other hand, if one would
nevertheless conclude from the background that something must have gone wrong
with the language, the law does not require judges to attribute to the parties an
intention which they plainly could not have had.
The policy in this case was taken out in September 2019.
Applying the principles to the policy, Im conscious that URV and Mr and Mrs J may not have
had the global spread of a microscopic virus in mind when entering into their contract of
insurance together  particularly one such as Covid-19 which hadnt started spreading
amongst the human population at the time of entering into the contract. And so, the phrase
other acts of nature set against this background may not have been understood to include a
microscopic virus. On the other hand, Im also conscious that a reasonable person with all
knowledge of the background at the time of entering the contract could reasonably conclude
that other acts of nature would encompass all aspects of the natural world  including
viruses. After all, different types of coronaviruses have emerged over the years and have
affected certain countries along with other viruses such as the Zika virus and Ebola  and
this this something the parties wouldve been aware of at the time of entering into the
contract of insurance.Although, not legal authority arising out of the courts of England and Wales, the US District
Court in the Southern District of New York in JN Contemporary Art LLC v Phillips
Auctioneers LCC (No. 20-CV-4370) held that [i]t cannot seriously be disputed that the
COVID-19 pandemic is a natural disaster for the purposes of a force majeure clause in an
auction agreement that referred expressly to natural disasters. So, thats not inconsistent
with the spread of a microscopic virus falling within the definition of an act of nature.
Ive also taken into account the rules of language applied by the courts which say that a
sweeping up phrase will be of the same type as the previous specific provisions set out in
the clause. Im conscious that applying the rules of language to the policy definition of major
incident could lead to the conclusion that the sweeping up phrase of any other acts of
nature at the end of the definition includes only acts of nature along the lines of volcanic
eruption and climactic conditions, not microscopic viruses (such as Covid-19). This is a point
URV has sought to make; it says other acts of nature should be seen as equivalent to a
natural disaster. And that a natural disaster is a major adverse event resulting from natural
processes of the Earth; examples being floods, hurricanes, tornadoes, volcanic eruptions,
earthquakes, tsunamis, storms, and other geologic processes. As Covid-19 isnt a geologic
process, it says Covid-19 isnt an act of nature. However, Im not persuaded by this point.
As set out above, the curtailment section of the policy, separately defines natural disaster.
And when defining major disruption in the trip disruption section of the policy, URV couldve
included the term other natural disasters but didnt. The phrase other acts of nature was
used. If it had instead referred to natural disasters when defining major disruption, then this
may have been clearer for the policyholder to understand. So, Im not persuaded that it
would be fair and reasonable to equate other acts of nature with the term natural disaster 
as defined by the policy in this case.
Further, having considered the policy definition of major incident and the principles of
interpretation, the rules of language and dictionary definition of nature as set out above, at
the very least Im satisfied that the phrase other acts of nature has more than one meaning
 particularly as it isnt separately defined by the policy.
As such, and because I think that the policy terms and conditions amount to a consumer
contract, Im satisfied The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (the CRA) is also a relevant
consideration here. Section 69(1) of the CRA says:
If a term in a consumer contract, or a consumer notice, could have different
meanings, the meaning that is most favourable to the consumer is to prevail.
The meaning most favourable to Mr and Mrs J would be that the phrase other acts of
nature includes microscopic viruses such as COVID-19.
Other relevant considerations
When deciding whether URV has acted fairly and reasonably by declining Mr and Mrs Js
complaint, Ive not only considered relevant law.
Rule 3.6.4R of the Dispute Resolution Rules set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys
Handbook says, when considering whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the
case, I should take into account:
-the relevant law and regulations
-relevant regulators rules, guidance and standards
-relevant codes of practices; and
-where appropriate, what I consider having been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook sets out a number of Principles for
Businesses, which URV must follow, including that a firm must:
-conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence (Principle 2).
-pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly (Principle 6).
-pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading (Principle 7).
The Regulatory Guide, published by the FCA, entitled: The Responsibilities of Providers and
Distributors for the Fair Treatment of Customers (RPPD) includes the Regulators guidance
on what the combination of Principles and the detailed rules require providers of financial
services in certain circumstances to do to ensure that customers are treated fairly. And this
Guide explains that firms should take account of what information the customer needs to
understand the product or service, its purpose and the risks, and communicate information in
a way that is clear, fair and not misleading.
I also consider it to be good industry practice for underwriters of travel insurance to clearly
set out the terms on which someone is insured, including what they are and arent covered
for and to provide clear definitions of any words or phrases which could be ambiguous and
have various different meanings. Ive explained above why I consider the phrase other acts
of nature to be ambiguous and, without the phrase being separately defined, that it has
different interpretations and meanings.
Overall, Im satisfied that the applicable regulations, and FCAs rules, guidance and
standards and what I consider to be good industry practice at the relevant time lead to the
conclusion that URV hasnt acted fairly and reasonably by declining Mr and Mrs Js claim
here. I dont think the way in which major incident is defined in the policy  and in particular
the inclusion of the phrase other acts of nature  is clear in relation to what other acts of
nature entails.
When deciding this issue, Ive taken into account what URV has said about the use of the
word act. URV has said that this word indicates a specific major one-off event, rather than
an ongoing long-term problem. But I note that many of the other listed examples of what
constitutes a major disruption such as war, invasion, acts of foreign enemy, hostilities or
warlike operation, civil war, mutiny, military rising, insurrection, rebellion, revolution, military
or usurped power can  and often are  long-standing issues. So, I dont think it would be
fair and reasonable to equate the phrase other acts of nature to meaning a major one-off
event, given how the rest of the definition is drafted and that the other examples could last
for a sustained period.
And in light of these examples, Im also not persuaded by what URV says about an act of
nature being an event where the effects of which could not be prevented or avoided by the
exercise of due care or foresight. Thats because applying this logic, many of the other
examples referred to, are potentially capable of being avoided but are still included in the
definition of what constitutes a major disruption. In the absence of the phrase being
separately defined, I dont think a reasonable person considering other acts of nature -
given all the surrounding circumstances when the policy was taken out - would reasonably
conclude that this concerns a major disruption which couldnt be avoided or prevented in
some way. Further, Ive not been referred to any independent evidence  medical or
otherwise  that supports what URV says that once transmission starts, a virus can be
prevented from spreading across the world.
So, overall, in this case, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable for the phrase other acts ofnature to include the Covid-19 pandemic.
The policy exclusions
The trip disruption section of the policy also goes on to list what isnt covered and that
includes if:
you booked your trip, or travelled after the announcement of a major incident
Ill refer to this as the exclusion.
Under the policy, travelled isnt separately defined and its not clear whether its meant to be
restricted to travel from the UK or any travel after the announcement of a major incident
(which would include travel back to the UK).
Given the principles and rules of language - referred to above  Im satisfied that when the
policy was taken out, a reasonable person with all knowledge of the background at the time
of entering the insurance contract would conclude that travelled in the context of the
exclusion relates to the date of travel from the UK. And as the word travelled isnt defined
by the policy and could have different meanings when applying the principles of
interpretation, Im also satisfied that section 69(1) of the CRA is relevant here. So, I think its
fair that travelled should be interpreted in a way that is most advantageous to Mr and Mrs J.
And that would be that its restricted to travel from the UK  and not to conclude any travel
after the announcement of the major incident.
I think this leads to a fair and reasonable conclusion given that the term isnt clear as
required by the relevant regulations and FCAs rules and guidance  also referred to above.
Particularly as the travel disruption section of the policy expressly provides cover for: up to
£1,000 for reasonable additional travel expenses to enable you to return home or move to a
safer area.
So, if travelled in the context of the exclusion is interpreted more widely to include all travel
 including travel back to the UK after the announcement of a major incident - then a
policyholder is unlikely to ever be able to claim on the policy for a return flight home after a
major incident is announced. Even though there is separate cover for such a scenario under
the policy.
Im also satisfied that the announcement of Covid-19 being a major incident first took place
on 11 March 2020. Although, there were reports of people contracting Covid-19 before Mr
and Mrs J started their trip on 10 March 2020, the World Health Organisation (WHO) didnt
declare Covid-19 as a pandemic until 11 March 2020. The WHO said:
In the past two weeks, the number of cases of COVID-19 outside China has
increased 13-fold, and the number of affected countries has tripled. There are now
more than 118,000 cases in 114 countries, and 4,291 people have lost their
lives. Thousands more are fighting for their lives in hospitals. In the days and weeks
ahead, we expect to see the number of cases, the number of deaths, and the number
of affected countries climb even higher. WHO has been assessing this outbreak
around the clock and we are deeply concerned both by the alarming levels of spread
and severity, and by the alarming levels of inaction. We have therefore made the
assessment that COVID-19 can be characterized as a pandemic.
So, Im satisfied that the exclusion isnt applicable to the circumstances of this complaint, as
Mr and Mrs J didnt book their trip or travel on or after the announcement on 11 March 2020.
They booked the trip in October 2019 and travelled abroad on 10 March 2020.Changes to the policy with effect of 13 March 2020
Mr and Mrs J have provided our Service with a document entitled: policy changes issued
on behalf of URV. It goes on to say:
please see below a list of changes we have made to our policies, which may affect
returning customers when buying future policies.
And then:
From 13th March 2020, there is no cover under our policies for
 any claims as a result of Coronavirus, COVID-19, Severe Acute Respiratory
Syndrome (SARs-COV-2) any mutation of Coronavirus, COVID-19 or SARs-COV-2
or any pandemic or fear or threat of any the above
Ill refer to these as the policy changes.
URV hasnt sought to rely on the policy changes to decline the claim.
However, if it did seek to do so, Im minded to conclude that it wouldnt be fair and
reasonable for it do so. Firstly, the policy changes are said to affect returning customers
when buying future policies. Mr and Mrs J bought the policy in September 2019 and it wasnt
due to end until September 2020, many months after 13 March 2020.
Further, Mr and Mrs J had already departed for their trip on 10 March 2020 and were abroad
before the policy changes were communicated. So even though the terms and conditions
allow for policy terms to be changed in particular circumstances during the period of
coverage, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for URV to rely on the policy changes
which included a term to effectively exclude all claims resulting from Covid-19 or the
pandemic (except certain emergency medical expenses) in such circumstances. Particularly
as Mr and Mrs J werent given any warning of the policy changes.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs J replied saying they were happy with my provisional decision and had nothing 
further to add. URV replied saying it accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accept my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings set out above. 
I therefore uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint for the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision  an extract of which appears above. 
Putting things right
I direct URV to assess the claim on the basis that a major incident includes the
Covid-19 pandemic and is covered under the trip disruption section of the policy (at page 31
of the terms and conditions of the policy) as the major incident first took place during Mr
and Mrs Js trip.This is subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy  including (but not limited
to) the financial limits of this section of the policy, and any applicable excess.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I direct Union Reiseversicherung AG to put things right as Ive set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman