DRN-4138677
The complaint
The estate of Mrs H complains about National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) for 
declining to register a power of attorney on a joint account, and for restricting access to the 
account for a personal representative. 
What happened
R brings this complaint as an executor of Mrs Hs estate. At the time of the relevant events, 
and prior to Mrs Hs passing, R was a personal representative of Mrs H, and later held power 
of attorney. 
Mrs H suffered from physical disabilities, and intermittent mental difficulties. She held a joint 
account with her partner, and her income was received into that account. 
Around 2015, Mrs H authorised R as a representative to act on Rs behalf in regard to her 
account. The account allowed either of the holders (or their representatives) to act 
independently and they each had full control over the account. 
Around 2021, Mrs Hs conditions began to deteriorate, and R took steps to put in place an 
enduring power of attorney to cover instances when Mrs H lacked capacity. 
In February 2022, R transferred around £10,000 out of the account, to another account 
which was held solely in Mrs Hs name. R also sought to register the power of attorney with 
the bank. 
The other account holder did not agree to registering the power of attorney and NatWest 
then blocked Rs access to the account. 
R complained to NatWest. They felt that this action discriminated against Mrs H and 
frustrated Mrs Hs wishes to give R control of Mrs Hs affairs.
Sadly, Mrs H passed away in April 2022, at which point R became an executor to Mrs Hs 
estate. Ownership of the jointly held account passed to the surviving account holder. 
NatWest responded to R but did not consider that R had appropriate authority to discuss the 
account. 
R complained to us. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and did not consider that NatWest had done 
anything wrong. They considered that NatWest had properly applied its processes and that it 
was not unreasonable to require consent from all account holders before registering an 
attorney. 
R did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, may I offer my sympathies to R. I appreciate that they have suffered great 
inconvenience and distress both prior to and since the loss of Mrs H. I can understand how 
upsetting it would have felt to think that Mrs Hs wishes were not being honoured during her 
final months, and how worrying it would have been for Mrs H to not be able to access shared 
funds for bills and other expenditure.
I do, however, agree with my colleagues view and I do not uphold the complaint. 
This situation involves a family dispute and is very contentious. It is somewhat inevitable that 
not all wishes and expectations can be met in those circumstances so we have to look at 
whether the bank has acted reasonably and with proper regard to its processes. 
R was authorised as a signatory in 2015 and appears to have acted as an authorised 
signatory for some years without issue. In that role they transferred a substantial sum out of 
the jointly held account of Mrs H. I understand that this was to a solely held account to 
facilitate an investment. 
Following that transaction, R wished to register the power of attorney and NatWest consulted 
the other account holder who did not give their consent. As NatWests processes required 
that all holders must agree to any such registration NatWest was entitled to decline to 
register the power of attorney. 
R feels that this decision went against Mrs Hs wishes, as Mrs H had wanted R as power of 
attorney and for R to act. I understand this view, but joint accounts give equal rights and 
liabilities to the holders. If NatWest had authorised the registration against the wishes of the 
other account, then it would have elevated the rights of one holder above the other. 
I appreciate that it may feel to R that the decision not to register the attorney put the other 
account holders wishes above Mrs Hs, but the rules of the account as agreed to by the 
holders when they opened the account were that either party could have full use of the 
account, but both holders needed to agree to any new holder. NatWests actions were in line 
with that approach.
I do not think that NatWests decision was an unreasonable one in the circumstances. It 
remained open to R to move Mrs Hs income sources to the other account which was held 
solely in her name and R was clearly aware that they could use an alternative account. I 
therefore do not think that NatWest prevented Mrs H from receiving her income going 
forward. 
I have considered the additional comments R has made regarding whether NatWest 
discriminated against Mrs H, but I have not seen evidence of this. There was, throughout 
this, another account holder who also required consideration and I have not seen evidence 
that NatWest acted inappropriately in the way it sought to balance the interests of both 
account holders, along with the terms and practices of joint accounts.
Consequently, whilst I understand that this will be upsetting to R, I do not uphold this 
complaint and do not ask National Westminster Bank Plc to do anything further.   My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold the estate of Mrs Hs complaint and I do not 
ask National Westminster bank Plc to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs H 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman