DRN-3733602
Complaint
Mrs R is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) closed her accounts.
Background
In July 2022, Barclays took the decision to close Mrs Rs accounts and provided her with two 
months notice before doing so. Mrs R complained about Barclays actions as shed 
successfully done so earlier in the year and felt shed kept to the terms agreed after this. 
However, this time Barclays didnt uphold Mrs Rs complaint. As Mrs R remained 
dissatisfied, Mrs R referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mrs Rs concerns. She didnt think that Barclays had 
done anything wrong or treated Mrs R unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Mrs R disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I dont think that Barclays acted unfairly towards     
Mrs R and so Im not upholding her complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
Mrs R says that she was sent a letter telling her that her account would be closed in        
January 2022, yet she was able to keep her accounts after she confirmed she wouldnt make 
any further business credits into her personal account. Mrs R believes that it is now unfair for 
Barclays to close her accounts when she has kept to this arrangement.  
However, as our adjudicator explained to Mrs R, a bank is generally under no obligation to 
continue offering an account to a consumer if it doesnt wish to do so. I know that Mrs R is 
unhappy that Barclays closed her accounts. However, each bank has its own criteria and 
risk assessment for deciding whether to open (or close) accounts and providing a customer 
with an account is a commercial decision that a bank is entitled to take. And typically, as 
long as it provides reasonable notice it has no obligation to share its reasons for that 
decision.
In this case Mrs R was provided with reasonable notice. So Im satisfied that Barclays had 
sufficient grounds to close Mrs Rs accounts and as such its decision to do so wasnt unfair 
in the circumstances. I realise that Barclays decision will have been very disappointing to 
Mrs R  especially as shed successfully challenged a decision to close previously and feels 
that shes kept to the terms of the agreement. And I can appreciate why the closure of her 
accounts will have caused her inconvenience. But despite this, Im simply not in a position to 
be able to tell Barclays it should have continued offering Mrs R an account in circumstances 
where it legitimately decided it no longer wishes to bank with her.
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Barclays has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mrs R and Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mrs R. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and 
that shell appreciate why Barclays was entitled to close her accounts in the way that it did.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman