DRN-2896473
The complaint
Mr S complains that Covea Insurance plc has declined his claim under his home insurance
policy.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 26 May 2021 detailing my intension to 
uphold Mr Ss complaint I said:
Mr S is represented by a specialist claims management company which Ill refer to as 
company U.
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties and has been detailed by our 
investigator previously. so, Ill summarise the key points Ive focused on within my decision.
The septic tank at Mr Ss property has been damaged and after investigation it was 
found the dip pipes were broken and resting in the base of the tank. In company Us 
opinion it believes the damage is consistent with accidental damage.
Mr S reported the damage to Covea who arranged for its own drainage specialist to 
investigate  company A.
Company A reported that the damage to the dip pipes is consistent with an external 
force being applied and could not have occurred due to gradual deterioration and 
therefore the damage should be considered accidental under the policy.
Covea declined the claim as it said it believes the damage was due to a breakdown 
of materials, mainly the mortar holding the pipes in place exacerbated by the natural 
influence of the rising effluent of the sewage levels. It believes this claim comes 
under wear and tear and isnt covered by the policy.
Company U on behalf of Mr S disagreed with this finding and maintained the damage 
was as a result of accidental damage and could only have happened when the tank 
was last emptied.
Covea acknowledged that their own expert supported that it was accidental damage 
but couldnt confirm how or when the damage happened. And said the onus is upon 
the claimant to prove the claim.
Covea also contacted the company that last emptied the tank to ascertain if during its 
inspection the dip pipes were found to be in the bottom of the tank. The company 
responded No damage reported, spoken to driver. Was working fine last time we 
emptied it.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said as no identifiable means has 
been identified to how the accidental damage occurred, the claim doesnt meet the 
policy requirement.
Mr S disagreed with our investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a
decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Covea first declined the claim as it said it thought the damage was consistent with wear and 
tear and declined the claim under the policy exclusion for gradual operating cause.
Having looked at the report provided by Coveas own expert  company A, which says;
The damage to the dip pipe is consistent with an external force being applied. We cannot
confirm at this stage exactly what caused the external force; however the
fracturing/breakage of the dip pipe could not have occurred due to gradual deterioration and 
therefore the damage should be considered accidental under policy terms
Im persuaded by company As report, an expert in this field. So, I dont think it was fair for 
Covea to decline the claim under the gradual operating cause exclusion. Following 
company Us disagreement to this as well Covea then considered accidental damage 
element of the policy.
Accidental damage is defined in the policy as;
Sudden, unintentional and unexpected physical damage caused by an identifiable external
means.
What is seemingly accepted now is that the damage to the pipes, was caused by accidental 
damage but what remains in dispute is how they were damaged  caused by an identifiable 
external means.
Both company A and U agree that it appears to be impact damage. Company U has said the 
only plausible explanation is impact damage was caused during emptying of the tank. The 
tank is underground there is no reason to access the tank other than servicing and emptying 
it.
In contrast company A havent determined a reason. Covea contacted the company that 
emptied the tank in July 2018 which said in an email; No damage reported, spoken to 
driver. Was working fine last time we emptied it. I can see this email was received several 
months after the claim was registered. I dont think it says much other than there was no
reported damage. I think it unlikely a driver/operator is going to recall emptying a particular
tank several months later and admitting any liability to causing damage.
Company U has given a detailed report and Ive seen photos of how close the pipe used to
empty the tank can be to the dip pipes. Company U has said in its experience it isnt
uncommon for the dip pipes to be damaged during the emptying process without the
driver/operators knowledge.
On balance of probabilities I think it more likely than not that the damage to the dip pipes 
was caused by accidental damage when the tank was last emptied. I find company Us 
explanation to be more persuasive for the reasons Ive explained above.
I think its more likely than not that the damage to the dip pipes meets the policy definition of 
accidental damage and the claim is therefore payable.
I intended to uphold the complaint and direct Covea to settle the claim, subject to the 
remaining policy terms and conditions.Responses to provisional decision
Both parties have responded. Mr S said given the hazardous environmental nature he has 
had to arrange for the tank to be emptied every three months rather than the suggested 
annual emptying and he has said this has cost an additional £893 in emptying fees since the 
claim was rejected. And would like Covea to cover the costs.
He has also said that the proposed changes that Company A and Company U put forward 
as a solution do not comply with government guidelines. Mr S has found another local 
company that has a solution within government guidelines. The costs are nearly £7000, 
cheaper than the next closest proposal that Company A put forward. 
In summary, Covea has said three out of the four dip pipes were found to be at the bottom of 
the tank and they agree that the suction hose could impact the dip pipe, however, could 
being the operative word.
It has confirmed that the tank emptying company confirmed that it has a reporting system in 
place for when it has observed damage or caused damage. It told Covea that the reporting 
system was not triggered as at the time of their visit as there was no damage to report. 
Covea says the company went to the further effort of contacting the driver and its not a case 
of relying on a drivers memory, it has a process in place and its not in their interest to 
ignore damage caused as it will not go away if ignored.
Covea has also said that Company Us report is misleading and disingenuous when it said, 
in its experience it isnt uncommon for the dip pipes to be damaged during the emptying 
process without the driver/operators knowledge. It has said from the photographs taken by 
Company U, that when the chambers are emptied the pipework is clearly visible lying on the 
floor. If the pipework was not clearly visible from the hatchways, then it would be impossible 
for the suction hose to possibly impact them. The chambers are always suction emptied 
down to the base.
Covea also said it did propose to repair the pipes although it wasnt their remit and that 
Company U side stepped this response. Covea believe this was not in the interest of the 
customer.
Finally, Covea said the policy was incepted on 26 July 2018, the damage was reported to it 
on 4 June 2019 and the tank was last emptied prior to the problems on 4 July 2018 who had 
a roll over arrangement with the previous owner. It doesnt disagree there was damage but 
there is no evidence to indicate that the physical damage to the dip pipes occurred during 
the policy period.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered both parties responses. On the whole Covea has reiterated 
information that Ive already considered. Ive also considered Coveas view on Company Us 
comments within its report, and its clarification on the information its obtained from the 
company that emptied the tank. 
But both Company A and Company U has said the damage looks to have been caused by 
an external force/impact damage. As the tank is underground and is only accessed for 
servicing and emptying, for the reasons Ive already outlined in my provisional decision I still 
think its more likely than not the accidental damage occurred when the tank was last emptied, and I intend to still instruct Covea to settle the claim, subject to the remaining policy 
terms and conditions.
Covea has also said, if its accepted that the 4 July 2018 is when the damage occurred, it 
doesnt think it happened during the policy period, as it says the policy was incepted on 26 
July 2018. Mr S has provided information to show he had a policy with Covea from when he 
exchanged contracts on the property in May 2018.  So, there was a policy in place at the 
time of the tank being emptied. When Mr S wanted to add some additional cover to his policy 
the original policy was cancelled and replaced with a policy including the additional cover 
from 26 July 2018. I have also seen in Coveas notes that this was considered earlier in the 
claim and it was noted that there was cover. I am therefore satisfied that the claim falls within 
Coveas period of cover. 
Ive considered the costs Mr S has raised regarding the additional emptying of the tank. And 
I asked Covea for comments regarding this. Covea wanted to know if Mr S had done this 
following some form of instruction. Mr S has confirmed he was not advised but did it because 
of how often the foul water was leaking from his garden into the lane.  He said it was obvious 
this was causing an environmental problem. I appreciate that normally a tank will only 
require emptying annually but I think if Covea had accepted the claim, as I believe it 
shouldve then Mr S wouldnt have had to pay for the additional costs to have the tank 
emptied more often. I therefore intend to direct Covea to refund the costs, subject to Mr S 
providing it with relevant receipts. It should also add 8% simple interest from when the 
payments were made to the date of payment.
 
Putting things right
I direct Covea Insurance plc to;
Settle the claim, subject to the remaining policy terms and conditions.
On receipt of receiving receipts from Mr S, refund the additional costs of emptying 
the tank - £893 adding 8% simple interest from when the payments were made to the 
date of payment.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman