DRN-3221738
The complaint
Mr M complains that Forester Life Limited mis-sold him an investment product.
What happened
On 29 May 2020, Mr M applied online and set up a Savings and Investment Plan (the Plan)
through Forester Life on a single life basis. He paid the initial minimum £20 required to start 
the Plan. 
Around 9 months or so later, Mr M contacted Forester Life and asked it to change the Plan 
to a joint life basis. Forester Life explained that wasnt now possible as the plan was already 
secured on a single life basis. 
Mr M complained that he had always intended this to be a joint life Plan and that Forester 
Life hadnt made it clear that this was only possible if the Plan was set up that way in the first 
place. 
Forester Life acknowledged that there had been a shortcoming in its online Plan literature 
and design process as it hadnt made it clear that a joint life policy could only be set up by 
speaking direct to a Forester Life financial adviser. It said it would arrange a meeting with 
one of its advisers so Mr M could start a new joint Plan as soon possible. 
Mr M wasnt happy with this response. Amongst other concerns, he said he would lose out 
financially by starting a new Plan because the terms and conditions included provision for 
the annual management charge to decrease from 1.5% of the fund value to 1.0% after ten 
years. So, even though his existing Plan had been set up for almost a year already, the 
new Plan wouldnt qualify for a reduction in the annual management charge for another 
ten years.  
In its final response letter, Forester Life confirmed that it still didnt feel the Plan had been 
mis-sold to Mr M. It did however offer him £25 as a gesture of goodwill to settle his 
complaint. It said this would more than cover any loss due to having to pay fees for an 
additional year based on the value of funds Mr M had invested so far (the initial £20 to open 
the Plan). It also said online applicants would now see additional wording which makes it 
clear that the Plan can only be set up on a joint life basis by speaking direct to one of its 
financial advisers. 
Mr M didn't feel this went far enough to resolve things and so he brought his complaint to 
us and one of our investigators looked into what happened.  
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. She felt that Forester Life had made 
reasonable attempts to put things right for Mr M and she didnt recommend it should take 
any further steps.
Mr M disagreed with our investigator. So as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, 
it comes to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure Mr M that Ive looked at the complaint afresh  and Ive independently 
reached the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain why.
I must look at all the available information and decide what I think is most likely on a balance 
of probabilities. This means making some reasonable assumptions where theres only 
limited information. And I must be impartial. Theres more information on our website which 
explains the Financial Ombudsman Service approach.
I can understand Mr Ms frustration at discovering that he wasnt able to convert the Plan to 
joint life as he wished to do. And I've taken into account that Forester Life has accepted the 
information it provided about this wasnt clear enough. But that isnt enough of a reason for 
me to uphold Mr Ms complaint that the Plan was mis-sold to him. 
I say this because, if Mr M had only wanted the Plan on a joint life basis, and this was the 
overriding consideration for him, he had other options open to him. 
He couldve queried with Forester Life why its online application process didnt allow him to 
set up the Plan other than on a single life basis. And he had the option not to proceed with 
his application if it didnt reflect his wishes at the time. 
I think he wouldve understood this  Mr M had identified the product online as something he 
was interested in and it was entirely his choice whether to take it out. He hadnt taken any 
advice from Forester Life about it and I cant fairly say he was put under any pressure from 
Forester Life to take it out. As he went ahead with setting up the Plan in his sole name, 
I think it's fair to say it looks like he was happy enough to proceed with the only choice 
available online and set up the Plan on a single life basis. 
Although Mr M might have assumed he could convert to a joint life plan later, that 
assumption would have been incorrect and Forester Life has explained that the product 
doesnt allow for this to happen. I've noted that Mr M has disputed that this should be so, but 
I cant see anything in the terms and conditions that suggests Forester Life has informed 
Mr M incorrectly about this.
Given that I agree it isnt possible to achieve what Mr M would ideally have liked  to convert 
the existing single life Plan to a joint life Plan - I think Forester Lifes offer to make 
arrangements for him to start a new joint life plan as soon as possible was fair and 
reasonable.  
I dont agree that Ive seen enough to safely say that setting up a new Plan would lead to 
Mr M losing out financially. Mr M has said changing to a new joint product would mean that 
he would lose out on the reduction in fees later on and the percentage of tax deferral when 
no withdrawals are made. But he also says it isnt possible to be sure how he will contribute 
to the plan in the future  and I agree. Neither he nor I can say with any certainty how long 
he is going to keep the Plan and how much he will pay into it  whatever his current thinking, 
circumstances can change at very short notice and unforeseen events, by their very nature, 
can impact on present intentions. 
I appreciate that this is a simplistic way of looking at things, but it is impossible to know 
without the benefit of hindsight what Mr M wouldve done. So I dont think its unfair or unreasonable to look at the way he operated the Plan in the run up to him complaining about 
it to give me some insight into his investment intentions  at least during the first year of the 
Plan. 
His single payment into the Plan to start it up suggests that this mightve been a Plan he 
didnt intend to invest in very much in the first year  certainly, I havent seen enough to 
safely say that he will lose out significantly in money terms by having to start a new Plan. So 
I cant fairly say that Forester Lifes failure to set out in clear and unambiguous terms how to 
open a joint life Plan means he is likely to be substantially out of pocket. 
Im mindful that Forester Life did offer to pay an amount that would have more than covered 
the likely costs of managing the Plan during the first year. I think that was an offer made in a 
genuine attempt to help resolve Mr Ms complaint fairly and as quickly as possible. 
Mr M is also unhappy that the Plan wasnt described anywhere as a bond. But I think it's fair 
to say that the Plan literature Mr M saw online set out fairly clearly what the Plan offered. 
I think Mr M saw enough to understand what he would be agreeing to invest in if he signed 
up, the products that were included and how his money was invested. Not using the 
description bond in its literature isnt a reason for me to uphold this complaint.
Looked at overall, I cant fairly say Mr M suffered a financial loss because of Forester Lifes 
wording in its Plan literature. And I think the steps it took to put things right were fair in all the 
circumstances.
Ive considered compensation for Mr M given the frustration hes experienced as a result of 
Forester Lifes admitted error. 
I think that Forester Lifes offer of £25 was fair compensation overall for what happened and 
it has agreed to hold open this offer whilst he considers whether he wishes to accept my 
final decision  which seems fair to me. So if Mr M now wishes to reconsider taking 
advantage of the offer, he should contact Forester Life direct to arrange this (and keep in 
mind he has until 10 September 2022 to do so). 
Mr M has raised several different complaint points over the course of this matter and 
I acknowledge that he feels very strongly about his complaint. If I have not referred to each 
point hes raised its because I have nothing further I can usefully add to what has already 
been said elsewhere. I have concentrated on what I consider to be the main points that 
affect the outcome of this complaint.
I appreciate that my decision might be disappointing for Mr M but I hope that setting things 
out as I've done helps to explain how I've reached my conclusions. 
My final decision
Forester Life Limited has already made an offer to pay £25 to settle the complaint which is 
open to Mr M to accept if he wishes. I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So, 
I dont require it to take any further steps to put things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman