DRN-3058277
The complaint
Mr P complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) suspended his 
account and asked him to complete a credit review in order to unblock his account.
  
What happened
In July 2020 Mr P was contacted by Amex and told his account had been suspended. Amex 
say they noticed some large transactions in the account which were out of pattern with the 
spending on the account and although Mr P confirmed these were his transactions, Amex 
decided to carry out a credit review of the account. Amex advised Mr P of the blocks on his 
account and what information they needed to unblock it. 
Mr P says he reluctantly agreed to provide the information because he felt he was left with 
little choice but to provide it. Once the information was provided to Amex, they lifted the 
block on his account within a few days. But Mr P wasnt happy with the credit review process 
so complained to Amex. 
Amex say their actions were in line with the account terms and conditions, so they didnt 
uphold the complaint. Mr P remained unhappy with the response and brought the complaint 
to us. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint and said she didnt think it should be upheld. She 
thought Amex acted in accordance with the terms and conditions of the account agreement. 
And she didnt think Amex had done anything wrong. Mr P disagreed, he said hed called 
Amex before the transaction and he was told there wouldnt be an issue with the purchase, 
he says Amex should have a record of him calling. He also says Amex had made a gain on 
the merchant fee prior to suspending his account and he feels Amex didnt act appropriately. 
Because Mr P didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator for largely the same 
reasons. I know this will be a disappointment to Mr P. So, Ill explain why.
Amex says they carried out the review of the account in line with the terms and conditions. 
So, for me to uphold this complaint Id have to be persuaded that Amex didnt act reasonably 
when they decided to suspend Mr Ps account to carry out the credit review. 
The terms that apply here are set out in the agreement as follows: 
We may cancel or suspend your Account
We may do this for security reasons, in the event you default, if we suspect 
unauthorised, improper and/or fraudulent use, or because there is a significant risk 
that you will not be able to repay and on time
We will normally notify you beforehand or immediately afterwards and may provide 
you with reasons.
Amex say they decided to review Mr Ps account due to the large spend on his account 
which wasnt in line with the previous pattern of his spending. Amex say Mr Ps spend had 
gone significantly over his total spend for the previous year, so wanted to ensure Mr P would 
be able to make the repayment before allowing further spend on his account. Mr P doesnt 
agree with this explanation from Amex and has told us that he has previously paid for large 
transactions on his account and cleared the balance when needed. 
Ive considered Mr Ps last 12 months statements and his average spend is significantly 
lower than the balance on his account on 3 July 2020, this was when Amex decided to 
review the account. Mr P says its not fair to look back over just this period and if his older 
statements were considered wed see a much higher spend. 
But Amex needs to consider Mr Ps current situation and he clearly hadnt been spending 
significant funds on this account in recent times, so I think it was fair to keep the review to 
this period. Taking this into account and noting that the balance on the account at the time of 
the suspension was over £30,000.00 I think it was reasonable of Amex to want to carry out a 
review to ensure Mr P would be able to make the repayments. 
Mr P says he called Amex before making the transaction to ensure it would be authorised 
and he was told it would be. Our investigator asked Amex for a copy of the call, but Amex 
say they have no record of Mr P calling them to check this in advance of the payment. So, 
Ive considered the evidence I do have, including internal notes from Amex on the call made 
to Mr P regarding the suspension of his account. During this call I cant see Mr P mentioned 
anything about his prior call with Amex, which I would have expected him to do. So without 
any other evidence I cant safely say this call was made prior to Mr P making the transaction. 
Mr P explained he was left in a difficult position in having to provide personal information to 
Amex that he didnt think he needed to provide. He says he offered to pay the balance so 
there wouldnt be a need to provide further information, but Amex refused and insisted he 
provide the information they requested. 
I have considered the information Mr P was asked to provide, and I dont think it was 
unreasonable of Amex to request what they did. Amex asked Mr P to provide three months 
bank statements to ensure Mr P had the funds to meet the repayments on the account. 
Amex also have regulatory responsibilities to ensure funds received have come from the 
right sources and asking for customers bank statements is how most firms would check a 
customer could meet the requirements set of them. So I dont think Amex asking for Mr Ps 
statements was unreasonable even if he could have paid the balance off when he asked. 
Mr P also feels Amex were making a gain from suspending his account due to them already 
having claimed the merchant fees. But I dont think this makes a difference here, as Mr P 
had already paid for the item and Amex had authorised the transaction so the fee would 
have been due in any event - the issue here is that Amex wanted to make sure Mr P could 
clear the rather large balance on the account. So either way Mr P wouldnt have suffered the 
loss as that fee is what the merchant would pay and not Mr P. 
Ive also considered if Amex were right in blocking other cards linked to this account. Amex 
have told us that only the accounts held in the same portfolio would have been suspended. So Ive considered if it was proportionate of Amex to have suspended all the accounts and I 
think it was, because Amex needed to ensure Mr P was able to meet the payments and 
ensuring no further spending could take place while carrying out the review would seem 
sensible in the circumstances.  
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr P has said, and although I may not have 
highlighted everything hes said in this decision, I want him to know Ive read it and taken it 
into account along with all the relevant rules and regulations. But overall Im satisfied Amex 
havent treated Mr P unreasonably, so I wont be asking them to take any other action.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman