DRN-2798335
The complaint
Mr R says Bamboo Limited lent to him irresponsibly.  
What happened
Mr R took out a guarantor loan over 36 months from Bamboo on 7 June 2018. It was for 
£6,000 and the monthly repayments were £292.17. The total repayable was £10,518.22. I
understand the loan remains outstanding.
Mr R said Bamboo didnt complete good enough affordability checks, had it done so it
would not have agreed to lend to him. His representative also said the lender failed to advise 
Mr R of other ways of dealing with his circumstances and failed to send its final response 
within the time limits set by the regulator.
Bamboo disagreed but made a good will offer to waive three months of repayments. 
Unhappy with this response Mr R brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator said Mr Rs complaint should be upheld. She concluded Bamboos checks 
were not proportionate and better checks would have shown it was most likely the loan 
would not be sustainably affordable for Mr R.
Bamboo disagreed. It made the following points after reviewing Mr Rs bank statements for 
March and April 2018:
Mr Rs salary put him back into credit temporarily in both months, albeit for only a 
matter of days;
a large portion of Mr Rs spending was discretionary in April 2018 (cash withdrawals, 
entertainment, clothes);
his debt was only 50% of the loan advance;
the loan would have cleared all of his debt and his overdraft;
the loan would still have been affordable if Mr R didnt settle his existing debts based 
on the income from his June payslip and expenses from the Office for National 
Statistics (ONS) expenses; and 
Mr R was making payments to a debt collection agency which maybe why he applied 
for a loan higher in value than the debt shown on his credit file. 
It asked for the case to be passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is inconclusive I have reached my decision based on the balance of 
probabilities. So, based on what I think is most likely given the available evidence and the 
wider circumstances.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when Bamboo lent to Mr R required it to carry out a reasonable
and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed in a
sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an
affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So Bamboo had to think about whether
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for
Mr R. In other words, it wasnt enough for Bamboo to simply think about the likelihood of it
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the repayments on Mr R.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied 
for. In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
- the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
- the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that 
the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make
repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether Bamboo did what it needed to before agreeing to
lend to Mr R. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
- did Bamboo complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Rs
loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way?
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
- did Bamboo make a fair lending decision?
- did Bamboo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see Bamboo asked for some information from Mr R before it approved the loan. It
asked about his income, residential and employment status, and number of dependents. It 
also checked Mr Rs credit file to understand his current credit commitments and credit 
history. It checked his declared income using a third-party income verification tool and made 
some assumptions about his living expenses based on national averages. It asked about the 
purpose of the loan, which was debt consolidation. From these checks combined Bamboo 
concluded Mr R had enough monthly disposable income to afford to repay the loan. It later 
said that even using Mr Rs actual salary from his June 2018 payslip (not the total income he 
declared) the loan was affordable.
I dont think Bamboos affordability checks were proportionate. Mr R was applying for a loan 
over a term of 36 months, so I think Bamboo ought to have carried out better checks to 
ensure it understood Mr Rs actual monthly outgoings and overall financial position. I can see it used his credit file to understand his credit commitments, but in the circumstances I 
dont think it was enough to make assumptions based on national averages about his other 
living costs. Given it was deciding if Mr R could sustainably afford to repay a loan over a 
three-year period I think it needed to complete a fuller financial review. 
So, Ive looked at what I think proportionate checks would likely have shown. Ive looked at
Mr Rs bank statements before his loan application to try to understand his typical monthly
living costs at the time. I am not saying that Bamboo ought to have reviewed his bank
statements, but this could have been one way for it to make sure it understood his outgoings
before deciding the loan was affordable. 
From them I can see that in addition to the £2,891 of unsecured debt that Mr Rs credit 
check reported he was also almost £1,000 overdrawn each month. And he was reliant on 
this overdraft, only being in credit temporarily after each payday as the lender pointed out. 
So there was evidence that he was having problems managing his money and his finances 
were under pressure. Bamboo argues that the loan would have allowed Mr R to clear all his 
debt including is overdraft and improve his financial position. But it hasnt evidenced that it 
checked what debt Mr R was planning to settle, or that it looked into why he was borrowing 
more than the debt shown on Bamboos credit check, before making its lending decision. I 
think it needed to understand this to ensure it had an accurate view of Mr Rs current 
indebtedness and the likely impact of this loan on his financial position. It was significantly 
increasing his overall indebtedness.
Mr Rs June 2018 bank statement shows he settled just over £4,000 of formal debt when his 
guarantor forwarded the loan advance. The full £6,000 wasnt transferred to Mr R from his 
guarantor, rather £4,800. Mr R has said this was because he also gave money to the 
guarantor as well as repaying other debts not held with banks. I appreciate this is information 
from after Mr R received the loan advance, but it evidences that Mr R had higher debts than 
the credit check showed and had other informal debts. 
And better checks prior to lending would have shown this as the March and April 2018 
statements show repayments to more credit accounts than appeared on the lenders credit 
check, as well as credits into his account from his guarantor. So I think proportionate checks 
would have shown Bamboo that Mr Rs finances were not as it concluded in its affordability 
assessment. 
This is important as Bamboo would most likely then have realised that Mr R was not about to 
clear his overdraft, and there was a risk he would need to maintain it to repay this loan. As 
Bamboo knows it needed to check Mr R could afford to repay its loan sustainably to meet its 
obligations under CONC 5.3.1(G) which, amongst other things, stated:
(6) For the purposes of CONC sustainable means the repayments under the regulated credit 
agreement can be made by the customer:
(a)  without undue difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; and
(ii) without having to borrow to meet the repayments;
Bamboo also argues that Mr Rs statements show a high level of discretionary spend. But I 
am not persuaded this is a fair analysis. I found no transactions on the March 2018 
statement that could be classified as discretionary spend. There was some spend on 
clothing and entertainment in April (four transactions). In both months there were high value 
cash withdrawals, but I havent found any evidence to support the conclusion this was 
discretionary spend as the lender has said. It has not explained what information it relied on to reach this conclusion so I dont think it can fairly classify the spend as discretionary and 
discount it to evidence that the loan was affordable for Mr R. 
Taking into account Mr Rs actual salary from his June 2018 payslip as Bamboo has put 
forward, and using his living costs based on his direct debits and average monthly food 
shopping shown on his March and April statements plus the cost of this loan repayment, it 
seems Mr R would have a theoretical disposable income of just over £50. And this is without 
considering and/or understanding the £600 he was spending on cash withdrawals on 
average each month. So I cannot see that had Bamboo completed better checks it would 
have concluded it was responsible to lend to Mr R.  
Overall, I think had Bamboo completed better checks it wouldnt have been satisfied that 
there wasnt a risk this loan would not be sustainably affordable for Mr R. And so as a 
responsible lender it would have made a different lending decision.
It follows I think Bamboo was wrong to give the loan to Mr R.
I have not found evidence that Bamboo acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way. 
Its online application process points out that its loans may not be right for everyone and all 
options should be investigated. And I can see from the email communications that Bamboo 
provided its response to Mr Rs complaint of 30 July 2020 on 23 September 2020  so within 
the time limit for a final response as set out by the regulator. The Financial Conduct 
Authoritys Dispute Resolution Rule DISP 1.6.2 stipulates that a final response to a 
complaint needs to be sent by the end of eight weeks after its receipt.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr R to repay the capital that he borrowed, because he
had the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt
have been provided to him.
If Bamboo has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back if it is able to do so and then 
take the following steps. If Bamboo is not able to buy the debt back, then it should liaise with 
the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan and treat all the payments
Mr R made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Rs loan account results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then Bamboo should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Mr Rs loan account leaves a capital balance outstanding Bamboo
should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr R.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Rs credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo to deduct tax from this interest. Bamboo should
give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Rs complaint. Bamboo Loans Limited must put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman