DRN-2418273
The complaint
Mr K and Mrs M are members of a group, private dental insurance policy, via Mr Ks 
employer. They complain that Unum Ltd, trading as Unum Dental, declined Mrs Ms claims.   
What happened
Under Mr K and Mrs Ms plan for 2019, Unum reimbursed NHS costs of dental 
treatment. Mr K and Mrs M upgraded their plan in 2020. The 2020 plan paid specified 
amounts for certain NHS dental treatments up to an annual limit of £1,250. 
Both the 2019 and 2020 plans provided cover for listed dental procedures carried out to 
maintain or restore dental health and excluded cosmetic treatment. The plans provided  
that if the dental treatment received isnt listed on the benefit schedule, Unum would 
reimburse the amount Mr K and Mrs M would have paid if theyd received a course of 
treatment under the English NHS, where an equivalent can be found. 
Unum refused Mrs Ms claims for dental treatment she had in November 2019, January 
2020 and February 2020. It says that the treatments Mrs M received were undertaken as 
a result of personal choice and are not covered under the policy.  
Mrs M says that the treatments in November 2019, January 2020 and February 2020 
werent cosmetic. She says that they were necessary as she was in pain. Mrs M says 
that the fillings she had replaced exposed decay and that she chose to replace amalgam 
fillings with white fillings due to health concerns. She wants Unum to settle her claims. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that Unum had 
acted unfairly in declining Mrs Ms claims. That was because Unum had relied on the 
treating dentists confirmation that Mrs M chose to have the amalgam fillings replaced 
with white fillings, as Mrs M considered the amalgam fillings a health risk. The 
investigator said that she couldnt deal with Mrs Ms concerns about the time Unum took 
to deal with her claim, as she hadnt raised that with Unum in the first instance. 
Mrs M didnt agree with the investigator. She said that the teeth she had treated had 
decay and whether the fillings were amalgam or white, it was necessary to change them. 
Mrs M said that the treatment wasnt cosmetic. She said that the investigator hadnt 
taken into account that the treating dentist referred to decay in the treated teeth. Mrs M 
says that the policy doesnt say that she cant choose white fillings over amalgam fillings. 
She says that she wouldnt have renewed and upgraded the policy in 2020 if she had 
known that Unum wouldnt settle her claims. 
Mrs M asked that an ombudsman consider her complaint, so it was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Unum has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Im not upholding the complaint because I dont think that Unum treated Mrs M unfairly in 
declining her claims. I say that because:
Subject to the terms and conditions, Mrs Ms membership provides cover for certain 
NHS dental treatment costs carried out to maintain or restore dental health. Cover for 
cosmetic treatment not necessary to maintain or restore dental health is excluded.  
If Mrs Ms dental treatment is to maintain or restore her dental health and within the 
policy terms, Unum reimburses the NHS charges (the 2019 membership terms) or pays 
the amount listed on the benefit schedule (the 2020 membership terms). Any costs 
that are not covered under Mrs Ms membership are Mrs Ms responsibility. 
The claims in dispute are for treatment on 18 November 2019, 6 January 2020 and 3 
February 2020. 
When an insurer seeks to rely on an exclusion in the policy it must show that it 
applies in the particular circumstances that led to the claim. I think that Unum has 
done that here and Ill explain why.
In his letter to Mrs M of 21 January 2020, her treating dentist said that:
You expressed a wish for composites as you felt the amalgams were a health risk. 2 
fillings were replaced due to obvious caries on the radiographs.
We did replace all but one of your silver fillings and it did transpire that there was 
decay under all of them from my records.
I dont think that Unum treated Mrs M unfairly or unreasonably in concluding that   
Mrs M wanted to replace amalgam fillings for reasons other than dental necessity. 
Theres no mention by the treating dentist that Mrs M was in pain or had sensitivity. I 
think that the fact that decay was discovered on removal of the amalgam fillings 
doesnt alter the fact that the treatment wasnt necessary to maintain or restore     
Mrs Ms dental health. 
Ive listened to the phone calls Unum has provided. When Mrs M sought clarification 
about the cover it was rather confusing, but I dont think that alters the outcome here. 
Thats because at that stage, it wasnt apparent to Unum that the treatment Mrs M 
was planning wasnt necessary to maintain or restore her dental health. It was 
answering Mrs Ms queries on the basis that the treatment would be necessary to 
maintain or restore dental health and, on that basis, the information it gave to Mrs M 
was correct. 
Mrs M says that if shed known that her claims would be declined, she and Mr K 
wouldnt have renewed their membership in January 2020. The terms and conditions 
of the policy provide that Mr K and Mrs M cant cancel their membership during the 
period of cover shown on the policy schedule, except in certain specified 
circumstances which dont apply here. There are no grounds on which I could fairly 
direct Unum to permit Mr K and Mrs M to cancel their membership mid-term.For these reasons, I dont uphold Mr K and Mrs Ms complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is  that I dont uphold Mr K and Mrs Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman