DRN-3614424
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank, transferred his 
debt to a third-party debt purchasing company (DPC).
What happened
Mr S had a Tesco Bank credit card account which was defaulted for non-payment arrears by 
Tesco in 2010. In October 2018, Tesco transferred the debt that remained outstanding on Mr 
Ss account to a DPC. Mr S wasnt happy about this, especially as he had previously 
informed Tesco about his ongoing mental health issues, so he raised a complaint.
Tesco looked at Mr Ss complaint. They noted that they hadnt been made aware by Mr S of 
his mental health issues until he first raised the complaint with them, which was after the 
debt had been transferred to the DPC. Tesco also didnt feel that theyd acted unfairly 
towards Mr S in how theyd administered his account, including the transfer to the DPC.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with Tescos response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also didnt feel that Tesco had 
acted unfairly in how theyd managed the ongoing situation, and so they also didnt uphold 
the complaint.
Mr S remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, its notable that Mr S has made several detailed submissions to this service. 
Id like to thank Mr S for these detailed submissions, and I hope he doesnt consider it a 
discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
feel are the key aspects of this complaint, in line with this services role as an informal 
dispute resolution service. 
As such, if Mr S notes that I havent responded to a specific point that hes raised, it 
shouldnt be taken from this that I havent read and considered that point - I can confirm that 
Ive read and considered all submissions provided by both Mr S and Tesco. Instead, it 
should be taken that I have read and considered that point, but that I dont feel it necessary 
to directly address that point in this letter to arrive at what I feel is a fair outcome here.
I also note that Mr S has stated that he believes that Tesco has discriminated against him 
and failed to make reasonable adjustments for him. In other words, Mr S believes that Tesco 
have failed their duty to make reasonable adjustments under the Equality Act 2010.
Ive taken the Equality Act 2010 into account when deciding this complaint  given that its 
relevant law  but it must be noted that this service isnt a Court of Law, and Ive ultimately 
decided this complaint based on whats fair and reasonable, which is in-line with the remit of 
this service. If Mr S want a decision that Tesco has breached the Equality Act 2010, then 
he'd need to pursue this via a Court of Law.
Mr S is unhappy that Tesco transferred the debt to the DPC. I can appreciate why Mr S 
might be unhappy at such a transferral of rights. But such transfers of debt arent 
uncommon, and it seems clear that the transfer to the DPC is permitted within the terms and 
conditions of the account, as follows:
 We may transfer the rights and duties we have under this agreement to another 
lender or company in the future. Well only do so if we reasonably believe theyll treat 
you at least as well as we do.
Tesco have confirmed that the DPC to whom the rights were transferred is authorised and 
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and so Im satisfied that it is 
reasonable for Tesco to believe that the DPC, being so regulated, would treat Mr S to a 
comparable standard as they would themselves. 
Additionally, Tesco have confirmed that they attempted to work with Mr S for several years 
to allow him the opportunity to repay the debt at a rate that was suitable for him. This is 
evidenced by the fact that Mr Ss account was defaulted in 2010, and that over the following 
years Tesco agreed to several reduced payment plans with Mr S, the last being in April 
2014.
As such, I dont feel that it was unreasonable for Tesco to have made the decision to transfer 
the debt to the DPC in 2018. Indeed, given that this took place eight years after the account 
had defaulted and four years since the last payment plan had been agreed to by Mr S, Im 
satisfied that Tesco did attempt to work with Mr S to arrange the repayment of the debt to a 
fair and reasonable degree.
Mr S also feels that Tesco were aware of his mental health issues when the instructed the 
transfer to the DPC in 2018, and that as per industry guidelines the debt shouldnt have been 
transferred by Tesco to the DPC. The industry guidelines to which Mr S refers here include 
the standard of lending practice, which broadly states that when a lender is aware that an 
account holder has mental health issues, a debt shouldnt be transferred.
I can appreciate Mr Ss position here, but Tesco maintain that they werent made aware by 
Mr S of his mental health issues until after the transferral of rights had taken place. And 
having reviewed all the information and evidence available to me as submitted by both Mr S 
and Tesco, I havent seen anything that contradicts Tescos position here.
As such, Im satisfied from the evidence available to me that Tesco werent in all likelihood 
aware that Mr S had mental health issues in 2018, when they transferred the debt to the 
DPC. This isnt to say that Mr S didnt have mental health issues at that time  only that 
Tesco werent aware that Mr S had mental health issues at that time. And given that Tesco 
werent aware that Mr S had mental health issues at that time, I dont feel that they can 
reasonably be held accountable to the industry guidance regarding transfers of debt when 
an account holder is known to have mental health issues to which Mr S refers.
All of which means that I find it difficult to conclude that Tesco have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr S here as Mr S contends. Instead, I feel that Tesco instructed a 
transferral of rights to the DPC that was both reasonable and permitted by the terms of the 
account, and that they did so at a time when they hadnt yet been made aware of Mr Ss 
mental health issues.Finally, while Tesco are now aware of Mr Ss mental health issues, I dont feel that this 
should necessitate the recalling of the account from the DPC by Tesco. This is because, as 
explained previously, the DPC is authorised and regulated by the FCA, and so Im satisfied 
that its reasonable to expect that the DPC can in all likelihood provide Mr S with a similar 
standard of service and forbearance, if necessary, to that which Tesco could themselves 
provide.  
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr S was wanting, but it follows from the above that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Tesco to take any further action here. I hope 
that Mr S will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I 
have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman