DRN-2471882
The complaint
Mrs H has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unreasonably refused to pay her 
claim under her travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs H had this policy through her back account, and its underwritten by UKI. 
In September 2019 Mrs H upgraded her policy for a holiday in October 2019. Because of her 
husbands medical conditions cover was refused for him. So, Mrs H bought another policy 
for her husband from a different provider and remained covered under this policy herself. 
She paid an extra premium for her own medical conditions and she upgraded the policy to 
also include cruise cover.
Mrs H and her husband went on a cruise in February 2020 and very unfortunately her 
husband became ill with his heart condition and was taken to hospital. 
So, when she came home, she made a claim for the curtailed cruise and also for the 
cancellation of further holiday due to take place on 10 March 2020 because her husband 
was too ill to travel.
UKI said that because the cause of Mrs Hs claims concerned her husbands ill health, she 
had no cover for that, so it refused to pay her claims. Mrs H complained but UKI would 
change its stance. So, she brought her complaint to us. The investigator didnt think UKI had 
done anything wrong. Mrs H disagreed so her complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
First, I do understand and appreciate how disappointed Mrs H will be with my decision. And 
its not the case that insurers always win either, as if their customers like Mrs H simply dont 
matter.
Travel policies provide cover if the policyholder gets ill and needs to cancel or curtail their 
holiday, provided the reason for the illness isnt pre-existing or something that insurer should 
have known about. Travel policies also provide cover if the reason for the cancellation was 
due to illness of a close relative or travelling companion, again if illness wasnt pre-existing. 
Here, the sole reason for Mrs Hs claims were to do with her husbands medical conditions, 
UKI had decided it couldnt offer her husband any cover due to his medical conditions, so it 
follows it couldnt provide cover when the sole reason for Mrs Hs claims was her husbands 
medical condition. Also, because her husband has been in hospital for this medical condition 
in the previous 12 months that additionally meant no cover was available to Mrs H for her 
claims.
 
This isnt unusual in travel policies as virtually every other travel policy will have similar rules 
when the claim is related to a close relative and/or travelling companion.
 
As the investigator and UKI explained to Mrs H this is fully detailed in the policy. My role and 
the role of this service is to assess if UKI did anything wrong in refusing to consider Mrs Hs 
claims given the terms and conditions of the policy. And because it clearly explained this in 
the policy and documents explaining the policy, I dont think it did do anything wrong. The 
policy documents said the following:
Specific Exclusions
The exclusions listed below are shown in a shortened form when they appear in this 
policy. Please refer to the list below for detailed explanations.
14. Ill-health of close relatives, colleagues and travelling companions
Any claim for cancelling or cutting short your trip due to the illness or injury of a 
close relative, a colleague or travelling companion if you were aware of one or 
more of the scenarios listed below in the 12 months leading up to you becoming an 
insured person, or the date when you booked your trip whichever is later:
 They have a medical condition that has resulted in inpatient treatment or being 
on a waiting list for hospital treatment.
 They have been given a cancer diagnosis.
 They have been given a terminal prognosis. 
And then
You are not covered for
We wont pay for:
12. These specific exclusions (see page 18 for full explanations):
 14 Ill-health of close relatives, colleagues and travelling companions.
Whilst it is pity UKI couldnt find all the necessary call recordings especially concerning the 
time Mrs H upgraded her policy for her age and adding on the cruise cover, it did find the call 
recording where it went through the medical screening in July 2019. This detailed the fact 
that her husbands heart condition wasnt going to be covered or indeed anything related to 
it. Mrs Hs claim here is wholly related to her husbands heart condition. So, I consider UKI 
did make Mrs H aware of this as she went and found alternative insurance for her husband.
 
The sole reason UKI couldnt pay Mrs Hs claims is because the reason for the claims came 
directly from her husbands heart condition. I do think UKI explained this adequately to Mrs H 
before her claims. The exclusion for refusing to pay claims due to a close relative and/or 
travelling companion isnt unusual as I explained above, so I think UKI didnt do anything 
wrong here. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Rona DoyleOmbudsman