DRN-3286801
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ss complaint is about a claim Mr S made on their legal expenses insurance 
policy. 
Tesco Personal Finance PLC as the broker of the policy responded to the issues Mr S raised 
but Mr S remains unhappy with the outcome.
What happened
Mr S made a claim on his legal expenses insurance cover to pursue a claim against a 
contractor who installed some decking in his home in 2019.
Mr S said that when he contacted the insurer he spoke to a firm of solicitors who sent him a 
link to upload all the information about his claim. He did this but was later told his claim 
wouldnt be pursued as it was thought that he refused a reasonable offer that was made. Mr 
S says this isnt true. Overall Mr S is unhappy about how his claim was dealt with and 
doesnt think it was considered by properly qualified legal professionals. He wants to use his 
own solicitor to pursue things. 
Mr S complained to Tesco about things. Tesco considered Mr Ss complaint. They explained 
that they didnt have access to Mr Ss claim as they were the brokers of the policy rather 
than the legal expenses insurers or their claims handlers. They also said theyd passed 
details of his complaint to the appropriate claims handlers for the legal expenses insurer and 
provided the claims handlers details to Mr S. In addition, they offered to refund Mr and Mrs 
S the policy premium as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr S wasnt happy with this. He thought his contract of insurance was with Tesco because 
he paid them a policy premium and that they are ultimately responsible for his dissatisfaction 
with the problems hed experienced in relation to his legal expenses insurance claim. He 
also said the policy is unclear on the identity of the legal expenses insurer and he feels 
Tesco misled him because the policy doesnt clearly say who is responsible for the legal 
expenses insurance.
Our investigator considered Mr Ss complaint. She said that Tesco wasnt the legal expenses 
insurer and that its not responsible for dealing with Mr Ss concerns. She also pointed out 
some of the policy sections that list the legal expenses insurer separately to Tesco. Mr S 
doesnt agree the policy is clear on this issue, so the matter has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr S is essentially unhappy that Tesco wont deal with his concerns about his legal 
expenses insurance claim. He feels they are ultimately responsible for it because they 
accepted the policy premium and the policy isnt clear on someone else being the legal 
expenses insurer.
Ive looked at the information Mr S was provided with when he took out the insurance with 
Tesco. From the documents Ive seen Ive noted that Mr S took out home insurance with 
Tesco in 2018 and 2019. In 2020 he chose not to renew the policy but was sent an invitation 
to take the policy again together with the policy terms. Ive been provided with a copy of the 
policy documents for all three years as well as the renewal invitation Mr and Mrs S wouldve 
been sent. Tesco has said that Mr S received these as he contacted them in response to 
discuss the policy premiums each year.
In the renewal invitation sent to Mr S there is an explanation under numbered paragraph 1 
that says Tesco are a general insurance intermediary offering an insurance policy for a 
policyholders home. Under numbered paragraph 4 it says:
For our optional extras (which run alongside our Home insurance policy):
 Family Legal Guard is provided by (the named claims handler) and underwritten by (the 
legal expenses insurer)
 
The introduction on the legal expenses insurance section of cover also says:
Introduction
Thank you for choosing Family Legal Guard  Household Legal Insurance, which covers you 
and your family* to pursue or defend your legal rights in the event of a range of personal 
legal disputes. Family Legal Guard is arranged by (Tesco) and is underwritten by (the legal 
expenses insurer).
In the definitions section on the legal expenses section, Insurer is listed as the relevant 
company. And under the heading Terms of Cover on that section of the policy it says This 
section of your insurance policy is arranged and administered by (Tesco) and is 
underwritten by (the legal expenses insurer) on whose behalf we act. We will manage any 
claims under this policy.
We is defined on the definitions section of the legal expenses insurance as (The claims 
handlers) or as otherwise notified to you by the administrator, acting with good reason 
(such as where they or the underwriters appoint another third party to manage claims under 
this section of your policy). So, I think the policy makes clear who the claims handlers are 
as well as the legal expenses insurer and theres nothing that suggests Tesco are 
responsible for this section of cover. 
Mr S has said that the word We should be read in accordance with its dictionary meaning 
and that this refers to Tesco as the speaker in the policy. Where words are capitalised in 
insurance policies they are usually defined- which is the case in this policy. So whilst I 
appreciate that Mr S might have understood the term We to mean something else, I dont 
think that makes the policy unclear. And as the investigator said, I note that Mr S was able to 
follow the instructions in the policy when making a complaint about his legal expenses 
insurance claim as he directed this complaint to the correct claims handler for the legal 
expenses insurer in accordance with the information contained within the policy which says:
If you have a complaint about your claim:
contact your Claim Handler first. You will find their details on any letters they have 
sent to you; or
write to the Claims Manager who will ensure that the matter is dealt with a t a senior 
level. The address can be found on any letters that you have received. Overall I dont think Tesco are responsible for the problems Mr S experienced with his legal 
expenses insurance claim nor that the policy is unclear on the question of who his legal 
expenses insurance provider is, such that it would make Tesco responsible for the issues 
hes concerned about. 
Tesco have offered to refund the policy premium as a gesture of goodwill. Its up to Mr and 
Mrs S whether they wish to accept that but they should keep in mind this might mean they 
wont be covered for any claims made during the policy period to which the premium refund 
applies. They would need to check the position with Tesco before accepting that payment.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint about Tesco 
Personal Finance PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman