DRN-3605719
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Acasta European Insurance Company Limited have not offered 
them a fair settlement for their claim for accidental damage to their sofa.    
      
What happened
Mr and Mrs C had an insurance policy with Acasta to cover accidental damage to their 
leather sofa. Mrs C has dealt with the insurers in this claim, and so when I refer to her in this 
decision, I am referring to both Mr and Mrs C as joint policyholders. 
In November 2020 Mrs C logged a claim for pet staining to one of the seats on her sofa. 
Acastas technician inspected it and in December they offered to settle the claim by ordering 
a new seat cover and replacing it or settling the claim for £208 cash. Mrs C accepted the 
offer of repair on 11 December.  
Acasta ordered the leather cover from the manufacturer using a swatch from the sofa, and 
the colour shade details from the original order. 
The leather arrived in April but Mrs C asked Acasta to delay fitting it as she was having the 
interior of the cushions replaced by the retailer. 
In June the retailers technician who came to fit the new cushions offered to also fit the 
cover, but after examining the colour of the new cover, Mrs C declined to have the cover 
fitted as she didnt think the colour was a good match. The technician took the cover away, 
not realising that it was the property of Acasta, not the retailer.
Mrs C complained to Acasta about the leather colour. 
Acasta then had to obtain the leather cover back from the retailer, and after checking it, they 
sent it back out to Mrs C in July 2021. 
Mrs C again complained that the colour was incorrect. The cover was sent back for 
examination in August. 
Acasta examined the cover against the swatch and informed Mrs C that this was the right 
leather, and they doubted they would be able to get a better match  explaining that it was 
likely the colour of the original leather had changed over time. They returned the cover to 
Mrs C.
Mrs C was unhappy with this response and brought her complaint to us. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mrs Cs complaint and he thought that Acasta had 
caused delay in dealing with the claim and thought that Acasta should pay £100 
compensation for delay. He didnt think that Acasta had done anything wrong in terms of the 
offer to settle.    
Mrs C disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided to partially uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. I think the offer of settlement is 
fair, but I agree with the investigator that there are some customer service issues for which 
Mr and Mrs C should be compensated. I will explain why below. 
The offer of settlement 
As Acasta agree that there is a valid claim, Ive considered whether in making the offer of 
settlement, they have complied with the terms of the policy and whether the offer made was 
fair and reasonable. 
Section 6 of the policy says: 
How we will settle claims: Valid claims will be settled by cleaning, repairing or 
replacing the damaged product. If a repair can be made, it must be considered prior 
to a replacement being considered. Neither the value of the repairs or replacement 
shall exceed the maximum liability.
Over time the colour, shade and appearance of your product is likely to change and 
there in the event new covers are required we will supply parts based on the original 
appearance of your product. Wherever possible we will try and limit any differences, 
but our liability is to repair the product based on the original specification. 
In addition, in the letter with the proposal to offer a repair, Acasta said although they will 
order the leather from the manufacturer and select the closest match to the sample, its not 
always possible to get an exact match due to the natural product, the way it absorbs dyes, 
and the effects of sunlight and time.
So, I think Acasta have made it clear that when making a repair, they will do their best to 
match the product, but that there are likely to be differences to the colour, shade and 
appearance simply by the passage of time.  
Mrs C says that the colour of the leather supplied is different, and I accept that may be the 
case, but as long as Acasta have done their best to match it, they have acted in line with the 
terms of the policy. 
I can see from the documents provided that Acasta ordered the replacement leather from the 
original manufacturers of the sofa, using the same specifications from the original order of 
the sofa in 2018. They have compared it to the swatch taken and compared the photos of 
the new and old leather together. 
They have provided an explanation that in their view the leather will have changed over time, 
and they can see that the sofa hasnt been conditioned in line with the manufacturers 
recommendations, which means that the leather on the sofa will have dried out, changing 
the colour. They have also offered to apply the conditioning treatment to the sofa after fitting 
which may help match the colour to the new cover.  
I am therefore satisfied that Acasta have acted in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy and made a fair offer of settlement. 
  The delay in processing the claim
The leather arrived in April but Mrs C asked for them to delay fitting it as she was having the 
interior of the cushion replaced by the retailer. 
After the technician erroneously took it away in June, the repair was further delayed while 
Acasta sought to recover the item from the retailer to compare the colour.
Although I dont think that Acasta are to blame for the later delay, the initial delay in between 
Mrs C reporting the claim and the arrival of the part was longer than I would expect, and 
there was further confusion between June and August about who had the cover and getting 
it returned to Mrs C. I also dont think that it was explained to her that the same cover was 
being returned and this delayed the investigation of her complaint. And so I think there are 
some customer service failings here which Acasta need to compensate for. 
 
Putting things right
I think that Acasta should pay Mr and Mrs C £100 in respect of the inconvenience caused by 
the delay and customer service issues above.
  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs and Mrs Cs complaint about Acasta European Insurance 
Company Limited and direct them to put things right as above.  
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman