DRN-3324802
The complaint
Mr H complains that Next Retail Limited trading as Next Directory (Next) lent to him 
irresponsibly and provided credit that was unaffordable for him.
What happened
In October 2014 Mr H opened a shopping account with Next. He had an initial account limit 
of £900. Between that time and June 2017 Mr Hs credit limit was increased on four 
occasions until it was £3,750. Mr H was not allowed to spent anything more on his account 
from October 2017 as his account was in arrears. He entered int a debt management plan 
the same month.
 
Mr H says that his credit limit shouldnt have been increased because he was in a lot of debt 
at the time. Mr H wanted what he had paid in interest and charges to be paid back, along 
with compensation.
Next didnt agree that this service could look at when Mr H opened his account because it 
happened more than six years ago. Mr H is only concerned with later credit limit increases 
so this service has looked at the account from April 2015 which is when Next agreed we 
could look at Mr Hs case. 
Mr H entered a debt management plan in late 2017. He agreed with Next that he would pay 
a token £1 a month towards his debt with Next. Mr H has also complained that Next 
continued to take £50 a month from his account.
Our adjudicator thought that Next hadnt irresponsibly supplied Mr H with credit or failed to 
monitor his account appropriately. And they did not agree that Next had continued to take 
£50 a month from Mr Hs account without his permission.
 Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators findings, so his case has been passed to me to make 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Mr Hs complaint.
Next needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H could afford 
to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts, Mr Hs borrowing history and his income and expenditure. 
The credit check results provided by Next didnt show anything negative to suggest it would 
have been unreasonable to have increased Mr Hs credit limit after April 2015. I think Next 
ought to have taken steps to build a picture of Mr Hs financial situation, for example by 
asking for Mr Hs income. And as the limits continued to increase after July 2015 I think Next 
should have verified Mr Hs financial circumstances.
Our adjudicator requested evidence from Mr H of his financial circumstances from 2015. 
Unfortunately, Mr H could only provide bank statements from August 2017 which was after 
the last credit increase.  Our adjudicator also asked for a copy of Mr Hs credit report, but 
this wasnt made available either. So I cant tell what Next wouldve seen if it had completed 
the checks I think would have been necessary and proportionate at the time of the credit 
increases.
I dont think the way Mr H used his account and the period he had held the balance should 
have on its own shown Next that he might have been experiencing underlying difficulties.
Mr H also complained that Next continued to take £50 a month from his account when his 
agreement with it meant he should only pay £1 a month. Next has provided a record of the 
payments Mr H made which only show the £1 a month Mr H paid. Mr H has not provided any 
evidence that he made payments of £50 a month after the payment plan had been agreed. 
On balance, I have not seen any evidence to suggest that Next treated Mr H unfairly in any 
way.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint which means Next Retail Limited does not need to do 
anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman