DRN-2888417
The complaint
Mr N has complained about Unum Ltd.s decision to decline his claim. 
What happened
Mr N had an individual income protection policy, underwritten by Unum which would pay a 
benefit if he was unable to work due to illness or injury. The policy had a deferred period of 
52 weeks.
Mr N stopped working on 18 March 2020 and made a claim. Unum declined the claim as it 
said there wasnt enough evidence to show that Mr Ns condition had deteriorated or that he 
was unable to work throughout the whole deferred period. Mr N disagreed and complained. 
Unhappy with Unums response, he referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into this complaint but didnt think Unum had done anything wrong 
as the medical evidence didnt show Mr N was incapacitated throughout the whole deferred 
period. And there was nothing to suggest any change in his condition since 2015. Mr N had 
been advised to stop practicing in 2015 and 2018 but continued to work until 2020 as his 
condition was managed with the use of medication. 
Mr N disagreed and provided letters from his GP and specialist who said there were 
safeguarding issues and Mr N was no longer able to practice due to concerns about patient 
safety. 
He made the following comments, in summary:
The issue of capacity has been addressed by his GP and consultant psychiatrist  
these opinions cannot be ignored 
Safeguarding rules are a consideration even if they werent mentioned explicitly by 
the treating professionals
And so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
the policy terms and conditions 
The policy terms define incapacity as follows:
you cannot perform the material and substantial duties of your occupation 
because of your illness or injury.
Unum reviewed Mr Ns medical records and didnt think the medical evidence showed that 
Mr N was incapacitated. Ive summarised the key medical evidence it reviewed: 
key medical evidence
Mr N had been prescribed Venlafaxine antidepressants since 2015. Dosage- 
150mg per day. No change in dosage since 2017. 
February 2018  Mr Ns GP said he had been suffering from depression and had 
been seeing his psychiatrist since 2015. He had been treated with anti-
depressant medication but his consultant had been concerned about his ability to 
safely perform his daily work as a dentist when struggling with depressive 
symptoms including difficulty in concentration and anxiety. He had been advised 
to stop work and remained on anti-depressant medication.
Mr N stopped working in March 2020. He had a telephone interview with his 
consultant psychiatrist in May 2020. He commented that Mr N was coping 
remarkably well and as hed stopped dentistry, it had reduced his anxiety. The 
consultant psychiatrist didnt feel the need to alter his anti-depressant prescription 
as he felt he was calm and not particularly distressed. 
Mr Ns GP signed him off work with depression between June and August 2020. 
In July 2020, Mr N had a further telephone consultation as he was becoming 
increasingly anxious due to an impending court hearing. But his dosage of anti-
depressants wasnt increased as the consultant considered the distress 
circumstantial.
In February 2021, Mr N spoke to his consultant again who noted Mr Ns mood 
had been low and they had a discussion about dentistry again. His consultant 
didnt think he would return to working as a dentist as it caused him significant 
anxiety and agitation. And he didnt think this would resolve in the near to 
medium future. 
In March 2021, Mr Ns consultant wrote a letter and said he was incapable of 
returning to work in dentistry. He didnt think he was able to be safe when 
potentially performing the dental procedures he did as a specialist dentist. And 
returning to work as a dentist would inevitably also cause his mood to deteriorate 
due to the stressors placed on him. His medication hadnt been altered for a while 
as generally, his functioning had been fairly reasonable outside dentistry. Hed 
had quite a significant deterioration in his mental health due to the concern that 
he would have to return to dental practice.In April 2021, Mr Ns GP wrote a letter to say Mr N had a legal duty to safeguard 
patients. He said he was a vulnerable adult due to his mental health and 
therefore must stop practicing due to the high stress of his profession which was 
also the opinion of both his consultant psychiatrists. 
Unum reviewed the above medical evidence and didnt think the medical history showed a 
decline in Mr Ns mental health. It has also commented on the safeguarding concerns raised 
by Mr N and his GP. It said it fully accepted the GPs comments about safeguarding but this 
isnt the basis upon which benefit is paid and safeguarding didnt appear to be an issue 
following advice to stop work in 2015 when Mr N continued to work for a further five years. 
Having considered all of the above information, I appreciate why Mr N is disappointed with 
Unums decision. And Im sorry to hear of his difficulties. However, I think Unum has acted 
reasonably and Ill explain why.
In relation to safeguarding concerns, I accept Mr N and his GP are under a duty to 
protect patients. These concerns were raised both before (in 2018) and after the 
deferred period. Although Mr N was advised to stop working in 2018 previously, he 
continued to do so until 2020. And so I think this shows Mr N was able to continue 
working as a dentist with the support of his medical professionals and medication.
The deferred period started in March 2020. Up until this point, Mr N managed to 
continue practicing and did so with the same dosage of medicine since 2017. 
There is no evidence that Mr Ns condition deteriorated in March 2020 when he 
stopped working. And so there is nothing to suggest that his condition changed which 
meant he was no longer able to work.
By May 2020, Mr Ns consultant noted he wasnt particularly distressed. He became 
more anxious by the middle of 2020 due to a court hearing but his medication 
remained the same as his distress was circumstantial. 
Mr Ns consultant said a return to dentistry would cause significant anxiety and didnt 
think it was safe to do so. But the test is whether Mr N was unable to perform the 
material and substantial duties of his occupation throughout the whole deferred 
period which was between March 2020 and March 2021. As Mr N reported 
improvements within that time (in May 2020), I dont think he meets the definition of 
incapacity throughout the whole deferred period. 
I dont doubt that Mr N is unwell and note that his GP and consultants have raised concerns.  
But I dont think Mr N has shown that hes met the definition of incapacity throughout the 
deferred period. And so I dont think Unum has acted unreasonably in declining Mr Ns claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman