DRN-4062484
The complaint
Mrs S complains about Aviva Insurance Limited (AIL) and their handling of her home 
emergency claim, which she feels has caused damage to her carport roof.
Mrs S husband, Mr S, has also been in contact with our service regarding this complaint. 
For ease of reference, I will refer to any actions taken, or comments made by either Mrs S or 
Mr S as Mrs S throughout the decision.
What happened
Mrs S held a home emergency insurance policy, underwritten by AIL. Unfortunately, in late 
August 2022, Mrs S noticed one her drains was blocked and so, she contacted AIL to make 
a claim.
AIL instructed an engineer to attend Mrs S property on both 25 and 29 August, but on both 
times the attending engineer arrived without ladders and so, was unable to resolve the issue. 
Mrs S was offered a third appointment for 1 September, but she was unavailable at this time 
and so, the third appointed was booked for 3 September. On this day, an engineer attended 
and resolved the issue, explaining the external rainwater gully on the flat roof had been 
blocked by roots that had grown down the pipe but that these had now be removed, clearing 
the standing water on the roof.
But on 5 September, Mrs S contacted AIL to explain that the underneath of the roof had bent 
due to the weight of the standing water. And she felt this couldve been avoided had the 
standing water been cleared earlier, on the first attendance. So, she raised a complaint 
about this, explained that she wanted AIL to pay for the repairs needed to the roof.
AIL responded to Mrs S complaint and upheld it. They accepted there were delays in 
resolving the issue to Mrs S roof, due to two engineers attending without the ladders that 
were needed. And they accepted the inconvenience this wouldve caused and offered Mrs S 
£80 to recognise the impact this caused. But they didnt think this meant they should cover 
the costs of the repairs to Mrs S roof, as they noted the blockage was caused due to root 
growth which would likely have happened over a period of time. So, they didnt think it was 
likely the damage to the roof was caused solely by the 4-day delay they were responsible 
for. Mrs S remained unhappy with this response, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They accepted there had 
been a delay in resolving Mrs S blocked drain, and that AIL were responsible for this delay. 
But they didnt think they were able to say that this delay directly caused the damage to Mrs 
S roof, considering the cause of the blockage and how this had developed over time. They 
also referred to a report from Mrs S own roofer from February 2023, which suggested the 
blockage had reoccurred and so, seemed to be an ongoing issue. So, they thought the £80 
AIL offered was a fair one to recognise the inconvenience Mrs S had experienced, and they 
didnt think AIL needed to do anything more. 
Mrs S didnt agree with this view. She spoke to our investigator at length reiterating her 
reasons as to why she didnt agree. These reasons included, and are not limited to, her 
continued unhappiness that the engineers arrived at her property without ladders on two 
occasions. And her belief that the delay this created in clearing the blockage led to the 
damage of her roof.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the offer made by AIL to resolve the complaint is a fair one. Ive 
focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mrs S. I dont think its in 
dispute that her roof has sustained structural damage that needs repairing. And as this 
damage appeared around the same time that she made her claim with AIL, and its accepted 
there was a delay caused by AIL during the claim process, I can understand why Mrs S feels 
AIL were responsible. And so, I can understand why Mrs S feels AIL should cover the costs 
of the necessary repairs.
But for me to say AIL should cover the costs of these repairs, I need to be satisfied that, 
based on the evidence available to me and on the balance of probabilities, it is most likely 
that the damage was caused as a direct result of the delays AIL were responsible for. And I 
dont think thats the case in this situation.
As its been accepted by AIL that there were avoidable delays in resolving the blockage, I 
dont intend to discuss this in great detail. Had an engineer attended Mrs S property on 25 
August with the necessary ladders, I think its most likely the blockage wouldve been 
resolved at this point. Instead, the blockage wasnt cleared until 3 September, some 7 days 
later. But I note an attendance of 1 September was offered to Mrs S, and she refused this 
due her own availability. So, I think there was an avoidable delay of 5 days, that AIL were 
responsible for. 
Mrs S feels it is this delay that led to the damage of her roof. And I think its accepted that 
during this time, there was standing water on the roof due to the blockage of the drain. But I 
dont think Im able to say for certain that it was definitely this period of 5 days that led to the 
damage the roof sustained.
Ive seen the notes from the engineer who resolved the issue on 3 September. And within 
these notes, the engineer explains the blockage had been caused by roots that had grown 
down the drain. So, I think its reasonable for me to assume that the blockage had been 
forming over an extended period of time. And so, it follows that effectiveness of the drain 
was likely impacted during this time and so, before Mrs S raised a claim with AIL.
I also note that in Mrs S own roofers report, compiled some six months later, it refers to 
another blockage in the drain. So, I think this suggests that the drain had an ongoing issue, 
which further substantiates the point Ive made above.
Because of this, without any further independent evidence, I dont think Im able to say with 
certainty that the damage caused to Mrs S roof was caused solely by the 5-day delay in AIL 
clearing the blocked drain. And because of this, I dont think Im able to say AIL have acted 
unfairly when refusing the cover the costs of the repairs to rectify this damage.
But its clear there were avoidable delays caused by two engineers arriving at Mrs S 
property without the correct equipment. So, I do think AIL acted unfairly here and so, Ive thought about what I think AIL should do to put things right for this aspect of the complaint.
Putting things right
When thinking about what I think AIL should to put things right, any award or direction I 
make is intended to place Mrs S back in the position she wouldve been in, had AIL acted 
fairly in the first instance.
As Ive already explained above, I dont think I can say for certain that the damage to Mrs S 
roof wouldnt have been present as I think there was a blockage present over an extended 
period of time through no fault of AILs.
But, had AIL acted fairly, I do think the blockage wouldve been resolved sooner. And if it 
had, I dont think Mrs S wouldve needed to take time out of her usual day to ensure she was 
available for the second and third appointments as they wouldnt have been needed. And in 
this situation, Mrs S wouldnt have needed to engage with AIL to arrange the follow-on 
appointments, which Ive no doubt wouldve been frustrating.
AIL have offered to pay Mrs S £80 to recognise the inconvenience she was caused by the 5-
day delay. And I think this offer is a fair one, that falls in line with our services approach and 
what I wouldve directed, had it not already been offered. I think it fairly recognises the 
inconvenience Mrs S wouldve been caused needing to speak to AIL several times and 
ensuring she was available for the engineers to attend.
But I think it also fairly reflects the actual length of the delay, which was relatively short 
overall, and AILs efforts to ensure an engineer attended with the correct equipment when it 
became clear this hadnt happened. 
So, I think AIL should pay Mrs S this £80 to fairly resolve the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mrs S complaint and I direct Aviva Insurance 
Limited to take the following action:
Pay Mrs S £80 to recognise the inconvenience she was caused during the claim 
process.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman