DRN-4098215
The complaint
Mr S complains on his own behalf, and as executor of the estate of the late Mr R, about the 
the handling of the renewal of a policy which Mr R had with UK Insurance Limited, trading as 
Sainsburys Car Insurance. 
What happened
Mr R had a motor insurance policy with UK Insurance Limited (UKI). Mr S was a named 
driver on the policy. Mr R sadly died in January 2022. 
A couple of weeks later, Mr S was involved in an accident which wasnt his fault. He claimed 
on the policy. On learning of Mr Rs death, UKI decided to allow the policy to run until the 
renewal date, which was just a few weeks away.
Mr S was disappointed to discover, a few weeks later, that the policy hadnt automatically 
renewed, and that hed need a new policy. The premium he was quoted was nearly five 
times as high as the renewal price which had been quoted by UKI. He felt that he had no 
choice to accept this, given that he needed to be covered when he got his car back from the 
repairer. Ultimately, he cancelled his policy within the cooling-off period and took out a new 
policy elsewhere.
Mr S considers the renewal premium to have been unjustifiably high, given that the only 
change was that he was to be the policyholder, rather than a named driver. And he was 
unhappy with the time it took UKI to confirm his no claims discount which he needed for his 
new insurer.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. He 
explained that UKI wasnt involved in providing the new insurance quote for Mr S, so he 
explained that Mr S would need to raise this with the insurance broker if he wanted to pursue 
it further. And he said that UKI had needed to wait until Mr Ss claim had been settled before 
confirming the level of no claims discount. So he didnt think the delay in providing the 
requested confirmation to Mr S was unreasonable. 
Mr S remained unhappy, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided that I cant fairly uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
UKI was the insurer for the policy in Mr Rs name, on which Mr S was a named driver. UKIs 
notes show that Mr S contacted it a couple of weeks after Mr Rs death to say that Mr R had 
died and that he wanted to change the insurance into his own name. He also said he needed 
to make a claim. The policy was due to expire a few weeks later and UKI told Mr S that it 
would keep the policy running until the renewal date, but that a new policy would then be 
needed, and hed need to contact his insurance broker about that.
I can understand Mr Ss dismay when he discovered that the policy the broker was able to 
offer him was so much more expensive than the previous policy had been. But that policy 
was with another insurer. And I cant hold UKI responsible for Mr Ss dissatisfaction with the 
premium he was quoted.
The claim that Mr S made in February 2022 was the second claim made on the policy within 
a 12-month period. This meant that liability had to be settled before UKI was able to confirm 
the effect, if any, on the no claims discount. Ive seen nothing to make me think that there 
was any unreasonable delay in confirming the level of no claims discount. And I can see that 
UKI offered to provide a note for Mr Ss new insurer to explain that there was an ongoing 
claim, and that it was possible that the no claims discount would be restored to nine years if 
Mr Ss claim was resolved as non-fault. I think that UKI was as helpful as it could have been 
in the circumstances.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S. I appreciate that the insurance came up for renewal at what 
was a very difficult time. I sympathise with his position, and understand his frustration at 
having had the stress of having to deal with the change of insurance on top of everything 
else. I also understand the confusion caused by the fact that there were various different 
businesses and trading names involved. But I dont consider that UKI acted unfairly or 
unreasonably. So I cant fairly require it to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman