DRN-4014072
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr M complain United Trust Bank Limited (UTB) provided unclear information 
about the evidence they required Mrs M and Mr M to provide about the source of the funds 
they were using to pay off their mortgage. They say it caused them distress and 
inconvenience, meant they couldnt redeem the mortgage on the day they wanted to, and led 
them to pay interest on the mortgage for longer.
What happened
Mrs M and Mr M wanted to pay off their mortgage with UTB. They were working towards a 
redemption date of 12 December 2022. UTB wrote to Mrs M and Mr M in late November 
explaining theyd need to see evidence of the source of the funds they were using to pay the 
mortgage off. That was necessary for UTB to comply with their regulatory obligations in 
relation to money laundering.
Mr M spoke to UTB on around 6 December 2022 to check where he needed to email the 
pension fund information he planned to provide. When UTB told him theyd need to see a 
bank statement too, he was unhappy. Mr M felt the November correspondence from UTB 
hadnt been clear theyd need to provide more than one piece of evidence; he was unhappy 
about providing the personal information a bank statement would show; and he didnt feel it 
was necessary for UTB to see both pieces of evidence to fulfil their regulatory obligations.
Mr M provided UTB with the pension information as planned. The following day UTB 
contacted him to confirm they required the bank statement as well. Mr M complained on 
grounds the November correspondence hadnt been clear about that. And he remained 
unhappy about UTBs requirements. UTB raised a complaint on Mrs M and Mr Ms behalf.
UTB responded to the complaint in early January 2023. They noted Mr Ms comments about 
the wording of the November 2022 correspondence but said they sometimes required 
additional information if the documents provided werent sufficient evidence of the source of 
funds; the format of the pension information Mr M had sent in hadnt been acceptable; and 
theyd told Mr M on the 6 December 2022 call theyd need a bank statement showing the 
funds in his account as well. The complaint response set out that Mrs M and Mr M could 
provide a redacted bank statement.  
Mr M contacted UTB to discuss their response. He was unhappy with the tone of the 
response; that he hadnt previously been told the pension information hed provided hadnt 
been acceptable, only that he needed to provide a bank statement; and that the complaint 
response itself wasnt clear about the evidence UTB required. Mr M wanted to raise a 
separate complaint about that. UTB said they wouldnt send a further response since theyd 
already addressed his concerns about the clarity of their communications, and he should 
bring the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator looked into Mrs M and Mr Ms concerns. He said, broadly, UTB had told    
Mr M at the outset hed need to provide a bank statement. Theyd noted his concerns about 
privacy, and reasonably suggested he could redact information in his bank statement other 
than the entry showing the pension funds crediting his account to address them. If hed done 
that, its likely the mortgage would have been paid off by the date Mrs M and Mr M preferred. 
He couldnt interfere with UTBs money laundering processes even though Mr M felt they 
were overly cautious. Overall UTB had treated Mrs M and Mr M fairly.
Since Mrs M and Mr M didnt agree with our investigators view, their complaints been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Mrs M and Mr Ms strength of feeling about what happened. And Im grateful for the 
information the parties have provided. I wont set everything out in detail. No discourtesy is 
intended by that. It simply reflects the informal nature of the service we provide. And the 
facts are well known to the parties. So, Ill focus on the issues I consider key in coming to my 
decision.
I note Mrs M and Mr Ms concerns about the clarity of the letter and email UTB sent in 
November 2022. It seems they were in slightly different terms. Mr M understood from the 
email that only one piece of evidence would be needed to identify the funds he and Mrs M 
were using to pay off the mortgage. The letter left open the possibility UTB might ask for 
additional information. But it invited Mrs M and Mr M to get in touch if they wanted to discuss 
the requirements. Mr M spoke to UTB on around 6 December. 
Although Mr M was ringing to find out where to send his pension information, UTB told him 
hed also need to provide a bank statement that showed the pension funds landing in his 
account. When Mr M raised concerns about a bank statement showing personal information, 
UTB said he could black out other entries. Mr M was unhappy about the time and trouble 
that might take. Hes said since UTB should have explained how he could make redactions. 
And he felt UTBs evidential requirements went beyond what was needed to meet their 
regulatory obligations relating to money laundering. 
Despite UTBs requirements, Mr M chose to send only the pension information. When they 
rang shortly afterwards to explain again they needed the bank statement evidence, he 
wanted to pursue the complaint on grounds the November correspondence said only one 
piece of evidence would be required. 
I wont typically interfere with a firms processes. And I dont think its unreasonable UTB 
asked for additional information if they felt it was necessary to comply with money laundering 
regulations. But I will consider whether UTB treated Mrs M and Mr M fairly in the individual 
circumstances of their complaint. Considering everything, Im satisfied they did. They 
explained clearly on the 6 December call that a bank statement showing the pension funds 
landing in his account was needed in addition to the pension information Mr M planned to 
send. They explained Mr M could black out any other entries, which reasonably addressed 
his concerns about disclosing personal information. Im not aware of any reason why Mrs M 
and Mr M werent able to provide a redacted bank statement at the time - they were able to 
provide one later. I wouldnt expect UTB to have explained how practically they could redact 
the statement unless theyd asked  Im not aware they did, and I understand Mr M was able 
to do it later on. And UTB explained the reasons they required the information, even if Mr M 
disagreed with them. 
Although Mrs M and Mr M wanted to pursue their complaint about the November 2022 
correspondence, they could have gone ahead and provided the bank statement following 
their discussions with UTB in early December. They knew then what UTBs requirements were. If they had, its possible they would have been able to redeem the mortgage on the 
date they were aiming for. At the very least the process could have gone ahead alongside 
their complaint. UTB didnt delay things. So, its not fair to hold them responsible for the 
additional interest Mrs M and Mr M have had to pay.
UTB responded to Mrs M and Mr Ms complaint within the eight weeks they were allowed 
under relevant rules. I note the reasons UTB gave as to why the pension information wasnt 
acceptable were new. But I dont think that affects things. UTBs requirement for Mrs M and 
Mr M to provide the bank statement evidence hadnt changed. And I think Mr M ought 
reasonably to have understood what was needed given his earlier conversations with UTB in 
December, even if he felt the complaint response was unclear.
Bearing everything in mind, Im not persuaded UTB acted unreasonably or treated Mrs M 
and Mr M unfairly. And I dont think the additional interest theyve had to pay results from 
anything UTB did wrong. In the circumstances, whilst I understand theyll be disappointed, I 
dont uphold Mrs M and Mr Ms complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs M and Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman