DRN-3487073
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) sent him marketing for a free consultation 
regarding financial planning, but he feels the eligibility criteria listed within the marketing 
correspondence was misleading. 
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. I will 
explain why.
Lloyds in February 2022 sent Mr O marketing information referring him to a partner company 
for free financial planning with recommendations personalised to Mr Os current situation 
and financial goals. The letter said: 
To be eligible you would need to have at least £100,000 in sole annual income, or £100,000 
spread across sole and joint savings, investments and personal pensions.
However, after meeting with the advisors, Mr O was told he didnt meet the eligibility criteria 
as his holdings included buy-to-let properties and the partner company of Lloyds who Mr O 
met with said that  buy-to-let properties were  excluded from its eligibility criteria.
Having reviewed the marketing correspondence that was sent to Mr O, although I dont 
agree that it states buy-to-let properties are excluded from the eligibility criteria, I am 
satisfied it wasnt explicitly listed either, like the other investment options were. And while Mr 
O says it is reasonable to class buy-to-let properties as investments, meaning they fell within 
the eligibility criteria, the other options listed are generally considered more cash related or 
investable assets. Therefore, I am not persuaded by his argument.
I have also considered the fact the marketing materials are for information only and not 
designed to specifically cover every eventuality or tailored for each individual customer. They 
also dont constitute an offer of eligibility or service from a third-party provider. Therefore, I 
dont think it would be reasonable to conclude the correspondence sent to Mr O would have 
covered all the terms, conditions and definitions of the eligibility criteria. And as it was the 
third party who decided the eligibility criteria, I cant hold Lloyds responsible for this. 
I understand Mr O will be disappointed with my decision and I do appreciate the impact this 
has had on Mr Os time. But on balance, I am not persuaded Lloyds has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably for the reasons I have explained above.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman