DRN-3292688
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that TSB Bank plc hasnt reimbursed £5,015.88 he lost after he fell victim to 
an investment scam in December 2019.
What happened
Mr S fell victim to an investment scam. He came across the investment platform after 
accepting a friend request on a social media site and becoming very familiar with this 
individual. Mr S says he made payments and small withdrawals, which gave him confidence 
it was legitimate, as well as having access to a platform for the investment that worked.
Mr S transferred the funds in question to an e-money account held in his name, and then 
transferred the funds from this account onto the scammer. He also made other payments 
from his other bank account.
Mr S initially asked TSB to consider his loss as a chargeback, as he didnt receive the goods 
or services he paid for. He feels that this protection should apply in his circumstances, and 
TSB should therefore refund him the loss.
Mr S also says TSB has accepted some liability and offered him £50, but he doesnt
accept this resolves his complaint.
TSB says it paid £50 to Mr S as it felt he should have been transferred to the fraud team 
when he called to raise the issue. But it says it isnt accepting liability for the payments.
 
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. She said a chargeback wouldnt apply here as 
the merchant didnt exist. She also didnt think the payments were particularly unusual or 
suspicious in appearance to TSB considering Mr Ss normal account and payment activity. 
Mr S did not accept the investigators conclusions. He said the outward transactions shown 
in the investigators table were to known financial institutions. He believes the subsequent 
transactions to the e-money provider were out of character and should have been 
questioned by TSB. Mr S says, if a dialogue had taken place, TSB would have become 
aware of the circumstances by which he became familiar with the scammers and it would 
have recommended he didnt proceed. Mr S also mentioned a friend, who fell victim to the 
same scam, had a similar claim which was upheld by this service.
As the complaint could not be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator for the same reasons.
A chargeback isnt relevant in this case as this was a transfer between Mr Ss bank accounts 
rather than a payment to a merchant.
Mr S has referred to another case his friend had with this service - which he feels is the 
same as his. I should start by saying each case is judged on its own merits and what may 
appear (on the face of it) to be a similar set of circumstances, may often transpire not to be 
the case. I dont know the details of the case, but from what Mr S has told us alone  it 
concerns a different business and different sum of money.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position is that a bank is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that 
into account when deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider TSB 
should fairly and reasonably: 
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Whilst I recognise Mr S is the victim of a scam and didnt know he was paying fraudsters; 
these factors alone dont mean TSB should refund him. In this case, I need to decide 
whether TSB acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr S when he made the 
payments, or whether it should have done more than it did. 
As Ive explained above, I consider that as a matter of good practice TSB should have been 
on the lookout for out of character or unusual transactions. So, Ive first considered whether 
the payment requests Mr S made were out of character and unusual. 
What can be considered unusual or uncharacteristic requires reference to common activity 
on an account. Ive looked back at the account statements as far as February 2019 to 
assess this. The first payment was for £15.88 to a new payee but this was a low value 
payment. Whilst the second payment (made five days later) was for £5,000 - it was now to 
the same known payee. Mr S had made numerous faster payments before for much larger 
sums than this. 
Mr S has argued that these transactions were to known financial institutions. But the 
e-money provider Mr S transferred to was also a legitimate financial institution and the 
account was in his own name. It was from this second account that Mr S then transferred the 
money to the scammer. There is a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially be 
fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments. Of course, those arrangements 
do need to accommodate that spending habits alter, unusual needs arise, and it will be 
impossible to prevent all fraud without a significant number of genuine payments being 
delayed considerably and inconveniently. To the bank, these payments appeared as 
genuinely authorised payments. On the face of it, it seems to me that there was no reason 
why the payments wouldnt have seemed genuine to TSB. Overall, I'm not persuaded that 
there was enough suspicion about the activity that I wouldve expected TSB to intervene 
here. 
Mr S says, if a dialogue had taken place TSB would have become aware of his 
circumstances and the scam would have unfolded. I dont need to reach a finding on this 
point because for the reasons explained above  I dont think TSB should have intervened 
such that a dialogue should have taken place.
In terms of whether TSB took reasonable steps to recover Mr Ss funds once it was made 
aware he was the victim of a scam  the payments did not go directly to the scammers 
account  but instead to Mr Ss own account with an e-money provider  so TSB would not 
have been in a position to recover the funds from the scammers account. In any event, the 
first scam payment was made in December 2019 and the last on 19 December 2019 and the 
scam was reported in October 2020  10 months later. I understand that Mr S didnt know he 
was the victim of a scam before this, but the delay means any recovery action was most 
unlikely to be successful - as scammers usually remove funds within hours.
I understand Mr S wasnt directed to the right department at TSB when he made his claim 
and made a number of calls to try and raise the disputed transactions. TSB acknowledged 
that Mr S should have been put through to its fraud department and compensated him £50 
for the distress and inconvenience caused. It also advised Mr S to get in contact with its 
fraud department so it could consider his claim. However, Mr S chose to bring his complaint 
directly to this service. I find that an amount of £50 is a fair and reasonable amount in the 
circumstances of this aspect of Mr Ss complaint  and in line with awards we have made in 
complaints with similar features. So, I wont be making any further award.
I know this will be disappointing for Mr S. He has put time and effort into bringing this 
complaint. Despite my natural sympathy for Mr S, who has been an innocent victim of a 
sophisticated scam, I am not persuaded that the activity was suspicious enough such that 
TSB should have intervened. It therefore follows that I dont think that TSBs refusal to 
reimburse Mr S for those transactions is unfair or unreasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman