DRN-1632927
The complaint
Miss Cs unhappy Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited turned down her claim 
on her pet insurance policy.
A representative has been involved in bringing this complaint on behalf of Miss C, but for 
simplicity Ill just refer to her in this decision.
What happened
In September 2019 Miss Cs dog needed an operation on her knee  cruciate repair surgery. 
Miss C made a claim on her pet insurance, but this was turned down by Red Sands. They 
say this was linked to a pre-existing condition, as Miss Cs dog had knee cap issues in both 
back legs previously. Operations were carried out in in 2008 and 2009 to fix these issues. 
Red Sands explained pre-existing conditions werent covered under Miss Cs policy terms  
which she took out in 2010. They added the vets notes showed in January 2019 the dog 
had knee surgery as a puppy, and Miss C was warned her dog may get arthritis when older. 
The notes also give a diagnosis of mobility osteoarthritis with the cause being most likely 
because of the dogs age and previous knee surgery.
And, as well as turning down the claim they also placed exclusions on the policy for any 
conditions related to both patellas (knee caps), and both stifles (knees).
Miss C spoke to her vet about this, and her vet said the two conditions werent linked. So, 
Miss C felt her claim should be paid and she complained about this. As well as being 
unhappy about her claim being turned down, she also raised concerns about the claims 
process itself. She says timescales werent met, she was told they hadnt received her claim 
information when they had, and she wasnt told about needing to complete the pre-
authorisation form. She adds this was a stressful time given how much pain her dog was in, 
and she said she wasnt well either. She also says shes unhappy theyve now added 
exclusions to her policy.
A few weeks later, Miss C received another letter still turning down her claim, but this doesnt 
mention anything about the additional information she had given. So, Miss C got in touch 
again with Red Sands, and after this the outcome was reassessed based on the additional 
information. 
But Red Sands still turned down the claim. They noted her vet had been in touch and quoted 
him as saying NB: as the surgery for the patella luxation was done in 2008, the cranial 
cruciate ligament rupture cannot be considered related; the time span is too long for the 
patella luxation to determine cranial cruciate ligament disease. But Red Sands said they 
disagreed the current conditions werent related to the dogs previous surgeries in 2008.
In support of this, Red Sands reiterated the vets notes from January 2019 saying, owner 
reports had knee surgery as a puppy and were warned may get arthritis when older, and 
differential diagnosis: mobility  osteoarthritis most likely given age and previous knee 
surgery. And they gave a detailed explanation about how chronic cruciate disease accounts 
for most knee problems in dogs, and the length of time thats passed isnt unusual. So, they 
still think the conditions are related, which is why they wont meet the claim. They also said it 
was Miss Cs responsibility to tell them this.
As Miss C wasnt happy with this outcome, she asked us to look into things. One of our 
investigators did so and in summary he felt Red Sands had acted fairly in turning down the 
claim. But he did feel Red Sands errors in handling the claim warranted £100 compensation 
for the trouble caused to Miss C.
Red Sands didnt agree with this, arguing it was only one day outside their normal service 
standards, so after initially offering £30, said theyd offer £50. Miss C also didnt agree with 
our investigator, because she felt her claim should be met. She also said she didnt know 
Red Sands had got their own vet to look at her case, they hadnt spoken to her vet despite 
having his details, and both her vet and hydro therapist say the conditions arent linked. As 
neither party agreed, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss C also raised some concerns about the sale of the policy as she says she did declare 
her dogs medical history. But this decision only deals with the claim shes made  and 
having considered everything I think Red Sands have acted fairly in turning down her claim. I 
know this will come as a disappointment to Miss C.
I think to reach a full and complete answer on this complaint there are two separate issues I 
need to address:
Have Red Sands acted fairly in saying the 2019 condition is linked to the knee 
condition diagnosed in 2008?
Did Red Sands treat Miss C fairly when handling the claim?
Have Red Sands acted fairly in saying the 2019 condition is linked to the knee condition 
diagnosed in 2008?
Theres no dispute that in 2008 Miss Cs dog had issues with her knees, leading to two 
operations on her back legs, one in 2008, and one in 2009.
Miss C took out this policy in January 2010 and has said she did declare these conditions. 
Ive addressed that in a separate complaint, and think even if she had, then Red Sands 
would still have fairly turned down her claim.
The policy terms say theres no cover for related to previous conditions. And the specific 
term says any pre-existing condition or claim for costs relating to an injury or illness that 
relates to or results from an accident, injury, illness or clinical signs your pet had before the 
policy started.
From the information Ive been given Miss Cs dog did have an operation on her knee caps 
in 2008 and 2009.Ive noted Miss Cs vets have sent information in to say the knee cap issues cant be the 
cause of the cranial cruciate ligament rupture. Red Sands specialist vet agreed with this. But 
said that cranial cruciate disease (the condition claimed for in 2019) is the result of any 
condition that inflames the knee. So, the arthritis triggered by the previous surgery in 2008 
and 2009 would have increased the risk of the cruciate rupturing.
This information, from Red Sands specialist vet, appears consistent with the information 
recorded by Miss Cs vet in January 2019. Hes recorded Miss C was told her dog might get 
arthritis from the 2008 and 2009 operations. And the diagnosis by Miss Cs vet at the time in 
January 2019 is most likely osteoarthritis given the dogs age and previous surgery.
Given this, Im satisfied the condition Miss C has claimed for in 2019 is related to the 
operations carried out in 2008 and 2009. before she took out the policy. So, Im also satisfied 
Red Sands have acted fairly in turning down this claim under the policy terms.
Ive noted Miss Cs vets more recent comments as well  where he says the conditions 
arent related. But given the vets comments in January 2019, Im satisfied, for the purposes 
of the policy terms, they are.
Ive also noted Red Sands have now applied exclusions to Miss Cs policy for these 
conditions. Red Sands would most likely have applied this exclusion if theyd recorded the 
conditions from 2008 and 2009. Now they have recorded these conditions, it doesnt seem 
unfair for them to have now applied these exclusions to Miss Cs policy.
So taking everything into account, Im satisfied Red Sands have acted fairly in turning down 
Miss Cs claim by treating the surgery in 2019 as excluded for a related condition under the 
policy terms  and have fairly added exclusions for these conditions to Miss Cs policy.
Did Red Sands treat Miss C fairly when handling the claim?
Our investigator gave a detailed explanation of where he felt Red Sands hadnt met their 
service standards. 
Red Sands didnt dispute this but did feel that the amount of £100 was unreasonably high  
because they were only one day outside their service standards. So, initially said they were 
prepared to award £30, before increasing it to £50.
But based on what Ive seen Im satisfied £100 compensation is fair. At the time of making 
the claim Miss C was understandably concerned about her dogs wellbeing. Thats natural 
and isnt something Id expect Red Sands to compensate her for. But as a result of the claim 
being delayed Miss C was told on the day her dog had the operation the claim had been 
turned down. She also had to contact Red Sands to chase up information, both before the 
operation, and afterwards, in order to get a full and complete answer to the points she 
raised. So, its for these reasons I think £100 fairly compensates Miss C for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
My final decision
It follows I partially uphold this complaint and order Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) 
Limited to pay Miss C £100 compensation. I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint about her claim 
being turned down.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman