DRN-2347663
The complaint
Mr Z is unhappy Allay Claims Ltd are charging him a fee for a payment protection insurance 
claim (PPI), when he said hed only asked for a free PPI check to be made. 
What happened
In April 2019, Mr Z completed an on-line application asking Allay to carry out a free check to 
see whether he had PPI. Mr Z spoke to Allay in May 2019 after getting messages about his 
application. He said Allay told him they needed him to sign further documentation for his 
claim with his lender Ill call B to progress. After the call Mr Z spoke to his wife and they 
decided to make the claim direct with lender B. Mr Z said he didnt sign any of the 
documents Allay sent him. In June 2019 lender B told Mr Z his claim was successful. But 
shortly afterwards Allay asked him to pay their fee for the successful claim. He complained 
to Allay.
Allay said that Mr Z had asked them in April 2019 to check whether hed any PPI on any of 
his accounts with lender B. In May 2019 when they spoke to Mr Z theyd explained that he 
had three accounts with lender B, theyd already submitted his claim for two of these and 
asked for his instruction to submit the third claim. Allay said Mr Z had agreed to this and hed 
authorised them to continue. As Mr Z hadnt cancelled his agreement their fee is justified as 
his claims had been successful.
Mr Z wasnt happy with this response as he said Allay had repeatedly said he needed to sign 
the documents for his claim to progress. And lender B had paid his compensation into the 
bank account hed given them when hed made his claim direct to them. He referred his 
complaint to us. 
Our investigator said Mr Z had authorised Allay to act for him in pursuing PPI on all his 
accounts. He said Allay had acted fairly and responsibly in seeking their fee for the redress 
paid to him. Mr Z didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
I can understand Mr Zs frustration as he says hed only asked Allay to carry out a free PPI 
check. He said he hadnt authorised them to submit claims for PPI for his accounts. Where 
there is a different version of events as is the case here, I base my decision on what I think 
most likely happened.  And I need to determine whether Mr Z had authorised Allay to act on 
his behalf, and whether this authorisation allowed Allay to look into all of his accounts. And if 
it had, whether Mr Z had let them know he no longer wanted them to work for him. 
Allay has shown an online application for a free PPI check was made in April 2019. The 
personal details in this application correlate with the personal details Mr Z has given this 
service. The application also had the details of Mr Zs lender, and the product type of the 
accounts to be checked, this included loan, mortgage, credit card, unsecured loan and 
overdraft. 
Mr Z isnt disputing he completed the on line application. On completion of the application, 
an LoA was generated, populated with this information. The LoA couldnt be submitted 
without a signature being added. As I think Mr Z completed the application, I have no reason 
to doubt that he added the signature to the form. The LoA above the signature said:
 I/We hereby appoint and authorise Allay to pursue my/our claim for compensation in 
respect of mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) on the above account and any other 
accounts I/we hold with you.
Allays terms and conditions were also available to see. And in signing the LoA Mr Z had 
agreed to them. They say:
We will carry out a free PPI check. We will notify you once PPI has been identified and 
submit your complaint to the lender following your instruction. Your instruction can
be given by completing the postal Claim Questionnaire, submitting the Claim Questionnaire 
online or over the telephone with Allay.
I can see from Allays records that they sent Mr Zs details to lender B. And lender B 
advised Allay that PPI had been found in early May 2019. The next day Allay messaged Mr 
Z to tell him the Great News and a link for him to complete a PPI questionnaire. Allays 
records show the PPI questionnaire was completed and returned the same day.
Ive also listened to the call between Mr Z and Allay on 10 May 2019. Mr Z called as hed 
had a number of messages from Allay. He said hed filled in stuff for them and was 
checking whether the calls were about a valid PPI claim. He was told theyd submitted two 
claims for him, but lender B had told them about a third. Mr Z said he knew he had a PPI 
policy from 1998 and was told the third claim was about a policy from 1999, and that hed 
need to complete another PPI questionnaire. Mr Z agreed for Allay to transfer the 
information hed given from his previous PPI questionnaire over to this claim and for Allay to 
submit this to lender B. It was explained to him that if the case was successful Allay would 
charge their success fee and that the 14 day cooling off period would start that day. Mr Z 
was also told he could be charged if he cancelled after the 14 day cooling off period. Mr Z 
went on to question the potential success rate for his claims, being told this was dependent 
on each case. And if lender B got in touch with him to refer them to Allay as they would 
deal with his claims. 
Mr Z is told another LoA would be sent out to him to sign. But he wasnt told at any point that 
his claim couldnt progress without this being completed. In signing the LoA in April 2019 Mr 
Z had already given authorisation to Allay for all of his accounts with lender B to be looked 
into. And as per the above terms and conditions the PPI questionnaire was Mr Z s  
instruction to Allay to submit his claim. 
Mr Z has shown hed received in June 2019 chaser messages about completing the PPI 
questionnaire. But I think this was because he hadnt sent back the hard copies sent to him 
after hed spoken to Allay. But Im satisfied Mr Z was aware that hed already agreed to Allay 
completing the PPI questionnaire on his behalf and submitting this to his lender. So, I think 
Mr Z gave instruction to Allay to submit claims for him on all three accounts.
I can also see a letter was sent by lender B to both Mr Z and Allay dated 10 May 2019, 
which said they were investigating three claims for him. In late May 2019 Allays records also 
show theyd sent a message to Mr Z to confirm lender B had got his claim. And in early June 2019, lender B told both Mr Z and Allay that the claims were successful, and the 
amount of compensation that would be paid. On Mr Zs copy there is a clear reference made 
to Allay. I can understand Mr Zs frustration as he says he made a direct claim to lender B 
but I think this shows his lender saw Allay as his authorised representative for all three of his 
claims. So, Im satisfied Mr Z had authorised Allay to act on his behalf.
Ive gone onto consider whether Mr Z cancelled his agreement with Allay. The terms and 
conditions say:
From the point we submit your complaint, you have a 14 day cooling off period during which 
you can cancel your contract with us. If at any time during the 14 day cooling off period we 
obtain an offer of compensation for you, our normal fee will be payable.
As outlined above it was made clear to Mr Z in the call, that two of his claims had already 
been submitted. And when the 14 day cooling off period would start for this third claim. I 
havent seen any evidence that Mr Z asked Allay to cancel the agreement either within or 
after the 14 day cooling off period. Mr Z said he never returned the hard copies of the PPI 
questionnaire or the LoA. But I dont think by simply disengaging from the process that its 
enough to consider this as his cancelling the agreement. And by not telling Allay he didnt 
want them to act on his behalf before the end of the 14 day cooling off period, theyd 
continued with the submitted PPI claims to lender B.
The agreement Mr Z had with Allay was on a No win No fee basis. Allay charged a 
percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they actually undertook. 
This means that any work done on any unsuccessful claim would be done for free. When a 
claim was successful, Allays fee may be more or less than the value of the work they 
actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. 
Allays fees were charged in line with what Mr Z agreed to and reflect the fee cap thats in 
place for PPI claims. 
I know Mr Z will be disappointed by my decision, but Im satisfied that Allay was authorised 
by him to act on his behalf and he hadnt cancelled his agreement.This means Allay can 
charge their fees for Mr Zs successful claims. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman