DRN-3883271
The complaint
Mr S complaint concerns the service provided to him by IG Index Limited relating to his 
trading account. He says he was advised to keep open some positions hed otherwise have 
closed and incurred a significant loss as a result.
What happened
The complaint stems from telephone conversations Mr S had with a member of staff at IG on 
the afternoon of Friday, 21 January 2021. During the two calls in question, he discussed his 
account, open positions, and the market in general. There was a focus on the likelihood of a 
bounce after the weekend and how this might be the right time to leave positions open that 
hed normally close, to take advantage of any upturn. 
Following the calls, Mr S opted to leave the positions open, but they were then closed out 
automatically the following Monday when the liquidation level on his account was reached. 
This left him with a considerable loss. 
Mr S complained to IG, but its view was that the conversations had simply involved Mr S 
seeking insight into the current market situation, and it had been stressed to him that no 
guarantees could be given. It concluded that advice had not been provided and it had been 
solely Mr S decision to keep the positions open.
The complaint was referred to this service, but our investigator reached broadly the same 
conclusion as IG. He highlighted Mr S notable knowledge and experience of trading stocks 
and derivatives and felt the conversations had been general discussions of market sentiment 
and couldnt be regarded as formal advice.
Mr S didnt accept this. He asked that additional recordings of calls with IG be listened to, to 
highlight the difference between the usual service hed received and the calls in question 
here. The investigator did obtain some further recordings but wasnt persuaded to change 
his view. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matters been referred to me to review.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened carefully to the calls Mr S made to IG on 21 January 2022. On the first of these 
he initially asked to speak with his account manager but was told by a staff member (wholl 
Ill refer to as A) that the manager was away. Mr S explained that he had wanted to talk 
through his account managers thoughts on the market and he went on to ask what As 
thoughts were. 
There then followed a conversation focussed on the possibility of a market bounce and the 
history and features of similar market situations. During this part of the call A was confident 
in his view that a bounce was likely. But that view was caveated throughout to stress that 
nothing was guaranteed, and it might instead be an awful day on Monday. A also explicitly 
said that he couldnt tell Mr S to go long or short, which Mr S acknowledged, saying he knew 
A wasnt able to do that. 
This first call ended amicably and shortly after, when the markets had opened, Mr S called 
back to IG, this time specifically asking to speak with A. He noted that the markets were now 
reflecting As previous comments and went on to explain, quite early in what eventually 
became a 28-minute call, that he was of the view that this was the occasion on which he was 
going to take the risk and maintain his positions, as this might be the time doing so would 
work. 
The conversation continued, covering various topics including previous missed opportunities 
for Mr S, the potential influence of Covid, and the market in general and the potential for it to 
bounce back. Mr S went on to offer A his own tips on potentially profitable investments, 
highlighting examples of previous successes. Shortly after this the conversation came to an 
end, again amicably.
Considering this engagement as a whole, Im unable to conclude that it would be fair to hold 
IG responsible for any trading decisions Mr S made following the conversations. I accept that 
A was positive about the potential for a bounce and the possible benefits of Mr S leaving his 
positions open. But I think its clear these were simply personal opinions and general 
observations  in short, the thoughts on the market that Mr S had actively sought. 
In my view, this was not advice and Mr S appears to have acknowledged that at the time, at 
least to a degree. And, given his experience and role within the financial markets, I think its 
reasonable to expect him to have understood this. The impression Im left with having 
listened to the calls is that Mr S had effectively made the decision to leave the positions 
open on this occasion, on the basis of having missed out previously by not doing so. And he 
was therefore simply seeking reassurance around this decision, which he recognised was 
one that was his own to make.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman