DRN-4222091
The complaint
This complaint is about Mr Ms attempts to arrange term extensions and new interest rate 
deals on two buy-to-let (BTL) mortgages he holds with OneSavings Bank Plc trading as 
Kent Reliance (KR). The term extensions were necessary because the remaining term of 
each mortgage was less than two years, which was the minimum duration of an interest 
rate product KR had available.
The applications were delayed, and then refused on the grounds that Mr M was in arrears. 
Since that time, the accounts have been on KRs standard variable rate (SVR), making 
the monthly payments substantially higher than the rental incomes and therefore, Mr M 
maintains, unaffordable. As further arrears accrued, KR appointed Law of Property Act 
1925 Receivers (LPARs) to take over managing the accounts, but then agreed to hold the 
instruction in abeyance whilst Mr M attempted to re-finance the mortgages.
The gist of Mr Ms complaint is that delays on KRs part in dealing with the term extension
requests actually caused the arrears that it then used as the reason for refusing them.
 What happened
The events leading up to, and arising out of, the complaint are complex and the evidence in 
the case is detailed, running to more than 3,500 pages of documents, all of which Ive read. 
Theres a lot of duplication and some of the documents are more relevant to the case than 
others. 
In what follows, I have set out events in rather less detail than they have been presented. 
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if 
I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think 
it was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. 
It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be 
side-tracked by matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion 
peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the broader outcome. 
Our decisions are published and its important that I dont include any information that 
might result in Mr M being identified. Instead Ill give a summary in my own words (and 
rounding the figures where relevant) and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
Mr M has two BTL properties; Ill call them 18C and 1B respectively. Both have 
interest-only mortgages on them. In the case of 18C, the balance is around £2.6m, and the 
original term has been confirmed by KR as being due to expire on 5 November 2023. The 
mortgage on 1C is made up of two sub-accounts, with balances of around £944,000 and 
£261,000, with expiry dates of December 2022* and September 2023* respectively. 
*These dates are based on information set out in interest rate product transfers offers KR 
issued to Mr M in January 2020. 
These same products were coming up for renewal towards the end of 2021, prompting 
Mr M to seek new deals to avoid the mortgages reverting to SVR. To do this, he engaged a 
new mortgage broker firm (which Ill call G) to act as his intermediary. The interest rate deal 
on 18C was due to expire first, on 30 November 2021; that on 1B was due to expire on 
28 February 2022.
The shortest duration deals KR was offering ran for two years. As both mortgages had less 
than two years to run, KR said Mr M would need to apply to extend the mortgage terms 
first; if those were accepted it, it could then consider new product transfers. It also said that 
any arrears needed to be cleared, as a pre-condition of assessing the term extensions. 
Mr M made a nominal payment to the account on 18C which he considered brought the 
account up to date.
Mr M signed forms requesting the term extensions on 13 December 2021, for G to send in 
to KR. However KR says these werent received; Mr M says they were but KR lost them. 
Meanwhile, the mortgage on 18C had reverted to SVR on 1 December 2021, increasing 
the monthly payment from around £7,000 to a little over £13,600. The December 2021 
payment was collected by direct debit, but Mr M recalled it, partly because he couldnt 
afford this and partly in protest at what he saw as KRs failure to action.
A new set of application documents was submitted in March 2022. By now, the interest rate 
product on 1B had expired, and Mr M was facing similar increases in the monthly payments 
on the two sub-accounts, from £2,980 to £5,200 and £820 to £1,430 respectively. These, 
he said, were also unaffordable, and by now, all three accounts across the two mortgages 
were in arrears. KR refused the term extensions, which in turn meant the mortgages 
remained on SVR. 
Mr M corresponded at length with KR, hoping to negotiate a compromise; one suggestion 
was that the arrears might be calculated at a lower, fixed rate, and then capitalised, in 
order to facilitate the terms extensions. When this didnt succeed, he raised a complaint, 
which KR rejected. It later instructed the LPARs. Mr M brought his complaint to us. Our 
investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld; Mr M has asked for it to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start with some general observations. 
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory (or simply disputed) we reach our 
findings on what we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of 
probabilities. Thats broadly the same test that the courts use in civil cases.
Its for us to assess the reliability of evidence, from both sides, and decide how much weight 
should be attached to it. When doing that, we dont just consider individual documents in 
isolation. We consider everything together to form a broader opinion on the whole picture. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. That means I dont have to address every individual question or issue 
thats been raised if I dont think it affects the outcome.
We have no regulatory function; thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA); nor 
are we a consumer protection body. Were an alternative dispute resolution body; an 
informal alternative to the courts for financial businesses and their customer to resolve their 
differences. We deal with individual disputes  when were able to  subject to rules laid 
down by the FCA (which are known as the DISP Rules). 
Ive considered everything that both parties have said and provided; having done so Im not 
persuaded the underlying dispute is quite as complex as it has been made to look. Our 
investigator didnt think KR had unduly delayed the process, and that it wasnt provided with 
everything it needed in order to assess the term extension requests until March 2022. Ive 
reached much the same conclusion as the investigator; Ill explain why.
One of Mr Ms particular frustrations is that KR has seemingly relied on the presence of 
arrears on the 1B mortgage to justify its decision to refuse a term extension on the 18C 
mortgage. Ive looked very hard at that point, and Im not persuaded thats what actually 
happened.
 
The existing rate deal on 18C was due to expire first, on 30 November 2021. Mr Ms new 
intermediary G was in contact with KR about securing a new rate for 18C in October 2021; 
however, at that stage, KR didnt have authority to deal with G (G would only sign the 
relevant authorisation form on 10 December 2021). Also, because the existing rate would 
not expire until 30 November 2021, by that time the mortgage would have less than two 
years left. So Im satisfied that Mr M would always have to apply for a term extension, and 
that the application would have to be approved, before KR would even consider a request for 
a new rate. 
Theres quite a lot of argument about whether and when KR received the term extension 
request form, and what it did with the form what it did receive it. Whats not in dispute is that 
Mr M signed the request form on 13 December 2021, but didnt complete it with any relevant 
detail. G posted the signed but otherwise blank form it to KR (by first class mail, with no 
proof of delivery) on 15 December 2021. 
Thats already two weeks after the existing interest deal had expired, and the mortgage had 
reverted to SVR. So Im satisfied that regardless of what happened next, Mr M knew (or if he 
didnt, he should have) that his monthly payment for December 2021 was going to more or 
less double. This was not a penalty payment, as Mr M has characterised it; it was the 
amount he was required to pay under the terms of his mortgage contract in the absence of a 
new interest rate product.
What did happen next is that KR, having received the third party authorisation form G filled in 
on 10 December 2021, wrote to Mr M on 16 December 2021 confirming it had registered G 
as an authorised third party to discuss all aspects of both mortgages. Then, on 
20 December 2021, KR wrote to G confirming receipt of the application to extend the term 
(of both mortgages) and setting out all of the additional information it needed in order to 
consider the application further. That letter was returned to KR by Royal Mail as undelivered, 
at which point KR wrote to Mr M forwarding the material that had been sent to, and returned 
from G.
By now, 2021 had passed into 2022, and critically, the newly-increased monthly payment for 
December 2021 hadnt been paid. That was because Mr M had recalled the direct debit, by his own admission partly as a protest to try and get KRs attention. I dont mean this 
unkindly, but that was not a wise thing to do. 
Whatever frustration a consumer might feel about the way a business is dealing with them, 
the deliberate withholding of payment that is legitimately due under the lending contract is 
not an appropriate response. All it can ever do is make a bad situation worse, and thats 
precisely what happened in Mr Ms case, because it meant that having previously taken 
steps to clear historic arrears on the 18C mortgage, Mr B had now caused it to go into 
arrears afresh. 
Meanwhile, it then took until early March 2022 for the term extension application, and all 
relevant supporting documentation, to be resubmitted. By that time, the existing rates on the 
two sub-accounts of the 1B mortgage had also expired, and the monthly payments for those 
had increased as well. Only then was KR in a position finally to assess the term extension 
requests. The decision not to grant them was relayed to Mr M on 6 April 2022, and the 
reason given was they didnt meet its current policy and arrears (sic). Whilst not expressed 
particularly well, Im satisfied the decision was reached fairly and reasonably, given that the 
18C mortgage and one of the 1B sub-accounts were both in arrears at this point.
Mr M has told us that KR led G to believe at the outset that the term extensions would be a 
matter of routine. We dont have recordings of telephone calls between KR and G, but we do 
have email exchanges, supplied by G. Theres nothing in those that would indicate KR 
created the impression that the term extensions and/or new rate deals were a formality, and 
I wouldnt expect there to be. No one is entitled to borrow money; and even when theyve 
borrowed before, theyre not automatically entitled to more time to repay it. 
But a lender must treat customers fairly. In the context of an application for a term extension, 
that means assessing it fairly in accordance with its lending criteria and appetite for risk, and 
being mindful of what good practice requires of it. Lenders criteria are commercially 
sensitive and not generally made public. Having looked at all the arguments and evidence 
from both sides, Im not persuaded KR treated Mr M unfairly when it declined his requests to 
extend the terms of his mortgages in order that he could then apply for lower interest rates.
I understand Mr Ms strong sense of grievance at the subsequent appointment of LPARs, 
and the events that eventually led to him seeking new finance on what he clearly considers 
as disadvantageous terms. But those events post-date the final response from KR on the 
complaint Mr M referred to us, and which Im determining here. Hed need to raise a fresh 
complaint with KR about what has happened since the final response dated 1 August 2022. 
If he does that and is unhappy with the outcome, hell have the option of referring that 
complaint to this service.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a material effect on 
the outcome. I can see how strongly Mr M feels. He sees error or wrong-doing in almost 
everything the KR has done (or not done). 
Thats a natural, subjective reaction, and entirely understandable. Its also natural to 
emphasise individual statements or comments that appear to support a particular viewpoint, 
whilst at the same time paying less attention to those that support the opposite viewpoint. 
But look hard enough and its possible to find inconsistencies and/or anomalies in what both 
sides have said and done from time to time. 
Be that as it may, I have to take a different approach. Im impartial and I have to look at 
things objectively, sometimes taking a step back from the minutiae, focussing on the broader picture. Thats what Ive done. Having done so, for all the reasons Ive set out, I cant find in 
Mr Ms favour. 
I will however make a further observation. Given the quantum involved, theres a strong 
possibility that this case may go to court, if Mr M ultimately rejects my final decision. And if 
that happens, then subject to any time limits or other restrictions a court might impose, 
Mr Ms recourse to a legal remedy of his own against KR over the subject matter of this 
complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of it. But of course he will need to 
weigh up the likelihood of a successful outcome and the potential costs hell face if not 
successful.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint or make any order or award against 
OneSavings Bank Plc trading as Kent Reliance.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman