DRN-3940246
The complaint
Mr M complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited declined a claim for his dogs 
treatment in May 2022. Theyve said this treatment was linked to treatment she had in 
November 2021, and theyd already paid up to the policy limit for that condition. Mr M 
doesnt accept this and wants them to pay his claim.
What happened
Mr M has insurance for his dog with RSA. The policy provides cover for vets fees up to 
£4,000 in each policy year. But within this amount theres a limit of £1,000 for each accident 
or illness.
In November 2021 Mr Ms dog needed surgery on her left hind leg as she had a luxating 
patella. RSA paid £1,000 towards the vets fees related to her treatment. In May 2022 the 
dog required surgery on her right hind leg. Mr M submitted a claim to RSA which was 
declined. RSA said the dogs luxating right patella was linked to her earlier luxating left 
patella. And the payment theyd made towards the cost of that surgery, meant hed reached 
his policy limit. 
The dogs clinical records indicate that in November 2021 Mr M was concerned about her 
limping on her left hind leg. On examination she was diagnosed with a luxating left patella 
which was causing intermittent lameness. She had surgery on 18 November 2021 but 
problems with lameness in the leg continued. So she required further surgery in January 
2022 to deepen the femoral groove, from which she appears to have made a good recovery. 
When the dog was examined prior to her surgery in January 2022 it was noted that her right 
knee was also luxating and theyd keep an eye on this.
By early March 2022 the dog was noted to have good mobility and Mr M reported that she 
wanted to run around at home again.
The dog was seen by Mr Ms vet for a check up on 14 April 2022 when it was noted again 
that her right patella was also luxating and this needed to be watched. She was seen again 
on 23 May 2022 when she was noted to be very lame on her right hind leg and the patella 
luxation was quite considerable.  
The dog had tibial crest transplantation and femoral groove deepening surgery on her right 
hind leg on 24 May 2022. Mr M submitted a claim for this surgery but it was declined as RSA 
said the surgery on the dogs right hind leg was linked to her earlier surgery on her left hind 
leg, and hes already reached his policy limit.
Mr M didnt agree that the surgeries were linked and raised a complaint. His vet provided a 
letter, dated 1 June 2022, stating that he didnt believe the surgery on the dogs right hind leg 
was linked to the earlier surgery on her left hind leg. As when the problem with the left leg 
was diagnosed, the right patella was fine and had no problems.
On 29 June 2022 Mr Ms vets surgery provided a further letter stating the treating vet 
considered the dogs lameness to be of sudden onset and to be due to a traumatic injury.
Mr M has told us that the dog started limping on and off on her left leg in October 2021 and 
was seen by the vet a couple of weeks later. And in respect of her right leg she had no 
problem until 20 May 2022, when she was chasing a ball and suddenly yelped and was 
clearly in a lot of pain. 
RSA referred the case to their vet who said that in case of patella luxation the knee cap rides 
outside of the femoral groove when the groove is shallow or absent, or theres a deviation of 
the tibial crest to which the patella tendon attaches. He accepts that patella luxation can be 
the result of trauma, but this wasnt the case with Mr Ms dog. He says that she required 
tibial crest transposition to correct developmental patella luxation. This involves moving the 
tibial crest so the tendon doesnt pull the patella out of the groove. The condition can also 
be treated by deepening the groove, as a shallow groove can also lead to patella luxation.
On her left hind leg Mr Ms dog initially had tibial crest transposition but needed further 
surgery to deepen her femoral groove. And she required both these procedures on her right 
hind leg. So his opinion is that the surgery in May 2022 was required due to bilateral patella 
luxation, rather than trauma.
RSA didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. They said theyd paid £1,000 towards the cost of his 
dogs initial surgery on her left leg and had told him at the time that hed reached the limit of 
his cover for this condition. 
They said theyd considered what his vet had said, but he hadnt given any medical 
reasoning to say why the condition in the dogs hind legs werent linked. And theres no 
reference in the dogs clinical history to any traumatic injury. They referred to their vets 
opinion and said that they were satisfied Mr Ms dog had suffered from a bilateral condition 
in her hind limbs, so the claim had been correctly declined. 
Mr M wasnt happy with RSAs response and complained to our service. Our investigator 
considered the case and upheld Mr Ms complaint. He didnt think there was enough medical 
evidence to say the condition in the dogs hind legs were linked. He said the dog had no 
problems with her right hind leg until she pulled up suddenly when chasing a ball in May 
2022. He didnt think the evidence showed she suffered from a bilateral condition. So he said 
RSA should pay Mr Ms claim and £100 for distress and inconvenience he suffered, and the 
time spent trying to resolve his claim. 
Mr M accepted our investigators opinion, but RSA didnt, and they asked our investigator to 
reconsider his opinion. They referred him to their vets opinion that the patellar luxation in 
both the dogs hind legs were linked conditions. 
They also provided some general information about the condition and its causes. This says 
that patellar luxation is a common condition mainly affecting dogs. The age of onset is 
variable, but most animals start to show signs as puppies or young adults. The animals are 
born with normal knees but begin to develop abnormalities of the bones and muscles of the 
hind limbs early in life. So they say patellar luxation is a developmental issue which can 
affect both hind legs. And they say traumatic patellar luxation is rare.
They say the clinical records for Mr Ms dog mention a right luxating patellar on 26 January 
2022 and 14 April 2022. Monitoring is recommended but at that stage there were no clinical 
signs. When she was seen by the vet of 23 May 2022 he noted patellar luxation quite 
considerable now. RSA say this shows a progression of the condition rather than the start of 
a new separate condition. And that this disputes what Mr M has said about the traumatic 
onset of the condition. So they maintain that the dog had a bilateral patella luxation, and the 
same underlying, developmental issue which caused the left patella luxation, caused the 
right patella luxation, so theyre considered the same condition.Our investigator asked Mr M to contact his vet for their comments on the entries in his dogs 
notes about a right luxating patella in January and April 2022. The vet replied saying that the 
dog had a grade 1 luxating patella on her right hind leg, which could be manually displaced, 
but didnt require surgery. Mr M was advised to monitor her in case she went lame. She then 
required surgery on her right hind leg due to a sudden injury, so this wasnt linked to the 
surgery on her left hind leg.
Our investigator considered the further information RSA and Mr Ms vet had provided but 
didnt change his opinion that the dogs luxating right patella wasnt linked to her left luxating 
patella.
Since our investigator provided his further opinion, weve asked Mr M to get his vet to 
comment further on the what RSA and their vet said in response to his opinion.
The vet has said that he doesnt disagree that Mr Ms dog had a congenital issue, bilateral 
luxating patellas. But he says she was coping well and showing no sign of lameness before 
a traumatic injury led to her requiring surgery.
The case then came to me for a decision. I issued my provisional decision on 31 January 
2013. In it I said: - 
Mr Ms policy states Each accident or illness is covered for up to £1,000 of vet treatment, 
there is no limit to the number of accidents or illnesses you can claim for in a period of 
insurance. The relevant period of insurance in this case is from 1 July 2021 to 30 June 
2022, as Mr Ms policy renewed on 1 July 2022. 
RSA paid £1,000 towards the cost of his dogs surgery in October 2021. So if Im going to 
say RSA should pay anything towards the cost of the surgery on the dogs right knee I have 
to be satisfied that the conditions arent linked.
It's clear from the dogs clinical records that her right knee was noted to be luxating in 
January 2022, as theres a note that its to be monitored. Theres a further note about the 
right knee on 14 April 2022, this time saying Keep a watch on this. Then on 23 May the dog 
is seen again. And on this occasion the notes say Yelping out with leg Very lame on RH  
patella luxation quite considerable now. But theres no mention of a traumatic injury.
Mr M has told us that his granddaughter was playing with the dog in the garden, throwing a 
ball for her, when she suddenly pulled up, crying in pain. And the dog was in pain all over the 
weekend until they could take her to the vet on Monday.
When RSA initially declined Mr Ms claim his vet wrote a letter, dated 1 June 2022, saying 
they didnt regard this claim as a continuation of the claim for the dogs left knee, as when 
the luxating left patella was diagnosed the right patella was fine. Theres no mention in that 
letter of a traumatic injury to the right knee.
Theres a further letter from the vets surgery, dated 29 June 2022, saying that in relation to 
both legs, but especially the second leg (the right leg) he believes the lameness was due to 
separate traumatic injuries. No detail is given about the traumatic injuries, and as Ive said 
theres no reference to any trauma in the dogs clinical records. In respect of the left knee 
surgery the dog was initially seen because she was limping on back leg left.
Mr Ms vet has now said that he accepts the dog has a congenital condition, bilateral luxating 
patellas.  But in his letter of 13 January 2023 he says she was coping very well and showed 
no sign of lameness in the second leg before the traumatic injury resulting in her becoming 
10/10 lame, being in intense pain and not being able to use the leg resulting in surgery. Once again the vet refers to a traumatic injury, but doesnt provide any details of this injury.
Even where its accepted that theres a bilateral condition, we need to decide whether the 
claim is for a new condition, which should be covered, or is a continuation of an existing 
condition. If theres clear evidence of a traumatic injury leading to the need for treatment, it 
may not be fair for an insurer to decline a claim.
In this case I think I must give weight to what appears in the dogs clinical records. And 
theres simply no reference to a traumatic injury leading to the need for surgery on the dogs 
right knee in May 2022. I would have expected an injury such as Mr M describes to be 
recorded in the clinical records. And while the vet has provided two letters referring to the 
surgery being required as a result of trauma, he doesnt provide any details of that trauma. 
As Mr Ms vet agrees that the dog has bilateral luxating patellas, in the absence of any 
evidence of a traumatic injury to the right knee, Im persuaded that this surgery required on 
this knee had the same underlying, developmental issue which caused the left patella 
luxation. So theyre linked conditions and I think RSA acted reasonably when they declined 
this claim. And Im not going to ask them to do anything.
So my provisional decision was that I didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Both parties have responded to my provisional decision. RSA have said that they agree Mr 
Ms dog had a bilateral condition, and this has been confirmed by the treating vet. So they 
have nothing further to add.
Mr M has said hes saddened by my provisional decision, but he doesnt intend to contest it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr M is disappointed by my provisional decision, especially as his vet had 
told him that the conditions in his dogs left and right knees werent linked. But his vet has 
now confirmed his dog needed surgery on both her knees, due to bilateral luxating patellas. 
And in the absence of any clear evidence in her clinical records, of trauma causing the 
problem with her right knee, I remain of the view that the conditions are linked.
As both parties have indicated they accept my provisional decision I see no reason to review 
my findings.
So I think RSA acted reasonably when they declined Mr Ms claim in relation to the surgery 
on his dogs right knee, as theyd already paid up to his policy limit for this condition. And I 
wont be asking them to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Patricia O'LearyOmbudsman