DRN-3036180
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as Y, complains about delays in opening a business account 
with HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Ys director, Mr Y, brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
Y was incorporated on 11 May 2020. It applied to HSBC for a business account a few days 
later.
Mr Y chased progress on Ys application over the weeks and months the followed but didnt 
receive a decision or meaningful update. So he raised a complaint. 
When responding in October 2020, HSBC said that Ys application had dropped off the 
system due to a technical error. It apologised for this and said that it would call Mr Y to 
proceed with the application. 
Mr Y referred the matter to us, as he said delays on the banks part had stopped Y from 
trading  because it hadnt been able to complete deals to purchase items which it would 
then sell on at a profit, costing it in the region of £40,000. He also said without the account, Y 
had been unable to apply for a Bounce Back Loan. 
While the complaint was with us, HSBC said that it had contacted Mr Y on 22 October 2020 
to resume the account application but that he no longer wished to proceed with it. And it said 
that on review, it was willing to pay £200 to Y in recognition of any inconvenience caused by 
problems during the account application.
One of our investigators reviewed Ys complaint. In summary, she said that poor service 
from HSBC had caused Y some inconvenience and she thought that £200 was fair 
compensation for this. But she didnt think that Y had suffered a financial loss due to the 
banks errors  noting that Y couldve attempted to open an account elsewhere if it had an 
urgent need. She also explained that Y wasnt eligible for a Bounce Back Loan  so even if it 
had been able to apply to the bank, its request would have been declined anyway.
Mr Y didnt accept our investigators view. He maintained that Y had suffered a loss, albeit 
one of opportunity rather than an actual cost. And he was concerned by HSBCs admission 
that it had lost Ys application. So he asked that an ombudsman review the complaint, and it 
was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached largely the same conclusion as our investigator and for largely 
similar reasons. Ill explain why. 
HSBC has already accepted that it made an error in how it handled Ys application. I can see 
that the application was made on 14 May but, while some initial checks were completed, it 
wasnt properly progressed before ultimately dropping off the banks system. And it was only 
when Mr Y complained that HSBC realised its error  and so it was late October before the 
bank took any steps to get things back on track.
By the time HSBC got in touch to restart the application, Mr Y no longer wished to proceed 
and I understand he opened a new account for Y elsewhere. But he says that HSBCs errors 
delayed Y getting an account, which in turn meant it couldnt trade. Ive thought about what 
hes said and provided to us on this point, but I dont think it would be fair to hold HSBC 
responsible for the losses that hes claimed. 
Based on the evidence that Mr Y has provided, Ive not seen that Y wouldve carried out the 
trading or received the level of profit that he suggests. The information hes provided is fairly 
preliminary in its nature  it doesnt show that any formal agreements were in place with 
prospective buyers or sellers, or that the only reason things couldnt proceed was because Y 
didnt have a bank account. So I cant see that the company wouldve received the income 
Mr Y suggests, had it been able to open an account any earlier. 
Mr Y says this is because he is claiming an opportunity cost rather than any actual losses  
but hed still need to evidence the claim, by showing that the company would have received 
the amounts claimed were it not for the banks errors. And hes not done that. In any case, I 
cant see that Y suffered an opportunity cost, which is typically defined as the loss incurred 
by doing one thing over another. Rather there is an argument that Y lost an opportunity  on 
the basis that it was unable to trade because it didnt have a bank account, which Mr Y says 
was due to HSBCs errors.
Most significantly, I dont think it is fair to say that it was solely down to HSBC that Y didnt 
have an account for the period in question. Y could also have obtained one elsewhere. It 
went on to do this, but not until late October at the earliest. I think its reasonable to suggest 
that if it needed the account urgently in order to start trading and benefit from the lucrative 
deals that Mr Y has described, it ought reasonably to have taken steps to open an account 
elsewhere much sooner. Had it done so, it wouldnt have missed out in the way Mr Y says it 
did.
While I can understand why Y wouldve assumed the application to have been under 
consideration until it was told otherwise, it was still free to apply elsewhere (and to as many 
providers as it wished) in order to obtain an account to facilitate its trading. And although Y 
might reasonably have waited a week or two without concern, I dont think it was reasonable 
to wait five months without taking any steps to mitigate its losses.
With regard to Ys initial intention to obtain a Bounce Back Loan from HSBC, I cant see that 
the account application impacted this. While it couldnt apply for a loan until it had an 
account, Y didnt meet the eligibility criteria for one of these loans by virtue of being 
established after 1 March 2020. So Y wasnt going to be able to obtain a loan from HSBC or 
elsewhere, regardless of how the bank dealt with its account application.
I can, though, see that Y was inconvenienced by the poor service it received from HSBC. As 
it didnt receive an answer or hear from the bank with any updates, Mr Y followed up with the 
bank on a number of occasions. And ultimately Y had to reapply elsewhere  with the initial 
application to HSBC having come to nothing. All of this put Mr Y and therefore his company 
to some avoidable trouble. HSBC has already acknowledged this and offered to pay Y £200, 
which I think is fair compensation in the circumstances and in line with what I would 
otherwise have awarded. Ive taken into account all of Mr Ys comments, including his concern that HSBC lost his 
application and, potentially therefore, personal and sensitive information. But there is nothing 
to suggest that the bank misplaced any of Ys information. The application in question was 
digital and the bank has said it dropped off the system  in other words, it was deleted 
altogether following a period of inaction.
So while Im sorry to disappoint Mr Y as I appreciate his strength of feeling over this matter, 
Im not requiring HSBC to do anything more than pay the compensation its already offered.
 
My final decision
HSBC UK Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay £200 to Y in settlement of the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc must pay Y £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman