DRN-3327677
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that HDI Global Specialty SE treated them unfairly by voiding their 
home insurance policy after they made a subsidence claim, and by declining to renew the 
policy despite overturning its voidance decision. They say this has led to increased 
insurance costs.
What happened
In April 2020, Mr and Mrs D made a claim for damage to their detached garage. HDIs loss 
adjuster concluded the damage was subsidence, and the cause was nearby trees on the 
neighbouring commercial property.
In August 2020, HDI declined to renew the policy on the basis there was already subsidence 
damage to the garage before the policy was taken out, and because there was a holiday 
rental in the boundaries of the risk address. 
Mr and Mrs D obtained a policy with a different insurer, but with subsidence cover excluded. 
They then obtained a policy from another insurer, including subsidence cover, but with the 
garage excluded. This further policy was obtained after they paid £600 for a survey, to 
demonstrate their house wasnt suffering from subsidence. The policy is also more 
expensive than their HDI policy, and it has a higher subsidence claim excess.
In October 2020, HDI concluded Mr and Mrs D had made a misrepresentation when taking 
the policy out. HDI said it was told the property hadnt previously suffered from subsidence, 
and had it been informed of the previous subsidence, it wouldnt have offered cover. So, 
HDI voided the policy and declined the subsidence claim.
Mr and Mrs D disagreed they had made a misrepresentation. They said when the policy was
purchased, they were asked if the house had suffered from subsidence, not the property, 
so they were correct in answering no. Mr and Mrs D also provided evidence from the 
comparison website which had asked the questions. 
HDI agreed a misrepresentation hadnt been made, and it overturned its decision to void the 
policy and decline the subsidence claim. It also offered £250 compensation for the upset 
caused. 
However, HDI still declined to offer renewal terms. HDI noted that the holiday rental can only 
be accessed via Mr and Mrs Ds driveway. It said even though it reinstated the policy, the 
risk of the holiday rental remains; and this risk isnt within its acceptable criteria for home 
insurance cover. So, HDI said it cant offer renewal terms. Because Mr and Mrs D were 
unhappy with the renewal decision, they contacted our service.
Although HDI overturned its decision to decline the claim, the claim hasnt since progressed. 
This is because Mr and Mrs D are pursuing the third-party responsible for the trees, in the 
hope their garage repair costs will be covered by that third-party.
One of our investigators has considered the complaint. He didnt think HDI needed to offer 
renewal. However, he thought the misrepresentation concerns should have been handled 
better, and he noted a few other service issues. He recommended HDI pay £450 
compensation, in total.
HDI accepted our investigators assessment. But because Mr and Mrs D disagreed, their 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision, explaining that I intend to reach a different outcome to our 
investigator. In my provisional decision, I set out the following:
- The Association of British Insurers (ABI) has published guidance on the continuation 
of cover for domestic properties following a subsidence claim. The guidance says 
the insurer should normally continue to provide cover where the repair has been 
carried out under its direction, or with its approval.
- Whilst Mr and Mrs D had, in the first instance, chosen not to pursue a claim under 
their HDI policy, I was persuaded they were acting with HDIs approval and in its 
interests, by attempting to pursue the third-party first. I hadnt seen they had 
withdrawn their claim. But rather, HDI had agreed to keep its file open.
- I also hadnt seen HDI had made Mr and Mrs D aware that by choosing to pursue the 
third-party in the first instance, rather than a claim under their home insurance policy, 
they would lose the benefit of the ABI guidance in terms of continuation of cover. As 
per the guidance, HDI should have communicated its intentions as early as possible. 
Not doing so, meant Mr and Mrs D were unable to make an informed choice about 
which avenue to pursue first.
- So, I concluded that I saw no fair reason why the ABI guidance wouldnt apply, in 
respect of HDI needing to continue cover.
- I also wasnt persuaded the holiday rental access presented a change of risk thats 
so fundamental, it warrants refusal of cover despite HDIs obligations under the 
ABI guidance. 
- I accepted that, as per HDIs underwriting criteria, it doesnt offer cover for properties 
used for business purposes. However, Mr and Mrs Ds residential property isnt used 
for business use, but rather, the holiday rental simply has a right of access via the 
shared driveway. I understood the holiday rental to have its own title deeds and 
address, and its own insurance. I didnt consider the shared driveway to be a 
particularly unusual circumstance.
- The holiday rental existed when the policy was first taken out, so there hadnt been a 
change of risk. I accepted HDI only discovered the holiday rental after the claim was 
made, but I noted Mr and Mrs D had accurately answered the questions they were 
asked when taking their policy out.
- HDI says it cant offer cover due to the risk of holiday rental guests being involved in 
an accident on the residential property. I considered it likely that HDI could negate 
the risk of such claims being made against it, by placing an endorsement on the 
policy excluding such incidents from being covered.- HDI had, initially, relied on the pre-existing subsidence damage to the garage when 
declining to offer renewal. However, having accepted Mr and Mrs D hadnt made a 
misrepresentation about the damage when taking their policy out, as per the ABI 
agreement for handling claims involving pre-existing subsidence damage, HDI is 
responsible for covering the damage. Furthermore, declining renewal due to a 
subsidence claim its responsible for, is contrary to the ABIs guidance on the 
continuation of cover following a subsidence claim.
- I said, to put matters right, I intend to decide HDI should offer Mr and Mrs D a like-for-
like policy based on their previous HDI policy (but it can apply a policy endorsement 
relating to holiday rental guests, if it considers it appropriate). I also said the policy 
should be priced based on Mr and Mrs D being existing policyholders, rather than 
new customers with a subsidence history. 
- I set out that Mr and Mrs D had incurred the following costs for alternative insurance 
since 1 September 2020, totalling £1,883.83: 
- £668.50 for the initial policy which excluded subsidence cover, less a refund 
of £493.48 after a policy covering subsidence was obtained. So, £175.02.
- £1,108.81 for the second policy, which included subsidence cover for the 
house (but not the detached garage).
- £600 for a survey, to enable them to obtain subsidence cover for their house.
- I said HDI would need to reimburse Mr and Mrs D the difference between the price of 
their new HDI policy and £1,883.83. Plus, 8% simple interest per annum on this 
amount, from 1 September 2020 (for ease) to the date of settlement.
- I noted Mr and Mrs Ds existing policy would likely renew by the time this matter was 
concluded with our service. Therefore, I said HDI should also reimburse the amount 
they pay to renew their current policy (less any refunded premiums they receive 
when its cancelled).
- I explained, if Mr and Mrs D are successful in their negotiations with the third-party, 
they will need HDIs approval of the proposed repairs, so cover can be maintained. 
Equally, if those negotiations arent successful, they can revert to HDI, so it can 
continue considering the claim under their home insurance policy.
- I also said, if HDI would prefer to investigate the damage and take responsibility for 
the repairs itself, so it can have confidence in the repairs and control over the time 
taken, then it needs to let Mr and Mrs D know so they can stop pursuing the third-
party and continue their claim.
- I acknowledged the loss adjusters initial report contained several inaccuracies, and 
confusion was caused when HDI incorrectly thought some information had come 
from Mr and Mrs D. I accepted these matters had caused inconvenience and a 
degree of upset. 
- I was satisfied that HDIs misrepresentation concerns werent handled as well as they 
should have been. I said HDI had unfairly placed the emphasis on Mr and Mrs D to 
demonstrate what questions they had been asked; and HDI wrongly assumed 
different questions had been asked to Mr and Mrs Ds detriment. - As explained throughout my provisional findings, I didnt consider HDI had treated 
Mr and Mrs D fairly in respect of the renewal; and they were left with little time to 
source alternative cover. 
- I explained that, in view of the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs D, 
I intend to award them £500 compensation. If HDIs original £250 offer had already 
been paid, a further £250 would be due.
Mr and Mrs D accepted my provisional decision, but HDI set out points in response. Ive also 
since had various exchanges with both parties, to gather the information I require to finalise 
my decision. I wont repeat all that information here, but I will address the points I consider 
relevant in my below findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is inconclusive, incomplete or contradictory, Ive reached my decision on 
the balance of probabilities. This means Ive determined what I consider is more likely to 
have happened, based on all the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Ill set out my findings under the following six headings: the ABI guidance and the cause of 
damage; the ABI guidance and withdrawal of the claim; the ABI guidance and unusual 
circumstances; a new HDI policy; putting the renewal right; and compensation.
The ABI guidance and the cause of damage
HDI says Mr and Mrs D were of the view the damage had been caused directly by tree roots, 
rather than the roots of nearby trees causing subsidence. HDI also says Mr and Mrs D paid 
£600 for a survey which showed there wasnt any subsidence. Therefore, HDI doesnt 
consider the ABI guidance, for continuing cover after a subsidence claim, applies.
HDI also says it told Mr and Mrs D the damage would only be covered if it had been caused 
by subsidence, and the appropriate investigations would need to be undertaken. HDI says 
Mr and Mrs D initially agreed to its loss adjuster continuing the investigations, but in 
March 2021, they decided not to proceed with the claim as the third-party had now 
accepted liability. 
I accept the ABI guidance only applies when theres been a subsidence claim. I also accept 
Mr D raised the possibility of tree roots directly damaging the garage, rather than tree roots 
causing subsidence. However, Ive not seen anything that shows the damage was caused 
directly by tree roots. As I understand it, this was simply an alternative theory offered by 
Mr D, that wasnt based on any technical investigations or expertise.
In terms of Mr Ds £600 survey, the report concludes the damage to the detached garage is 
indicative of subsidence. The report only concludes theres no such damage to the house. 
The purpose of the survey was so Mr and Mrs D could obtain subsidence cover for their 
house (but not their detached garage). So, HDI is wrong to rely on Mr Ds report as 
evidence the garage damage wasnt caused by subsidence.Whilst HDI says it hasnt been able to confirm the cause of the damage, its loss adjusters 
May 2020 report concludes the damage is subsidence. Theres no suggestion that further 
investigations are needed to confirm subsidence. Its only noted that investigations are 
needed to demonstrate the third-partys trees are responsible. 
An arborist was subsequently appointed. Ive only seen one page from the arborists report. 
However, the page Ive seen concludes the damage is consistent with, and related to, clay 
shrinkage subsidence. The report points towards the nearby trees as the cause.
So, although I accept the claim was put on hold in March 2021 after the third-party accepted 
liability, based on the information Ive seen, HDI had by that point, already satisfied itself the 
cause of the damage was subsidence. I dont consider HDI is now being fair or reasonable 
by relying on Mr Ds suggested and unsupported alternative theory.
Mr and Mrs D have also provided a structural report commissioned by the third-partys loss 
adjuster. Whilst the report explains the cause of the damage cant be confirmed by a visual 
inspection alone, it concludes the garage displays evidence of localised subsidence which 
has likely been caused by the nearby trees.
In view of the consistent conclusions in four reports, on balance, Im persuaded the cause of 
the damage is subsidence and the ABI guidance applies.
The ABI guidance and withdrawal of the claim
HDI also says the ABI guidance doesnt apply, as it hasnt dealt with the claim. However, as 
explained in my provisional decision, Im not persuaded the claim was withdrawn, but rather, 
Mr and Mrs D were acting with HDIs approval. As per the ABI guidance, the guidance 
applies when repairs are completed with the insurers approval. 
HDI says it isnt entirely accurate that Mr and Mrs D are acting with its approval. HDI says it 
was Mr and Mrs Ds choice to pursue the third-party, and it wasnt for HDI to persuade them 
otherwise. I accept it was Mr and Mrs Ds choice to pursue the third-party. I also agree HDI 
didnt need to try to persuade them to proceed with the claim instead. But nonetheless, the 
decision to pursue the third-party was in HDIs interests, and it agreed to keep the claim 
open in the meantime.
As noted in my provisional decision, HDI are free to proceed with the claim if thats whats 
required to maintain Mr and Mrs Ds cover. That is still an option as repairs are yet to be 
undertaken. Mr D has maintained throughout that HDI can take responsibility for the 
investigations and repairs if it prefers.
In view of those circumstances, I remain persuaded Mr and Mrs D were, and are, acting with 
HDIs approval.
I also remain of the view that, if it was HDIs intention to deny Mr and Mrs D the benefit of the 
ABI guidance, due to them pursuing the third-party rather than their claim, then HDI ought 
reasonably to have put Mr and Mrs D on notice. If they had been put on notice, they may 
well have chosen to pursue the claim instead, at HDIs cost.
HDI has made the argument that it wasnt responsible for discussing the ABI guidance with 
Mr and Mrs D. HDI says that any underwriting matters would need to have been discussed 
between Mr and Mrs D and their broker. I dont agree with what HDI says here. Whilst the 
policy was taken out via a broker, the decision about continuing cover was HDIs 
responsibility. The ABI guidance applies to the insurer, not the broker. So, having carefully considered the circumstances and arguments presented, I remain of the 
view the ABI guidance ought reasonably to apply, irrespective of whether its the third-party 
or HDI that takes responsibility for the repairs.
The ABI guidance and unusual circumstances
The ABI guidance explains that, due to unusual circumstances, there will be times when an 
insurer cant continue cover. HDI maintains the holiday rental is an unusual circumstance.
The purpose of the ABI guidance is to ensure a policyholder can continue to obtain cover in 
the event of a subsidence claim and at a price that isnt prohibitive. The guidance explains 
that whilst an insurer cannot guarantee to maintain cover in all circumstances, its good 
practice for the insurer to work with the policyholder, to identify action to manage any 
ongoing risks and maintain cover, wherever possible. Therefore, in my view, HDI is 
obligated to act fairly by taking reasonable steps to maintain cover.
HDI has questioned whether Mr and Mrs Ds holiday rental is insured on the correct basis. It 
also says the boundaries are ill-defined and it has concerns it would remain responsible for 
any claims that result from incidents on the driveway. HDI also says on-line reviews for the 
holiday rental confirm Mr and Mrs D allow guests to use their garden. HDI says this isnt a 
risk that would be covered by the holiday rentals own insurance policy. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, I dont find a shared driveway to be a particularly 
unusual circumstance. But, if, as HDI says, the holiday rental is within the boundary of the 
residential property, I accept that presents an unusual circumstance. I also find that HDIs 
point about holiday rental guests using the residential garden has some merit.
However, for me to decide HDI can fairly decline to offer renewal due to the holiday rental, 
I would need to be persuaded a policy endorsement doesnt sufficiently negate the risk, or 
that HDI cant work with Mr and Mrs D to manage the risk (for example, by them stopping 
access to their garden). I consider such steps to be reasonable and in the spirit of the 
ABI guidance. I havent been persuaded HDI cant take such steps to maintain cover.
As explained to HDI in our exchanges after my provisional decision, it hadnt said anything 
that leads me to believe an endorsement isnt a reasonable workaround. I then went on to 
provide the holiday rentals insurance documents to HDI and invited its further comments 
about whether an endorsement can be applied to the residential policy, which sufficiently 
negates the risk posed by holiday rental guests. However, HDI didnt provide any further 
submissions about why an endorsement wasnt a workable solution. Instead, it asked 
Mr and Mrs D to complete a proposal form, so it could consider a new policy.
During our exchanges, HDI said it was in Mr and Mrs Ds interests to obtain a policy that fully 
covers their needs and doesnt restrict cover. Although I accepted the point HDI was making, 
I explained its for Mr and Mrs D to decide whether they prefer an appropriately priced policy 
that maintains subsidence cover for their home and garage, but with restrictions in terms of 
incidents involving holiday rental guests; or a higher priced policy with a different insurer, 
which excludes subsidence cover for their garage.
In conclusion, Ive not been told anything that persuades me the risks posed by the holiday 
rental cant be managed by HDI and cover maintained.A new HDI policy
In my provisional decision, I said I intend to decide HDI should offer Mr and Mrs D a like-for-
like policy based on their previous HDI policy (subject to a policy endorsement in respect of 
holiday rental guests).
HDI said, due to the claim, Mr and Mrs Ds broker wouldnt have been able to offer renewal 
terms. HDI said Mr and Mrs D would have had to approach another intermediary, and HDI 
would have considered terms manually on its open market product, subject to receipt and 
acceptance of a proposal form. So, HDI asked Mr and Mrs D to complete a proposal form. 
HDI noted the previous policy (via the broker) had high sums insured as standard, which 
wouldnt apply on a manual policy.
Mr and Mrs D highlighted that the maximum buildings and contents sums insured on HDIs 
proposal form were lower than their previous HDI policy, and insufficient for their needs. In 
response, HDI said it can only offer a quote on its open market product, and if the level of 
cover isnt sufficient, it cant provide a policy. HDI said there wasnt a workaround for this.
I dont find HDIs response satisfactory. Essentially, HDI is saying that if a policy is taken out 
via the broker in question and a subsidence claim is made, HDI can only fulfil its obligations 
under the ABI guidance, if that policyholder requires a level of cover below what they 
previously had. 
Nonetheless, theres a need for me to bring this matter to a close, and theres little value in 
me making a direction which HDI cant fulfil. Therefore, Ive set out two options for putting 
the renewal right, under the below heading.
Putting the renewal right
As set out in my provisional decision, Mr and Mrs D incurred £1,883.83 costs for their first 
year of alternative cover after their HDI policy wasnt renewed. They have also confirmed 
that their current policy renewed in October 2021 for £1,219.69.
Mr and Mrs D have also provided information from their current insurer which explains that, 
once the repairs have been finished and the garage has been monitored for 6-12 months, 
the insurer will consider including subsidence cover for the garage. It noted a structural 
engineer would first need to confirm that the repairs have been effective.
Ill now set out the redress options available to HDI, should Mr and Mrs D accept my final 
decision.
Option one:
If, on reflection, HDI can provide Mr and Mrs D with a like-for-like policy based on their 
previous HDI policy, then it can follow option one.
HDI will need to:
A. provide Mr and Mrs D with a like-for-like policy based on their previous HDI policy 
and sums insured (although it can apply a policy endorsement relating to holiday 
rental guests)  Mr and Mrs D wont need to pay the premium for the first year;
B. price the new policy based on Mr and Mrs D being existing policyholders, rather than 
new customers with a subsidence history;C. reimburse Mr and Mrs D the difference between the price of their new HDI policy and 
the costs they incurred for the first year of alternative cover (£1,883.83);
D. reimburse Mr and Mrs D the difference between the price of their new HDI policy and 
the costs they incurred for the second year of alternative cover (£1,219.69 less any 
refund they receive after the cancellation);
E. pay 8% simple interest per annum on C, which for ease, should be calculated from 
1 September 2020 to the date of settlement; and
F. pay 8% simple interest per annum on D, from 16 October 2021 (the renewal date) to 
the date of settlement.
Option two:
If HDI maintains it cant provide Mr and Mrs D with a like-for-like policy, with the appropriate 
sums insured, then it can follow option two.
The intention of this redress option is to compensate Mr and Mrs D for their likely increased 
insurance costs, for a fair and reasonable period. I consider such period to be a further two 
years, so four years in total, which would cover costs until October 2024. In my view, this 
provides a reasonable period of time for the repairs to be completed, monitoring to be 
undertaken (so the garage can be covered), and cheaper insurance to be sourced.
As explained by Mr and Mrs Ds current insurer, a structural engineers report will be needed 
before subsidence cover can be provided for the garage. So, given the previous survey cost 
for the house, I also consider it fair to include a further £600 to cover the likely cost of 
obtaining a report for the garage following the repairs. 
This option is based on HDI not being able to provide a new policy. Therefore, the redress 
calculation will need to be based on the cost of the previous HDI policy, i.e. £137.18. 
HDI will need to:
A. reimburse Mr and Mrs D the difference between the price of their previous HDI policy 
(£137.18) and the costs they incurred for the first year of alternative cover 
(£1,883.83), i.e. £1,746.65;
B. reimburse Mr and Mrs D the difference between the price of their previous HDI policy 
(£137.18) and the costs they incurred for the second year of alternative cover 
(£1,219.69), i.e. £1,082.51;
C. pay 8% simple interest per annum on A, which for ease, should be calculated from 
1 September 2020 to the date of settlement;
D. pay 8% simple interest per annum on B, from 16 October 2021 (the renewal date) to 
the date of settlement;
E. pay Mr and Mrs D the difference between the price of their previous HDI policy 
(£137.18) and the price of their current policy (£1,219.69), for year three, i.e. 
£1,082.51;F. pay Mr and Mrs D the difference between the price of their previous HDI policy 
(£137.18) and the price of their current policy (£1,219.69), for year four, i.e. 
£1,082.51;
G. pay Mr and Mrs D £600, for their likely further survey costs, in order to obtain 
subsidence cover for their garage.
Ill now address the arguments HDI made in response to my provisional decision, about 
Mr and Mrs Ds increased insurance costs, survey cost, and the need for it to approve 
repairs.
HDI says if Mr and Mrs D had closed their claim as it had suggested, their premium on other 
policies wouldnt have been affected by the possible subsidence claim. So, HDI says its not 
responsible for Mr and Mrs Ds increased insurance costs. However, their current insurer 
has confirmed there hasnt been a premium loading due to the claim. Therefore, Im not 
persuaded the claim being open was the main reason for the higher insurance costs. 
I accept that its possible Mr and Mrs D could have found cheaper insurance with a different 
provider if the claim had been closed as withdrawn. But, on balance, I consider it likely they 
would have still been required to disclose the claim and the subsidence damage, which in 
turn, would have likely affected the cover and/or price offered. So, Im not persuaded that 
withdrawing the claim would have necessarily led to cheaper insurance.
In any event, the claim was left open in agreement with HDI. So, I dont consider its 
argument here to be reasonable.
HDI also says it isnt responsible for Mr and Mrs Ds decision to buy alternative insurance at 
a high price. However, Mr and Mrs D couldnt reasonably have left their house uninsured or 
without subsidence cover. Furthermore, I consider it more likely than not, that they tried to 
find the best price available to them. I say this because, at that time, they wouldnt have 
known HDI would be held responsible for their increased costs. 
HDI also says that it was Mr and Mrs Ds decision to commission a survey to show their new 
insurer their house was free from subsidence, and it isnt responsible for the cost of a survey 
requested by another insurer. I dont agree with HDIs position. The survey was required to 
obtain subsidence cover for the house. Given the subsidence to the detached garage, its 
not unreasonable that a new insurer asked for this information. The survey cost wouldnt 
have been incurred had HDI renewed its policy.
In my provisional decision, I explained if Mr and Mrs D are successful in their negotiations 
with the third-party, they will need HDIs approval of the proposed repairs so cover can be 
maintained. HDI argues it isnt necessary for it to approve the repairs and it cant become 
involved. If the complaint is settled via option one, it will be for HDI to decide the level of 
involvement it needs in the repairs. If HDI doesnt find it necessary for it to approve the 
repairs as a condition of providing continued cover, then so be it.
It follows that if Mr and Mrs Ds negotiations with the third-party arent successful, or if the 
complaint is settled via option one and HDI doesnt consider the proposed repairs to be 
sufficient, then it will be for HDI to continue considering the claim.Compensation
In response to my comments about how HDI had handled its misrepresentation concerns, it 
noted the information it had, showed that when the policy was taken out, the question being 
asked was about the property. HDI says it was later provided with information that showed 
the question currently being asked was about the house. As such, HDI says it gave 
Mr and Mrs D the benefit of the doubt. I accept what HDI says here. 
However, given HDI accepted Mr and Mrs D hadnt made a misrepresentation (even if that 
was on a benefit of the doubt basis), my conclusion about HDI not treating them fairly, in 
respect of the renewal, remains the same. Bearing in mind the upset and inconvenience 
caused by HDIs decision to not offer renewal, overall, I remain of the view that £500 
compensation is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint. 
My final decision is HDI Global Specialty SE should:
- put the declined renewal right, by following redress option one (A to F) or redress 
option two (A to G)  as set out above under putting the renewal right; and
- pay Mr and Mrs D £500 compensation, in total (if £250 has already been paid, a 
further £250 is due).
If HDI considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from any 
interest paid, it should tell Mr and Mrs D how much its taken off. If requested, HDI should 
also provide Mr and Mrs D with a certificate showing the amount deducted, so they can 
reclaim it from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman