DRN-2539337
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Bank of Scotland plc didnt treat them fairly when they wanted to 
port their mortgage and take out additional borrowing. They ask that it refunds their early 
repayment charge (ERC).
Mr and Mrs G originally took out a mortgage with a different lender. This lender transferred 
its mortgage portfolio to Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax). Under the terms of the 
transfer, Halifax is now responsible for responding to Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G took out their mortgage in 2015. They had a fixed interest rate product with an 
ERC which applied if they repaid the mortgage before mid-2020. In early 2019 they 
contacted their lender to ask about porting their mortgage to a new property and taking out 
additional borrowing. 
In late August 2019 Mr and Mrs G contacted their lender as theyd found a property to buy. 
They found out their lender intended to transfer its mortgage portfolio to another lender but 
couldnt at that point say who the new lender would be. They say their lender had reduced its 
service in anticipation of the transfer. Mr and Mrs G say it could only offer a limited range of 
products, and couldnt offer an appointment with a mortgage adviser within a reasonable 
time.
Mr and Mrs G had accepted an offer for their house and found a property to buy. Concerned 
about timing, they decided to apply elsewhere. Mr and Mrs G say theyd have stayed with 
their lender if theyd been able to, and its not fair that it charged them an ERC and other 
fees when they had to go elsewhere.
Our investigator said the lender told Mr and Mrs G at the outset theyd need an appointment 
with a mortgage adviser to make an application to port and take out additional borrowing. 
She said the lender offered Mr and Mrs G the first available appointment with a mortgage 
adviser: they could have attended and assessed what it could offer. 
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree. They said the investigator hadnt addressed how the lender 
offered a much slower service than theyd experienced when they took out the mortgage, 
and whether this was a deliberate tactic or poor business practice. This had forced them to 
go elsewhere. If it had told them in advance its service would be slower, theyd have booked 
an appointment with an adviser while they were house hunting.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr and Mrs G took out their mortgage, they agreed to the mortgage terms and 
conditions. This included agreeing to pay the ERC if they repaid the mortgage before mid-
2020. The ERC is clearly set out in the mortgage offer. Mr and Mrs G repaid their mortgage 
in November 2019 and their lender was entitled, under the terms set out in the mortgage 
offer, to apply the ERC. 
There could be circumstances in which Id find it fair to require a lender to waive or refund an 
ERC. Thats not the case here. Ive explained why below.
Did the lender cause unreasonable delays?
Mrs G contacted their lender on 27 August 2019. Halifax provided a recording of this call. 
Mrs G said theyd accepted an offer for their property three weeks earlier, and had just found 
a property to buy. The lender told Mr and Mrs G theyd need an appointment with a 
mortgage adviser. Mrs G asked for an evening or weekend appointment. The lender said 
this would be a couple of weeks, or she could put them on a cancellation list. 
The first available appointment with a mortgage adviser outside normal working hours was 
on 9 September. This was nearly two weeks away. While Mr and Mrs G wanted an 
appointment sooner than this, I dont think this was unreasonable. An evening appointment 
became available on 5 September, but by then Mr and Mrs G had decided to apply 
elsewhere.
Its not my role here to compare the speed of service offered by different lenders. Nor do I 
think the outcome here depends on whether the lender had previously provided a faster 
service to Mr and Mrs G. 
What I need to consider is whether Mr and Mrs G were treated fairly, and if the timescales 
were reasonable. I think they were. I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Halifax to 
refund the ERC due to the first available evening appointment being nearly two weeks away, 
or because Mr and Mrs G were able to get an appointment with a different lender sooner.
Were Mr and Mrs G misled about the process?
Ive listened to recordings of phone calls provided by Halifax. Mrs G called in January 2019 
to ask about porting and taking out additional borrowing. She was told theyd need an 
appointment with a mortgage adviser to see how much they could borrow. Mrs G asked if 
appointments were available on Saturdays. The lender said they were, as well as in the 
evenings, and they should allow a couple of weeks to book an appointment once they were 
ready to go ahead. 
Mrs G asked for further information about the ERC in May 2019. She said they were 
weighing up whether to wait until the product ended before moving, or to port or pay the 
ERC. 
While Mr and Mrs G say they were given a decision in principle in February or March 2019, 
theres no evidence to support this. It wouldnt change the outcome if they had been. They 
would still need to attend an appointment with a mortgage adviser and make an application 
for porting and additional borrowing. 
I think Mr and Mrs G were made aware from the outset that theyd need to book an 
appointment with a mortgage adviser. I dont think they were misled about the timescale for 
this  in the call in January 2019 Mrs G was told she should allow a couple of weeks.
Does the transfer of the mortgage portfolio change the outcome?
Mr and Mrs G say the lenders service and product range were adversely affected by the 
proposed transfer. However, I dont think the offer of an appointment with the mortgage adviser in just under two weeks was unreasonable. And this was consistent with what Mrs G 
was told in January 2019.
Mr and Mrs G were disappointed with the range of mortgage products they saw online. They 
sent a screen shot to support their complaint. In its final response letter, the lender said 
these products were intended for existing customers whose products were about to expire 
and were looking to switch. Ive also looked at the screen shot and I agree that these were 
products for customers wanting to switch products. 
I dont know if the lender could have offered a product Mr and Mrs G preferred to the product 
they took out with their new lender. But if theyd attended the appointment with the mortgage 
adviser, theyd have been told about the products available for the additional borrowing. I 
appreciate Mr and Mrs G already had a mortgage offer, but this wouldnt have stopped them 
attending the appointment, after which they could have decided how to proceed.
Mr and Mrs G were surprised to find out in August 2019 their lender was transferring its 
mortgage portfolio. I sympathise with Mr and Mrs G here. Its clear from the call recording 
Mrs G was uncomfortable with not knowing who would take over the mortgage. 
Unfortunately, at this point, the lender didnt have any information to give her. 
The mortgage terms allowed the lender to transfer the mortgage. So while I can understand 
Mr and Mrs G were uncomfortable about this, I dont think it made an error. The lender told 
Mr and Mrs G that, as existing customers, their porting and additional borrowing applications 
werent affected by the proposed transfer, and their product terms would continue to apply 
after the transfer. I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Halifax to refund the ERC 
because of the proposed transfer of the mortgage portfolio. 
What happens now?
I think the information given to Mr and Mrs G was correct. They were told theyd need to 
attend an appointment with a mortgage adviser, to make a porting application and apply for 
additional borrowing. They were told the mortgage adviser would tell them what products 
were available. They were told that, as existing customers, they werent affected by the 
proposed transfer. 
Mr and Mrs G applied to another lender, as they were entitled to do. This meant paying an 
ERC and I understand theyd have preferred to avoid this. But I dont think its fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances to require Halifax to refund the ERC or other fees. 
Mr and Mrs G also complain about the way their complaint was dealt with. As complaint 
handling isnt a regulated activity I cant look into this here. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman