DRN-3092713
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy about how The Prudential Assurance Company Limited dealt with the 
maturity of her endowment policy. Specifically, that Prudential didnt release the funds to her 
at maturity and the process (including the time it took) she had to go through thereafter for 
that to eventually happen.
What happened
In 1993 Mrs S and her ex-husband took out a joint mortgage endowment policy as the 
repayment vehicle for their mortgage. The policy had a term of 25 years and was due to 
mature in August 2018. The policy was not assigned to the lender.
In 2002 Mrs S divorced and the court ordered that her ex-husband should assign the 
benefits of the Prudential endowment policy to her. This assignment was not completed and 
so the policy remained jointly owned. 
The policy matured in December 2018. Prudential confirmed shortly before this that the 
maturity proceeds would be paid in the form of a cheque in the name of both policyholders. 
Mrs S called Prudential and explained that her divorce had completed in 2002, shed had no 
contact with her ex-husband since and wouldnt know how to trace him. She said she would 
send Prudential a copy of the relevant paperwork. Prudential confirmed that it would need 
confirmation from her ex-husband in order to pay the maturity proceeds to her. 
Mrs S sent Prudential a copy of the court judgement saying that the policy should be 
assigned to her, but Prudential wasnt willing to pay the policy proceeds out to her off the 
back of it. That was because the assignment the court order said had to be made, hadnt 
been. This meant that the policy remained jointly owned. 
Mrs S and her solicitors started the process to get the assignment needed to pay the 
maturity proceeds to her. It involved the courts and it appears that Mrs S had to initially 
attempt to gain an assignment from her ex-husband. As Mrs S didnt have an address for 
him, the legal documents (following gaining permission for it from the courts) were sent via 
Prudential, which had traced an address for him. 
Mrs S has told us that this resulted in her ex-husband visiting her home. He refused to 
co-operate and the matter had to go back to court. The court issued a general order that 
allowed a judge to sign the assignment on behalf of Mrs S ex-husband. Mrs S has told us 
that this required her and her carer taking time off work to attend the court hearing. Also, 
throughout this period, Mrs S had been required to continue making interest payments to her 
mortgage.
In August 2020 the deed of assignment was signed by a District Judge. However, it hadnt 
been completed before it was signed  so when Mrs S forwarded it to Prudential, it didnt 
document who it was assigning the policy to who. Nor was there anything contained in it that 
evidenced it had been through the court, such as a court stamp. A General Order was also 
issued by the court and provided to Prudential. This order allowed that a judge could sign the 
deed of assignment, but didnt confirm that it had been or which judge would be signing it. 
Prudential told Mrs S that it couldnt accept the deed as it didnt state an assignor/assignee 
and hadnt been dated. A new deed of assignment was enclosed for her use. Prudential also 
told Mrs S that it would require a covering letter from the court/judge involved that would be 
signing the deed. Prudential explained that it needed to verify who the judge was and that it 
was the judge that had completed the deed of assignment. 
Mrs S then filled in the blank sections of the deed that had already been signed. She has 
told us that she called Prudential to ask it what date she should write at the top of the 
document and was told to use the then current date. She returned the deed to Prudential 
with a request for payment to be made. However, Prudential reiterated that it needed the 
letter from the court/judge it had requested before it could pay out the money. The letter was 
obtained from the judge in January 2021 and sent to Prudential. The assignment was 
applied to the policy on 19 February 2021. Mrs S then completed the release form for the 
maturity value and it was paid out on 24 February 2021. Mrs S paid the money to her 
mortgage and it cleared into the account around two weeks later.
During this process Mrs S raised concerns about Prudentials approach, actions and 
requests. It issued several final response letters, which I have summarised below.
In its letter of 6 December 2018 Prudential addressed Mrs S concern that it wouldnt pay out 
the maturity value without her ex-husbands consent or an assignment. Also, that she wasnt 
happy it wouldnt accept the 2002 court order in lieu of the deed of assignment. It also 
addressed the matter of there having been delays in Prudential dealing with correspondence 
and that it had failed to highlight to her that her divorce might impact the payment of the 
maturity proceeds. Prudential accepted that it had been inappropriate of it to presume that a 
single payment could be made to Mrs S and her ex-husband. It awarded Mrs S £100 for any 
upset or inconvenience this had caused her. Prudential did, however, confirmed that it 
needed authorisation from both policyholders to pay the money out to just Mrs S and it was 
attempting to locate Mr S.
On 28 January 2019 Prudential addressed Mrs S concerns about how long it was taking for 
Prudential to find her ex-husband. It explained the process it went through for such a trace 
and the potential difficulties that meant it could take some time to find someone. As such, it 
rejected the complaint and it also told Mrs S that it couldnt guarantee to find him. 
In November 2020 Prudential rejected Mrs S complaint that it had unreasonably delayed 
paying the maturity value to her. It reiterated that it needed to verify who the judge that had 
signed the deed of assignment was. This was because the deed had been signed before the 
details on it (including the date at the top of the document) had been completed. However, it 
accepted that when Mrs S had called it about the deed of assignment in September 2020 it 
should have provided her with more help, given it had designed the form. This caused 
delays and as such it paid Mrs S £200 as an apology for the upset and inconvenience shed 
been caused. 
On 5 March 2021 Prudential addressed Mrs S concerns about the further delay in paying 
the maturity proceeds to her, given that itd had the judges letter since the beginning of 
February 2021. Prudential acknowledged that it hadnt sent the letter to the relevant 
department for almost two weeks. It also acknowledged that there had been various delays 
over the whole process. If these delays hadnt happened, Prudential thought the policy value 
could have been paid out as early as 9 November 2020. As such, it offered to pay Mrs S 
interest on the maturity value between that date and the date of payment in February 2021. 
It explained that if she wasnt eligible to pay tax, she could reclaim it from HMRC. In 
recognition of the inconvenience this had caused her, Prudential paid her an additional £250. Mrs S wasnt satisfied that the offer covered all the losses shes suffered. She provided 
Prudential with mortgage statements showing the interest shed paid since the policy 
maturity date, the cost of a field agent visit the lender had arranged and the amount the 
lender had charged for the duplicate statements. Ms S also said that she wanted Prudential 
to reimburse lost wages for herself and her carer theyd incurred due to having to attend 
court for the assignment to be signed. In addition, she explained that had she been told that 
Prudential had changed the way it pays out maturities, she could have arranged to get the 
assignment at an earlier point, when she was still eligible for legal aid. As such, she wanted 
Prudential to reimburse her legal costs. Ms S also informed Prudential that she didnt earn 
enough to pay tax and so she shouldnt have paid the tax it had deducted from the late 
payment interest it had already paid her. She also asked Prudential to compensate her for 
the stress and inconvenience she had suffer over the time since the maturity date.
Following this, Prudential issued another final response letter on 1 April 2021, setting out its 
evaluation of the further information that Mrs S sent it regarding her loses. It maintained that 
the earliest it could have paid out the maturity value of the policy was 9 November 2020. 
However, it agreed to reimburse her for the field agent visit, the cost of duplicate mortgage 
statements and for the cost of calls shed made to her lender. In addition, it paid her the 
intertest she had paid on the mortgage, on the amount of the maturity value, between when 
the maturity value should have been paid at the end of 2020 and when it was actually paid. 
Mrs S wasnt happy with Prudentials response and referred the complaint to this service. At 
this point, Prudential had offered Mrs S the following:
Late payment interest at 8% simple per year on the maturity value from 9 November 
2020 to the date the maturity payment was made on 24 February 2021.
Mortgage interest on the amount of the maturity value for the period 9 November 2020 to 
the date in March 2021 when the funds were credited to the mortgage account.
£69 for a field agent visit charged by the lender.
£15 cost for duplicate mortgage statements.
£25 for the cost of telephone calls.
A total of £550 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its actions.
Mrs S told us that in addition she wanted:
All of the mortgage interest paid on the mortgage since the maturity date.
Interest on the maturity value from the maturity date.
Her loss of wages due to having to attend a court hearing about the assignment.
Her carers loss of wages due to having to attend the court hearing.
A refund of the income tax paid on the late payment interest.
Compensation for two and a half years of stress and inconvenience.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. He concluded the offer that had been made was fair in the circumstances. 
Mrs S didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked that it be passed to an 
ombudsman for consideration. She said that she was concerned that the background the 
investigator had set out omitted looking into steps in the process and this meant that it was 
implied that she was continually complaining, which isnt true. Mrs S set out again what she 
considered Prudential had done wrong at various stages. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I consider the events of this case, I believe it would be appropriate to explain to Mrs S 
what was and wasnt Prudentials role in the events that led to her asking us to consider this 
complaint. As our investigator tried to explain to Mrs S, it was not Prudentials role to provide 
Mrs S with legal advice, indeed it was not in a position to do so. That was the role of her 
legal advisers. So when Mrs S ex-husband failed to assign the policy to her as required by 
the court order in 2002, it was not Prudentials responsibility to tell her that she needed to 
take action to fix that problem  that was for her legal advisers to do. While Mrs S may have 
spoken to Prudential at different points prior to the maturity date, it didnt do anything wrong 
in not questioning the status of the policy or the lack of assignment, even if the individuals 
she was speaking to knew she was divorced. 
It was also not Prudentials role to provide Mrs S with legal advice once the issue about the 
policy not being assigned arose. This includes assistance in completing the deed of 
assignment  that should have been done before the deed was presented to Prudential. It 
may have given Mrs S incorrect advice about dating the document after it was presented in 
an incomplete format, but that assistance should never have been needed.
Mrs S has also commented at various points that she was expecting the maturity value to be 
paid direct to the mortgage. While this is not key to the outcome of this complaint, for 
completeness, I will explain why that would never have happened in her case. Historically, 
mortgage lenders would have supporting endowment policies assigned to them in order to 
ensure that they received the proceeds of the policies to pay off the mortgage. However, in 
the 1990s most lenders stopped that practice. If an endowment policy was not assigned to 
the lender, the maturity proceeds would be paid to the policyholders. It would then be for 
them to pay the money to the mortgage lender. Prudential has confirmed that Mrs S policy 
was not at any point assigned to the mortgage lender, so the maturity proceeds would 
always have been paid to her and her ex-husband. 
What this means is that when the policy matured, Prudential correctly told Mrs S that it 
couldnt pay the proceeds solely to her or to the mortgage account without her ex-husbands 
agreement. In that situation it would be normal for a product provider to suggest that the 
policyholders provide it with joint instructions about how to pay the money and to where. I 
know that this upset Mrs S due to the circumstances of her former relationship with her 
ex-husband, but Prudential wasnt to know that at the time. 
I have also noted Mrs S account of what happened when her ex-husband was sent 
assignment documentation to sign. I can appreciate him turning up at her home would have 
been very upsetting and worrying, given what shes told us about the relationship, but I cant 
hold Prudential responsible for that. While it was Prudential that forwarded the documents to 
Mrs S ex-husband, this was on the instruction of Mrs S solicitors, following it discussing the 
matter of the assignment with the courts. Prudential simply did what it was asked to do by 
those acting on Mrs S behalf.
Put quite simply, Prudential did nothing wrong in requiring the policy to be assigned to Mrs S 
before it agreed to pay out the maturity proceeds to just her. While the court order from 2002 
did say that the policy was to be assigned to her, put quite simply, it hadnt been. Prudential 
couldnt act as though the judges instructions had been followed when they hadnt.
As such, I cant hold Prudential responsible for the time it took for the deed of assignment 
signed by the judge to be obtained. That means I cant hold Prudential responsible for the 
cost of Mrs S maintaining the mortgage payments during that time or the costs of the legal 
process. That would include any loss Mrs S and her carer suffered having to take time off 
work for the court hearing. Mrs S has raised that the error in dating the incomplete deed of assignment caused five 
months of delay and that this was Prudentials fault. As I have explained above, it was not 
Prudentials fault that the deed of assignment wasnt completed when it was presented to it 
and it wasnt its role to help Mrs S in this regard. However, I am not persuaded that Mrs S 
putting the wrong date on the deed caused Prudential to ask for the additional letter from the 
judge. Indeed, it had asked for the letter before she dated the deed.
Prudential explained to Mrs S that it needed a letter from the court or judge who had signed 
the deed of assignment as it needed to verify who he/she was and that it was her/him that 
had signed the document. Mrs S was told this in October 2020. I note the general order 
stated that a District Judge would execute the deed of assignment, but it didnt specify 
which judge would be doing so. I also note that while there was a handwritten note from the 
witness on the deed, there was nothing on the document to prove that it had been signed by 
a judge or that it had even been through the court. In those circumstances, it wasnt 
unreasonable for Prudential to want the confirmation it asked for. So I cant find Prudential 
liable for any cost associated with getting the letter from the judge or any loss associated 
with the time it took to get the letter. 
Mrs S has asked that Prudential pay late payment interest from the date of the maturity. 
Where a policy provider is waiting for something from the policyholder to enable it to pay out 
a maturity value of a policy, we wouldnt usually expect it to pay interest.
That said, there were delays in Prudential responding to correspondence and dealing with 
information it was sent at times. Prudential has acknowledged this, and it has determined 
that but for the delays it caused, the maturity value would have been paid out on 
9 November 2020, rather than 24 February 2021. This seems a reasonable assessment and 
I am satisfied that it treats Mrs S fairly. As such, Prudential has compensated Mrs S for the 
losses she incurred because of that delay. It has paid her both the mortgage interest that 
she wouldnt have paid if the maturity proceeds had been paid off the mortgage in 
November 2020 and it has also paid her late payment interest. That is more than a fair offer, 
as I wouldnt usually expect both these sums to be paid, as they both compensate for the 
same loss of use of the money. 
I have also considered the other items that Prudential has reimbursed. I think Prudential 
acted appropriately in this respect too. As for the payments it made Mrs S for the upset and 
inconvenience that were paid, I again think this is a reasonable sum in the circumstances. I 
accept that Mrs S was put to a lot of inconvenience to sort out the assignment issue. She 
clearly had to have many conversations with her lender which may have been 
uncomfortable, and I wont attempt to speculate on how it felt for her to have to deal with her 
ex-husband turning up at her home. However, none of this upset or inconvenience was 
caused by Prudential having made mistakes, but it was down to the fact that the court order 
in 2002 wasnt complied with. That non-compliance was nothing to do with Prudential and I 
cant hold it responsible for the upset and inconvenience Mrs S suffered because of it.
I would also repeat what our investigator explained to Mrs S about the tax she paid on the 
late payment interest Prudential paid her. HMRC requires life assurance companies to 
deduct tax from interest payments in some circumstances. As such, if Mrs S thinks that her 
income was not such that she should have been charged the interest, she would need to 
speak to HMRC about obtaining a refund. My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 
22 April 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman