DRN-4267533
The complaint
Miss S complains about what happened when she applied for an additional advance on her 
mortgage with Nationwide Building Society. She said she wasnt able to complete the 
application, and she wanted compensation for the impact she told us this had.
What happened
Miss S told us that on 26 May 2022 she got a decision in principle from Nationwide for a 
further advance on her mortgage. Miss S planned to use the money for home improvements. 
On 23 June she sent Nationwide copies of the income documents it had requested. She 
then sent them again, when Nationwides app still showed these as outstanding. But she 
said two months later, these were still awaiting approval. 
Miss S said she works full time, and didnt have time to constantly call Nationwide to find out 
what was going on. When she did call, she was told the department was busy. She said 
there was no communication after that, aside from an acknowledgement of her complaint. 
Miss S said she hadnt been able to go ahead with her plans for home improvements, and 
she wanted Nationwide to pay compensation for that, and for the impact this all had on her. 
Nationwide said it issued a decision in principle (DIP) and a mortgage illustration on 26 
May. It said the DIP explained to Miss S that she needed to carry out further steps to 
complete her application, which were -
1/ continue to Product Reservation,
2/ continue to Full Mortgage Application and instruct the valuation
3/ to avoid any delay, send any documents which are noted on the certificate.
Nationwide said Miss S had provide the requested documents, but she hadnt reserved a 
product, or completed a full mortgage application. Nationwide said it wouldnt review her 
documents until these steps were completed, and it wouldnt issue further communications 
(like a chasing email) until this was done. 
Nationwide said it could see Miss S had contacted it on 11 July 2022. Miss S asked the 
agent to confirm Nationwide had received her documents, which the agent did. But the agent 
also suggested Miss S speak to the specialist team, and said if Miss S didnt want to do that 
now, she should call back if she hadnt heard anything in the next couple of days. 
Nationwide said that there are times when its lines are very busy, but there are also quieter 
periods when Mis S wouldnt have to wait for an extended period to get through.
Nationwide said Miss S would need to apply again if she still wanted this borrowing. It 
wouldnt honour the rate Mis S had previously applied for, if she applied again now. 
Miss S said she definitely had reserved a rate when she made her application. She sent 
Nationwide a screenshot illustrating a reserved rate. She said then that she hadnt been able 
to click "Confirm your mortgage" and move to the next step in the application, because when 
she tried, the system said there were outstanding requirements. The only thing outstanding 
was Nationwides approval of submitted documents. 
Nationwide replied to say that it had checked with its IT team, and it now accepted Miss S 
had reserved a rate, but she hadnt then completed the application, so her application had 
reverted back. Nationwide didnt change its mind about this complaint. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said the DIP Nationwide 
sent to Miss S had set out steps she needed to complete. And Miss S didnt appear to have 
completed these. He said Nationwide had no record of any technical issues at the time when 
Miss S applied, and he would expect if there were technical problems, then other customers 
would have experienced this too. He also said he couldnt see that Miss S had raised this 
concern about not being able to progress her application with Nationwide when she 
contacted it about her documents, or when she later complained. Our investigator said as 
this was a self-managed application, there was an onus on Miss S to follow it up as needed.
Because Mis S didnt fully complete the application, our investigator said he didnt think it 
would be fair or reasonable to ask Nationwide to do anything more. And our investigator 
didnt think Nationwide had delayed in dealing with Miss Ss complaint. 
Miss S didnt agree. She said it was clear that there was an issue with the online application 
and Nationwide was contacted within plenty of time to resolve the issue prior to the DIP 
expiring. Miss S wanted her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed 
to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Nationwide says whats gone wrong here, is that Miss S never completed this application. 
Miss S says she tried repeatedly to continue her application, but wasnt able to do that.
As part of our investigation, Ive reviewed the online journey that Nationwide has set out for 
us, when customers apply for additional lending on a mortgage.
Thats a four-stage process, which includes the following sections  
1  How much can you borrow?
2  Get a decision in principle
3  Confirm your mortgage
4  Apply
Having considered the online journey that Nationwide has set out for us, I do think it was 
reasonably clear for Miss S that a complete mortgage application online with Nationwide 
would be a multi-step process. And I think Nationwide signposted reasonably clearly for Miss 
S what those steps were, both through its online system and through the DIP document it 
provided to Miss S.
Miss S did get a decision in principle, and did then choose the mortgage she wanted (in the 
section Confirm your mortgage). We know this, because shes sent us screenshots of a 
selected rate. But these screenshots, which she sent us, do also seem to me to signpost Miss S to the next step in her application, which is shown there, again, as Confirm your 
mortgage.
Nationwide says Miss S only got partway through her application on 25 May, then didnt 
finish. It has explained why Miss S was still being asked to Confirm your mortgage, it says 
its IT team can see she did select a rate, but her application then reverted back a step when 
the full application wasnt completed. Thats consistent with what Id expect in a mortgage 
application, as a particular interest rate isnt usually reserved before a full application is 
completed.
I can see that Nationwide requests documentation at different stages, including as part of a 
decision in principle. So the fact that documentation had been requested from Miss S 
doesnt indicate that shed completed a full mortgage application.
Ive thought about what Miss S has said about her attempts to continue her application. And 
I think its worth noting that Miss S doesnt appear to have said she wasnt able to move 
forward onto the Confirm your mortgage screen until she was replying to Nationwides 
complaint response letter, telling her it didnt think shed completed her application. 
Miss S said then I tried to do this and it would not let me as it said there were outstanding 
requirements. Although Miss S included a number of screenshots when she sent this 
response to Nationwide, theres nothing demonstrating that Miss S was shown any error 
screen when she tried to click on the Confirm your mortgage button. 
When our investigator asked Miss S to explain a bit more about what happened when she 
tried to click this button and move her application forward to the next stage, she said The 
option to "confirm your mortgage" did not take me to any next steps, it remained on the 
same landing page which showed me documents were outstanding. 
I think if Miss S had been shown an error screen, or indeed had clicked on a link to move 
things forward that then didnt work, she would be likely to have mentioned this, either on her 
call of 11 July, or in her subsequent written complaints of 25 July and 4 August. And I cant 
see that Miss S did mention either of those problems. Theres nothing in those 
communications to confirm to me that Miss S was seeking to progress her application 
through the online system, and wasnt able to do so. Those communications do seem to me 
to be consistent with the conclusion that Miss S had overlooked the need to carry out further 
steps to complete her application.
Miss S said there was a problem with the application process, and Nationwide was alerted to 
this in enough time to fix it before her application lapsed. But, for the reasons set out above, 
I havent been able to see that Miss S did alert Nationwide at the time, to the problem shes 
since told us she experienced.
I do understand that Miss S wasnt given full and complete advice about how to progress her 
application on the call on 11 July, because the agent did indicate that Nationwide needed to 
approve some documents, and didnt tell her then that Nationwide was waiting for her to 
finish this application. But I also note the agent did say she wasnt part of the specialist team 
on this. I can hear on the call that she tried to pass Miss S through to that specialist team, 
but Miss S didnt want to wait for that. And when Miss S said shed rather call back at a less 
busy time, the agent specifically advised Mis S to call back if she hadnt heard in a couple of 
days. We know Miss S didnt do that. 
So I dont think that what has gone wrong here, happened as a result of this call with 
Nationwide on 11 July. Ive considered what both sides have said here, and on balance, Im not able to say its more 
likely that Miss S was seeking to progress her application, as she said, but wasnt able to do 
so. I think that the evidence Ive seen suggests Miss S had unfortunately overlooked the next 
stage in her application. And, having considered the online customer journey that Nationwide 
has shown us, as well as its response to Miss Ss call and her written complaints, I havent 
been able to conclude that this was Nationwides fault. 
I know that Miss S will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman