DRN-1953994
 
Complaint
Mr and Mrs O complained about a mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance 
(MPPI) policy which they say was sold to them by Lloyds Bank PLC on their joint mortgage. 
There is a disagreement as to when the policy was sold.
Background
One of our adjudicators has already assessed this case and told Mr and Mrs O its unlikely to 
be upheld. They disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Im afraid Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Id like to place on record that I certainly dont doubt Mr and Mrs O genuinely and honestly 
feel the MPPI was mis-sold to them. They are represented by a claims company and I note 
their main points of complaint include that they feel the MPPI wasnt necessary and they 
werent even aware of the policy being added on to their mortgage.
Nevertheless, these events took place a considerable time ago and the mortgage and MPPI 
have long since been closed. We no longer have access to the original sale documentation 
for either product  mortgage or MPPI  and businesses arent required to keep records 
indefinitely.
What we do know is that only Mr O seems to have been covered by the policy. He has sent 
us through a mortgage statement which he says shows the sale of the MPPI was actually in 
1998, when they first took out their joint Lloyds mortgage. But Lloyds says the MPPI was 
added in 2001, probably when Mr and Mrs O were borrowing more money on their mortgage 
or otherwise re-arranging their financial affairs. I note the 1998 documentation sent to us by 
Mr O mentions mortgagesure.
I dont really think the sale date is the important issue in this case and I accept Lloyds could 
be wrong. But in situations where we have old sales without much hard evidence to refer to, 
we also use our knowledge and experience of MPPI to support the testimonies of the parties 
involved. We think about what is more likely to have happened.
Ive seen quite a few sales from Lloyds around the time period in question. Generally, its my 
experience that it did tend to present mortgage consumers with a choice about either having 
MPPI, or going ahead without it. The mortgage application usually had a specific section 
where consumers were required to tick yes or no and the cover would only be added if 
they gave their consent.If the sale was indeed in 2001, as Lloyds says its records show, then obviously Mr and Mrs 
O would have been operating a mortgage without MPPI for 3 years before adding it in 2001. 
By definition, they would have therefore understood that this type of product was optional, 
rather than compulsory. On the other hand, if Mr O is right, then obviously he could see from 
his statements that MPPI was attached to his mortgage. All this is, of course, in dispute but I 
note only Mr O was covered on the MPPI so this indicates to me that a discussion probably 
took place or at least they gave some thought about who ought to be covered.
My experience is also that they would have needed to authorise the £18.01 to leave their 
bank account every month by a direct debit or similar and they would have been sent certain 
information by the third-party insurers. Usually this would be a policy schedule and a copy of 
all the rules. Theres obviously no doubt Mr O was sold such a policy, so there really would 
be no reason, in my view, for the insurer not to send out these things to him. I think they 
would be automatically generated. Clearly if he and Mrs O hadnt ever agreed to buying such 
a policy, then they would have wanted to know why they had been sent all this policy 
information. I assume they would have wanted to cancel it. Likewise, the statement they say 
shows MPPI had been sold.
In short, Im afraid this leads me to think its much more likely that they agreed to the MPPI 
and would certainly be able to see it had been set up for them with their mortgage. It seems 
the MPPI was in place until 2004. I accept they may not recall this now.
Lloyds concedes it would have probably recommended the MPPI as part of an advised 
sale. This means it had a duty to ensure it was suitable for their needs. Overall, I think it 
was. I say this because Mr O appears to have been eligible for the cover and not caught by 
any of the main exclusions we sometimes see in these policies. Ive seen nothing that 
suggests it wasnt affordable for them. Mr O implied he didnt need the cover because he 
also had sickness protection with his job. Ive thought very carefully about this, but Im afraid 
it doesnt make the MPPI unsuitable. We do see many people with generous work benefits 
taking out all sorts of insurance. The mortgage was secured against their home and was 
therefore a major financial commitment, so the consequences of them not being able to keep 
up payments could have been serious. In the event of a successful claim, the cover was 
payable for up to 12 months. This would have been in addition to any other means they had 
in place at the time. 
So although I cant say why they decided to buy this policy for Mr O, I dont think it being 
recommended to them was unreasonable. I think the policy was a suitable product for their 
consideration.
Lloyds also had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. 
Obviously, I cant confirm whether Lloyds did everything right, but having discussed the 
cover I think Mr and Mrs O would have been given the supporting literature explaining the 
policy rules. I also think the price would have been quoted and agreed to.
Im very sorry to disappoint them but there simply isnt enough that supports their complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint. And I dont direct Lloyds Bank PLC to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
  
 
 
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman