DRN-3437739
The complaint
Ms A complains that Standard Life Assurance Limited (Standard Life) didnt tell her it needed 
a new cash instruction to switch her personal pension (PP) to a self-investment personal 
pension (SIPP), causing a delay and financial loss.
What happened
In mid-September 2020, Standard Life received a request to switch Ms As PP to a SIPP on 
an in-species basis. On 24 September 2020, Standard Life responded to Ms As receiving 
scheme, providing a valuation and a list of her investments.
The following day at 9:30am, Standard Life received a reply detailing which assets Ms As 
receiving scheme could and couldnt accept. And, the same morning around 10:33am, Ms A 
spoke with Standard Life and said her pension fund needs to be sold to cash.  
A few weeks later, on 12 October 2020, Ms As receiving scheme emailed Standard Life 
asking for an update, seemingly with no reply. On 26 October 2020, Standard Life called the 
receiving scheme to see if Ms As transfer should be cash or in species. And, when it hadnt 
received a reply a few days later, it emailed them asking how the transfer was to proceed. 
On 1 November 2020, Ms As receiving scheme replied saying it was unaware Ms A had 
requested cash only, so it would check. On 10 November 2020, it emailed Standard Life 
asking for an update, also saying Ms A confirmed it should be a cash only transfer. And 
Ms A called Standard Life for an update later that day and again on 16 November 2020. 
On 17 November 2020, Ms As receiving scheme contacted Standard Life for an update. 
And later that day it received a call back telling it to submit a new electronic cash instruction. 
Ms A also called Standard Life a few days later, asking for a further update and was told it 
was waiting for a transfer request. 
Standard Life received the new cash instruction on 20 November 2020. And the transfer 
completed on 1 December 2020 with a value of £81,992.36. 
In November 2020, Ms A complained to Standard Life about the transfer delay. In response, 
it said the initial request was for an in-specie transfer. And that Ms As receiving scheme had 
said it didnt accept the majority of her investments, so the transfer request had to be 
cancelled and a new one made for cash. Standard Life said it didnt receive the new request 
for six weeks and when it did the transfer only took two weeks. 
Unhappy with this, Ms A brought her complaint to our service. She said Standard Life didnt 
tell her she needed to submit a new cash instruction. She said she spent time chasing it. 
And that the resulting delay meant she couldnt buy as many Tesla Inc shares as shed 
intended to, as the price had increased by the time the transfer completed. 
One of our investigators looked into Ms As complaint and said Standard Life gave her the 
impression it would be transferring her pension as cash, causing a knock-on impact. They 
said the team her request was referred to should have let her receiving scheme know it had 
told her this and whether anything further was needed from it. Or it should have contacted 
Ms A to advise her of this. And the investigator thought that if Standard Life had done this a 
new cash instruction would likely have been provided much sooner. They also said that 
while Standard Life wasnt usually responsible for telling a receiving scheme to do so, the 
misinformation it had given Ms A impacted on the parties knowing what was needed.  
To put things right, the investigator asked Standard Life to pay Ms A £150 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused to her. He also said that, had things gone as they 
should have, its reasonable to think Standard Life would have requested and received back 
the instruction within five working days from 25 September 2020. And that it took six working 
days for the transfer to complete after receiving the new instruction on 20 November 2020. 
In which case, he said the transfer would have completed by 12 October 2020 at the latest, 
rather than 1 December 2020. And that this means Standard Life should use this date to 
calculate whether its caused Ms A a financial loss.
The investigator was also satisfied Ms A wasnt able to buy as many Tesla shares as she 
intended to in mid-November 2020 as a result. So he said Standard Life should see how 
many she could have bought if the transfer had taken place by the above date and purchase 
enough shares to ensure she hasnt lost out. 
Standard Life didnt agree saying, in summary, that as Ms A chose to transact without an 
adviser she was responsible for knowing what was required and how long the transfer may 
take. And that if she always knew she wanted to purchase certain shares she should have 
made her initial request in cash, saving confusion and delay. 
It also disputes that their call handler gave Ms A the impression everything was in place to 
process a cash transfer, as it was clear they didnt know the process when they said they 
would pass her information to the right team who would take the relevant action. And it 
doesnt agree it should have told Ms As receiving scheme this was to be a cash transfer that 
required a new instruction, as the receiving scheme was responsible for ensuring the right 
request was submitted, especially when it knew it couldnt accept all the assets.
Standard Life said it couldnt transfer Ms As fund in cash following her call, as it needed 
clarification on how to proceed and written consent in the form of an electronic instruction, 
which it contacted Ms As receiving scheme to ask for at the end of October 2020, confirming 
a new instruction was needed. And while it accepts it could have contacted the receiving 
scheme for this sooner, thats the only delay it might have caused. It doesnt accept its 
responsible for the time taken after this, as it confirmed what was required then and when 
Ms A called it for updates in mid-November 2020. 
It also said Ms A hasnt shown she intended to buy Tesla shares in November 2020 or the 
actual buys she placed. It said that if it had placed her funds to sell on 25 September 2020 
then she would have received the price point available on 28 September 2020. And using 
this date its calculated that the transfer value she actually achieved was £1,740.38 higher 
than she would have received. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaints been passed to me for a decision. I let 
Standard Life know I was minded to uphold Ms As complaint for largely the same reasons 
as the investigator, but I clarified the redress I intended to recommend. Particularly 
surrounding the Tesla shares and that it should use 16 November 2020 in its calculation for 
those, as I think thats the date Ms As been able to evidence she first purchased a Tesla 
share. And if the transfer hadnt been impacted by the misinformation from Standard Life, Im 
persuaded that November 2020 was when she intended to use her entire fund to buy the 
Tesla shares. In response Standard Life said, in summary, that it doesnt understand why its being held 
responsible. It said that Ms As inability to use her fund to buy shares in mid-November 2020 
 which it now accepts she intended to do  was caused by the receiving schemes failure to 
provide the new cash instruction at the end of October 2020, after it clarified it needed this. 
And that if it had provided this the transfer would have completed in two weeks, in the way it 
later did, which would have been in time for her to buy the shares. 
Standard Life also said that while it agrees in principal with my intended redress, it doesnt 
understand why it should calculate the transfer value Ms As fund would have notionally 
achieved on 12 October 2020, when its shown that she hasnt lost out based on what she 
would have achieved if the sells were placed on 25 September 2020. And it said that Ms A 
still hasnt evidenced the actual Tesla share buys she went on to place, as the information 
doesnt show this was executed along with the share prices and numbers purchased. 
Ms As since confirmed she still holds all the Tesla shares she purchased. And we provided 
Standard Life with evidence she purchased these on 2 December 2020. While Standard Life 
said it accepts this, it also said it shouldnt be asked to consider any share buys she made 
which exceed the £81,992.36 transfer value she achieved. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Ive considered all the information and representations made, I only intend to comment 
on what I think is key to reaching my decision. And Ive explained below why Im upholding 
Ms As complaint for largely the same reasons as the investigator. 
On the morning of 25 September 2020, Ms As receiving scheme confirmed it couldnt 
accept some of the assets. But it didnt say how the transfer was to proceed nor did it ask for 
clarity on the next steps. However, Standard Lifes notes show the call it had with Ms A took 
place an hour later. And, having listened to this, I think Ms A clearly said the transfer needed 
to be in cash given her SIPP administrator said it couldnt accept all the funds. In response, 
the call handler said this would go to its processing team, it would be done in their 
turnaround time, and that theyd get this done for Ms A, transferred across as cash. 
So I think its clear that Ms A was given the mistaken impression that neither she, nor her 
receiving scheme, needed to do anything further for her transfer to progress as cash.  If 
Standard Life had instead told Ms A it couldnt do this without a new instruction from her 
receiving scheme in the way it should have, then I think its likely she would have told the 
receiving scheme this at the time, allowing her transfer to take place much sooner than it did. 
Standard Lifes said that, as it received conflicting information from Ms A and her receiving 
scheme that morning, it needed to seek clarification from the latter. But I dont think it did, as    
Ms As call came after her receiving schemes email and I think her wishes were categorical. 
I appreciate Standard Life says it still needed a new cash instruction, but it then caused a 
delay when it didnt do anything further until a month later on 26 and 29 October 2020, when 
it called and emailed Ms As receiving scheme. 
Standard Life says it told Ms A and her receiving scheme what was needed in follow up 
contact with them, but I dont think it did. This is because I can see from the call notes and 
emails on the above dates that, rather than saying a new cash instruction was needed, it 
only asked for clarification either way. This meant the receiving scheme emailed Standard 
Life clarifying the transfer should be in cash in the way it had been asked to, rather than 
submitting a new instruction. And, having considered the correspondence and call notes,      I havent seen anything to show that Standard Life said a new instruction was needed until 
17 November 2020. 
Ms A was clearly concerned to move things forward given she was chasing Standard Life, 
still under the false impression it was progressing the transfer in cash. The notes from the 
call Ms A made to it on 10 November 2020 say she was seeking an update, as she doesnt 
understand what is happening and the notes ask for someone to get back to her. It doesnt 
seem this happened. And the call notes from 16 November 2020 say Ms A called to chase it 
again and that shes getting frustrated at the time the transfer is taking. Neither suggest she 
was told a new cash instruction was needed when Id reasonably expect the notes to reflect 
this if she had been. Instead these show she still thought it was going ahead in the way 
Standard Life had led her to believe. 
Ive considered Standard Lifes comments about why it shouldnt be held responsible, 
particularly those about the receiving schemes responsibilities. But, importantly, Ms A was 
still Standard Lifes customer and it gave her misinformation. I think this impacted on the 
parties knowing what was needed, when I think they otherwise would have known at that 
point, if it had given her correct information. And I think Standard Life missed multiple 
opportunities to put this right for Ms A, whether by telling her or her receiving scheme that a 
new cash instruction was needed. So I think its fair and reasonable to hold Standard Life 
responsible in these particular circumstances. 
Putting things right
My aim in awarding fair compensation is to put Ms A, as far as possible, back into the 
position she would likely have been in but for Standard Lifes error. 
Ive explained above my view that if Standard Life had told Ms A, or her receiving scheme, 
on 25 September 2020 - and in the follow up correspondence - that it needed a new cash 
instruction, then this would have been received much sooner than 20 November 2020. And 
Ive explained why I think Standard Life missed opportunities to put this right.
In which case, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for Standard Life to use the transfer 
value Ms As fund would have notionally achieved if the sells were placed on 25 September 
2020, and then the price point achieved on 28 September 2020, in the way it has suggested. 
This is because it doesnt account for the time it would have reasonably taken for the new 
instruction to be provided to and then processed by Standard Life.
In reality it took three further working days for the new instruction to be provided, after 
Standard Life made it clear this was needed on 17 November 2020, so four days in total. 
And a further six working days between it receiving the instruction on 20 November 2020 
and the termination of assets on 30 November 2020. In which case, on reflection, I think that 
if things had happened the way they should have, its likely the assets would have been sold 
by 8 October 2020 at the latest, rather than 12 October 2020 in the way Id previously 
suggested. So this is the date Standard Life should use in the redress calculation, as set out 
below. 
As Standard Life now accepts Ms A intended to buy Tesla shares in mid-November 2020, 
and that she first purchased one on 16 November 2020, along with using her entire fund to 
purchase more shares following the transfer, I havent commented on this or why Ive used 
that date in the redress below any further. 
Standard Life said it shouldnt be asked to consider any of Ms As Tesla share buys that 
exceed the £81,992.36 transfer value she achieved. But rather than just considering what 
Ms A has done, which it seems to be suggesting by this, Im considering what ought to have happened if not for its error. And I previously explained that part of the redress methodology 
I intend to recommend  as set out below  is that it needs to calculate the transfer value  
Ms As fund would have notionally achieved and then what her new fund would have 
notionally been worth on 16 November 2020. Doing so may show that the fund value which 
Ms A ought to have achieved and used to buy Tesla shares would have been higher than 
the £81,992.36 it actually achieved. And, even if it doesnt, its still possible she might have 
been able to buy more Tesla shares than she did with the fund value she ought to have 
achieved if the share price was lower at the time. This means I cant say that Standard Life 
shouldnt be asked to consider any of Ms As Tesla share buys that exceed the £81,992.36 
value. Instead, it needs to follow the redress methodology Ive set out below to achieve fair 
redress. 
Given Standard Life gave Ms A incorrect information and it missed opportunities to put this 
right, £150 compensation is a fair and reasonable amount in the circumstances to make up 
for the distress and inconvenience I think this would have caused her. 
My final decision
I uphold Ms As complaint and direct Standard Life Client Management Limited to pay 
compensation as set out below. 
Standard Life should calculate the notional transfer value of Ms As fund on               
8 October 2020. And then the notional value of what her new fund would have been 
worth on 16 November 2020, had the transfer gone ahead without delay.
Standard Life should then calculate how many Tesla shares Ms A could have bought 
with that fund on 16 November 2020. And then compare this to the actual number 
she was able to buy with her fund on 2 December 2020.
If this shows Ms As lost out, Standard Life needs to pay the value of the number of 
shares shes lost out on into her pension plan if possible so she can now buy these. 
To establish this value it should use the Tesla share price as of the date of its 
calculation. And the payment into Ms As plan should allow for the effect of charges 
and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension 
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into Ms As pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance 
implications, it should be paid directly to her as a lump sum after making a notional 
reduction to allow for future income tax that would otherwise have been paid. And, if 
Ms A hasnt yet taken any tax-free cash from her plan, 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would have been taxed according to their likely income tax rate in 
retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional reduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
Standard Life should also pay Ms A £150 compensation to make up for the distress 
and inconvenience caused to her by this matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Holly Jackson
Ombudsman