DRN-1773459
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Santander UK plc sent their title deeds to their local council 
without their agreement. They also complain about their ability to discuss their mortgage 
account over the phone due to incorrectly being told they couldnt pass security.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs P held a mortgage account with Abbey National. Their account migrated to 
Santander when it took over Abbey National. Their title deeds were held by 
Abbey National/Santanders Deedsafe scheme. 
Mr and Mrs P made their final mortgage payment in December 1995. They did not ask for 
the title deeds to be released. Santander kept hold of them.
In February 2019 Santander received confirmation that a compulsory purchase order (CPO) 
against Mr and Mrs Ps property had completed. Following this it closed their mortgage 
account, removed the charge and sent the title deeds to the council.
Mr and Mrs P say they didnt give Santander permission to release their title deeds to any 
third party and this happened without any notice. They feel they should still own the title 
deeds as an agreement on the valuation of the property has not been reached. 
Mr and Mrs P complained to Santander. It said the title deeds were lawfully released to the 
council. Santander said that due to confidentiality it was unable to provide Mr and Mrs P with 
copies of correspondence between it and the council, as requested. Our service has since 
provided this to Mr and Mrs P.
Santander upheld part of the complaint relating to the failed security questions. It admitted it 
got things wrong and paid Mr and Mrs P £30 for the inconvenience caused. 
Unhappy with Santanders response, Mr and Mrs P brought their complaint to our service. 
An investigator looked into things and felt Santander didnt do anything wrong by releasing 
the title deeds to the council. He also felt it fairly resolved the failed security issue. The 
complaint wasnt upheld. 
Mr and Mrs P didnt agree. They asked for more time to provide information relating to their 
earlier request for the title deeds in 2003 and paperwork they were trying to obtain from land 
registry. Due to the current circumstances in light of Covid-19 theyre werent able to provide 
all this information but asked for a final decision to be issued in its absence.
Because an agreement has not been reached, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, and whilst I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs P, I think our investigator has 
reached a fair outcome. Ill explain why.
The contact notes between the council and Mr and Mrs P show they were aware of the 
terms of the CPO which gave the council power to purchase their property. I cannot 
comment on the validity of the CPO because this falls outside of the remit of our service and 
is a matter between Mr and Mrs P and the council. What I must consider is whether 
Santander acted in accordance with the CPO.
Because Mr and Mrs P redeemed their mortgage in 1995, Santander had no interest in the 
property. It only had a charge because it was holding the deeds at the request of 
Mr and Mrs P. As such it had no objections to the CPO.
The council first contacted Santander about the CPO in 2017. There was ongoing 
communication between the parties. Santanders records show it received notification of the 
CPO completing in February 2019 and ownership of the property being transferred to the 
council. 
Santanders communication to Mr and Mrs P suggests the confirmation was received in 
2018 and I understand why this caused concern for Mr and Mrs P. But I can confirm that 
Santanders records show that the release of the title deeds took place after confirmation 
was received in February 2019. So, I dont think it did anything wrong by sending the title 
deeds to the council  as Mr and Mrs P were no longer the legal owners of the property.
Mr and Mrs P say that Santander shouldve sought their agreement before sending the title 
deeds to the council. The Deedsafe scheme terms state that a Deedsafe account will 
need to be fully redeemed by a solicitor or representative to withdraw from the Deedsafe 
scheme. Santander received legally binding paperwork in relation to the CPO. So, Im 
satisfied it acted in accordance with the terms of the scheme when it released the title 
deeds. 
Whilst Santander couldve told Mr and Mrs P that the council had requested the title deeds, I 
dont think its failure to do so has any bearing on the outcome of this complaint. I say this 
because Mr and Mrs P were aware of the terms of the CPO. They knew ownership was 
passing to the council and its a legal procedure for the title deeds to be amended following a 
transfer of ownership. 
Mr and Mrs P complain they couldnt speak to Santander over the phone because of failed 
security checks. Santander admits it got things wrong. I think the compensation amount 
awarded is fair and reasonable. I say this because Santanders contact notes show two 
failed attempts to pass security on the same day (9 October 2019). Mr P was advised to visit 
a branch with identification to access his account information. He did so later that day and 
his query was answered. So, I think the impact of this has been minimal.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman