DRN-3470646
The complaint
Mr J complains that hes not been able to access his account with Studio Retail Limited via 
its app.
What happened
In August 2021, Mr J found he couldnt log on to his account through the Studio app, which 
made it difficult to make his payments. He says Studio had deregistered his account. When 
he contacted it, Studio explained how to register his account but that didnt work as a 
different email address had been added to his customer profile and was causing the 
problem. This meant he had to phone Studio every month to make his payment. Mr J said he 
simply wanted to have his correct email address added to his account so that he could make 
his payments online. This problem happened for several months. 
Studio looked into Mr Js complaint. It said it was unaware of any system issues preventing 
Mr J from accessing his account online. It explained it had deregistered the account due to 
too many incorrect login attempts, but he could reregister with his correct email address. It 
provided instructions on how to do this and offered to walk him through the steps if need be.
Mr J attempted to register a number of times over the following months with limited sporadic 
success but was then deregistered again. During this period, he sent Studio numerous texts 
and emails providing screenshots of what he was seeing. Mr J still couldnt access the 
account reliably. He referred his complaint to us and one of our investigators looked into it.
Our investigator said he could see that Mr J had been able to access the account on some 
occasions, but then there were unsuccessful logins which led to the account being locked. 
He said he was unable to see any errors by Studio and it had confirmed there had been no 
system problems. Our investigator said he was aware Studio had offered to go through the 
registration process step by step but it had been inconvenient for Mr J, so it hadnt 
happened. That option remained available to him. He didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. 
Studio accepted what our investigator said, but Mr J didnt. As there was no agreement, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While its clear there were problems with Mr Js access to this account, Studio has provided 
evidence to show that he is now regularly accessing it online and via the app, so it appears 
the issue is now resolved. 
I cant say for certain what caused the problems Mr J experienced. Its clear that he was in 
contact with Studio a lot and I appreciate the frustration he must have felt at the time. But I 
can see that Studio tried to help by giving step-by-step instructions to enable Mr J to register 
and offered to talk him through each step. 
In line with many businesses, in order to protect customers accounts, Studio block access 
as a fraud prevention measure if there are unsuccessful login attempts.
I can see that in August 2021, there were three incorrect attempts to log into the app which 
had the effect of locking Mr Js account. There were several attempts to reset his password 
until the end of November 2021 when Mr J was able to log on again. Unfortunately, in 
December 2021, there were three further invalid login attempts, and the password reset took 
place a few days later. And again, there was a further issue in February 2022 which required 
a password reset which was followed by successful logins within a couple of days.
Mr J has said there was an incorrect email address added to his account which he feels 
caused the problem. Ive pressed Studio about this email address. It has confirmed that the 
address in question is one that is used internally to disconnect a customers account from 
the online service. This is used as a trouble shooting step to enable a customer to reregister 
where theres been unsuccessful log in attempts.
Studio has provided a report showing when this internal email was on Mr Js record. It ties 
up with periods where there were invalid log in attempts in August 2021 and through until 
everything was reset in November 2021, and a further shorter spell in December 2021. So 
its clear there were issues with Mr Js access to the account, but these appear to stem from 
invalid log in attempts. Ive not seen anything which shows Studio has made an error. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint about Studio Retail Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022. 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman