DRN-3008958
The complaint
Mr B has complained about Aviva Insurance Limited. He isnt happy about the way it dealt 
with a claim under his commercial vehicle insurance policy. 
A representative has brought this complaint on behalf of Mr B, but for simplicity Ive just 
referred to him in this decision. 
What happened
Mr B made a claim under his commercial insurance policy after his vehicle was written off. 
He wasnt happy about the delays and poor service he received when the claim was 
advanced and felt the need to employ a representative to help finalise the claim.
Aviva eventually settled the claim in full and acknowledged some delay and poor service. It 
offered Mr B £1,000 in compensation and paid interest for the period of delay in settling the 
claim. But Mr B remained unhappy about this as he wanted his additional hire vehicle costs 
incurred and his representative wanted their professional fees paid so he complained to this 
service.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr B but didnt uphold his complaint. Although they 
accepted Aviva delayed matters they felt that Avivas offer to pay £1,000 compensation and 
simple interest on the delayed settlement was fair. They explained that Mr B could have just 
advanced his complaint and things generally directly with Aviva and this service as opposed 
to employ his representative to do this on his behalf. So, overall they thought Aviva had 
taken reasonable steps to put things right.
As Mr Bs representative didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although this claim has been drawn out and complicated Ill stick to the key remaining issues 
in making my decision as both sides are fully aware of the finer detail of this complaint. 
However, I wish to reassure both sides that I have considered all the documents and 
representations made in forming my view. Having done so, I dont think the complaint should 
be upheld. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr B and his representative, but Ill 
explain why.
It is accepted that Aviva didnt deal with Mr Bs claim very well and delayed the finalisation of 
his claim and provided a poor service generally. I know he has incurred additional hire 
vehicle costs but, as our investigator explained, I would expect uninsured losses such as 
these to be considered as part of the liability dispute which was ongoing until recently. And 
so, our investigator advised that it wouldnt be appropriate for this service to consider these 
as part of this complaint as liability was still being finalised at court. They advised that once 
court proceedings and liability was settled that Aviva, and then this service if necessary, 
could revisit Mr Bs additional hire vehicle costs under a separate complaint. As court 
proceedings have now been settled Ill leave this to be advanced separately.
Turning to the delay in settling the claim I think the £1,000 offered by Aviva is fair. No 
amount of compensation would compensate Mr B for the delay and poor service received, 
but I think Avivas offer is fair for the 11 weeks acknowledged delay. Our awards are 
generally modest, and I feel this sits with the kind of award I would ordinarily make in 
circumstances like this. And Im pleased to see that Aviva paid simple interest on the 
settlement in acknowledgement of its delay as well (which was over £1,000).
Finally, I know Mr B feels that his representative should be paid for their part in helping 
advance the claim. And while I accept that they probably added value and moved the claim 
on in a timelier fashion I dont feel that their costs should be covered.
I say this as Mr B could have advanced his claim and complaint direct with Aviva himself. 
And engaged the help of this service if required just as his representative did. And this 
service is free for Mr B to use and an alternative to going to court and incurring significant 
costs. So, I dont think it was necessary for Mr B to pay his representative to advance things 
on his behalf although I accept he may have found this beneficial.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman