DRN-3024154
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE has unfairly rejected their claim 
under their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W booked a trip to Europe which was due to depart in late April 2020. This trip 
was booked as a package trip, including coach travel to and from their destination along with 
a river cruise. In March 2020, Mr and Mrs W took out an annual multi-trip travel insurance 
policy through a broker, which was insured by Great Lakes.
As a result of the Coronavirus outbreak, Mr and Mrs Ws trip was cancelled. The travel 
provider offered a voucher to cover the costs of the trip so that Mr and Mrs W could rebook 
at a later date  which they accepted. Unfortunately, in May 2020, the travel provider went 
into liquidation, meaning the voucher couldnt be used. As a result, Mr and Mrs W made a 
claim to Great Lakes for the cost of their trip.
Great Lakes rejected their claim. It said that the cause of the claim was not one that was 
covered by the policy. It said that the reason Mr and Mrs W were making a claim was for the 
failure of the travel provider but the policy they had purchased didnt include protection for 
this.
Unhappy with this response, Mr and Mrs W complained and brought the matter to this 
service. An investigator looked into the matter but didnt uphold their complaint. She found 
that there wasnt a section of the policy that would apply in these circumstances. But she 
also said that the policy would only provide cover for irrecoverable costs, and it wasnt clear 
that the costs incurred couldnt be recovered elsewhere. So, she didnt think Great Lakes 
had to do anything more.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed with the investigators opinion. As no agreement could be reached, 
the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding 
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
I havent made a finding on whether I think the reason for Mr and Mrs Ws claim is covered 
under the terms and conditions of their policy. This is because, even if it is, I cant fairly ask 
Great Lakes to pay their claim at this point for another reason. 
 
The policy Mr and Mrs W hold includes terms and conditions relating to the cover provided. 
The relevant parts are as follows:
Section A  Cancellation or Curtailment
What is covered:
We will reimburse up to the amount shown in the Schedule of Benefits (for the cover 
level as shown on Your Policy Certificate) in total under this policy for financial loss 
You suffer, being non-refundable deposits and amounts You have paid for travel and 
accommodation You do not use because of Your inability to commence travel or 
complete the trip...
General Exclusions Applying To Your Policy
No section of this policy shall apply in respect of:
[]
32. Any costs recoverable from another source.
This means cover is only provided under Mr and Mrs Ws policy if they are unable to obtain a 
refund from their travel provider. This is a clause which is found in most  if not all  other 
travel insurance policies on the market, and I dont think its significant or unusual.
Im aware that, when reaching her opinion, our investigator also referred to policy terms 
relating to the cause of the cancellation and restrictions under that section based on that 
cause. However, Im of the opinion that the policy terms detailed above are the most relevant 
and so I wont be referring to these other terms in my decision. 
Mr and Mrs W made a claim to Great Lakes following the liquidation of their travel provider, 
which meant that the voucher they had accepted for their unused trip was no longer 
available for use. Looking at the policy terms above, it is clear that the cancellation section 
does provide cover for unused travel and accommodation costs  but only if these cannot be 
recovered elsewhere.
From reviewing the holiday invoices provided to Great Lakes when the claim was made, I 
note that the travel provider was affiliated to a number of associations and government 
approved bonded holidays schemes, including one for coach holidays. These are designed 
to protect a customers money if there is a financial failure of the provider which means travel 
cannot take place. And a little research suggests Mr and Mrs W could be entitled to make a 
claim through the relevant scheme in order to reclaim their unused holiday costs. 
In the circumstances, Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs W have done enough to show they 
have a valid claim as it would seem that these costs could be recoverable elsewhere. Taking 
this into account, Im satisfied that it is fair for Great Lakes not to consider the claim at this 
time  so it doesnt have to do anything more.
Mr and Mrs W have said they feel they should be able to claim as this was beyond their 
control. I fully appreciate how frustrating this must be for them and I know my outcome will 
be disappointing. But I cannot ask Great Lakes to consider a claim when it isnt clear that all 
avenues to obtain a refund elsewhere have been pursued. I would suggest Mr and Mrs W 
contact the appropriate organisation to register their request for a refund  I note our 
investigator has already provided some details to them which hopefully will be of assistance. 
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 November 2021. 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman