DRN-2608079
The complaint
Mr B complains about Automobile Association Insurance Services Limiteds (Automobile) 
refusal to offer him a car insurance policy for a price he was originally quoted. Mr B wants 
Automobile to give him a policy using the cheaper quote. 
What happened
Mr B used an online comparison website  who Ill refer to as company M  to renew his car 
insurance. Mr B says, before he could pay, he lost internet connection. When he managed to 
get back online, he resubmitted all of his details using another comparison website  who Ill 
refer to as company C. This time Mr B did take out the policy but, because the quote was 
higher, he complained to Automobile. Automobile responded and said there were a number 
of factors which led to the second quote being higher and didnt uphold the complaint.       
 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr B. He thought Automobile hadnt acted 
unreasonably in not offering Mr B the cheaper quote. Mr B disagreed so the matter has 
come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr B will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
I can see from information provided by Automobile that Mr B obtained a quote from company 
M for £177.04. Mr B didnt take out this policy and 18 days later he used company C to get a 
quote, this time he was quoted £209.93. Mr B took out this policy. 
I understand Mr Bs frustration at being given a different quote but its important to note there 
are clear differences between the factors taken into account for the two quotes Mr B 
receives. The first difference here is the date. Mr B originally obtained a quote in August and 
then another quote over two weeks later. Its not unusual for premiums to increase from one 
day to the next  and in this case, its over two weeks between the two quotes. 
The quotes Mr B receives are from two different comparison sites and are from two different 
insurers. Different insurers take different approaches to risk. Some are more cautious and 
that may mean they price more highly on average than other insurers. Or they may choose 
not to offer policies at all in circumstances where other insurers are willing to offer a low 
premium. This is a choice for each insurer to make and its entitled to be as risk taking or risk 
averse as it sees fit. 
Comparison websites generally show many insurers, each offering a different price for the 
exact same set of circumstances. This shows that each is taking its own approach to 
assessing risk and the result is many different estimates. An insurer will decide what factors 
to take into account and how much weight to put on each of them. Some may use only a few 
factors, others many more. In some cases the data which insurers consider are constantly 
changing to reflect 'live' information. That can mean the same circumstances generate 
different premiums on different days. 
Looking further into the detail provided by Mr B when obtaining both quotes, theres 
differences in the value of the car and annual mileage recorded by Mr B. These are key 
factors which will, understandably and reasonably, change the price of a premium. During 
the original quote, Mr B gives the value of his car as £8,995 and during the later quote he 
gives the value as £10,910. So, its reasonable to expect this will increase the price of the 
premium. 
I note Mr B says he was shocked to learn that no checks, such as the value of the car, are 
carried out during the quote and sale process but its important to point out Automobiles role 
here. The Insurance Product Information Document says Automobile are an insurance 
intermediary and their role is to present products, confirm prices, set up, administer and take 
payment for car insurance. Automobile have also told us all sales are made on a non-
advised basis. This means they dont make any personal recommendations and leave a 
customer to decide how they wish to proceed when taking out insurance. 
When details are entered onto a comparison site, the quote provided is based on the 
information the customer has provided as being accurate. Verification checks wont be made 
at this stage to check things like the value of a car. I note Mr Bs concern that he feels 
Automobile are hiding behind entries made by him on an internet form. I have taken this 
into account but I dont think its unfair and unreasonable for Automobile to rely on 
information provided by Mr B. Comparison sites are designed to help promote consumer 
choice by giving them access to a wide range of insurers. Theyre designed to be a quick 
and easy way to get quotes for a range of insurance products. The information is entered by 
Mr B online and without any involvement by Automobile. So, taking this into account I dont 
think its unreasonable for Automobile to have not carried out any checks during the original 
quote and then the subsequent sale process. 
In summary, I dont think Automobile have acted unfairly or unreasonably in not offering Mr B 
the cheaper quote.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman