DRN-3551198
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Santander UK Plc restricted their account unfairly and they
discriminated against Mr S due to his age.
What happened
Mr S visited a branch of Santander to make a large cash withdrawal, which he says hes
regularly made every three months for a number of years. Mr S says he was asked for the
reason for his cash withdrawal, but as he resented the question, he refused to answer this.
Mr S says he was told that the questions were being asked in line with Santanders new law,
but he refused to comply and informed the staff member he would return to collect the
money and close his account. He says that he was told to wait 48 hours to return.
The following day, Mr S received a call from Santander, wanting to know the reason for the
withdrawal. Mr S refused to answer the question. On 8 July 2021, Mr S returned to the
branch to withdraw the funds and to close the account. He said he was subjected to a one
hour wait while a member of staff attempted to speak to their security team to release the
funds. Due to the time being taken, the staff member suggested to Mr S to return home and
they would contact Mr S when the permission had been granted to release the funds.
Mr S received a phone call later that afternoon to inform him his funds were ready to collect.
Mr S said that during the call, he reiterated that he was not prepared to attend the branch
and then be asked further questions. Mr S says the call handler assured him the process
would be brief and efficient, however, when Mr S returned to the branch, he said he had to
wait for another hour and they refused to release the funds. Mr S says he was informed that
Santander had restricted his account.
Mr S contacted Santander the following day to enquire why his account had been restricted,
but he says the call handler didnt know why. Mr S made a complaint to Santander. The
restriction was lifted on 13 July 2021, when Mrs S showed Santander staff her passport and
told them the reason for the withdrawal.
Santander did not uphold the complaint. They said that in this particular instance, they had
no alternative, but to suspend the account as Mr S refused to assist Santander. They said
they needed to follow certain legal and regulatory obligations and it was not always possible
to provide customers of an explanation for the reasons for an account being suspended, or
to give a timeframe of the completion of their investigation.
Mr and Mrs S brought their complaint to our service. Mr S said that Santander discriminated
against him by not releasing the funds to him and said they showed ageism, as they
released the funds  and allowed an increased cash withdrawal amount  to Mrs S who is
younger than him, based on a simple explanation she gave them  and their staff did not ask
her for proof of her reasoning.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. She said that Santander had acted within their
terms and conditions by restricting the account. Mr S asked for an Ombudsman to review
their complaint. He made a number of points, in summary he said he faced a number of
financial difficulties when his account was suspended for seven days, he had never been
subjected to interrogation from the staff when he had previously attempted to make the
same withdrawal, Santander showed ageism by allowing the younger Mrs S to withdraw the
funds but not himself, Santander contravened his rights by restricting the account and not
giving him a reason for why they restricted the account.
Mr S also added that Santander had wasted his time by being asked to return to the branch
on two separate occasions, with the understanding that his money would be ready for
collection, only to leave empty handed with no explanation for the reason he was unable to
access his money. Mr S said the time he had spent on the phone with Santander was
increasingly exasperating and he said their telephone complaints are impossible to navigate.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S have made a number of points to both Santander and this service and Ive
considered and read everything theyve said and sent us. But, in line with this services role
as a quick and informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of their complaint in deciding whats
fair and reasonable here.
Ive considered what Mr and Mrs S have said about how their complaint was handled by
Santander and the telephone complaints service being impossible to navigate. But as
complaint handling is generally not a regulated activity, it falls outside of my powers to rule
on how a business handles their complaints procedure.
Ive considered what Mr S has said regarding Santander not releasing the funds to him is
based on age discrimination. I must make it clear to Mr and Mrs S that discrimination is a
matter of law, set out in the Equality Act. Its for the courts to make findings on matters of
law, and it wouldnt be appropriate for me to make a finding that Santander acted in breach
of the Act. Although I am required to take law into account, if its relevant, in deciding whats
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of a complaint.
Here though, Im satisfied that Mr S was treated fairly in his original interaction with the
branch and Im not persuaded that Santander contravened his rights by restricting his
account. I say this as although Mr S was unable to withdraw the funds, Santander have
regulations that they need to follow. One of these is ensuring their customers are not a victim
of a scam  regardless of their age.
While Mr S has said he regularly makes this withdrawal every three months, I wouldnt
expect all of the branch staff to be aware of Mr Ss regular withdrawal patterns. But even if
they were, Im satisfied they were still entitled to ask Mr S the reason for his withdrawal 
and they could deem it suspicious or that pressure was being applied to Mr S to make a
withdrawal when he wouldnt provide a reason.
It may help to explain to Mr and Mrs S that new scams occur frequently and therefore staff
may be aware of a similar scenario of a regular customer frequently withdrawing cash from
the counter, only to have been victim of a scam. So I dont think its unreasonable for
Santander to try and protect their customers here. While there wasnt a new Santander
law, Santander are required to be aware of scams and ask questions to safeguard their
customers against scams and fraud.
The terms of Mr and Mrs Ss account explain that Santander has the ability to refuse apayment instruction if it may place (Santander) in breach of any legislation or law or (they)
reasonably suspect that it may result in any regulatory action against (them) in any
jurisdiction. Their terms and conditions do allow them to not specify the reason to refuse a
payment instruction in certain instances also.
So I think it was fair for Santander to want to perform some checks to make sure this was a
genuine transaction in the circumstances. That would, of course, cause Mr S some
inconvenience  as it would any customer. But thats not to say that Santander wasnt
entitled to perform further checks  I think they were and I think they did so fairly.
Im persuaded the reason that Santander lifted the restrictions on the account was because
Mrs S explained to the staff what the withdrawal was being used for and not based on her
age compared to Mr S. While Santander did not ask for proof of the reason given, Im
satisfied this is because they believed the reason Mrs S gave them was genuine and they
didnt need to see proof of this. I cant say Santander treated Mr S differently as he had
never given them a reason for the withdrawal.
Ive considered what Mr and Mr S have said about not being subjected to these questions
before. But Ive been provided system notes from Santander which confirm that on 22 April
2021, when a £5,000 bill payment was being attempted, that Santander asked them
questions to find out if the transaction was a scam. So I cant agree that theyve never been
asked these types of questions previously  although this may have been the first time they
were asked these questions in the branch.
Santander have provided me a copy of the screens their staff complete when they suspect a
customer may be victim of a scam. I can confirm these do not refer to somebodys age and
the questions they ask are not age related. So Im satisfied Santander treated Mr S just like
they would do any other customer in these circumstances.
Ive also considered what Mr and Mrs S have said about the impact the restrictions had on
them. While I can understand it would impact them, not being able to transfer money or
withdraw large amounts of cash from the branch counter, Im persuaded that Santander
were entitled to take the action they did to protect Mr and Mrs S when they suspected that
they may be falling victim to a scam based on the terms and conditions of the account.
The restriction did not fully block transactions entering and leaving their account, as I can
see from the transactions that Santander have provided me that Mrs S was able to use a
cash machine to withdraw money using her card during the five day period of the restriction
on their account  Santander confirmed that the account was restricted between 8 July -13
July 2021.
I can also see that direct debits left their account also during this period. So while Ive read
what they have said about the impact this had on them, I cant hold Santander responsible
for this when they didnt give Santander further information which they asked them. Im
satisfied if the required information wouldve been provided earlier then Santander wouldve
lifted the restriction earlier, based on them doing so when Mrs S gave them the extra
information.
Ive listened to a call which Mr S was present, on 8 July, when he went into the branch to
make a withdrawal and it was confirmed to him that he would be able to take money for
living expenses, but as Mr S was wanting to withdraw £20,000, Santander were unable to
agree to this amount. Mr S left the branch while the branch staff was on the phone to
authorise a withdrawal. So although Mr S has said this placed him in financial difficulty
during the time the account was restricted, he did have the option to take money for his living
expenses, but he didnt take them up on this.Finally, Ive considered what Mr S has said about his time being wasted by returning to the
branch on two separate occasions to collect his money, only for him to leave empty handed.
Im persuaded that Santander have inconvenienced Mr S here and Ill explain why.
Mr S was given the impression that on 6 July, he could return on 8 July to collect the cash he
wanted to withdraw. But that didnt happen. Prior to this point, the restriction had not been
placed on the account, according to the system notes Ive been provided with. But when he
went into the branch, he was subjected to a one hour wait while a member of staff attempted
to speak to their security team. I dont doubt that Mr S waited for a long time as the staff
member suggested Mr S returned home. While this will have inconvenienced Mr S, he would
have always needed to visit the branch again to collect the money and may have had to
pass security procedures to access the money.
But when Mr S was informed by Santander that he could return to the branch to collect the
cash, he says he informed the call handler he was not prepared to answer further questions
and the call handler said the process would be brief and efficient. I can understand why the
call handler would be under the impression that everything was resolved based on the
security notes Ive been provided with (although I cant go into detail here about Santanders
specific security processes), so Im persuaded that the call handler had good intentions of
what he told Mr S, but he set an expectation that Mr S would be able to withdraw the cash
he wanted in an efficient manner.
But thats not what happened. Mr S had to wait for another hour and Santander wouldnt
release the funds and they restricted his account. While Santander were entitled to restrict
the account, they had also told Mr S that he could have the cash with minimal fuss, only to
inconvenience Mr S to go back into the branch after his previous visit, then wait, then be told
that he wouldnt be able to access the funds apart from living expenses.
So Im persuaded that Santander should recognise the impact this inconvenience would
have on Mr S and to pay him compensation to apologise for this. Im satisfied that £100
would recognise the inconvenience of returning to the branch, only to need to wait and then
leave without any money. While Mr S walked out of the branch while the branch staff was on
the phone on his behalf still, this will be because of his frustration of being inconvenienced,
so it follows I intend to ask Santander to put things right here.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Santander responded and they said they had nothing to add. Mr and Mrs S 
responded to my provisional decision. They made a number of points. In summary they said 
it is a sham to draw in the unsuspecting customer for the bank for them to do as they please 
without fear of consequence or repercussion, they commented on some of the lack of 
powers which our service has in terms of complaint handling and acts of breaching the law.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr and Mrs S have said regarding Santander doing as they please 
without any fear of consequences or repercussions. Id like to emphasise that this service is 
not the regulator. Nor do we act as the enforcer for the regulator. The regulator is the 
Financial Conduct Authority. Our service acts as an informal dispute resolution service for 
complaints about financial businesses. We look at the circumstances of individual complaints 
and, on a case by case basis, taking into account relevant industry guidance for example, 
make findings about whether a financial business has failed their customer in any way.Where we find they have, we make awards designed to make the business put things right 
with the complainant customer. Our awards are not designed to punish a business or to 
make it change the way it acts in order to protect other customers in the future. That is the 
role of the regulator.
I know Mr and Mrs S have said that I have supported Santander. But my role is to be 
impartial. I have upheld Mr and Mrs Ss complaint in part, and I explained in my provisional 
decision that Santander had provided poor customer service particularly to Mr S. So I hope 
this reassures Mr and Mrs S that I have looked at this complaint based on all of the evidence 
available to me.
Ive considered what Mr and Mrs S has said about our powers and what we can and cant 
look at, especially breaches of the law. But as I mentioned in my provisional decision, I must 
make it clear to Mr and Mrs S that discrimination is a matter of law, set out in the Equality 
Act. Its for the courts to make findings on matters of law, and it wouldnt be appropriate for 
me to make a finding that Santander acted in breach of the Act. Mr and Mrs S are free to 
take Santander to court if they wish to do so. Our service is intended to be a quick and 
informal body and it is an alternative to a court.
In summary, Mr and Mrs Ss response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and 
reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know Mr and Mrs S will be 
disappointed, but I hope they understand my reasons.
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to ask Santander to pay Mr and Mrs S £100 for 
inconvenience. Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome for the reasons given previously.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part. Santander UK Plc should pay Mr and Mrs S £100 for 
inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman