DRN-1252003
The complaint
Mr H says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr H bought the policy at some point between 1994 and 2000 to cover a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint for the following reasons.
The PPI was sold a long time ago. Understandably there are limited records from the time. 
As such I dont think theres enough evidence for me to conclude that Lloyds didn't make Mr 
H aware that he had a choice about buying the PPI, that he didn't choose to take it, or that 
Lloyds pressured him into taking it. And I don't think it would be fair and reasonable to 
uphold the complaint based solely on Mr H's recollection of something that happened over 
twenty years ago.
We dont know how the PPI was sold, so Ive assumed that Lloyds recommended the PPI to 
Mr H. That means Lloyds should've checked the PPI was right for Mr H. While he had some 
sick pay and savings, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of this. That wouldve left Mr Hs sick 
pay available for other things. His sick pay would also have reduced to half his normal salary 
after six months, so without the PPI he may have struggled after that. 
The PPI wouldve protected his savings, because he wouldn't have had to use them to make 
his credit card repayments. So, the PPI seems to have been right for him based on what Ive 
seen of his circumstances at the time. And even if Lloyds didn't check if it was right for him, 
he's not lost out as a result. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr H about the PPI wasn't as clear as it shouldve 
been. But Mr H doesn't appear to have been affected by any of the main things the policy 
didn't cover  and based on what I know about his circumstances it looks like the policy 
couldve been useful to him. So, I dont think better information wouldve stopped him buying 
it. 
Ive taken into account Mr Hs comments, including what hes said about how he thinks the 
PPI would never have paid out while he was receiving sick pay. But Mr H has misunderstood 
the cover provided. The PPI would have paid out alongside his sick pay  so, his employee 
benefits wouldn't have stopped him from claiming. The PPI also covered unemployment and wouldve paid off the credit card if he had died. So, Mr H's comments dont change my 
conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman