DRN-2670849
The complaint
Miss H complains that One Sure Insurance Limited didnt cancel her commercial motor 
insurance policy when she asked and then took money from her account.
What happened
Miss Hs policy with One Sure came up for renewal. Miss H and One Sure exchanged 
correspondence about this and then the policy was automatically renewed. Twelve days 
later, Miss H asked for the policy to be cancelled. A week later, One Sure asked Miss H for 
further information but she didnt respond. It later cancelled the policy and applied charges. 
One Sure collected the outstanding balance owed from Miss Hs account. She said this 
caused her financial difficulties. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Miss H was 
aware of the automatic renewal and One Sure had acted fairly in renewing her policy. But he 
thought Miss H had told One Sure she wanted to cancel her policy during the cooling off 
period and that One Sure should have acted on this. 
So he thought One Sure should only charge Miss H the relevant fees and for her time on 
cover and refund her the remaining amount with interest. He also thought One Sure should 
pay Miss H £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by it taking money from her 
account without warning and so causing her financial difficulties. 
One Sure replied that it needed to speak to Miss H before it could cancel the policy, but she 
didnt respond. It said it had notified Miss H that the payment for the outstanding balance 
would be taken. One Sure asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to 
me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the brokers acted in line with the 
terms of business and fairly and reasonably.
I think its clear that Miss H knew her policy was to be automatically renewed as she queried 
the premium with One Sure. I cant see that Miss H objected to the renewal at that stage. 
And so I cant say that One Sure acted unfairly or unreasonably in renewing the policy. But I 
dont think One Sure acted fairly or reasonably when Miss H asked for her policy to be 
cancelled. Ill now explain why I think this.
I can see that One Sures terms of business state the following under Cancellation:
You should make any request for the cancellation of a policy to the contact details included 
within this terms of business either by letter, email or phone.
One Sure said it called Miss H a week after she emailed it to request cancellation to seek 
further information. But I cant see that this is a requirement of the terms of business and so 
it shouldnt affect the date the cancellation was made. 
Instead, One Sure let the policy continue beyond the cooling off period. I dont think that was 
fair or reasonable. I think Miss H had requested the cancellation of her policy within the 14 
day cooling off period and so these cancellation terms should be applied. 
One Sures terms of business further state: 
If your insurance policy is cancelled, either by us or if requested by yourself a cancellation 
fee of £85.00 will be levied against all policies unless you are replacing your policy through 
our agency. No fees previously charged by us will be refundable. In addition to the charges 
levied by us, the terms of your policy may allow insurers to retain the premium in full or to 
charge short-period premiums in the event of cancellation. Please refer to your insurance 
policy wording for the terms for your particular policy. Please note that we do not provide any 
refund for any Legal Assistance Packages sold, unless this is within the 14 day cooling off 
period. You will be required to pay any debit balance. If you fail to settle a debit balance 
promptly, we will use any credit debit card details that you have previously authorised us to 
use in order to settle the balance.
The list of charges clarifies that the £85 cancellation charge will only be applied if a policy is 
cancelled outside the 14 day cooling off period. And I can see that the insurer applied pro-
rata charges for time on cover and no cancellation fee. So I think One Sure should have 
reasonably charged Miss H for her 13 days on cover before she cancelled, its arrangement 
fee and relevant interest. Instead, it debited £690.35 from her account. 
One Sures terms of business do say that it will do this if a consumer fails to settle a debit 
balance promptly. But I dont think it was fair for One Sure to take such a sum from Miss Hs 
account without warning her that it intended to do this. The result was that Miss H was left 
without enough funds for her bills and had the embarrassment of having to ask family and 
friends to assist. 
One Sure said that Miss H had been unresponsive and had changed her story about why 
she wanted the policy cancelled. But I dont think this is a relevant explanation for it not 
acting promptly on Miss Hs request for cancellation. 
Putting things right
1. I think One Sure should only charge Miss H the fees and time on risk that should have 
been applied when Miss H cancelled her policy within the cooling off period. So I require 
One Sure to reimburse Miss H the difference between this amount and what it has 
already taken.
2. Miss H has been without her money for some time, so I require One Sure to add interest 
to this reimbursement at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date the money was 
debited to the date of payment.
3. One Sures debiting of Miss Hs account without adequate notification has caused her 
hardship and embarrassment. I require One Sure to pay Miss H £200 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused. This is in keeping with what Id award in similar 
circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require One 
Sure Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman