DRN-4071505
The complaint
Mr L complains that HSBC Bank UK Bank Plc recorded inaccurate information about his 
loan and credit card accounts with the credit reference agencies (CRA).
What happened
Mr L held a loan and credit card with HSBC. He says:
Due to the covid pandemic he lost his job. He contacted HSBC in 2020 to discuss his 
loan and credit card accounts as he was unable to make the required monthly 
repayments.
HSBC agreed a covid payment holiday on both accounts from December 2020 to 
November 2021, but it recorded missed payments on his credit file.
He contacted HSBC in November 2021 to discuss his payments to the loan and 
credit card. But an affordability assessment completed by HSBC indicated he 
couldnt afford to meet the contractual payments. He had secured new employment 
in September 2021, but his new salary was less than his previous job.
He agreed a new payment plan on the basis he was told his credit file wouldnt be 
negatively impacted. He later found out that HSBC had recorded further missed 
payments on his credit file. If hed been told the payment plan would impact his credit 
file, he wouldnt have taken it as a family member had offered to help him.
He agreed to a debt consolidation loan in June 2022, but HSBC still recorded missed 
payments in June and July 2022.As a result of all the adverse data recorded on his 
credit file, his ability to remortgage to a better mortgage interest rate has been 
negatively affected causing a financial loss and distress and inconvenience.
HSBC has said:
It provided Mr L with a covid payment holiday for three months in August, September 
and October 2020.
Mr L contacted it again in December 2020 as his financial circumstances hadnt 
changed. Mr Ls circumstances didnt look like they would improve in the short-term, 
so it agreed a payment break from December 2020 to March 2021. This was later 
extended.
In November 2021, an income and expenditure assessment indicated Mr L was still 
unable to meet his loan and credit card payments. A new plan was agreed, and Mr L 
was told during the telephone call that this would impact his credit file. When 
responding to Mr Ls complaint, it said it would amend Mr Ls credit file to show a 
payment plan rather than missed payments.
The plan expired in May 2022 and a debt consolidation loan was agreed in June 
2022.
When Mr L referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into the events 
from November 2021 as this is what HSBCs initial final response letter addressed. He was 
satisfied that HSBC had told Mr L  during a telephone call in November 2021, that the new 
payment plan would impact his credit file. He noted that HSBC had agreed to amend Mr Ls 
credit file to show a payment arrangement rather than missed payments, but he also thought 
the matter had caused Mr L distress and inconvenience. So, he recommended HSBC should 
pay £100 compensation.
HSBC didnt accept everything the investigator had said. But it was willing to agree to pay 
£100 compensation as a gesture of goodwill. Mr L didnt accept the outcome. He said that: 
HSBC had recorded missed payments on his credit file since a covid payment holiday had 
been agreed in December 2020; hed had to take a debt consolidation loan with HSBC; his 
overdraft had been withdrawn; and hed been unable to re-mortgage to a better interest rate 
deal as a result.
The investigator didnt think what had happened before November 2021 was part of the 
complaint hed looked at. But Mr L said his complaint had always been about HSBC 
recording missed payments on his credit file from December 2020. As agreement couldnt be 
reached, Mr Ls complaint was passed me to decide. And a new complaint was set up to 
cover the period from 2020 to November 2021.
When Mr Ls complaint was passed to me, I reviewed the complaint looked into by our 
investigator, and Mr Ls subsequent comments about the events prior to November 2021. 
And I felt the outcome of both complaints were linked. So, both complaints were bought 
together, and I addressed both complaints by issuing a provisional decision to give both 
parties the opportunity to respond.
What I said in my provisional decision dated 16 March 2023
Firstly, I think it would be helpful to explain to Mr L the difference between a lenders normal
obligations when a consumer is in financial difficulty and the temporary financial assistance
that was introduced by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in April 2020 because of the
covid pandemic.
In normal circumstances, when a consumer is in financial difficulty a lender is obliged to treat
the consumer positively and sympathetically. There are no set remedies that a lender should
agree to but, generally, this might include such things as (but not limited to): accepting
reduced payments or no payments for a while; suspending interest and charges; reducing
interest rates and/or subsequently defaulting the account. Where such measures are taken,
the lender is obliged to report this to the credit reference agencies (CRA).
During the pandemic, the FCA released temporary guidance to lenders (covid relief). It
initially said that a lender should offer consumers facing financial difficulties due to the
pandemic a three-month payment deferral (payment holiday) and that such an agreement
shouldnt be recorded with the CRA. But interest could still be charged.
The guidelines were later extended. This meant consumers could take a maximum of six
months payment holidays from March 2020 (in two three-month tranches) without any
impact to their credit file. But the last three-month tranche had to be completed by
31 July 2021. This was also subject to the consumers financial difficulties being short-term. If
the lender identified that the consumers financial difficulties were more long-term, it was
required to consider other assistance which was more tailored to the individualscircumstances.
Im sorry to hear the impact of the covid pandemic had on Mr Ls financial circumstances.
And that he is now experiencing problems re-mortgaging because of information recorded
on his credit file. So, Ive looked into whether HSBC has done anything wrong and, if so, if
that prevented Mr L from re-mortgaging to a lower interest rate.
2020  November 2021
From what Ive seen its clear both parties have a different version of events during this
timeframe. Mr L says the covid payment holiday started in December 2020 and ended in
November 2021. Whereas HSBC say the covid payment holiday was for three months 
August, September, and October 2020. And from December 2020 a payment break was
granted and subsequently extended.
So, Ive looked at the credit file report Mr L has provided to us. Unfortunately, this doesnt
show what HSBC recorded in 2020. But Ive looked at Mr Ls loan and credit card
transactions from mid-2020 onwards. And I can see that payments werent made in August,
September, and October 2020. And HSBC has provided its records pertaining to the contact
it had with Mr L in November 2020. This indicates Mr L was seeking a covid payment holiday
extension due to the second covid lockdown in the UK in November 2020. So, overall, Im
persuaded that Mr L was given a three-month covid payment holiday in August 2020 as
HSBC has said. In doing so, Im persuaded HSBC treated him fairly at this point.
The contact note from November 2020 also suggests HSBC reversed the direct debit that
had been debited from Mr Ls account earlier in November and that any late payment
markers recorded on his credit file (because of the November payment) would be removed if
a covid payment holiday extension was agreed. I also find this to be fair as HSBC action is in
line with the temporary FCA guidance. But from what Ive seen a covid payment holiday
extension wasnt agreed. So, Ive given careful thought to HSBCs decision not to provide
Mr L with a covid payment holiday extension was fair.
Its clear that Mr L was having on-going discussions with HSBC in November and
December 2020. I dont have a call recording from December 2020. But I have been
provided with the call recording from April 2021. In this call Im satisfied that Mr L tells HSBC
that he still hasnt secured new employment and the income and expenditure completed at
the time showed that Mr L didnt have the income to meet his loan and credit card payments.
As this was the case in April 2021, I have no reason to think Mr Ls circumstances were any
different in December 2020. Overall, Im persuaded that Mr Ls financial problems were more
long-term and, as mentioned above, the FCA guidance said that other  more suitable
remedies, should be considered when a customers financial problems appear more long-
term. So, Ive not found that HSBC did anything wrong when it didnt extend Mr Ls covid
payment holiday in December 2020.
But its clear Mr L believes that a covid payment holiday extension was agreed and, as a
result adverse data shouldnt have been recorded on his credit file from December 2020 to
November 2021. But I dont agree with Mr Ls recollections. Even if HSBC had agreed a
further covid payment holiday in December 2020, as I explained above, the maximum period
available would have been a further three months  until March 2021 and not
November 2021.
But I have gone on to the think about what happened from December 2020 to decide if
HSBC treated Mr L fairly and if it did enough to put Mr L on notice that he was no longer on a
covid payment holiday and the impact that any other support provided would have on hiscredit file.
HSBC has provided a copy of letter it sent Mr L in December 2020. This shows that it offered
Mr L a payment break from 23 December 2020 to 23 March 2021. It also sets out the terms
of the payment break which include the suspension of interest and charges  which is not
something Mr L would have benefited from had he been given a covid payment holiday
extension. But crucially, the letter confirmed the CRA would be updated to show that Mr L
had entered a payment arrangement.
Ive seen that the payment break was extended following the call between Mr L and HSBC in
April 2021. Given Mr Ls financial problems appeared more long-term, Im satisfied that at
this point HSBC treated Mr L fairly  it put a payment break in place and suspended interest
and charges. And it did enough to ensure Mr L was on notice that the from December 2020
his credit file would show he was in an arrangement to pay.
Its not in dispute that HSBC recorded missed payments on Mr Ls credit file for this period.
But Ive seen that it has already made some amendments to Mr Ls credit file because of his
subsequent complaint. And in responding to our most recent enquiries HSBC has said it will
ensure both the loan and credit cards show on Mr Ls credit file as being in an arrangement
to pay until November 2021. In light of my findings above, I think this fairly represents what
happened on Mr Ls accounts at this time.
November 2021 until the consolidation loan was agreed.
Mr L says that HSBC didnt tell him that his credit file would be impacted when he agreed to
a payment arrangement in November 2021. The investigator who looked into this part of
Mr Ls complaint thought that HSBC had told Mr L that his credit file would be affected. I
dont entirely agree with that.
Having listened to the call, I dont think HSBC was as clear as it could have been. While I
accept there is some reference to the implications on Mr Ls credit file, Im satisfised that
Mr L hadnt heard what was said and he asked more questions about it. And Im not
persuaded from what HSBC said that Mr L would have totally understood that the new plan
would have an impact on his credit file. And the letters that directly followed that call dont
make any reference to this either. In this regard, Mr L has said that if hed known his credit
file would be impacted he wouldnt have taken the new plan as a family member would have
been able to help him meet his contractual payments as he needed to clear credit file to
re-mortgage.
I havent been provided with enough evidence to certain if Mr L could have relied on a family
member to make his payments until such a time that he was able to meet them himself.
While Mr L had found a new job, his salary was less than it was before, and an income and
expenditure assessment still showed he had a deficit of income. 
So, the support he wouldve needed from a family member would have been considerable 
given the amount of Mr Ls contractual payments and the amounts outstanding on his loan 
and credit card. Overall, I think its more likely he would have always taken the new plan 
even if HSBC had been clearer about the impact on his credit file. So, Im satisfied that Mr 
Ls credit file should show he was in an arrangement with HSBC from November 2021.
But even if Mr L could have relied on a family member, Im not persuaded this would make a
difference to Mr Ls attempts to re-mortgage to a better interest rate. To uphold Mr Ls
complaint that HSBC caused him a financial loss as he couldnt re-mortgage, I need to be
satisfied that HSBCs error in a) recording missed payments from December 2020 and b) in
not being clear enough about the impact on a new arrangement in November 2021, wouldhave to be the sole reason he was unable to re-mortgage. And Im not persuade thats the
case here.
As mentioned above, by November 2021, Mr Ls credit file would have already shown hed
been in a payment arrangement for nearly a year. I accept that at the time missed
repayments had been recorded as opposed to an arrangement. But Im not persuaded that a
mortgage lender would have looked any more favourably on a payment arrangement
showing on Mr Ls credit file. While an arrangement shows a customer is in contact with their
lender and is committed to repaying their outstanding borrowing, both markers suggest the
borrower has struggled to pay the contractual repayments due. And in Mr Ls case, he had
struggled  all be it for circumstances beyond his control, over an extended period. So
overall, it follows that I dont find that HSBC is responsible for the loss Mr L says he has
incurred. 
May 2022 onwards
Mr L says HSBC also recorded missed payments on his credit file in June and July 2022.
Having looked at Mr Ls credit file, I cant see any missed payments were recorded by HSBC
in relation to Mr Ls credit card. But I do agree that arrears have been recorded in relation to
his loan account. And Ive seen that this around this time Mr L was in a discussion with
HSBC about the consolidation loan which was subsequently put in place. So, while
payments were missed as Mr L was in the process of agreeing a consolidation loan, I dont
think this fairly reflects what was happening at the time.
In HSBCs most recent response to this service, it has said it will amend Mr Ls credit file
records about the loan account to show that a payment arrangement was still in place until
the loan was settled to match the credit card records. Im persuaded this fairly reflects the
status of Mr Ls loan account.
Having said that, for the reasons given above, Im persuaded that HSBC hasnt always
recorded correct information on Mr Ls credit file. And it wasnt always as clear as it should
have been when giving information during a telephone conversation. So, it follows Im
persuaded that this has caused Mr L distress and inconvenience as a result of having to
contact HSBC to put things right.
Having thought about this and taking into account that Ive not found that HSBCs errors
impacted on Mr Ls ability to re-mortgage, but it has taken some time for his credit file to be
fully amended, I think a compensation payment of £200 fairly reflects the impact caused to
Mr L.
Responses to my provisional decision
HSBC accepted my provisional decision. But Mr L didnt agree that the £200 compensation 
was fair. In summary he said: 
the compensation payment only covers the monthly cost of obtaining the credit 
reports needed to support his complaint. And doesnt compensate him for the time 
taken calling HSBC to sort this matter out, and the mixed information HSBC 
provided.
The second complaint raised with HSBC was handled badly and HSBCs response 
stated incorrect information.His family was in a financial position to help him. 
HSBC removed two missed payments in 2022 but other missed payments are still 
showing on his credit report.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything again, including the most recent comments, Ive reached the 
same overall conclusion as set out in my provisional decision. My comments below are in 
addition to my findings set out in my provisional decision, so I wont repeat them in detail 
again here.   
Its not in dispute that Mr L was in financial difficulty and needed help with his loan and credit 
card account payments. And for the reasons given in my provisional decision I find that 
HSBC met its obligations in terms of the support it provided to Mr L from August 2020 
onwards when taking into account its usual obligations to treat a consumers financial 
difficulties positively and sympathetically and the temporary covid relief guidance. 
Mr Ls main concern is that HSBC recorded adverse data on his credit file. For the reasons 
set out in my provisional decision, Im satisfied that Mr Ls covid payment holiday was for 
three months in late 2020. And Ive not seen anything that would make me think that HSBC 
recorded adverse data on Mr Ls credit file while the covid payment holiday was in place. So, 
I dont find HSBC did anything at this point. 
But Ive found that from December 2020 the support provided by HSBC wasnt covid relief. 
The support provided was offered in line with the normal financial difficulty regulations. And 
when such support is given, Im satisfied that HSBC has an obligation to report this to the 
credit reference agencies. That said, I would expect HSBC to have made Mr L aware of the 
impact such support would have on his credit file.
Mr L says HSBC didnt make the impact clear and had it done so, he wouldnt have taken 
the support offered. Rather, he would have opted for financial support from his family. So, 
Ive thought carefully about this. 
As I previously mentioned, I dont have a recording of the call from December 2020, but I 
have seen copies of the correspondence that was sent to Mr L after the call. And Ive found 
that the correspondence made it clear that there would an impact on Mr Ls credit file. Mr L 
hasnt said he didnt receive this correspondence, so while I cant be certain what was 
discussed during the call, Im satisfied that HSBC provided enough information in writing to 
make Mr L aware of the impact a payment break would have on his credit file. And Ive not 
seen anything to suggest that Mr L contacted HSBC on receipt of the correspondence, so 
Im persuaded Mr L accepted the payment break on those terms at that time. 
As set out in my provisional decision I accept that HSBC could have made the further impact 
on Mr Ls credit file clearer than it did in November 2021. But even if Mr L had been able to 
get support from his family at this time, his credit file would have already been impacted by 
the payment break hed already had. 
I acknowledge that HSBC recorded missed payments on Mr Ls credit file as opposed to an 
arrangement to pay for the time period these later arrangements were in place. But for the 
reasons given in my provisional decision, Im not persuaded that a mortgage lender would 
have looked any more favourably on a payment arrangement showing on Mr Ls credit file. 
So overall, Im not persuaded that HSBC is responsible for the loss Mr L says he has 
incurred due to the information recorded on his credit file. Mr L has referred the way in which HSBC handled his complaints  particularly, HSBCs 
response to his second complaint. But complaint handling isnt a regulated activity so not 
something this service generally comments on. However, I can assure Mr L that I didnt rely 
on HSBCs final response to his second complaint, so he hasnt been disadvantaged by the 
way that complaint was addressed by HSBC. I have reviewed all the information provided by 
HSBC pertaining to Mr Ls accounts and what Mr L has provided and told us to reach my 
own conclusions about what happened.
Mr L would like HSBC to reimburse him for the costs he's incurred subscribing to a credit 
reference agency service. I don't find I can fairly or reasonably require HSBC to do this 
though. I say this because, as I understand it, there are ways to access credit file data for 
free. Mr L could, therefore, have avoided these costs.  
Mr L has mentioned that missed payments are still showing on his credit. HSBC have 
agreed  while the complaint has been with us, that it will amend Mr Ls credit file to show a 
payment arrangement rather than missed payments. HSBC will be required to make these 
changes upon Mr Ls acceptance of this final decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Ls complaint.
HSBC UK Bank Plc should now:  
Amend Mr Ls credit file to reflect that he was in an arrangement with HSBC from 
when the covid payment holiday ended until the consolidation loan was put in place 
in August 2022.
Pay Mr L £200 compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience
caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman