DRN-4147725
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy Great Lakes Insurance SE declined his claim for a stolen mobile phone.
What happened
Mr S took out insurance underwritten by Great Lakes in June 2022 to cover his mobile 
phone for accidental damage, theft, and loss.
In July 2022 Mr S travelled to another country. He took his new mobile phone with him and 
used an alternate chip, so he was able to use the local network whilst abroad. Mr S went to 
see his sister and travelled by bus. He used the phone whilst on his journey but upon exiting 
the bus realised that the phone had been stolen.
Mr S said the phone was inside the pocket of the kameez he was wearing. He discovered 
the pocket had been cut and the phone taken. He reported the theft to the local police at the 
time of the incident and made a claim with Great Lakes. 
Great Lakes declined the claim as they felt the claim description and Mr S comments during 
the telephone interview regarding the cutting of his trousers to enable someone to steal the 
device wasnt plausible or a true representation of the facts. So they declined the claim for 
misrepresentation and for providing misleading information to gain approval of his claim. 
They also cancelled his policy.
Mr S referred his concerns to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint, he felt 
Great Lakes should reconsider the claim and pay Mr S £100 compensation. As the 
complaint wasnt resolved it was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision in 
April 2023 which said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to uphold 
the complaint.
Great Lakes have a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly, and they shouldnt 
decline a claim unreasonably. The terms and conditions set out the agreement between 
Mr S and Great Lakes and outline what is and isnt covered.
The policy covers Mr S for theft, it says:
Theft 
Means the taking of the gadget(s) by a third party with the intention of permanently 
depriving you of it, using force, threat of violence or by pickpocket. Theft claims must 
also be accompanied by a valid Police crime reference report. 
Loss property reports and reference numbers on their own will not be accepted in 
support of a Theft claim.
Mr S has provided a police report and has given an account of the events that led to the 
theft. Great Lakes doesnt think the sequence of events that led to the loss is plausible, given 
what he said about the clothing he was wearing and where the phone was at the time of the 
theft. However, I dont agree. 
During the telephone interview Mr S was asked where the phone was at the time of the theft, 
he said it was in his Kameez. The claims handler was trying to understand more about this 
and asked further questions referring to the trousers. Mr S said like a trouser but I think he 
was trying to explain here that the pocket was like you would get in trousers as he had 
referred to the phone being in his kameez, not the pants when initially asked. And the 
traditional clothing he was wearing at the time generally has pockets in the tunic part to the 
garment.
The photographs Ive seen show the pocket in the tunic and there is a visible cut to the right-
hand side pocket. I asked Mr S about this as I note in the telephone interview he said the 
phone was in his left hand pocket. He said that he had made a mistake during the interview 
with the case handler. He had received some upsetting news beforehand which had caused 
him stress, so he didnt realise at the time he had given the wrong pocket information. But he 
had provided photographs of the clothes showing the cut.
Whilst incorrect information was given in relation to the pocket the explanation provided for 
this is understandable in the circumstances and details of how the theft took place have 
been consistent. Having looked into how the pocket would sit when standing, I think it is 
possible the phone was taken in the manner Mr S explains. I say this because the pocket 
tends to hang quite loose and is visible and accessible via the split in the tunic at the side. 
So its possible an experienced thief would know where to look and how to access the 
pocket easily and quickly. My understanding is that as the garment is loose, it isnt as easy 
to feel when something has been removed and the manner in which it was taken wouldve 
been quick. So I think the explanation provided is plausible.
Following the theft Mr S reported it to the police and has provided a police report so has 
complied with the terms and conditions of the policy.
Overall, I think the explanation provided about the theft is plausible for the reasons 
explained, so I dont think Great Lakes have fairly declined the claim. However, I dont agree 
they should pay Mr S £100 compensation. Whilst I dont underestimate the stress Mr S was 
under at the time, given what hes explained. And I can see he has been put to some 
inconvenience, there was some confusion in the initial interview which appears to have led 
Great Lakes to the outcome reached. And Ive not seen anything to show their actions have 
caused anymore impact that that of the nuisances of having to go through a claims process. 
My provisional decision
For the reasons explained, I intend to uphold this complaint and direct Great Lakes 
Insurance SE to reassess the claim under the remaining terms and conditions. Great Lakes 
Insurance SE should also remove any internal or external markers that relate to fraud if 
added. But Ill consider any further submissions provided by 17 May 2023 before finalising 
my decision.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr S didnt have any further comments for consideration. Great Lakes shared concerns as 
they felt the damage to the pocket looked like a rip not a clean cut that they felt would be 
required to not be noticed. They also commented on where the slit in the tunic stops and that 
they didnt feel the theft took place as described as the thief wouldve needed long flexible 
arms or a two-handed operation to cut the pocket and take the phone.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having further considered all the evidence and Great Lakes observations and comments, 
Ive decided to uphold the complaint. I want to assure Great Lakes that I have taken what 
theyve said seriously. However, along with declining the claim theyve suggested Mr S has 
committed fraud in bringing this claim. This is a very serious allegation to make and one that 
requires significant evidence to support it, as it can have significant and long-lasting 
consequences to Mr S.
Where there is conflicting evidence and a lack of information to support specifically the 
circumstances of the event, I need to decide  based on the balance of probabilities  what I 
consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence available. In circumstances 
such as these where an allegation of fraud has been made, there is a need for a higher 
burden of proof given the seriousness of the situation.
Im not an expert on clothing but I have consulted people who have worn a kameez to 
understand more about it and how the pocket hangs and is visible when worn. And having 
done so, Im satisfied that it is possible the theft couldve occurred in the manner Mr S 
explained. Mr S said that the bus was very busy and given the overall circumstances of the 
theft, it is also possible that more than one person was involved in cutting the pocket and 
taking the device. I recognise Great Lakes feel the pocket looks torn as opposed to cut. But 
the garment is only visible through photographs, based on those photographs I can see what 
appears to be a slit in the pocket. And Im satisfied it supports Mr S testimony. 
Other than concerns that Mr S comments during the telephone interview regarding the 
cutting of his trousers to enable someone to steal the device wasnt plausible or a true 
representation of the facts, or the damage done to the garment, Great Lakes havent 
detailed anything else to specifically support their allegations. Based on the available 
evidence and for the reasons explained, I think it is possible the device was stolen in the 
manner Mr S described and therefore feel Great Lakes havent declined the claim fairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to 
reassess the claim under the remaining terms and conditions. Great Lakes Insurance SE 
should also remove any internal or external markers that relate to fraud if added.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2023. 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman