DRN-2767422
The complaint
Mr O complains that Lloyds Bank PLC incorrectly recorded a default on his credit file.
What happened
Mr O says Lloyds incorrectly recorded the date of a default on his credit file. He says he also 
paid interest that he should not have, and the effect of the mistake meant he paid a higher 
interest rate on car finance agreements. Mr O says Lloyds compensation offer doesnt go far 
enough and he calculates he should be paid just over £9,400.
Lloyds accepts making a mistake with the default date and by charging interest when it 
should not have. Its apologised and paid £500 compensation and refunded interest of just 
under £850.
Mr O brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought Lloyds had apologised and 
paid an appropriate compensation amount. The investigator didnt think it possible to say 
what interest rate Mr O would have been offered were it not for the mistake and thought one 
of the car finance agreements was in joint names with Mr Os wife.
Mr O doesnt accept that view and says the compensation ought to be much higher.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Lloyds has dealt fairly with this 
complaint. I appreciate Mr O will be disappointed by my decision.
There is no question here that Lloyds made a mistake by charging the interest and by 
incorrectly registering the date of the default. I have no doubt Mr O was caused distress and 
inconvenience in those circumstances. The key issue for me to decide is the level of 
compensation.
Im satisfied Lloyds has acted fairly by apologising for its mistake and by refunding the 
interest of about £850. Im also satisfied that the compensation of £500, which I think is in 
line with our awards for substantial mistakes and impact, is fair and reasonable.
I appreciate Mr O says the mistake meant he and his wife paid more interest on car finance 
agreements than they would have were it not for the mistake. I make clear to Mr O that I 
cant fairly conclude that without evidence from, for example the lender confirming that was 
the case and that the interest rate was greater due to the default. I also think that lenders 
and providers of credit consider a variety of factors when setting an interest rate and its 
impossible to be sure if Lloyds actions had any impact on the interest rates. I also cant be 
sure what impact one of the agreements being in joint names had on any offered interest 
rate.
Overall, Im satisfied Lloyds has paid a fair and reasonable compensation amount which I 
think reflects there was an impact on Mr O, but I dont require it to do anything further in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman