DRN-3106366
The complaint
Mr H complains that Santander Consumer (UK) plc (Santander) gave him  incorrect 
information on a  voluntary termination (VT) of his conditional sale agreement . He would like 
more compensation than Santander has given.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I  agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons:-
Mr Hs issues seem to stem from a phone call he and his partner had with Santander 
where he understood he could immediately VT his conditional sale agreement with 
no further monthly payments to make. On this basis he took out another finance 
agreement the same day for another car. I have listened to the call from which  Mr H 
would have understood, as he was nearly at the midway point in his agreement,  he 
could VT with just an administrative fee of £75  to pay. But it was made clear three 
times during that call that an exact figure couldnt  be given as the relevant 
department to speak to  wasnt open at weekends.  I am surprised, given that 
qualification that Mr H went ahead the same day taking out another finance 
agreement. I think that was a risk he chose to take.
Santander has paid Mr H a total of £550 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused which . I think that was reasonable as I believe the phone call 
did cause some confusion. Santander also gave an incorrect compensation figure in 
one of its final response letters and didnt follow through amending Mr Hs credit file 
as agreed. I understand Santander has now removed the default marker from Mr Hs 
credit file. 
Mr H isnt happy with the total compensation. He says as a result of Santanders 
actions he has been unable to remortgage his house and so will be paying a higher 
rate of interest. Mr H hasnt given us any evidence of this. Mortgage lenders typically 
look at a range of factors so it maybe other factors affected his ability to remortgage. 
.But , even if Mr H were to provide information to support his claim I dont feel it 
would be reasonable to expect Santander to further compensate him on this basis as  
I feel Mr H chose to go ahead with another finance agreement without getting 
accurate figures for a VT  Santander despite being told he would need to do so. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman