DRN-4001390
The complaint
Mr Y complains that West Bay Insurance Plc (West Bay) delayed his claim by several weeks 
causing him both financial suffering and general inconvenience. 
What happened
I set out the background to this complaint and my initial findings in my provisional decision 
on 16 February 2023 (below). In my provisional decision I explained why I was minded to 
partially uphold Mr Ys complaint.
Mr Ys car was the subject of a vandalism attack, resulting in it being written off. The 
incident happened on 29 April 2022 and Mr Y reported this to West Bay telling them 
he wanted to make a claim under his motor insurance policy.
West Bay appointed an investigations company (E) to gather all the information they 
needed to deal with Mr Ys claim. E spoke to Mr Y in May and told him that West Bay 
may want to obtain the police report for the incident and would need his consent to 
do so, Mr Y was happy to provide this consent. E told him that West Bay would get in 
touch with him directly in the coming days to arrange for him to sign a document 
giving his consent.
When Mr Y still hadnt heard from West Bay by 12 July 2022, he contacted E to see 
what was going on. E told Mr Y that they had provided everything to West Bay on 23 
May 2022. So, Mr Y contacted West Bay the same day to chase them up, West Bay 
told Mr Y they were waiting for the police report. Mr Y was confused by this as he 
hadnt yet been sent the consent form. Following his call with West Bay the form was 
sent to him by email and he signed it and returned it immediately.
As Mr Y hadnt heard anything from West Bay, he says, he tried to contact them 
throughout August but the phones lines were busy and had long wait times so he 
wasnt able to get through.
On 30 August Mr Y raised an online complaint with West Bay and was able to speak 
to them on the phone in early September 2022. West Bay told him they were still 
waiting for his signed consent form. Mr Y was frustrated by this as he had returned it 
the same day it was sent to him back in July.
West Bay made a decision to settle Mr Ys claim at this point without the benefit of 
the police report. But they offered him a value that was significantly lower than the 
trade guides for his car. Mr Y disputed the figure and West Bay increased the offer by 
£2,000, which Mr Y accepted.
But Mr Y was still unhappy with the way West Bay had dealt with his claim and so he 
brought his complaint to this service. He was unhappy that while his claim was 
delayed:
He couldnt afford to replace his car but had had to continue to pay his 
monthly insurance premiums.
He wasnt offered a courtesy car
He had had to continue to pay his monthly finance payments toward his car.
He had had to rely on using a taxi service to get to work the two days a month 
that his employer requires him to go to the office costing him a total of £174 
(this was for five days- two in September and three in October 2022).
He was also unhappy that he had to pay £1,500 for his excess as he feels that West 
Bay didnt do their job properly, causing delays and undervaluing his car so they 
shouldnt have charged him the excess.
Although Mr Ys claim was settled in September, he said he would not be able to 
afford to get another car before the end of the year and wanted travel expenses for 
November and Decembers office days to be considered.
Mr Y said all of the above had caused him a great deal of stress and worry and so he 
wanted to be compensated for it.
While his complaint was with us Mr Y let the investigator know that West Bay had 
offered £300 to compensate him for how they had dealt with his claim. Mr Y said he 
wasnt cashing the cheque as he didnt accept the offer.
Our investigator partially upheld Mr Ys complaint, in summary she said:
As Mr Y had claimed under the policy, he had benefitted from it and so it was 
fair for him to have had to pay the full premium due for the policy, therefore it 
was reasonable that he had to continue with is monthly payments.
An excess is an uninsured loss and is payable on any claim.
As his car was a total loss he wasnt entitled to a courtesy car, and this was in 
line with the policy terms and conditions.
West Bay should pay for any Taxi fares Mr Y incurred between June and 
September 2022, as this was the time when they had delayed asking for the 
police report.
The delays were unnecessary as West Bay were able to make a decision on 
the claim without the benefit of the police report and so could have done so 
earlier.
West Bay should pay Mr Y £37.10 for the taxi receipts he had already 
provided on top of the £300 compensation they had already offered.
West Bay disagreed. They argued they were entitled to carry out a full investigation 
of the claim and so were entitled to ask for the police report which, even if they had 
requested on time, still may not have arrived with them by the time they eventually 
settled the claim. So, it was unfair that they would have to cover costs of taxis 
between June and September as that is 122 days and so there shouldnt be a 
blanket approach for taxi fares during this period. The matter has now been passed 
to me to decide.What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive 
done so using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key 
issues. The rules that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean 
that Ive not considered everything that both parties have given to me.
Having read and considered the whole file, Im intending to partially uphold Mr Ys 
complaint. Ill explain why, but in doing so Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on a specific point, its not because I havent considered 
it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right 
outcome.
Finance, premium and excess payment
As Mr Y had purchased his car with a finance agreement, he is contractually bound 
to make his payments each month. This is the contract he entered into and is 
between him and his finance company and is separate to his contract of insurance 
with West Bay. He has to make his payments regardless of if he is able to make use 
of the car or not. I completely understand Mr Ys frustration that he had to pay this for 
longer than he would have if West Bay had settled his claim earlier. But he would 
always have been liable for the payments under the finance agreement and so I dont 
believe this was detrimental to him financially. I say this because as a result of him 
making those extra monthly payments his settlement amount became lower 
meaning, he was entitled to keep a higher proportion of the claim value when it was 
settled.
Mr Ys policy like every other one I have seen on the market contains a condition that 
in the event of a claim the full premium for the policy becomes due, regardless of if 
the policy is to continue with a different car or if it is to be cancelled. This is because 
once a successful claim has been made under the policy the insured  in this case 
Mr Y  has had the full benefit of the policy and so its fair that he pays the full price 
for it. So, I dont think its unreasonable for West Bay to have continued to take Mr 
Ys monthly payments.
An excess is an uninsured loss, this means it isnt covered by Mr Ys insurance policy 
and he is responsible for paying it. It is an amount that was agreed at the outset of 
the contract between West Bay and Mr Y and is the amount he has to pay towards 
any claim he makes under the policy. I understand Mr Y feels that West Bay didnt 
handle his claim as they should and so he shouldnt have to pay it, but the two things 
arent linked. Any compensation due to Mr Y because of poor claim handling will be 
dealt with separately from his excess. It follows I wont be asking West Bay to refund 
Mr Ys excess.
Courtesy car
Mr Ys policy states that a courtesy car will be provided following a valid claim if the 
car is repairable and is repaired by an approved repairer. As Mr Ys car was not 
repairable, he was not entitled to this benefit under his policy. So, I cant fairly say he 
should have been provided with a courtesy car here.Car Valuation
Mr Ys policy says that it will settle a total loss claim for the market value. The policy 
defines market value as:
The cost of replacing the insured vehicle at the time of loss or damage 
compared with one of the same make, model, specification and condition. 
The market value will be assessed by an automotive engineer in conjunction 
with the published trade guides at the time of loss.
My role is not to value Mr Ys car, but to make sure West Bay has settled his claim 
fairly and reasonably in line with his policy terms.
Our approach to assessing the fair market value takes into account what the motor 
trades guides say the market value is. We use four guides, Cap, Cazoo (formally 
known as Cazana) Glass and Autotrader. The guides are based on extensive 
research of what was happening in the market at the time and are a good reflection 
of the true Market value of the vehicle. We normally say if the offer made is within the 
range of the values provided by the guides, then this is fair.
West Bay have provided evidence to show they used three trade guides when 
placing a value on Mr Ys car. I can see the checks they carried out returned the 
following values: CAP £15,095; Glass £15,520 and Cazoo £16,569. But West Bay 
only offered Mr Y £14,100 in settlement for his car. I cant see any reason for them to 
have undervalued his car in this way.
This was distressing for Mr Y as this would have left him severely out of pocket, he 
challenged the offer and West Bay increased the offer to £16,100  this was within 
the range of the guides they used.
For completeness, and in line with our approach, to make sure West Bays later offer 
was a fair one I cross checked the guides West Bay used to make sure they were 
correct, and I also ran an additional valuation using Autotrader, this returned a value 
of £15,920. As this value is lower than the amount settled on, Im satisfied West Bay 
eventually settled the claim for a fair amount. However, I do think in undervaluing his 
car initially and causing him to argue for a fair value they caused him unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience. Which I will take into account when thinking about the 
overall compensation West Bay should pay Mr Y.
Delays and taxi fares
West Bay were advised by E on 23 May 2022 that they may want to apply for the 
police report, they didnt act on this. Mr Y chased them in July 2022 and supplied his 
signed consent. West Bay didnt act on this either. It was only when Mr Y complained 
about the ongoing delays and spoke to them in September did West Bay look into 
matters and realise the report hadnt been requested.
West Bay have said they believed E was obtaining the police report and this is why 
nothing happened, but even if thats the case E is their agent and acting on their 
behalf and so they are responsible for Es actions.
In any event, West Bay decided to settle the claim without the benefit of having the 
report, which suggests this wasnt needed in order to make a decision on the claim. 
Based on this I think they were in a position to make a decision on the claim on 23 
May 2022 and as such they delayed the settlement of the claim by not doing so. The settlement amount was split between the finance company and Mr Y, with the finance 
agreement being settled first and the remainder paid to Mr Y. This means Mr Y was 
without the portion of the funds he was entitled to from 23 May 2022 until the claim 
was settled in September 2022.
Because of that I will be recommending that West Bay pay 8% simple interest on Mr 
Ys portion of the settlement from 23 May 2022 until the date the settlement was paid 
to him.
This meant Mr Y didnt have the means to replace his car during that time and so, on 
the two days a month that he had to attend the office for his work he had to take a 
taxi both there and back. Mr Y has told us that the cost of the taxis was 
approximately £37 per day. He has provided a receipt for one such journey in 
September. In the circumstances I think the reasonable thing for West Bay to do here 
is, upon supply of the relevant receipts, to pay Mr Ys taxi fares to his work on the two 
days a month her attended the office between 23 May 2022 and when the claim was 
settled. They should also add 8% interest to each of those payments from the time 
Mr Y paid them until they settle them.
Mr Y has asked that his taxi journeys in October and through to the end of 2022 also 
be taken into account as he wasnt in a position to replace his car during that time. 
While I understand Mr Ys rationale that the cost of cars has increased and he 
couldnt afford to replace his car, this isnt something West Bay is responsible for, 
their responsibility ended when the claim was settled and its for Mr Y to decide after 
that point if replacing his car or continuing to take taxis is the most cost-effective way 
forward for him. So, I wont be asking West Bay to cover this for him.
Distress and inconvenience
When considering the amount that West Bay should pay here, Ive thought about the 
whole experience for Mr Y. Including him having to chase them repeatedly and 
eventually having to make a complaint to get things moving, West Bay not even 
realising they hadnt requested the police report and giving him incorrect information. 
The overall delays. And West Bay unfairly undervaluing his car without any good 
reason, that I can see, causing him to worry if he would be able to afford to settle his 
finance and to replace his car, and the inconvenience of having to argue for a fair 
price, which he had been entitled to from the beginning.
Mr Y has told us how this impacted him, not being able to help his family by taking 
his mum shopping as he normally would and being restricted in his own activities due 
to a lack of transport. On top of the worry about if and when his claim was going to be 
settled and then worrying that he hadnt been given a fair amount for his car.
Given all of the above Im recommending that West Bay pay Mr Y a total of £600 
(including the £300 already offered) for the distress and inconvenience caused to him 
throughout the life of his claim.
Putting things right
In order to put things right here I require West Bay to:
Pay 8% simple interest on My Ys portion of the settlement amount from 23 
May 2022, until the date the claim was settled.
Subject to Mr Y providing receipts pay his taxis to and from work for two days per month from 23 May 2022 until the date the claim was settled. They should 
also add 8% simple interest to each payment from the date Mr Y paid for the 
taxis until they make payment.
Pay Mr Y a total of £600 in compensation  they are entitled to deduct any 
amount already paid to him for compensation from this.
Her Majestys Revenue & Customs may require that West Bay deduct tax from the interest paid to Mr 
Y. If it does and Mr Y requests it, West Bay must provide him with a certificate showing how much tax it 
has taken off, so he may reclaim it if appropriate.
I invited both parties to let me have anything in response they thought was relevant.
West Bay didnt respond.
My Y responded saying he was happy with the assessment and had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new information or further evidence, my outcome and the 
reasons for it havent changed from my provisional findings. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right here I require West Bay to:
Pay 8% simple interest on My Ys portion of the settlement amount from 23 May 
2022, until the date the claim was settled.
Subject to Mr Y providing receipts pay his taxis to and from work for two days per 
month from 23 May 2022 until the date the claim was settled. They should also add 
8% simple interest to each payment from the date Mr Y paid for the taxis until they 
make payment.
Pay Mr Y a total of £600 in compensation  they are entitled to deduct any amount 
already paid to him for compensation from this.
Her Majestys Revenue & Customs may require that West Bay deduct tax from the interest paid to Mr Y. If it 
does and Mr Y requests it, West Bay must provide him with a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off, 
so he may reclaim it if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and I require West Bay Insurance Plc 
to carry out the actions as set out under the Putting things right section of this decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman