DRN-1573764
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Santander UK plc (when it was trading as Alliance & Leicester 
plc) mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out by Mr and Mrs B in 1996. The policy 
provided Mr B with cover for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my conclusions on the balance 
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Bs case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those 
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
-           If Santander gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs Bs needs?
-           Did Santander give Mr and Mrs B the information they needed to decide whether to 
take out the policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether Mr 
and Mrs B are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
I have decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and Ive set out my reasons below. 
Mr and Mrs B say they were put under pressure to buy the PPI, and that Santander didn't 
give them a proper choice about taking it out. They say they were given the impression they 
had to buy the PPI to get the mortgage they wanted. Ive noted everything theyve said.
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr and Mrs B and 
Santander when the policy was arranged. I'm also mindful that these events took place over 
twenty years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.I note from Mr and Mrs B's mortgage application form that there were other forms of 
insurance presented to them during the mortgage application process. But it seems they 
decided not to take out those policies. And from what I've seen, there is nothing in the 
paperwork to suggest that buying the PPI was a condition of getting the mortgage. 
So without anything else to support what Mr and Mrs B have told me, I don't think I can fairly 
or reasonably say that Santander didn't give them a choice about buying the PPI. 
It's not clear how the policy was sold, but Santander has accepted that it advised Mr and Mrs 
B to take out the policy, and it doesnt look like it was unsuitable for them based on what Ive 
seen of their circumstances at the time. I say this because:
-           Mr B was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions.
-           Mr B says he would have received some work-related benefits if he couldnt work 
due to sickness or accident, and that he and Mrs B could've relied on their family to help 
them. But the policy would have paid out in addition to Mr B's occupational benefits and 
would do so, it seems, for longer. Having the policy in place would mean Mr and Mrs B could 
use Mr B's work-related benefits to pay for other expenses. And it would've meant they didn't 
have to rely on their family. So I think Mr and Mrs B would have had some use for the policy 
despite their existing arrangements.
-           Mr B wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such 
as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As 
he could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely he and Mrs B 
needed better advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
-           The policy cost was set out in a quote provided to Mr and Mrs B before their 
mortgage started. So I think they would've known how much they would be paying for the 
PPI and found it acceptable. The policy was competitively priced and had a reasonable 
benefit. So I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs B would have made a different decision if better 
information about the cost had been provided.
Its possible the information the bank gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But they chose to take out the policy and so appear to have wanted this 
type of cover. As Ive already said, Mr B wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations and the policy seems to have been affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs B 
would have made a different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I 
think they would still have taken out the policy.
Mr and Mrs B have mentioned that the policy continued after they'd paid off their mortgage 
with Santander in 2003. They consider this was continued mis-selling. 
From what I've seen and been told, the policy was a stand-alone product, and not directly 
linked to Mr and Mrs B's original mortgage. That means it remained in force after their 
Santander mortgage was paid off, and would've covered them in connection with 
any subsequent mortgages.
As such, I'm not persuaded that there were any subsequent sales after the original PPI was 
sold in 1996. For the reasons I've explained, I don't consider the PPI was mis-sold in 1996. 
So the further points Mr and Mrs B have raised don't change my overall conclusions about 
the complaint. 
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman