DRN-3201195
The complaint
Mr B complains Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt process an international payment which led to
him suffering a £50,000 loss.  
What happened
I issued a provisional decision. I said:
In June 2020 Mr B went to a Barclays branch to make an international payment. The 
branch staff completed a form electronically and printed a confirmation letter for Mr B 
to sign. The payment, however, was cancelled by Barclays payments team as the 
beneficiarys address hadnt been included. 
Barclays say Mr B should have spotted the beneficiarys address was missing when 
he checked the confirmation letter. Perhaps he should have. But in my view if the 
beneficiarys address was needed, the branch staff should have included it. 
Furthermore, rather than cancel the payment Barclays could have called Mr B for the 
missing information, notwithstanding its operational challenges as a result of the 
pandemic.  
Im satisfied Barclays bears more responsibility for the payment not going ahead than 
Mr B. But Im not satisfied I can fairly require Barclays to compensate Mr B in the way 
he has asked. Ill explain why. 
Mr B says he needed to transfer £10,000 to his father for a down-payment on a 
property by 19 June 2020, and because he missed this deadline the purchase fell 
through, leading to his alleged loss. But, in brief:
- Mr B asked Barclays to make the payment on 11 June 2020. A payment to 
the country relevant here can  in the absence of security/regulatory delays  
takes up to seven working days, meaning it was due to arrive by 22 June 
2020. It would then have needed to have been transferred on by Mr Bs 
father. So even if the payment had been sent as intended, the deadline of 19 
June 2020 may not have been met. 
- I havent been presented with any compelling evidence that the property 
purchase existed, or that if it did, it subsequently fell through, or that if it 
existed and subsequently fell through, Barclays is solely to blame. I mean no 
discourtesy to Mr B here, but hes asked for a significant amount of 
compensation and has provided very little evidence to support such a 
request.
- Even if I could be satisfied Mr Bs loss is real, and that Barclays not making 
the payment was the one and only cause for it: 
oMr B doesnt appear to have attempted to mitigate his alleged losses. 
If the property purchase falling through was going to cause him such a 
large loss, I would have expected him to have taken some action, 
such as contacting the developer for a deadline extension, or calling 
on family/friends for support, or making an interim payment to the 
developer as a sign of good faith. Ive been presented with no 
evidence of any of these kinds of actions. And: 
oId need to be satisfied the loss was reasonably foreseeable for 
Barclays. As Mr B described the payment as money going to his 
parents oversees, Im not persuaded I likely can be.
Mr B has been caused some distress and inconvenience. Firstly, with the payment 
not going ahead, later when he was trying to find out what had gone wrong, and 
finally when he was held responsible for the payment not going ahead. Barclays has 
apologised for its customer service failings and paid him £50 compensation. I dont 
consider that fairly reflects the impact this matter had on Mr B so I intend to require 
Barclays to pay Mr B a further £100 compensation.
Barclays accepted my provisional decision. Mr B responded to say, in summary, Barclays 
should pay him more compensation and made the following comments:
- He told the branch staff what the payment was for;
- The property deeds would have been prepared if the deposit had been received in 
time;
- The payment should have reached the beneficiary within two hours; and
- The payment was missing for 10 days and Barclays wouldnt tell him what the 
problem was despite visits to branch.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I remain satisfied I cant fairly require Barclays to compensate Mr B for his alleged loss - 
£50,000. Even taking his comments at face value, I still dont find there is enough evidence 
available to me to be satisfied the loss is real, that Barclays not making the payment was the 
one and only cause for it, that he did enough to mitigate it, and that Barclays could have 
reasonably foreseen it.  
I recognised Barclays caused Mr B distress and inconvenience, including during the time he 
was trying to find out what had gone wrong with the payment, in my provisional decision. Ive 
reconsidered and remain satisfied £150 compensation  in total  fairly reflects the impact 
Barclays customer service failings had on Mr B.
Putting things right
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr B a further £100 compensation.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr B a further £100 
compensation.    Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman