DRN-2594127
The complaint
Miss G complains about a default applied to her credit file because of errors by National 
Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest).
Miss Gs partner is representing her in this complaint. For ease, Ill refer to anything said by 
him as being said by Miss G.
What happened
Miss G had a direct debit set up on her NatWest current account to make payments to her 
NatWest credit card. In 2016, while Miss G was living abroad, the direct debit payments 
stopped. Miss G only became aware of this almost a year later when she returned to the UK 
and tried to use her card. NatWest told her the credit card account had defaulted because 
the minimum payments hadnt been met. Miss G says NatWest acknowledged that the direct 
debit had been stopped due to a bank error and agreed to remove the default from her credit 
file if she paid the balance in full. Miss G paid the full balance of her credit card in 2017.
In mid-2020, Miss G checked her credit file with various credit reference agencies and found 
that one of them was still reporting the default on her credit card. She contacted NatWest 
multiple times to try to get the matter resolved and raised a complaint. She said the 
information on her credit file had impacted her ability to borrow and had led to her incurring 
much higher interest on borrowing. She asked our service for help when she didnt get a 
response.
NatWest said it could see from Miss Gs current account statement that she paid her credit 
card balance in August 2017. It wasnt able to obtain call recordings or customer notes from 
around that time, but it didnt doubt Miss Gs version of events. NatWest said it believed it 
had removed the default from Miss Gs credit file in 2017 because the default only showed 
against one credit reference agency. It was unclear whether the default that remained was 
because of an error made by NatWest or by the credit reference agency. NatWest had 
recently contacted the credit reference agency to request it be removed.
NatWest said it didnt think it would be fair to say that it was solely responsible for Miss G 
having a low credit score and only being able to obtain finance at a higher interest rate. But it 
acknowledged that its customer service was poor and offered Miss G £250 to apologise for 
this.
Miss G remained unhappy, so our investigator looked into her concerns. Our investigator 
didnt think the £250 was enough to put things right for Miss G. She was persuaded that 
NatWest cancelling the direct debit in error and the resulting default had impacted Miss Gs 
ability to obtain credit - meaning she had to rely on high interest borrowing. Miss G also had 
to use money shed intended to go towards a deposit on a home to clear her credit card 
balance. She recommended NatWest pay Miss G a further £300 to compensate her for the 
trouble and upset its actions had caused.
NatWest agreed with our investigators view and said it was willing to pay the compensation 
shed recommended.
Miss G asked for her complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. She thought NatWest 
should be able to provide evidence it had contacted the credit reference agency to remove 
the default. She said that since changes were made to her credit report her score had gone 
up significantly and she was receiving offers for credit she should have had all along. So, 
Miss Gs complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Miss Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
While NatWest isnt able to provide much information from the time, its accepted 
responsibility for Miss Gs direct debit being cancelled in error in 2016 and the resulting 
default on her credit file. Its offered to pay Miss G a total of £550 to compensate her for the 
trouble and upset shes experienced. So, Ive needed to consider if this is fair and 
reasonable. 
 
I appreciate Miss G would like to see evidence that NatWest contacted the credit reference 
agency to arrange for the default to be removed in 2017. But whether it did or didnt do this 
doesnt make a difference to the outcome of her complaint. I say this because Ive 
considered the impact of NatWests initial error (cancelling the direct debit) on Miss G from 
when it happened until she brought her complaint to our service in 2020. And Im aware that 
the default wasnt removed before then. 
Miss G believes that the default on her credit file has had a financial impact on her. She says 
NatWest has refused her loans in the past five years but the documents to show this no 
longer appear on her online NatWest account. Miss G also isnt able to provide evidence of 
being refused credit elsewhere. Shes provided examples of the kind of credit shes been 
offered, and these have high interest rates. Miss G says her credit score has gone up 
significantly since the default was removed and shes now receiving better offers for credit. 
I havent seen strong enough evidence to quantify how Miss G might have lost out financially 
because of NatWests errors. But Ive thought about the likely overall impact on Miss G. It 
was no doubt frustrating for Miss G to have to use money shed intended to use towards a 
deposit on a house to pay off her credit card in full. And she lost out on the use of the credit 
card at the time. Miss G has also experienced a lot of inconvenience and distress because 
of the poor customer service NatWest provided when she tried to sort the matter out. 
Having considered all of Miss Gs points carefully, I think the £550 NatWest has offered to 
compensate her for the trouble and upset shes experienced is reasonable.
Putting things right
NatWest should pay Miss G a total of £550 for trouble and upset.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Gs complaint and direct National Westminster 
Bank Plc to put things right by doing as Ive said above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman