DRN-3284495
The complaint
Mr J and Mrs M complain that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) recorded a default 
on their credit file in relation to a loan. Mr J and Mrs M are also unhappy with the way their 
complaint was handled in October 2020.
 
What happened
Mr J and Mrs M had a loan with NatWest. The loan fell into arrears. An application to 
refinance the loan fell through after there were issues verifying Mrs Ms signature. The loan 
was closed and a default recorded in March 2018.
Mr J and Mrs M have explained they didnt receive any of the correspondence NatWest sent 
them in relation to its decision to close the loan and record a default on their credit files. 
Mr J and Mrs M have made a number of complaints to NatWest. Last year, an ombudsman 
at this service looked at this case and issued a decision concerning the time limits in our 
rules and how they impacted Mr J and Mrs Ms complaint. The ombudsmans decision 
explained we could look at the closure of the loan in 2018 and default recorded. The 
ombudsman also decided we could look at Mr J and Mrs Ms complaint about the service 
provided and NatWests complaint handling. 
An investigator considered these points but didnt uphold the complaint. Mr J and Mrs M 
asked to appeal and said they hadnt received NatWests 2018 final response until a year 
later. And Mr J and Mrs M said NatWest had never investigated the fact they had visited a 
branch to deal with the signature issues before their loan was transferred to debt collectors. 
As Mr J and Mrs M asked to appeal, their complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been reasonably brief in setting out the background above as Im limited in the complaint 
points I can look into  in line with the previous decision that was issued. I want to assure Mr 
J and Mrs M Ive read and considered everything theyve said and sent us in relation to their 
complaint. But my decision is going to focus on the complaint points that fall within the scope 
of our rules, as set out above. 
The loan was closed and a default recorded on Mr J and Mrs Ms credit files in 2018. Ive 
looked at the contact notes and correspondence NatWest issued in the run up to its decision 
to close the loan and default it. The correspondence confirmed the steps NatWest would 
take if the arrears werent repaid. I cant look at what happened with Mrs Ms signature. But 
Im satisfied NatWest did contact Mr J and Mrs M to explain the action it intended to take 
before their loan was closed. I havent been persuaded NatWest acted unfairly when it 
closed the loan and recorded a default on Mr J and Mrs Ms credit files. 
Mr J and Mrs M have told us they complained via the debt collectors in June 2018 but didnt 
get a response. NatWest has sent us its final response dated 3 July 2018 and it was sent to 
the address on file for Mr J and Mrs M. Ive also looked at the business contact notes and 
can see a notation that shows it responded to the complaint on the same day. I dont know 
why NatWests final response wasnt received, but Im satisfied the evidence shows it was 
sent to Mr J and Mrs M as claimed. 
Mr J and Mrs M complained to NatWest in October 2020 and have told us the call handler 
was rude and unprofessional. Im sorry to hear about the experience they had. I appreciate 
the issues raised have been ongoing for several years and are very important for Mr J and 
Mrs M. Unfortunately, theres no copy of the call note in question and no recording either. 
But I dont seek to discount what Mr J and Mrs M have told us about their experience. I dont 
doubt there was a difficult call when they complained or that matters became heated. But I 
think its more likely than not that the way the call was handled reflected the situation and 
frustration as a whole. I accept the call in question didnt go well, but I havent found grounds 
to make an award or direct NatWest to take further action. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr J and Mrs M as I can see how strongly they feel in this 
matter. Im limited in terms of the complaint points I can look at. For the reasons Ive set out 
above, I havent found that NatWest treated Mr J and Mrs M unfairly so Im not telling it to do 
anything else.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman