DRN-3729404
The complaint
Mr Z complains that TransUnion International UK Limited (TU) shared personal information 
from his credit file with a third party.
What happened
Mr Z complained to TU on 31 March 2022 saying his credit file had been merged with that of 
another person. TU looked into matters and responded to Mr Z apologising for the error and 
letting him know they were in the process of fixing it. They also let him know they would 
consider any direct financial loss that had occurred as a result of the error, where he could 
provide evidence to support it.
Mr Z didnt think an apology was enough and so brought his complaint to this service. He 
said he had done some research online and found that errors of this nature should equate to 
around £4,500 in compensation.
Our investigator agreed with Mr Z that compensation was warranted in his case but didnt 
agree with the level he had suggested  she initially recommended £150. Mr Z disagreed 
with the investigator, he explained that the error had caused him stress and worry, and the 
level of stress was totally new to him, so he found it hard to equate what he felt he should be 
due in compensation. He went on to say that he felt that TU hadnt treated his case with care 
and so he felt £1,000 would be more appropriate compensation. 
Our investigator thought about Mr Zs comments and increased her compensation 
recommendation to £250. TU agreed to the investigators recommendations, but Mr Z didnt 
and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean that Ive not considered
everything that both parties have given to me. Having done so I think the £250 TU has 
agreed to pay to Mr Z is fair in the circumstances, Ill explain why.
Mr Z has told us his personal information was shared with an unknown third party and he is 
worried about the implications of what they could do with his information in the future. He 
says he knows this as the third party contacted him by phone and told him, he says this is 
what alerted him to his credit file being incorrect.
TU says Mr Z contact them as he was unable to access an account he had with another 
entity (H) as the information on his credit file was incorrect. H uses information from credit 
reference agencies to verify its customers identities, and this was how Mr Z knew his credit 
file was incorrect. 
Im satisfied both versions of events are known to both parties as the investigator, included 
them in the views that she sent on 4 August 2022 and 21 September 2022. Neither party has 
disputed the others version of events and no evidence has been provided apart from the 
final response from TU, which supports what they have said about Mr Z contacting them 
about information on his credit report being incorrect. 
Because of this, its hard for me to say exactly what happened here, but I am satisfied an 
error of some kind occurred and that TU have taken responsibility for the error and corrected 
it within a short time once they were notified of it. I also accept there was some impact 
caused by the error, to Mr Z, and it caused him worry.
I understand Mr Z feels strongly about how he should be compensated for the error and has 
worries about what could happen in the future. But I can only consider what has happened 
and in the absence of any evidence of financial loss or detriment, I cant agree that TU 
should increase the compensation from £250 to a higher amount.
I know Mr Z will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in trying 
to resolve his dispute with Mr Z can do for him.
Putting things right
TU should now pay Mr Z £250 for the trouble and upset caused to him by the error.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Zs complaint about 
TransUnion International UK Limited, and now require it to put things right as described 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman