DRN-4088815
The complaint
Mr R complains about the poor service he received from British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) 
following a claim under his home emergency policy. 
What happened
Mr R noticed a leak at the front of the house. He contacted BG who sent an engineer. The 
engineer told Mr R that a specialist dig team would be required to detect the leak and 
advised him to also contact his water board to locate the external stop cock. 
Mr R contacted his water board who located the external stopcock on a neighbours 
property. Mr R contacted BG again and was told that the earliest dig team appointment 
would be a few weeks away. Mr R expressed his concern as he said that damage would 
occur due to the water being present, but BG confirmed that this was the earliest 
appointment available. That appointment didnt go ahead as the engineer was ill, but BG 
sent another engineer a few days later. 
The engineer informed Mr R that the leak wasnt covered as it had been on a shared water 
pipe. But as a goodwill gesture, the repair had been fixed. Whilst cleaning the area, Mr R 
noticed that water was still leaking. He contacted BG and asked them to re-send the dig 
team. BG said it would send an engineer. In the mean-time Mr R contacted his water board 
who sent an engineer, who advised that the leak was on his property and not covered by the 
water board. 
The BG engineer attended confirmed that there was a leak but couldnt repair the leak as a 
specialist team was required. Mr R said that BG told him that the leak wouldnt be covered, 
and the specialist wouldnt be re-sent. It said that the policy terms and conditions excluded 
leaks. Mr R complained as he disputed that the leak wasnt covered. As BG wouldnt carry 
out the repair, Mr R found independent contractors to carry out the repair at a cost of £852.
In its final response, BG maintained that the leak was one that wasnt covered as it came 
from a shared pipe that didnt supply Mr Rs property solely. It said that a repair was carried 
out due to how bad the leak was and only as a goodwill gesture. But any further leaks 
wouldnt be repaired. It also said that it wouldnt cover the cost of any damage to the area, 
as it hadnt caused it.
Mr R was unhappy with the outcome and referred a complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. He said the policy 
terms and conditions didnt mention shared water pipes, so its reasonable for policyholders 
to assume that a pipe that supplies water to their property, and located before the external 
stopcock, would be covered. He recommended that BG reimburse the £852 repair costs and 
£100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr R accepted the view, BG did not. It said the leak was found in the water supply pipe after 
the point it served Mr R, so it wasnt covered. It also confirmed that it wouldnt be paying any 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused, as it gave accurate advice, and the repair 
wasnt covered. It asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will uphold this complaint, and I hope my findings explain why I think this is 
fair. 
I have considered both partys comments, as well as the policy terms and conditions. I think, 
the main issue here, is whether the leak was found in the water supply pipe after the point it 
served Mr Rs property. And whether BG applied the policy terms and conditions fairly. 
Mr R said that the leak came from a pipe that supplied his home with water. He said he was 
advised the following from his water company: water company (sic) sent an engineer 
promptly and I was told that, as the leak to my water pipe was after the external stopcock 
and on my property, it definitely was not their responsibility.
BG said that: This pipe is shared and supplies 3 properties, it is after the first tee to 1st 
property on the share but is shared with yourself and next door meaning it is not covered 
and not our responsibility.
With this in mind, I asked both parties to supply me with diagrams of the location of the leak. 
BG were unable to do so, Mr R sent in the plan. Mr R said that as the pipe supplied water to 
his property, then under the terms and conditions of the policy, the leak shouldve been 
covered by BG and repaired. 
I asked BG to comment on why it felt that the leaks were not on Mr Rs property. I also ask it 
if it felt that the leaks were not on Mr Rs property, why it then continued to attempt to repair 
the leaks, why hadnt it declined the claim before carrying out the repair? BG did not respond 
to the questions. So, Ive considered what evidence I have been provided with as well as 
reviewed the policy terms and conditions. 
Under the policy terms and conditions, the applicable term states under what is covered: 
your water supply pipe from the boundary of your property to your home. From the 
evidence provided to me, especially the plan of the property, I can see that Mr Rs water was 
supplied with the pipe that was on his property, although the pipe was shared. Also, the 
leaks occurred on Mr Rs land. Consequently, Im satisfied that BG ought to have repaired 
the leak. And because of this, I think BG were not fair or reasonable to conclude that the 
leak and pipe shouldnt have been repaired.
Im also satisfied that the water supply pipe (that had been leaking) was within the boundary 
of Mr Rs property. As such, BG didnt fairly apply the policy terms and conditions, before 
declining Mr Rs claim.
Mr R said that he had to pay privately at the cost of £852 to repair the leak. I think in the 
circumstances that BG should reimburse those costs. I also think that there was some 
distress and inconvenience caused, as a result of BG not carrying out the repair, when it 
shouldve. Accordingly, I think BG ought to also pay Mr R compensation of £100, for the 
trouble and upset this cause, as this is a fair and reasonable outcome. Putting things right
To put matters right, I direct British Gas Insurance Limited as outlined below.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
British Gas Insurance Limited to reimburse Mr Rs costs of £852, on production of an 
invoice.
British Gas Insurance Limited to pay compensation of £100 for the trouble and upset 
caused.
British Gas Insurance Limited must pay the above compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mr R accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest at 8% a year simple on the above amount, from the date Mr R accepts my final 
decision, until it is paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman