DRN-3106161
The complaint
Mr C complains that in respect of his buildings insurance claim for fire damage to his home, 
Fairmead Insurance Limited settled the claim without reference to him and paid the 
settlement to his mortgage lender.
What happened
Mr Cs insurance was arranged by his lender as it had a substantial charge on the property. 
The policy covers buildings only and is in the joint names of Mr C and the lender. In October 
2016 there was a fire at the property, arising out of a chip pan that overheated. Substantial 
damage was caused to the kitchen and surrounding area. Following a site visit Mr C was 
advised that it wasnt safe for him to live at the property. Hotel accommodation was arranged 
for him and his partner. Fairmead then made several attempts to arrange for its cleaning 
contractors to start carrying out strip out works. Mr C said he didnt want them to attend, and 
that he could do the clearing out himself.
In December 2016 following allegations that Mr C had been abusive towards hotel staff, and 
wouldnt allow his room to be cleaned, he was forced to leave the hotel. He moved back to 
the property and following attempts by Fairmead to arrange for a let property, Mr C decided 
he would prefer to live in a caravan on the property. He was paid £5,000 to purchase a 
caravan. Negotiations over the repairs initially stalled because Mr C was told it was his 
responsibility to remove the contents as he didnt have contents cover under his policy.
Fairmead then made a number of attempts to negotiate with Mr C over the repairs, it offered 
the services of its contractors to arrange for the contents to be removed, but Mr C refused all 
such help. He didnt purchase the caravan and continued living at the property. He wanted a 
cash settlement so he could carry out the repairs. Fairmead advised that structural repairs 
were needed, but Mr C didnt believe this was the case, having spoken to a builder.
Eventually Fairmead advised Mr C that as he wouldnt co-operate over the clearing out of 
the property, it would instruct an estate agent to advise what the reduction in the market 
value of the property was, in its unrepaired state. Under the terms of the policy as the lender 
was a joint policyholder, it would pay any such settlement to the lender. The estate agent 
advised the reduction in value was £35,000. The lender agreed to accept this settlement 
(less the £100 excess), which was duly paid to it.
Fairmead advised that the file was closed, however it said it would consider a payment to 
Mr C for the time and work he had spent cleaning the property. Because Fairmead could not 
establish that this was done to an acceptable standard, no payment was made.
Mr C first complained to this service about the lender and its retention of the funds. It then 
became clear he also had a complaint against Fairmead. On review by our investigator, she 
said that Fairmead had acted reasonably.
The matter has been referred to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
alternative accommodation (AA)
Mr C was initially placed in a hotel, which I think was reasonable. It was unfortunate that the 
hotel decided in mid-December 2016 that it would no longer have Mr C to stay there. The 
hotel said this was because he kept a lot of stuff in his room and wouldnt let hotel staff clean 
the room. They also said he had been abusive. Whilst Mr C may dispute this, the hotel was 
within its rights to allow or exclude any guest. I cant hold Fairmead responsible for this.
I note that Fairmead made several attempts to liaise with Mr C over finding a suitable let 
property, Mr C insisted that he wanted to live in a caravan on site. Fairmead agreed to pay 
Mr C the cost of buying a caravan on the basis that Mr C would remove the contents and all 
locks would be changed with keys being retained by the contractors until the property was 
repaired and ready for handover. The property would be a construction site subject to Health 
and Safety requirements and Mr C would not be allowed to enter without being appropriately 
accompanied. I note this didnt happen, but the funds were paid to Mr C. I note that 
Fairmead was concerned about Mr C remaining at the property, but I think it did what it could 
in respect of AA. It seems unlikely that another hotel or a let property would have been 
appropriate in the circumstances.
claim settlement
Its clear that Mr C didnt want Fairmead to carry out the repairs, instead preferring a cash 
settlement. I think Mr C was motivated in part by the fact that he was told he was responsible 
for removing his contents. Notwithstanding that he had a buildings only policy, Fairmead 
should nevertheless have taken the responsibility of removing the contents, given that this 
was essential to allow building works to be carried out. I note that it did make several offers 
to send its contractors in to help with the removal of damaged contents. Given that he 
refused all such offers, Im not persuaded if it had paid him to remove his own contents, he 
would have used the funds for that purpose.
The file documents that substantial efforts were made to get Mr C to co-operate over the 
repairs. Fairmead assessed that structural repairs would have been needed, but Mr C 
insisted that they werent. Ive seen no expert evidence to support Mr Cs contentions. 
Fairmead calculated that over 40 attempts to contact Mr C were made by phone, text, email, 
letter or personal visit which went unanswered. Eventually Fairmead told him it would be 
getting an estate agents valuation and that the policy terms required any settlement to be 
paid to his lender. The terms of the policy say:
We will either make a deduction for wear and tear from the cost to us of any necessary 
replacement or repair work or, at our option, pay the reduction in market value resulting from 
the damage, where: 
i) replacement or repair is not carried out; 
So, given Mr Cs lack of co-operation, Fairmead was entitled to get the reduction in market 
value assessed, and settle the claim by paying this. It duly did this. Mr Cs lender tried to get 
in touch with Mr C but he didnt respond to it. Eventually it agreed to receive the calculated 
reduction in value, of £34,900, net of the excess.
Fairmead was allowed to do this under the terms of the policy:
You are jointly insured with the lender under this policy. Please note that the lenders 
interest will rank in priority to your interest in respect of all claims monies in instances where you and the lender have agreed to take a cash settlement instead of reinstatement of your 
home. If we or the lender are unable to contact you regarding settlement of a claim and we 
offer a choice of cash settlement instead of reinstatement the lender will be entitled to 
receive the cash settlement.
Mr C has said there was an agreement to pay him the cash settlement. Although I can see 
that this was what he wanted, I havent seen evidence that this was ever agreed. I see that 
the lender explained this to Mr C, in particular having set out the above term, in a letter to 
him the day after the fire.
I can understand Mr Cs concerns over the state of the property. And in fairness Fairmead 
also expressed these concerns to Mr C several times, advising him not to live in the property 
as it stood. But ultimately I think it acted reasonably in paying the cash settlement in the way 
that it did.
delays
Ive considered this, but I cant see that there were any delays on Fairmeads part. I reiterate 
that it made substantial efforts to get in touch with Mr C over the clearing out, his AA and 
over the claims settlement. 
So overall I think Fairmead acted reasonably and within the terms of the joint policy. So I 
wont be asking it to take any further action.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman