DRN-3291227
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim she 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system she says was misrepresented to her by the supplier.
Mrs C is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around July 2015, Mrs C was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to 
talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at her home. After 
being visited by a representative of P, Mrs C decided to purchase the system and finance it 
through a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently 
installed.
In July 2020 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mrs Cs behalf under section 75 of the 
Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of representations about 
the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had 
induced Mrs C to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the total cost of the system was documented as £9,850 to mislead Mrs C, as when 
the interest was added the total cost was actually £18,945;
P had told her not to register for FIT payments, as P would do this for her, but it 
never did, and so she had received no income from the system;
the system would generate free electricity;
the system would be self-funding; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) would provide enough income to cover the finance agreement 
repayments costs.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mrs C or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
However it did offer her £200 compensation for its delay in responding to the complaint.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mrs C and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
although the salesman had given Mrs C a copy of the quotation after the meeting, he 
had never explained the figures to her or taken her through the document;
Mrs C had never signed the quotation, and she believes that the salesman forged her 
signature on it;
other customers have reported similar sales tactics, so Mrs Cs claims were credible;
where a person is unaware that a representation is false, the fact that they could 
have found out it was false by taking reasonable care is not a defence in law.1
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mrs C paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that section 
75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mrs C could claim against Shawbrook, the 
creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way she could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mrs C and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and two different versions of the solar quotation 
document, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. Ive considered these in detail and 
whether they support the alleged representations made by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mrs Cs recollection of the sale.
Shawbrook and the CMC have each provided different versions of the quotation. They are 
broadly similar, and most of the differences between the figures in each are minor, but 
Shawbrooks copy contains an obvious error, namely that the area of Mrs Cs roof is said to 
be more than 23 million square metres. I have therefore disregarded it and relied on Mrs Cs 
copy, since it does not appear to contain any errors and it is the copy she was left with.
Since there is no dispute that Mrs C was given a copy of the quotation after the sales 
meeting, and that she agreed to buy the system, I dont think the allegation that the 
salesman forged her signature is plausible; why would he need to? She has probably just 
1 Citing Chitty on Contracts (32nd edition), paragraph 7-043 (corresponding to para. 9-051, 34th ed.).forgotten signing it during the five years which elapsed between the sale and her complaint. 
In any case, I think nothing turns on this point because she accepts that the quote was given 
to her.
The CMC continues to question whether the quotation document formed a central part of the 
sales process with P when Mrs C agreed to enter into the contract for the system. I have 
carefully considered the points made by the representative along with those made by 
Shawbrook on behalf of P. Having done so, I remain satisfied that the quotation did form a 
central part of the sales process when Mrs C agreed to enter into the contract.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, the 
total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
Cost of the system
The CMC has said that the cost of the system was documented as £9,850. It has said that 
this was done to mislead Mrs C as this figure did not include any interest associated with the 
loan, so it hid the true cost of the system, £18,945.
Im satisfied that the credit agreement provided to Mrs C makes it clear that the overall cost 
of the system is £18,945. This sets out that the cash price of the system was £9,850, the 
total amount of credit is £9,850, the total charge for credit is £9,095, and it goes on to show 
that the total amount payable would be £18,945.
As the quote provided by P is clear that there would be a monthly loan repayment due, as 
set out in the table below, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the credit 
agreement, made it clear that although the cash price of the system was £9,850, it would 
cost Mrs C more than this as she had decided to pay for it with an interest bearing loan.
FIT payments and registration
Mrs C has alleged that she was told her monthly loan repayments would be covered, or 
self-funded by the FIT payments. She has also alleged that P told her that it would register 
the system for her and that she need not do anything, with the result that she has received 
no FIT payments at all. Ive considered the quote that was provided to her by P and 
considered whether this supports any of what she has said.
On page 15 of the quote it says, under the heading Feed in Tariff (FIT):
All you have to do is fill out the form with the relevant information including the MCS 
number and the system is ready to be registered to start claiming your FIT. If you 
have any issues with this documentation we will be more than happy to help you 
complete it. It is the customers responsibility to provide their personal details and 
bank details to the energy company.
I think thats clear, so I am not persuaded that the salesman told Mrs C that she did not need 
to do anything. He may have told her that P would help her with it, and she misheard or 
misunderstood, but I do not accept that P misrepresented whose responsibility it was, or that 
P is responsible for the system not having been registered for FIT payments.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mrs C could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mrs C could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £535.16.2
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mrs C could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £384.02 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chosen by Mrs C, the combined income and savings in year one is shown as 
£1,080.46. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months as this is the 
length of the loan that Mrs C entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 180 monthly payments of £105.51. (This is incorrect; the loan agreement gives 
the correct monthly figure of £105.25, but the difference  26p  is too small to affect the 
following observations.) For each year of the 15 year loan it shows the expected grand total 
return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, and subtracts the 
monthly loan repayment of £105.51, to give an average difference between the monthly 
return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. These figures are 
negative in the first three years.
2 In Shawbrooks version of the quote, this figure is £528.88, a difference of about six pounds.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mrs C could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as her expected contractual monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income she could expect to receive by 
way of FIT income and any additional savings would not be immediately sufficient to cover 
the monthly loan repayments. Therefore, Im not satisfied that she was told that the monthly 
loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mrs C that the system would self-funding.
Ive considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from 
the system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand (notwithstanding the 26p discrepancy 
in the monthly payments).
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start. 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
However, I do accept that Mrs C was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
period of time.
The Key Facts page of the quote has a graph detailing the performance over 20 years. 
This shows that by year 8 the overall benefits that Mrs C could expect to receive would have 
exceeded the cash price of the system.
A later page of the quote has a table detailing the performance of the system over 20 years. 
This shows that by the end of year 13 the overall benefits that Mrs C could expect to receive 
would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement (£18,945).
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mrs C that the system would pay for itself and 
the loan by year 13, as supported by the table above. If that were an untrue statement of 
fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced her to enter into the contract, and she 
subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mrs C. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the system is 
expected to produce 3,446 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mrs Cs recent meter reading and can see that her system, on average, has 
generated 3,390 kWh a year. This is only slightly less than estimated by P at the point of 
sale (a difference of less than two per cent), so Im satisfied that the system is performing as 
expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2014 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I think that was reasonable. The assumptions used by P were 
based on the information available from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont 
consider it unreasonable for P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential 
financial income Mrs C could have expected to receive from the system.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mrs C to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
I leave it to Mrs C to decide whether to accept Shawbrooks offer of £200 compensation for 
its delay in responding to his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman