DRN-2196617
The complaint
Ms D, represented by her son Mr S, complains about investment advice provided by 
Nationwide Building Society. Specifically; 
Nationwide focused only on products it was able to offer and failed to discuss 
alternatives.
There was a discrepancy between the risk rating Nationwide attributed to Ms D and 
the rating of the recommended investment.
Two products were recommended although Ms D only wanted to invest a single lump 
sum. 
The ongoing service fee shouldnt have been charged because advice had already 
been given. 
What happened
Ms D was provided with advice by Nationwide in January 2018. At the time she was recently 
retired and had previously held all her money on deposit. Having been categorised as a 2 
on a risk scale of 1 to 5  indicating that she was prepared to take a limited amount of risk  
she was advised to invest £45,000 into the Legal & General Mixed Investment 0-35% Fund 
split between a unit trust and an ISA. The recommendation left Ms D with around £69,000 on 
deposit. 
Later in September 2018, with the help of Mr S, she raised concerns about the advice, as 
summarised above, with Nationwides adviser. At the same time, she asked that the ongoing 
service fee she was being charged be stopped. 
The adviser responded to Ms D, but the matter wasnt handled as a formal complaint until 
2019. Nationwide issued a final response letter in June 2019 in which it explained why it felt 
the advice had been suitable for Ms D. But it acknowledged that it should have treated 
Ms Ds concerns of September 2018 as a complaint and offered her £100 in compensation 
for this. 
The matter was referred to this service, but our investigator also didnt feel that the complaint 
should be upheld. He said, in brief: 
Nationwide provided restricted advice as it wasnt acting as an Independent Financial 
Adviser with access to the whole market. 
This status was made clear in the documentation supplied to Ms D and this didnt 
necessarily mean that any recommendation made to her was unsuitable. 
The recommended fund had a different risk rating to that applied by Nationwide as it 
used a slightly different scale of 1 to 7. But, as it was a 3 on this scale, it was still 
broadly in keeping with Ms Ds attitude to risk. 
The adviser had recommended two products, albeit invested in the same fund, to 
maximise tax efficiency for Ms D. It wasnt possible to put the whole amount invested 
into the ISA immediately because of the £20,000 annual limit. It was explained that 
the balance would be moved from the unit trust to the ISA when the new annual 
allowance became available.
The Ongoing Service Fee was an option that was explained to Ms D. Although she 
was advised at the outset that she would be making a later contribution to the ISA 
from the unit trust, the fee was intended to cover any reviews and additional advice 
that might be needed over the course of the investment. It had been cancelled by 
Ms D and the investigator didnt feel it would be fair to direct Nationwide to refund the 
charge for the period it had been paid.  
Mr S, on Ms Ds behalf responded to make several points:
He challenged the investigators assertion that Ms D had gone to Nationwide with the 
intention to invest. 
Not enough information was provided to her concerning the difference between 
restricted and independent advice. 
She was ushered in to accepting a categorisation as a 2 when her previous 
experience meant that she was actually a 1, having not previously taken any risk 
with her money. 
It still wasnt clear why the desired lump sum hadnt been committed to a single 
product, especially if the unit trust was apparently less suitable than the ISA.
No annual review had been provided to Ms D in line with the payment of the ongoing 
service fee and it appeared that after the service was cancelled Ms D still had access 
to the adviser in any event. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion in light of Mr S comments. He felt 
that the evidence indicated that Ms D had gone to Nationwide for advice and that, regardless 
of the restricted status, the adviser had still assessed Ms Ds needs and circumstances and 
made a suitable recommendation. He didnt feel there was evidence that she had been 
pressured and the assessment of her attitude to risk showed a desire on her part to look 
beyond the low deposit-based returns shed been achieving. And the investigator felt that he 
hadnt said that the unit trust was less suitable than the ISA, rather it simply didnt have the 
same tax advantages. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matters been referred to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons.
Whether or not Ms D did approach Nationwide specifically with the intention of obtaining 
investment advice, I see no reason why it was unreasonable to suggest to her that she 
consider doing something different with some of the significant amount she had on deposit, 
particularly given how low interest rates had been. 
As the investigator has explained, the Nationwide adviser was not independent  in the 
sense that she could not recommend products from the whole of the market  but that didnt 
prevent her from being able to consider Ms Ds objectives and circumstances and make a 
suitable recommendation. Clearly, if following her assessment, it had been apparent that 
none of the products available to her had been suitable for Ms D, I would expect her to have 
explained that and not made a recommendation. But that wasnt the case, because what 
appears to have been a thorough assessment showed that Ms D was in position to commit a 
proportion of her money to a low-risk, cautious investment. I accept that Ms D had not invested before. But having no experience doesnt preclude 
someone from wanting to take the first steps into investing, providing its at a level of risk 
thats consistent with their circumstances and attitude and capacity for risk. 
I note Mr S concerns with the discrepancy between the risk rating for the recommended 
fund and Ms Ds categorisation. But these ratings are intended to be a broad indication of 
the level of risk. And as the investigator noted, they used different scales. But more 
important than the risk rating itself, is the requirement that the nature of the investment itself 
be consistent with the investors needs and circumstances. And I think that was the case 
here, as the fund was limited to a maximum of 35% equity exposure, with the remainder 
spread across different, lower-risk asset types.
In respect of the recommendation of two products, this was only done because it wasnt 
possible to place the whole lump sum into the ISA immediately. As Ms D was seeking a tax 
efficient investment it was good practice to maximise her ISA contribution as quickly as 
possible. And its usual to do so in the way the adviser recommended, by using the full 
available allowance immediately and placing the balance in a unit trust to then be fed into 
the ISA as soon as fresh allowances become available. 
Lastly, Ive seen nothing to suggest that it was unreasonable to make the ongoing service 
available to Ms D. As investment advice must now be paid for by way of an up-front fee, as 
opposed to by commission, its now common for ongoing service fees be charged as a sort 
of service plan meaning that reviews/advice in future can be obtained at any time without 
having to pay additional charges each time. This can often work out to be more cost-
effective. But it is entirely optional, as Ms D will have been aware as she cancelled it after 
only a few months. And doing so meant that she didnt receive the included annual review as 
she hadnt been paying for the service for long enough. 
In summary, while I can understand Ms D having concerns as a first -time investor about 
what was recommended and Mr S wishing to ensure that she hadnt been misadvised, 
having reviewed the recommendation in full, Im satisfied Nationwide acted reasonably in its 
dealings with Ms D and made a suitable recommendation to her. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2020.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman