DRN-1523824
 
The complaint
Mr B complains about the treatment of him by Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited 
trading as Audi Financial Services (VWFS) in respect of a hire agreement he had with it.
Reference to VWFS in this decision also includes its agents.
What happened
In September 2017 Mr B entered into a hire agreement with VWFS paying an advance rental 
of £525. Under the terms of the hire agreement Mr B undertook to pay (in addition to the 
advance rental) a further 23 monthly rentals of £262.50 with the first being payable on 
12 October 2017 and the last on 12 August 2019. The hire agreement was scheduled to end 
on 11 September 2019.
Between 8 July and 5 August 2019 Mr B received the following SMS message on 11 
separate occasions:
"Dear Customer, we have received a logistics request from VWFS for your vehicle. Please 
use the following link to book your appointment, using agreement No. [number] : [link], 
alternatively [we] will be in contact with you in due course.
On receiving the 11th SMS message on 5 August 2019 Mr B booked an appointment and 
received, on 9 August 2019, the following SMS message:
Dear Customer, Thank you for booking in the inspection and Collection of your vehicle with 
us. The confirmed date of your appointment is 13 August 2019 for registration [xxxxxxx]. 
Please ensure that the car is clean, in a roadworthy condition with a valid MOT (if applicable) 
and available to be
As the car was collected on 13 August 2019 Mr B had paid the 23rd monthly instalment 
under the hire agreement on 12 August 2019 of £262.50.
On 14 August 2019 Mr B contacted VWFS for a refund of his 12 August 2019 payment.
VWFS declined to refund the sum Mr B was looking for saying he had simply returned the 
car rather than requesting early termination of the hire agreement. But as a gesture of 
goodwill it went on to say that it was prepared to treat the hire agreement as being early 
terminated and as such it was prepared to offer a refund £118.10 (45% x £262.50).
 
Mr B was unhappy with VWFS offer. He said that as well as expecting a full refund of his 
12 August 2019 payment of £262.50 he was also looking for VWFS to compensate him for 
having travelled substantially less than the contracted mileage of 10,000 a year plus £157.80 
in other costs.As Mr B didnt accept VWFS offer of a £118.10 refund, it was withdrawn.
Mr Bs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded that VWFS had 
done nothing wrong and it need not pay Mr B anything by way of compensation.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators conclusion. He said given the number of SMS 
messages he had received he felt bullied into returning the car when he did, approximately 
one month early. He also felt that consumers should benefit from a refund when they return 
vehicles with a mileage substantially less than that contracted for.
Because Mr B didnt agree with the investigators conclusion his complaint has been passed 
to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. However, having done so, I can confirm 
that Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator and for the same reasons.
Its clear Mr B has very strong feelings about this complaint. He has provided detailed 
submissions in support of his view which I can confirm Ive read and considered in their 
entirety. However, I trust that Mr B will not take the fact that my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as 
a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised. The purpose 
of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
Mr B says he felt bullied into returning the car when he did, this being approximately one 
month earlier than he was contractually obliged to do. But I disagree. 
I accept that Mr B received a number of SMS messages from VWFS. But given these were 
all identical in their content its my view that the second and subsequent messages were 
simply sent as reminders and because Mr B hadnt responded to, or acted, on the first 
message sent. Ive also seen nothing in these messages that could, in my view, be 
construed as bullying behaviour or harassment.
Now I dont know for certain what Mr B was presented with when booking the appointment 
for the inspection and return of the car. But its my understanding, based on what both 
parties have said and submitted, that Mr B was presented with a number of dates for 
selection and it was his decision to select the date that he did. Furthermore, if a date on or 
around 11 September 2019 wasnt available for Mr B to select, I might have expected him to 
have raised concerns about this fact at the time, or later as part of his complaint to VWFS 
and then our service, but he didnt do so.
Put another way, I think that on the balance of probabilities Mr B selected the appointment 
date that he did because it was convenient for him. And that he did so in the full knowledge 
that he was returning the car earlier than was required and that he would be paying, and 
would be required to pay in full, the last months hire charge.  
I understand Mr Bs point that a consumer who returns a car on hire that has travelled more 
than the contractual mileage is liable to pay an excess mileage charge, but no refund is 
payable when a car is returned which has travelled less than the contractual mileage. 
But Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable, in the particular circumstances of 
this case, for me to direct VWFS to make a payment to Mr B in this respect particularly given that Mr B, as I understand it, was aware this was the case when he entered into his hire 
contract.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2020.
Peter Cook
Ombudsman