DRN-4323536
The complaint
Ms S complains about Yoga Insurance Services Limited referring her to an accident
management company when she called to claim on her car insurance policy.
What happened
Ms S was involved in an accident in her car with a third party, so she called Yoga, who are 
her broker, to report the claim. The call was answered by another company who, as well as 
handling these calls, are also an accident management company (AMC). For ease of
reading Ill refer to them as E.
Rather than claiming on her motor insurance policy, Ms S agreed to E carrying out the
repairs to her car and claiming the money back from the third partys insurer. E also 
arranged a hire car for Ms S, which was also charged to the third party involved in the 
accident. After Ms Ss car was repaired, it was returned to her home while she was away. 
When Ms S returned home she noticed issues with the repair to her car and so complained. 
E responded to the complaint and acknowledged Ms Ss concerns with the repair but said 
the unrepaired damaged had been deemed pre-existing and therefore wasnt a result of the 
accident. Ms S didnt agree and referred her complaint here. 
Our Investigator let Ms S know that as shed complained about E, it wasnt likely a complaint 
we could consider. Ms S said she wasnt aware shed been referred to an AMC and 
complained about Yoga referring her to E. Our investigator therefore raised the complaint 
about the referral with Yoga. 
Yoga responded and explained it hadnt issued a final response but provided a copy of the 
call where Ms S was referred to E. Our investigator reviewed the referral and didnt think 
Yoga had clearly explained Ms Ss options to her when she called up to claim. He thought 
this had caused Ms S unnecessary distress and inconvenience when she was made aware 
shed stepped outside of her regulated insurance contract. Because of this, our investigator 
recommended Yoga pay £100 compensation. However, he didnt think Yoga were 
responsible with the issue with the repair as the repairs had been completed by E.  
Yoga agreed but Ms S didnt. Ms S said she hadnt been made aware she was stepping 
outside of her regulated insurance contract. She said if shed claimed on her policy, we 
would have been able to consider her complaint about the issues with the repair.  
As Ms S didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I address the merits of this complaint, I think its first important to set out the different
parties involved and Yogas responsibilities, to make clear what I can and cannot look at in
this decision.
When Ms S called Yoga to report the damage to her car, she was automatically transferred 
to the E to handle the call on Yogas behalf. This means E was acting as Yogas agent and 
Yoga is responsible for the actions or omissions during this call when it discussed Ms Ss 
claim options and referred her to the AMC for credit hire and repair.
However, Yogas responsibility for E is limited to when it was acting on Yogas
behalf - and it is not directly responsible for any actions or omissions of the E. In
other words, E was acting in its own capacity when handling Ms Ss claim  not on
behalf of Yoga. And I dont have the jurisdiction to consider the actions of the AMC.
So, to be clear, Ill only be considering what happened during the call between Ms S and 
E (acting on Yogas behalf) when she was referred to E for credit hire and repair,
and whether E, as Yogas agent, met the required standards.
As Ms Ss insurance broker, Yoga was obliged to provide Ms S with information that was
clear, fair and not misleading, in line with their obligations under Principle 7 of the FCA
Handbook: Communications with clients (see PRIN 2.1 The Principles) and ICOBS 2.2.2R
(Clear, fair and not misleading rule). In the circumstances of this case, this means that when
Ms S contacted Yoga via her representative to tell it about her non-fault claim for
damage to her car, Yoga ought to have provided her with clear information about her
options, so she could decide how best to proceed with getting her car repaired.
I appreciate Yoga appointed E to fulfil this task on its behalf, and I dont think
theres anything wrong in appointing a third party to do this. But, in line with ICOBS 2.5.3G, a
firm cannot delegate its responsibility under the regulatory system when relying on others  it
retains regulatory responsibility for achieving the outcome required. This means Yoga is
ultimately still responsible for making sure its regulatory obligations are met by any third
parties acting on its behalf.
Ive listened to the recording of the call in which E referred Ms S to the AMC for credit
hire and repair (the referral call) and its not disputed that E didnt provide Ms S with 
enough information to make an informed choice on how to have her car repaired. So Ive 
looked at the impact the poor referral has had on Ms S. 
Ms S has explained that if shed claimed through her insurance policy then this service 
would be able to consider her complaint about the repairs to her car. I understand Ms Ss 
frustration with the repairs, I do also have to consider that her comments are made with the 
benefit of hindsight, after the issue arose. 
I can also see the AMC has been speaking with Ms S about the issues to determine if 
theyre accident related or not. And when taking all of the circumstances into account Im 
satisfied the poor referral has caused Ms S unnecessary distress and inconvenience as it 
wasnt clear how the repairs were being completed to Ms Ss car and also caused her 
distress by not being able to complain here about the repairs to her car. To compensate her 
for this Yoga needs to pay Ms S £100. 
I understand Ms S doesnt think the compensation goes far enough, as the issues with her 
car are still ongoing with E. However, if Ms S had claimed on her car insurance policy, I think 
its likely shed have the same issue. I say this as in the referral call E explained it also 
handles the claims for Ms Ss insurer and Ive not seen enough to persuade me the issues 
with Ms Ss car are related to the accident. And so, as Im only able to consider the impact of 
the poor referral, Im satisfied £100 is fair and reasonable compensation in these 
circumstances. My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Yoga Insurance Services Limited to pay Ms S £100 for distress and inconvenience, if not 
already done so.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman