DRN-4056032
The complaint
Mr S complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc declined his loan application and had added a 
marker incorrectly at CIFAS, the national fraud database.
What happened
Sainsburys Bank said that it hadnt made a mistake. Mr S had applied for a personal loan in 
December 2020. It had considered what hed provided, any existing account holding record 
and data held by credit reference agencies. It said that it couldnt provide specific details for 
the reason for the decline but that he might want to look at data held by credit reference 
agencies. Sainsburys Bank set out how Mr S could obtain a report about information held by 
CIFAS. And it said that it wouldnt be upholding a complaint about a marker being applied 
and which it noted Mr S said had affected his mental wellbeing and led to him losing his job.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that she didnt 
think that Sainsburys Bank had made a mistake and that it should do anything further.
Mr S didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He hadnt been asked to provide 
any information about the complaint and thought wed taken the side of Sainsburys Bank. 
He had made this application and the marker was wrong. He wanted to know what more 
information he could give.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint on 27 February 2023. I set out below 
what I said.
First I said that its a matter for Sainsburys Bank to decide whether to agree an application 
for credit. Id expect it though to follow any process it has fairly. Here I was satisfied it did 
that and had also recorded that it phoned Mr S to discuss aspects of his application. It 
doesnt have to explain further why it didnt provide a loan and can set its own criteria and 
keep these confidential.
I then turned to the CIFAS marker. This service had the impression from what it had been 
told that the CIFAS marker added by Sainsburys Bank related to Mr S application in 2020. 
But through our investigator I clarified that this wasnt the case and that the marker was 
added in 2018 when Mr S made a prior loan application to Sainsburys Bank. So, I asked it 
to provide the information that supported this marker being added.
I needed to consider whether this was added fairly. On this point, Sainsburys Bank needs to 
have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to believe 
that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted. 
The CIFAS marker that was then added is one about application fraud and relates to 
applications where material falsehoods or false supporting documentation is given in 
support of an application. And where the name of the applicant hasnt been identified as 
false.
To meet the standard of proof required to register a CIFAS marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving 
the account holder the opportunity to explain the information in order to understand their 
level of knowledge and intention.
Sainsburys Bank hadnt then been able to supply me with a copy of the application that   
Mr S made at the time. So, I couldnt see what information he provided and how he 
responded to the specific questions he was asked.
Sainsburys Bank had at the time made internal notes about what it thought were 
inconsistencies in that application. Id noted those carefully. But I havent seen the source 
evidence that supports any of them and so then compare this to what Mr S said in his 
application. And Sainsburys Bank says it wouldnt have taken screenshots of this 
information at the time. I could see why Sainsburys Bank believed it had grounds for 
suspicion and to think that there were material falsehoods. But it hadnt satisfied me both 
that this was actually the case, and that Mr S deliberately gave it false information with the 
aim of being better able to obtain finance. Sainsburys Bank said that no contact was then 
attempted with Mr S. As Id referred to its reasonably required to retain the relevant 
information from the time during the currency of the marker. It cant for example fairly rely 
on any more recent information to support its position.
So, I found that the high bar for adding the marker in 2018 hasnt been shown to have been 
met here. I considered that the marker should be removed.
I appreciated Mr S has said that this had had an effect on him and that until now hes not 
been given the opportunity to comment on the specifics of what happened. But at this stage 
I could take into account that as far as other financial businesses are concerned a marker 
on the database shouldnt lead to automatic refusal of an application and lenders must 
make their own checks. I didnt have evidence to support any other impact. And Mr S 
hasnt yet provided or commented on a complete record of any entries about him at CIFAS 
over the period and about his wider credit record if for example he wanted to say that this 
marker alone would have resulted in any detriment to him. And as Sainsburys Bank did 
with his most recent application here other lenders may have indicated why any particular 
facility was turned down or given him cause for concern. Mr S had the opportunity to follow 
up any particular declined application and so discover what was recorded on his credit 
record sooner. 
Having said all that I accepted that he would be distressed by the marker, and I noted the 
time its been in place and what he's done to try and remove this. So, I intended to award 
him £400 in compensation to reflect this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S said that this was a big relief and that he accepted the decision.
Sainsburys Bank didnt agree. It said that it didnt have a copy of his application, but it provided me with an extract of the application data from its archives. It said that there were 
material falsehoods described as False bank details/Residence - undisclosed 
address(es)/Undisclosed adverse credit data. It referred to CIFAS guidance about proving 
payment details are false and which I note also states that care must be taken to ensure that 
genuine mistakes are identified i.e. where two digits have been inadvertently transposed. It 
said that it made a check with the bank involved and that information about the account 
didnt match that for Mr S which was enough for the marker. And there had been concerns 
about an undisclosed address.
Ive looked closely at what its provided. As its said this isnt a copy of the actual application 
with the specific questions Mr S was asked. Whilst the meaning of some of the fields is 
obviously clear  for example the bank account details - others are given under database 
codes with no explanation. As I said before I dont doubt Sainsburys Bank had reason to be 
suspicious about the information in the application at the time. But the issue for me is 
whether the information now is sufficient to reach the standard of proof for the marker. 
I remain of the opinion that it isnt. I say this for a number of reasons. Mr S wasnt asked 
about any inconsistencies at the time and what were noted as major discrepancies about the 
bank details he put forward. Given the stage at which this information has been provided in 
our process (as I explained above) Im not minded now to ask Mr S about bank account 
details provided nearly five years ago - or to ask Sainsburys Bank to clarify things further 
given the opportunity its already had. I cant see the specific questions Mr S was asked 
about his address (and any history). And so, I dont have information thats clear to me from 
that time supporting that he had deliberately concealed a different address and relevant 
credit in his name. And I wont fairly be relying on information provided as part of any 
subsequent application to Sainsburys Bank or any other financial business to support a past 
marker or draw inferences about the integrity of what he then provided. 
So, in conclusion I will be endorsing my provisional findings for all the reasons Ive given, 
and I consider that the resolution remains fair.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Sainsburys Bank Plc to:
1) Remove the CIFAS marker.
2) Pay Mr S £400 in compensation.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman