DRN-3567833
The complaint
Mr H complains about the advice given by AJH Financial Services Ltd (AJH) to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) scheme with British Steel (BSPS) to a personal 
pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial 
loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Hs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In October 2017 Mr Hs employer sent out Time to Choose information asking members of 
the DB scheme what they wanted to do with their preserved benefits  either remain in the 
BSPS, which would then move to the PPF, join the BSPS2 or transfer their BSPS benefits 
elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 11 December 2017 (and was later 
extended to 22 December 2017.)
Mr H was concerned about what the announcements meant for the security of his DB 
scheme, so he sought advice. Mr H was introduced to AJH through a work colleague and he 
met with them in November 2017 during which a financial planning questionnaire was 
completed to gather information about his circumstances and objectives. Briefly, Mr H was 
single and living with his partner; he was working full-time; he had two children; he owned 
his own home with an outstanding mortgage of around £56,000; and he had no other 
liabilities or assets, other than a car. AJH also carried out an assessment of Mr Hs attitude 
to risk, which it deemed to be high medium.
Mr H met with AJH again in December 2017, where it advised Mr H to transfer his BSPS 
benefits into a personal pension arrangement. This was later confirmed in its formal written 
advice of 9 January 2018. I understand Mr H accepted the recommendation and AJH 
submitted Mr Hs pension transfer application paperwork prior to sending its written advice 
because it was concerned about meeting Mr Hs CETV deadline date. In summary AJHs 
reasons for the recommendation were to provide Mr H with flexibility in how he accessed his 
pension benefits; to address Mr Hs concerns about the BSPS scheme; because AJH 
deemed the critical yield was achievable; and because of Mr Hs desire to retire early. 
AJHs recommendation was for Mr Hs pension to be invested in a managed portfolio of 
investments, which it deemed matched Mr Hs attitude to risk.
Mr Hs pension transfer duly completed and around £220,000 was received into his new 
personal pension.
In 2021 Mr H complained to AJH about the suitability of the transfer advice. AJH doesnt 
appear to have provided Mr H with a final response to his complaint, so he referred his 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
In submitting its business file, AJH has provided a substantive note in response to Mr Hs 
complaint, which although I have read in full, I have not detailed everything here. Much of 
what AJH said here was about Mr Hs circumstances and what was set out in the advice 
paperwork. But in addition to this, in summary it said 
the investment portfolio recommended has produced annualised growth, which 
exceeds the critical yield figures.
Mr H had received his Time to Choose information prior to any contact with AJH, yet 
he didnt revisit this or change his decision to transfer.
Mr H understood the options available to him, he was aware of the guarantees he 
was giving up and he displayed a rationale thought process.
Mr H has changed his views from the time of the advice  hes forgotten the reasons 
for seeking advice and the content of the meetings that took place where all options 
were discussed in depth.
It is clear that neither the BSPS2 nor the PPF has outperformed Mr Hs personal 
pension plan when looking at CPI rates. It says given current values and projections 
the fund will provide benefits greater than would otherwise have been available to
Mr H, so hes not suffered a loss.
It doesnt believe the transfer has caused Mr H stress and anxiety given he was 
happy with things at review meetings and hasnt raised his concerns with it directly.
An investigator reviewed Mr Hs complaint and upheld it and said AJH should pay Mr H 
compensation. In summary they said they didnt think the advice was suitable because given 
the growth rates required to match Mr Hs scheme benefits at his indicated retirement age,  
he was likely to receive lower overall benefits at retirement as a result of transferring. And 
they said there were no other particular reasons to outweigh this  for example Mr H was 
young and he didnt have any plans to retire; there was nothing to indicate he needed 
maximum tax-free cash given his retirement was so far in the future; and a protection policy 
was a better option of providing lump sum death benefits. They also thought there was little 
analysis of the benefits Mr Hs workplace defined contribution (DC) pension scheme could 
provide to meet his retirement income need or consideration that this part of his pension 
provision already exposed him to investment risk, which a transfer of his DB benefits only 
increased. In conclusion they said Mr H ought to have been advised to opt into the BSPS2.
AJH disagreed. In summary it said appropriate and suitable advice was given and in the best 
interests of Mr H. It also said:
The investigator largely dismissed Mr Hs desire to cut ties with his employer and his 
lack of any intention to purchase an annuity.
All options were discussed with Mr H.
No weight was given to the fact that Mr H was actively searching for an adviser to 
assist in transferring his pension  he was adamant he wanted to transfer.
The investigator placed significant weight on Mr H being aged 35 at the time and that 
him wanting to retire at 60 wasnt a fixed objective  yet due to the physical nature of 
Mr Hs job and his repeated insistence that this was a significant factor, it was a key 
objective of Mr Hs at the time.
Mr H was given numerous warnings about the guarantees he was giving up.
Mr H didnt want the risk of his pension moving to the PPF and he stressed he didnt 
want to transfer to the BSPS2, but the investigator has disregarded this.It disagrees that the critical yield needs to be exceeded to justify a transfer as being 
suitable  if it is matched there is no loss while at the same time achieving flexibility.
The growth rate achieved on Mr Hs pension has exceeded the critical yield.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was passed to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of AJHs actions here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19, which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. My reasons are set out below.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, AJH should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Hs 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not persuaded that it was 
in his best interests.
Financial viability 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor when the advice was given.
Mr H was 35 at the time of the advice and the advice paperwork records that he wanted to 
retire no later than age 60. The TVAS dated 30 November 2017 set out the relevant critical 
yields; at age 65 it was 5.7% if Mr H took a full pension through the BSPS2 and 5.1% if Mr H 
took a reduced pension and tax-free cash. At age 60 the figures were 6.1% and 5.4% 
respectively. The critical yields required to match the benefits provided through the PPF at 
age 65 were 4.7% if Mr H took a full pension and 4.4% if he took tax free cash and a 
reduced pension. And at age 60 they were 5.3% and 4.9% respectively.
I can see that AJH also provided critical yields based on a single life annuity given Mr Hs 
single status  these were around 0.5%  0.6% lower than those Ive quoted above. And I 
accept that as Mr H wasnt married, providing a spouses pension wouldnt have been 
important to him at this time. But Mr H had a partner, so its possible that he might get 
married in the future at which point this benefit would become important. In any event, I still 
consider the critical yield including a spouses pension gives a good indication of the value of 
benefits Mr H was considering giving up. Its also the case that the regulator required AJH to 
provide it and so deems it a necessary and important part of the decision-making process.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 4.6% per year for 24 years to retirement (it was 4.7% for 29 years to retirement.) Ive 
kept in mind that the regulator's projection rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: 
the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and 
the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Hs  
high medium attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. In my view, and contrary to that 
of AJH, there would be little point in Mr H giving up the guarantees available to him through 
his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme.
But here, the critical yield assuming Mr H took a full pension through the BSPS2 at age 60 
(the retirement age the advice was predicated on) was 6.1%, and if he took a reduced 
pension and a cash lump sum it was 5.4%. Both these figures are above the discount rate 
and above the regulators middle projection rate. 
I can see that AJH classified Mr H as a high medium risk investor when it completed its risk 
profile analysis. But in my view, although Mr H was relatively young and the term to 
retirement was reasonably long, from whats recorded at the time Mr H lacked any real 
investment experience  I think in reality he was inexperienced. Im also mindful that in 
recording Mr Hs priorities for his pension, AJH noted that his second priority was the 
security of my pension fund. And his answer to the Risk and Reward section below this, 
indicated that he was prepared to take a reasonable degree of risk... 
Taking all of this into account, coupled with the fact that Mr Hs DB scheme pension 
represented the most significant part of his private pension provision at the time, I think a 
medium risk attitude was more appropriate here and more in line with the level of risk I think 
Mr H was prepared to take with his pension. But in any event I can see that the investment 
fund choice ultimately chosen for Mr H indicates that it was appropriate for a medium or 
balanced risk investor, so I dont think was out of line with the level of risk Mr H was 
prepared to take.So given this, I think its likely that Mr H would end up receiving benefits of a lower overall 
value than those provided by the BSPS2 if Mr H transferred out of the scheme and invested 
in line with a medium attitude to risk. Taking the lower critical yield figure of 5.4%, this was 
the growth rate required to effectively stand still. To improve on the benefits available to 
Mr H in the BSPS2 required growth in excess of this each and every year until retirement. In 
my view, to have come close to achieving the level of growth required to exceed the benefits 
provided by the BSPS2 if Mr H transferred to a personal pension, would have required him 
to take a higher level of investment risk than I think he was prepared to take.
Even if I consider the critical yield with no spouses benefit of 4.8%, I think its likely, at best, 
Mr H would end up receiving benefits of broadly the same overall value as a result of 
transferring and investing in line with a medium attitude to risk, There of course still 
remained the real risk that Mr H might end up with benefits of a lower overall value than 
those provided by the BSPS2 - so I dont think the position was very different in this 
scenario.
If the BSPS2 hadnt gone ahead, Mr H wouldve moved with the scheme to the PPF. And 
given the critical yields required to match Mr Hs benefits through the PPF, I dont think the 
situation was very different here either - I think the opportunity to improve on the guaranteed 
benefits provided by the PPF was limited if Mr H transferred out of the BSPS.
I can see that AJH has said that the past performance of the recommended investment and 
the performance since the transfer has exceed the critical yield. But as AJH knows, past 
performance is no guarantee for future performance. So I still consider the discount rate and 
the regulators standard projection rates to be more realistic in this regard over the longer 
term rather than projecting historic returns forward, particularly over such a long period as in 
this case.
AJH has also said in response to the investigators assessment that they largely dismissed 
Mr Hs lack of any intention to purchase an annuity. Its not clear whether AJH is suggesting 
the importance of the critical yield should be downplayed here or the fact Mr H didnt want a 
regular guaranteed fixed income in retirement. But either way, given Mr Hs circumstances I 
dont think he could realistically say with any certainty whether he would want to take a fixed 
regular income at retirement or not. He wasnt expecting to retire for at least another 25 
years  so its entirely possible that Mr H would want at least some guaranteed income in 
retirement, which he could achieve by taking benefits from the DB scheme.
Overall, Im not persuaded that even if the BSPS2 hadnt gone ahead and Mr H had moved 
with the scheme to the PPF and his benefits were reduced, he was likely to be able to 
improve on those benefits by transferring to a personal pension. In my view, by transferring 
his pension it was likely hed end up, at best, with retirement benefits of broadly the same as 
those available to him from the DB scheme at his preferred retirement age. So based on this 
alone, I dont think a transfer was in Mr Hs best interests.
But I accept that financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as 
AJH has argued in this case. There might be other considerations, which mean a transfer is 
suitable, despite providing broadly the same benefits. Ive considered below whether such 
other reasons applied here.
Flexibility and income needs
It appears one of the key reasons AJH recommended Mr H transfer out of the BSPS was to provide with him with flexibility  the ability for Mr H to say how and when he took his 
benefits.
But I dont think Mr H knew with any certainty whether he required flexibility in retirement. 
And in any event I dont think he needed to transfer his DB scheme benefits to achieve it.
Crucially Mr H was only 35 at the time of the advice. And based on what Ive seen, he didnt 
have concrete retirement plans  in fact I dont think he had any real plans. While I accept 
Mr H said he didnt want to retire any later than 60 and that his job was physically 
demanding, I think Mr Hs retirement was so far in the future that he couldnt reasonably 
have had any set idea or plan as to what age he wanted to retire at the time. As Mr H still 
had a significant period of his working life in front of him before he could think about 
accessing his pension, I think it was too soon to make any kind of decision about transferring 
out of the DB scheme. 
I accept Mr H might have liked the idea of retiring early, but he already had this option 
available to him - he didnt have to transfer out to achieve this. I accept that Mr H couldnt 
take his DB scheme benefits flexibly. Although he could choose to take a cash lump sum 
and a reduced annual pension, Mr H had to take those benefits at the same time. But 
nothing indicates that Mr H had a need to take a cash lump sum and defer taking his income 
 for example it seems likely that Mr Hs mortgage would be repaid prior to his retirement. 
And nothing to suggest he needed to vary his income throughout retirement. So it strikes me 
that flexibility was simply a feature or a consequence of transferring to a personal pension 
arrangement rather than a genuine objective of Mr Hs.
So, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for Mr H to give up his guaranteed 
benefits now when he didnt reasonably know what his needs in retirement would be.
Despite there being no apparent need for flexibility, importantly Mr H was contributing to his 
workplace DC pension scheme, as was his employer, meaning that a total of 16% of Mr Hs 
salary was being invested here. Given Mr H had the potential for another 25 years of 
pension contributions, and perhaps more (despite Mr Hs feeling towards his employer it 
doesnt appear he was seeking employment elsewhere) this had the potential to be worth a 
not insignificant amount. At Mr Hs current income, not accounting for growth or increases to 
the contribution rate, it had the potential to be worth in excess of £130,000. The nature of a 
DC scheme means this already provided Mr H with flexibility  he wasnt committed to take 
these benefits in a set way. He couldve taken lump sums as and when required and 
adjusted the income he took from it according to his needs. So, I think if Mr H retained his 
DB pension, this combined with his new workplace pension, wouldve given him the flexibility 
to retire early - if thats what he ultimately decided  and would likely meet his income needs.
So in any event, Mr H didnt need to transfer his DB scheme benefits at this stage to a 
personal pension arrangement in order to achieve flexibility in retirement. Of course, if Mr H 
did in fact have a greater need for flexibility beyond that which he already had, I think this 
couldve been explored closer to his intended retirement age, which as Ive said was still 
many years away. 
While this wouldnt have been possible if Mr Hs scheme moved to the PPF, if he opted to 
join the BSPS2 he wouldve retained the ability to transfer out nearer to retirement, if indeed 
it was required. This ought to have been explained by AJH.
I can see AJH has said that interview notes  which Ive not seen  show that Mr Hs DC 
scheme was discussed with him and that he understood he could access these benefits 
flexibly and that this could be used to cover any possible shortfall in his income need. But 
despite this, his concerns about the future of his job and his employer meant this wasnt 
taken forward and so it doesnt appear it was factored into the overall advice. But I think AJH was under an obligation to give Mr H an objective picture and recommend 
what was in his best interests. And in doing so AJH ought to have fully considered the role 
this could play in his retirement provision and how it could meet any flexibility need he had in 
the future, particularly as AJH recorded that this was Mr Hs main objective. While I accept 
Mr H had concerns about his employer, as I said above, theres nothing to indicate he was 
seeking employment elsewhere  so I think it was reasonable for AJH to have assumed 
contributions to this scheme would continue and so likely form a not insignificant part of his 
future pension provision. As such I think it ought to have formed part of AJHs advice and 
recommendation.
Turning to Mr Hs income need  while I dont think he could reasonably say what income he 
would need in retirement, it was recorded that a target income of £12,000 a year would likely 
meet his income need. That said, AJH didnt carry out a detailed expenditure in retirement 
analysis to determine if this was appropriate or realistic. But as I said above, theres nothing 
to indicate that Mr H needed variable income. And in my view, nothing to indicate that the 
income from the BSPS2 or the PPF (if the new scheme didnt ultimately go ahead) wouldnt 
have provided Mr H with at least a solid income foundation upon which his other provision 
could supplement, to meet his overall need.
For example, at age 60, AJHs analysis shows that Mr H would receive an annual pension of 
£11,467. This rose to £14,895 at 65. While Mr H might have indicated he liked the idea of 
taking a cash lump sum, the advice paperwork also records that this had yet to be decided. 
So given Mr H didnt have any known need for a cash lump sum, I think he couldve likely 
met his income needs until his state pension became payable. At age 60 the BSPS2 scheme 
income wouldnt have fully met his need  but I think any shortfall couldve been met by 
accessing income and/or by taking cash lump sums from his DC scheme. As I indicated 
above, I think Mr H wouldve likely had a not insignificant pension to draw on flexibly, as and 
when he needed, to top up his income or take additional lump sums. I think its also possible 
that Mr H couldve used his DC pension income at age 60 to meet his initial need delaying 
taking his DB scheme income until 65, if he didnt want to incur an actuarial reduction, with 
his state pension adding to things later on. So, I think its also the case that Mr H didnt have 
to sacrifice flexibility in retirement by opting into the BSPS2.
I accept at the time of the advice, the BSPS2 hadnt been established. Although I think the 
communications sent out by the scheme trustees were very optimistic that the scheme 
operating conditions would be met, it wasnt certain. And if Mr H had opted into the BSPS2 
and it hadnt gone ahead, he wouldve moved with the scheme to the PPF. And while the 
pension hed be entitled to would likely be lower than under the BSPS2 (unfortunately the 
income figure has been blanked out on the TVAS copy provided) I dont think it was 
substantially lower such that it shouldve made a difference to the recommendation. As Ive 
said above, Mr H wouldve had his DC scheme to draw on until his state pension became 
payable. So, I still think Mr H couldve met his needs in retirement even if the scheme moved 
to the PPF.
Overall, I think Mr H couldve likely met his income needs in retirement through the BSPS2 
or the PPF based on a retirement age of 60. 
So, I dont think it was in Mr Hs best interests for him to transfer his pension just to have 
flexibility, that Im not persuaded he really needed. As I said above, if Mr H later had reason 
to transfer out of his DB scheme, which the BSPS2 wouldve allowed, he couldve done so 
closer to retirement.
Death benefits
 Another reason for the transfer was to allow Mr H to provide for his partner and/or his 
children by passing on any of his unused pension fund upon his death.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr H. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr H might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his BSPS benefits to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr H about what was best for his retirement provisions. 
A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement - not as a legacy provision 
tool. So I dont think the potential for greater or different death benefits should have been 
prioritised over this and Mr Hs security in retirement. And I say potential, because the sum 
left on Mr Hs death was dependent on investment returns  so if he lived a long life, and/or 
investment performance was lower than expected, there may not have been a large sum to 
pass on anyway.
While Mr H was single (co-habiting) at the time, he was young and so its possible he 
couldve married later on. In which case the spouses pension provided by the BSPS2 
scheme wouldve been useful to his wife if Mr H predeceased her. This was guaranteed and 
escalated  under the BSPS2 the spouses pension would also be calculated as if no tax-
free cash had been taken. Its also the case that it was not dependent on investment 
performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was.
I can see that AJH noted in the suitability report that the option of life assurance had been 
considered and a quote for a whole of life policy with a sum assured for the full transfer value 
was presented to Mr H. But this was discounted because Mr H wanted to ensure his pension 
benefits werent lost rather than being concerned with affecting a life policy. But AJHs role 
wasnt to simply transact what Mr H thought he wanted  as I said above a pension is 
primarily designed to provide income in retirement. So I think that if Mr H genuinely wanted 
to leave a legacy for his family over and above that which was already available - for 
example via his DC pension scheme - and which didnt depend on investment returns or how 
much of his pension fund remained on his death, AJH shouldve instead properly explored 
additional life cover. 
The starting point here neednt have been for a sum assured equal to the full transfer value  
notwithstanding that at a cost of around £33 a month it appears to have been affordable  as 
this assumes Mr H would die immediately after the transfer, which I dont think is realistic. 
Instead the starting position ought to have been to ask Mr H how much he ideally would like 
to leave to his family, after taking into account existing means. And this couldve been 
explored on a whole of life or term assurance basis, which was likely to be cheaper to 
provide, particularly as Mr H was young and in good health. In my view, this was the suitable 
way forward and what AJH ought to have ultimately recommended  I consider it wouldve 
met Mr Hs objective without risking his retirement income to achieve things.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr H. And I dont think AJH did 
enough to explore and present the alternatives available to Mr H to meet this objective.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
AJHs advice paperwork says Mr H was concerned about the future of the DB scheme and 
he was concerned about entering the PPF  he wanted to break all ties with the scheme and 
take things under his own control.
I have no doubt that Mr H was concerned about his pension. His employer had recently 
made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and he was worried for his pension given the general uncertainty. There was also lots of negative sentiment about the PPF. So 
its quite possible that Mr H was leaning towards the decision to transfer because of the 
concerns he had about his employer and what might happen. But as I said earlier on, it was 
AJHs obligation to give Mr H an objective picture and recommend what was in his best 
interests.
In relation to the BSPS2 going ahead, I can see AJH indicated in its suitability report that it 
would likely go ahead. And this was in line with what I think the available information from 
the scheme trustees indicated  so this shouldve helped alleviate some of Mr Hs concerns. 
I can see reference was made in the advice paperwork that Mr H wanted to cut all ties with 
the BSPS and AJH has referred to Mr Hs desire to want to distance himself from his 
employer. But its clear that he still worked for the same employer. And as I said above, he 
hadnt indicated he intended to find alternative employment. He was also a member of the 
new DC pension scheme via his employer. So, Mr H wasnt going to achieve a separation 
from his employer by transferring.
In terms of Mr Hs specific concerns about the scheme moving to the PPF - I think that AJH 
shouldve reassured Mr H that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he 
thought or had been led to believe. Despite the 10% reduction in starting benefits and 
although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the income was still guaranteed 
and was not subject to any investment risk. The income available to Mr H through the PPF 
wouldve still provided a significant portion of the income he thought he needed at 
retirement, and I think he was unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out. So, I 
dont think that these concerns shouldve led to AJH recommending Mr H transfer out of the 
DB scheme altogether.
Summary
I accept that Mr H was likely motivated to transfer out of the BSPS and that his concerns 
about his employer were real. And I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for 
higher or different death benefits on offer through a personal pension wouldve sounded like 
attractive features to Mr H. But as I said earlier, AJH wasnt there to just transact what Mr H 
might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr H 
needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr H was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income, whether through the BSPS2 or the PPF at a 
time when he didnt have any firm retirement plans. By transferring to a personal 
arrangement Mr H was, at best, likely to receive broadly the same overall retirement benefits 
at his indicated preferred retirement age of 60. And I dont think there were any other 
particular or compelling reasons which would justify the transfer and outweigh this. So, I 
dont think it was in Mr Hs best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a personal 
pension at this time when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
So, I think AJH shouldve advised Mr H to opt into BSPS2. I appreciate that the BSPS2 
wasnt guaranteed to go ahead when the advice was given. But I think it was clear to all 
parties that it was likely to be going ahead. And while Mr H said he wanted to retire early, Im 
mindful that was over 25 years away and Mr Hs plans couldve changed. So, I don't think 
that it would've been in his interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would've faced by 
the scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for 
very early retirement. And by opting into the BSPS2, Mr H wouldve retained the ability to 
transfer out of the scheme nearer to his retirement age - if he needed to. Also, the annual 
indexation of his pension when in payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2.Of course, I have to consider whether Mr H would've gone ahead anyway, against AJHs 
advice  something AJH has argued. I can see AJH recorded on a piece of the advice 
paperwork that Mr H intended to transfer regardless of the advice and it believes Mr Hs 
intentions were clear about this. Mr H says he only transferred because of the advice he 
received.
Ive considered this carefully. Having done so, Im not persuaded that its more likely than not 
Mr H wouldve insisted on transferring out of the BSPS against AJHs advice. On the one 
hand, I accept, as I said above, that Mr H was motivated to transfer given the circumstances 
at the time. I think its likely Mr H was seeing and hearing about other colleagues transferring 
out  hed been recommended to AJH through a work colleague  so he thought he should 
explore doing the same. I also accept that AJH disclosed the risks of transferring to Mr H 
and it provided him with a significant amount of information in the suitability report.
But on the other hand, Mr H was not an experienced investor  he didnt have any real direct 
investment experience. And I dont think he was someone who possessed the requisite 
knowledge, skill or confidence to go against the advice they were given, particularly in 
complex pension matters. I think Mr H relied on the advice he was given. Furthermore 
Mr Hs pension accounted for the majority of his retirement provision at the time.
So, on balance, if things had happened as they should have and AJH had provided Mr H 
with clear advice against transferring out of the BSPS, explaining why it wasnt in his best 
interests, I think Mr H wouldve listened to and followed AJHs advice. 
Im not persuaded that Mr Hs concerns about his employer were so great that he wouldve 
insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought 
out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. If AJH had 
explained to Mr H that he could meet all of his objectives without risking his guaranteed 
pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr H wouldve 
insisted on transferring out of his scheme.
I can see that AJH has said Mr H had received his Time to Choose information and he 
didnt revisit this or change his mind about the transfer. But I dont see why he wouldve done 
so  hed received advice from a professional adviser telling him that in their view it was in 
his best interests to transfer to a personal pension arrangement. And the Time to Choose 
information ought to have formed part of the discussion and the advice AJH gave to Mr H. 
So I dont see any reason why Mr H wouldve revisited this information given the interactions 
and advice he received from AJH.
AJH has also commented about the fact Mr Hs views on the advice he received have clearly 
changed and that he didnt raise any concerns directly with it at the annual reviews it carried 
out with him. Its clear that Mr H, with the benefit of hindsight, feels differently about his 
pension transfer. But that isnt surprising to me. And I dont think its really in dispute that at 
the time of the advice, Mr H felt that transferring out of the BSPS was a good idea. 
He feels differently now, which is why hes complained.  And I dont think it is unreasonable 
for a customer to change their mind about things or make a complaint if, on reflection, they 
think the advice they received was unsuitable.
In light of the above, I think AJH should compensate Mr H for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. And as per the 
above, it is the benefits available to him through the BSPS2 that should be used for 
comparison purposes.Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr H whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance /rules to come into effect.
Mr H has chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr H. 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the AJH to put Mr H, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for AJHs unsuitable advice. If suitable advice had been 
given, Mr H would most likely have opted into the BSPS2. So it is the benefits under the 
BSPS2 which should be used for comparison purposes. 
AJH must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr H has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Hs acceptance of the decision.
AJH may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Hs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Hs SERPS/S2P entitlement. 
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Hs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr H as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr H within 90 days of the date AJH receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision.
 
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 
90 days, that it takes AJH to pay Mr H.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect AJH to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
AJH pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require AJH Financial Services 
Ltd to pay Mr H the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
AJH Financial Services Ltd to pay Mr H any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require 
AJH Financial Services Ltd to pay Mr H any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
AJH Financial Services Ltd pays Mr H the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr H.
If Mr H accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on AJH Financial Services 
Ltd. My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr H can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr H may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman