DRN-4499644
The complaint
Mr H complains that the offer The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
(NFU) made to settle his motor insurance complaint is too low. He further complains that an 
agent of NFU damaged his vehicle during the recovery process. 
What happened
In January 2023, Mr Hs catalytic converter was stolen from his car while it was parked away 
from his home. Whilst waiting for the vehicle to be recovered by NFU, Mr H incurred hotel 
costs of £95.30.  His vehicle was taken to a storage facility before being transferred to a 
repair centre for assessment. 
Mr H says that the vehicle was damaged after it was recovered from the accident site. He 
said that practically every panel on the car was dented or scratched. Mr H says there was no 
such damage to the car after the theft of the catalytic converter and before it was recovered 
on behalf of NFU. He queried whether the vehicle was deliberately damaged after recovery.
Ultimately, NFU decided it was not economical to repair the vehicle. It offered to settle the 
claim by paying the market value of the car at the date of loss to Mr H. In assessing the 
market value, NFU consulted three valuation guides and found the following valuations: 
Guide 1 - £3,118; Guide 2 - £3,890; and Guide 3 - £4,996. NFU offered to settle Mr Hs claim 
in accordance with Guide 3 in that the car was worth £4,996 on the date of loss. 
Mr H did not accept NFUs valuation. He was also concerned about the damage he believed 
to have been caused in the recovery process. He thought the vehicle may have been 
deliberately damaged in order to have the vehicle written off. In response, NFU said its 
valuation was fair. It said its repairer had no say in whether the vehicle was deemed a total 
loss and that the alleged additional damage would not have been caused during its recovery 
procedure. It offered to pay £50 to Mr H to compensate him for a customer service issue he 
encountered whilst his complaint was being investigated. 
Mr H then complained to this service. Our investigator initially said she thought NFU needed 
to undertake some further work on its valuations. In particular, NFU needed to reconsider the 
mileage it had entered when obtaining the valuation in Guide 1. In response, NFU said the 
mileage of Mr Hs car was 22,312 and the lowest mileage Guide 1 would accept was 30,000. 
NFU also agreed to cover the hotel costs Mr H incurred whilst waiting for the vehicle to be 
recovered. 
Our investigator then reconsidered the complaint. She said she thought NFUs valuation was 
fair. She didnt think there was sufficient evidence to show the alleged additional damage 
had been caused after recovery. She thought it was fair for NFU to pay Mr Hs hotel costs 
and to pay £50 to compensate him for the customer service issues it had identified. 
As Mr H did not accept our investigators view, the matter was passed to me for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr H will be disappointed, but my decision is that NFUs valuation is fair. In 
addition to that, I agree with our investigator that it is fair for NFU to cover Mr Hs hotel costs 
and to pay £50 to compensate him for the customer service issues it identified. 
The first thing Ive considered is the additional damage Mr H alleges was caused to his car 
during the recovery process. I can see from the complaint form that Mr H says there was 
extensive damage [amounting] to dents to the bodywork and paintwork damage to 
practically every panel or wing of his vehicle. 
I appreciate Mr H feels strongly that his vehicle was further damaged during the recovery 
process.  But even if I were to conclude that this were the case, if the additional damage 
means it is not economical to repair the vehicle, I cant say it is unfair for NFU to deem Mr 
Hs car a total loss and pay the pre-accident market value of the vehicle. 
With that in mind, Ive looked at whether NFUs assessment of the market value of Mr Hs 
car is fair. Insofar as they are relevant to this complaint, the terms and conditions that apply 
to Mr Hs policy say that in the event of damage to his car, NFU will not pay more than the 
market value. Market value is then defined as the amount it would cost to replace the 
[car]with one of the same make, model, specification, age and condition. 
Assessing the value of a car isnt an exact science. Like most insurers, this service often 
finds valuation guides persuasive. Thats because the valuations are based on nationwide 
research. As a service, we generally consider the valuation guides to be helpful in showing 
likely selling prices at the month of loss. 
I can see that when obtaining the valuations, NFU entered the correct registration data, date 
of loss and (save for Guide 1) the correct mileage. NFU was unable to enter the correct 
mileage for Guide 1 and I can see that this guide produced a valuation that was somewhat 
lower than Guides 2 and 3. However, I dont think the difficulties with Guide 1 are material 
here. Thats because NFU decided to settle the claim based on Guide 3  the highest of the 
three guides at £4,996.  
I appreciate Mr H doesnt accept Guide 3 represents a fair value of his vehicle. He sent us 
three adverts for cars that are similar to his. I have considered these adverts to see whether 
they suggest the valuation in Guide 3 was unfair. 
The first two adverts show selling prices ostensibly of £7,500 and £9,000. Although similar, it 
looks as though the vehicles shown here are of a different specification to Mr Hs car. In any 
event, the registration number for both these vehicles appears to be the same or very 
similar, which means it is possible the same car was for sale at the same time at significantly 
different asking prices. The third advert also appears to show a car with a different 
specification to Mr Hs. I cant reasonably say the adverts show cars that are the same as Mr 
Hs. It follows that, on balance, I cant reasonably say the adverts Mr H sent to us suggest 
the valuation shown in Guide 3 is unfair. 
With all of this in mind, I havent seen any evidence to reasonably suggest the valuation set 
out in Guide 3 is unfair. It follows that I am satisfied it is fair for NFU to settle Mr Hs claim 
based on a valuation of £4,996 at the date of loss.  
I recognise that Mr H encountered some customer service issues when NFU was dealing 
with his claim. NFU accepts that there was an error in some of the information it gave Mr H. 
Im satisfied the £50 NFU offered in this regard is fair compensation here. I can see that our 
investigator also recommended that NFU cover Mr Hs hotel costs of £95.30 and it has now 
agreed to do this. 
Putting things right
I require NFU to: 
a) Settle Mr Hs claim based on a valuation of £4,996 at the date of loss. b) Pay £50 to Mr H to compensate him for the customer service issues identified 
above (if it has not done so already).
c) Settle Mr Hs hotel costs of £95.30 (if it has not done so already). 
My final decision
I require The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited to put things right as 
I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman