DRN-3339193
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Black Horse Limited trading as Land Rover Financial Services are 
charging him the final optional balloon payment after the hire purchase agreement he had 
with them ended. 
What happened
Black Horse. He paid a deposit of £4,150, and the agreement was for £38,485.01 over 48 
months; with 47 monthly payments of £498.62 and a final optional balloon payment of 
£22,729 if Mr K wanted to keep the car. 
Shortly before the agreement was due to end, Mr K told Black Horse that he wanted to hand 
the car back. Black Horse then sent him a letter, dated 22 February 2021, confirming the car 
was to be returned. And they contacted a third-party collections company, whom Ill call B, to 
arrange to collect the car.
But B were unsuccessful in arranging to collect the car from Mr K. In June 2021, Mr K spoke 
to Black Horse and said that he still wanted to hand the car back. But Black Horse told him 
that this was no longer possible. And he would either need to pay the balloon payment or 
surrender the car for auction and be liable for any auction shortfall.
However, on 30 June 2021, Black Horse wrote to Mr K and told him we are pleased to 
confirm that all the payments due on the agreement have been completed, and that you are 
now the owner of the vehicle. Mr K complained to Black Horse that, despite having received 
this letter, they are still asking him to pay the balloon payment. Black Horse maintained that 
this payment was due, and Mr K brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service 
for investigation.
Our investigator said hed seen no evidence that Mr K had ever paid the balloon payment. 
And that Mr K wouldve known from the conversations hed had with Black Horse that this 
was payable. So, he thought the letter of 30 June 2021 had been sent in error, and it wasnt 
reasonable for Mr K to rely on this that no further payments needed to be made.
Given this, even though Black Horse had made a clear error, the investigator said that the 
balloon payment was still due, and he didnt think Black Horse needed to reduce or waive it.
Mr K didnt agree with the investigator. He said that Black Horse writing to him on 22 
February 2022, asking him to pay the balloon payment or face prosecution was as a result 
of collusion with you which is highly unethical and against the terms and conditions of the 
Financial Ombudsmans service. And he wanted Black Horse to stop all action against him 
until hed received a fair hearing.
Because Mr K didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr K was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. 
This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to investigate 
complaints about it. 
The basic facts of this case arent disputed. Nor is it disputed that Black Horse sent Mr K an 
email on 30 June 2021 telling him there were no more payments owing on his agreement, 
when this wasnt the case.
However, the agreement Mr K signed on 3 March 2017 made it clear the balloon payment 
was due at the end of the agreement term if the car wasnt being returned. Black Horse also 
wrote to Mr K on 18 February 2021, before hed told them he wanted to return the car, and 
told him your final lump sum payment of £22,729  is due on 3 March 2021. And, in a 
phone call on 19 June 2021, Black Horse made it clear to Mr K that that he could no longer 
return the car and must either pay the balloon payment, or surrender the car and become 
liable for any auction sale shortfall.
Given the above, Im satisfied that Mr K was aware when the balloon payment fell due, and 
when hed need to pay it - if the car wasnt returned at the end of the agreement. And, by not 
arranging to return the car, Mr K wouldve known that he needed to pay the balloon 
payment.
As Ive said, its not disputed that Black Horse told Mr K in error that he had no further 
payments to pay. But, at the time Mr K received this notification, he wouldve known this 
wasnt the case, as the balloon payment hadnt been made. So, I dont think it was 
reasonable for Mr K to rely on the contents of the 30 June 2021 email, and Id wouldve 
expected him to have at least queried this with Black Horse  which he didnt.
Whats more, I dont think this email is legally binding. For the same reason that, if Mr K had 
been asked to pay the balloon payment in error after hed already paid it, I wouldnt expect 
him to have to pay it twice; I wouldnt expect a payment that legally falls due under the 
agreement to be waived just because hed been told in error that it had already been paid.
Given this, I wont be asking Black Horse to reduce or waive the balloon payment.
Mr K has also commented on Black Horse asking him to pay the balloon payment while his 
complaint was still being investigated. And he thinks this is highly unethical collusion. Black 
Horse dont have to stop any collections process while a complaint is being investigated. So, 
they are entitled to action against Mr K for non-payment, even though we are still looking into 
things. And they havent done anything wrong by doing so.My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint about Black Horse Limited 
trading as Land Rover Financial Services.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman