DRN-2454252
The complaint
Mr G complains about the private client management (PCM) service provided by Standard 
Life Client Management Limited (Standard Life) in relation to his draw-down pension plan. 
He complains he paid an ongoing adviser charge, but he didnt receive that service. Mr G 
says he paid for annual reviews which didnt take place.
What happened
Mr G signed up for the private client management service in 2014. Standard Life sent him 
the agreement in February 2014.
In July and August 2014, a financial review took place and Standard Lifes representative 
discussed recommendations with Mr G.
In December 2014 Mr G started paying for the PCM service.
In January 2015 Standard Life contacted Mr G to try to arrange an annual review. There was 
further contact between Standard Life and Mr G and the review was re-scheduled to March 
2015 and then to May 2015 as Mr G was abroad for a few months. It was re-scheduled 
again by Mr G in September 2015. But the review didnt take place.
In January 2016, January 2017 and January 2018, Standard Life contacted Mr G to arrange 
an annual review but no reviews took place.
There was contact between Standard Life and Mr G in 2019. In March 2019 the adviser 
raised with Mr G whether it was in his best interests to carry on with the PCM service. The 
ongoing adviser charge was cancelled in March 2019.
Mr G complained to Standard Life in March 2019 about the PCM service and about some 
correspondence he had received. He said annual reviews hadnt been carried out and he 
paid a significant amount in charges for a poor level of service.
Standard Life upheld Mr Gs complaint in part. It acknowledged it had sent him one letter in 
error, apologised and offered £100 compensation.
But it didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint about the PCM service. Standard Life said it had 
attempted to arrange the annual reviews with Mr G and a full review had been offered every 
year.
It said it was satisfied there had been sufficient service and support available to Mr G. It 
noted a review was offered to Mr G in January 2018 and MyFolio and Performance 
information was sent in March 2018.
Standard Life acknowledged that Mr Gs private client manager wasnt available for a period 
of time. However, it said there was a full team of private client managers who were available 
and happy to help Mr G.
Standard Life said it understood Mr Gs private client manager had explained the new Mi-Fid 
rules and had suggested Mr G might wish to stop using the advised service due to the 
changes and costs involved, as he had not fully utilised their services. It said Mr G had 
agreed with this and he had been transferred from the PCM service to direct customer 
status.
Mr G disagreed and said Standard Life had failed to provide the service he paid for. He 
referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. He looked at the contact between Standard 
Life and Mr G over the relevant period. The investigator felt that Standard Life had tried to 
arrange the annual reviews but that Mr G either hadnt been available or hadnt responded. 
So, he didnt think that Standard Life could be held responsible because it had offered Mr G 
the reviews every year, but Mr G hadnt taken up that offer.
Mr G disagreed as he didnt think he had received the service he paid for. He also pointed 
out that he had completed a risk questionnaire in 2019 and had been ready for the review to 
take place but instead the adviser had suggested he cancel his PCM service.
As no agreement could be reached Mr Gs complaint was referred to me for review.
I issued a provisional decision where I concluded that Standard Life should refund half of   
Mr Gs charges for the PCM service. I took into account that Mr G had been paying the fees 
for about four years and hadnt had one annual review. I also noted that there had been little 
meaningful contact between Mr G and his private client manager over that time.
Mr G accepted my provisional decision. Standard Life disagreed. In summary it said that:
It had been penalised due to the customers failure to accept the reviews offered and 
this was not consistent with previous decisions we had made in cases of a similar 
nature.
There was no evidence that it had contravened FCA rules or acted contrary to good 
practice.
The evidence showed that the charges were disclosed up front and it was clear that 
reviews were offered. It was Mr Gs choice not to utilise the full service which the 
OAC entitled him to receive, in accordance with the terms agreed and understood at 
outset. 
Mr G was aware of the Key Facts when he signed up to the service. He chose not to 
allow/make the contact to complete his reviews. It was his own choice not to accept 
the service available to him. He could have cancelled this service at any time by 
simply informing Standard Life (Page 4 of Key Facts). Therefore, it didnt seem fair or 
reasonable to ask Standard Life to refund 50% of the OAC taken, especially when 
the service was shown to have been offered.
It also said this outcome would mean it had to disengage clients after a certain 
period, if they declined to partake in their review. It said this approach may not be 
suitable for all its clients.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive considered all the representations made in response to my provisional decision.
Mr G signed up to the private client management service in 2014.
Standard Life sent him the details of the agreement in February 2014. It said Mr G would 
benefit from:
 Access throughout the year to myself as your Private Client Manager
 An annual review of your investment performance, financial plans and current 
circumstances
 Recommendations on new investment solutions which we think could better meet your 
needs
 Being made aware of changes in legislation which could impact your financial plans
 Regular communications to keep you informed and up to date with whats happening in 
the market
The cost of the service was an annual charge which was calculated as a percentage of the 
investment value of Mr Gs plan. It is quoted on the agreement as 0.7 percent of the value of 
the plan.
Mr G complains he paid almost £1,000 per year in fees but he didnt receive an annual 
review. So, Mr G says he didnt receive the service he had paid for.
I am satisfied that Standard Life made numerous attempts to contact Mr G and arrange an 
annual review from 2015 to 2019. I can see in 2015 that the review was rescheduled on 
three occasions and that the reasons for the reschedule were because Mr G was 
unavailable, and out of the country for some of that period.
Mr G has complained that his adviser wasnt available for some time in 2018, so the adviser 
was unable to carry out his review. Standard Life has explained that the adviser was 
unavailable for a short time in 2018 due to personal circumstances. But it said that wouldnt 
have prevented an annual review taking place as there were several other private client 
managers who couldve assisted. So, Im not persuaded on balance that the 2018 review 
couldnt take place.
But I dont think the agreement between Standard Life and Mr G was that it would provide an 
offer of a review to Mr G in exchange for Mr G paying the charge. I consider the agreement 
was that Standard Life would provide an annual review, or something equivalent, as part of 
its private client management service. 
I think there would have been some flexibility as to the date of that review with a convenient 
date being agreed between the parties. But over the period of four years, for the fee Mr G 
was paying I would have expected there to have been several reviews  approximately four - 
depending on how they were spaced out. For instance, if there had been an in-depth review 
one year then it may have been reasonable to allow a longer time period to the next review. 
The number of reviews that would be reasonable does depend on the circumstances. So, if 
for instance, there had been some meaningful discussion about the consumers current 
situation during the year- it may be unnecessary to have a formal review. Because a review 
of sorts had taken place. It may even be the case that a review, or equivalent, might be missed in one particular year, 
because a customer couldnt be contacted or for any other reason hadnt responded. And if 
reviews had taken place in other years, I might take an alternate view on whether any, or a 
proportionate, refund of fees should be made. But the situation here is quite different, and 
specific to Mr G.
The particular situation here is that Mr G hasnt received a service hed paid for  a review  
for a continuous four-year period. 
I dont think Standard Life is at fault for not being able to carry out the annual reviews. I am 
satisfied it made reasonable endeavours to do so, but they didnt occur because either Mr G 
was unavailable, or he didnt respond to Standard Lifes correspondence.
Although I note that the review in March 2019 could have taken place. The private client 
manager appears to have suggested to Mr G that the service wasnt good value for him. 
Standard Life has said that because no reviews had taken place for two years it would have 
been its policy to try to disengage the customer. But I think this probably should have 
happened sooner, rather than asking Mr G to complete a risk questionnaire in anticipation of 
a review which then didnt happen- just as previous reviews also hadnt happened.
I note Standards Life comments that Mr G could have cancelled the service at any time, and 
I agree he could have done so. But I dont think that Mr G was really aware that he wasnt 
receiving a significant part of the service he was paying for until he had the conversation with 
his private client manager in March 2019. 
I also dont consider that Standard Life is being penalised for Mr G not utilising its service, as 
ultimately that meant there was less work for Standard Life to do.
The key issue is whether it is reasonable to charge Mr G for a service, specified in the 
agreement, which he didnt receive.
I am satisfied that no annual review was conducted after the initial one in 2014 and that is 
also not disputed by the parties. So, Im not persuaded it is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances to charge him for this part of the service. There was no real cost to Standard 
Life for this  and so it seems unfair to me that Mr G should be charged for it.
So, notwithstanding my previous comment that Standard Life could reasonably have acted 
sooner to notify Mr G that he was paying a fairly significant annual fee for a benefit he wasnt 
receiving, in the circumstances of this particular case, as Mr G hadnt received  not simply 
been offered (and the terms of the agreement specified a review, not an offer of a review) - a 
service hed paid for over a prolonged period of time, and importantly for which Standard Life 
had also not incurred a cost, it seems entirely reasonable to me that, in this instance, Mr G 
should be refunded a proportion of that fee.
Standard Life says that the annual review was only one part of the service it provided in 
exchange for the charges paid. 
It says the annual review:
 would be a small part of the overall service that we provide. Part of what the client pays 
for is not only the annual review, but the active management of their funds, discussions and 
advice on market or legislation changes, amongst other things.But I think the annual review was an important part of the service because without 
conducting an annual review Standard Life would find it difficult to make recommendations to 
Mr G regarding new investments; which was another part of the service outlined in the 
agreement.
The private client manager would have to take account of Mr Gs circumstances and 
objectives at the time in order to do so.
And making recommendations was another important part of the service provided, even if 
the recommendation was to leave things as they were because the investments remained 
suitable for Mr Gs circumstances and objectives.
Standard Life has also said that Mr Gs funds were actively managed the whole time he was 
invested with us and they have been reviewed and rebalanced on a regular basis to stay in 
line with his overall attitude to risk, whilst ensuring sensible movements within the funds to 
get the best out of them given market conditions at any point.
It has also said that Mr G had 24/7 access to his planner throughout his time as a client of 
Private Client Management (PCM). And that outside the review cycle Mr G could also call 
his private client manager or the team at any time for anything he was unsure of. But I think 
that the lack of a review wouldve had an impact on the amount of active market 
management that could take place. And from the contact sheet provided I cant see that 
there was much contact between the private client manager and Mr G from 2015 to 2019, or 
that many meaningful discussions took place.
I take into account that Mr G did have access to his private client manager over the period 
he was paying the charge and that he had the option to contact the manager or any member 
of the team. I also think he wouldve had the peace of mind of knowing Standard Life would 
keep him updated about changes in legislation and changes in the market which might affect 
his pension plan, which would be a benefit.
I also appreciate that Standard Life did spend time contacting Mr G to try and arrange the 
annual reviews and it also provided him with information about his portfolio, such as 
performance reports and review reports. I further note Standard Life didnt implement an 
increase in charges in 2018 and 2019.
Ive also considered that Standard Life was managing Mr Gs funds during the time to ensure 
they stayed in line with his attitude to risk and market conditions. Although as Ive said 
above, the extent to which it would properly be able to do such active management would 
have been restricted by the fact that it didnt have up to date information about his 
circumstances and objectives.
So, overall, I consider a reduction of half of the fees paid from January 2015 to the date of 
the last payment of the charge for the PCM service in 2019, is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. I consider part of the PCM service was provided to Mr G. I havent seen a 
breakdown of the costs of the services from which Mr G actually benefited, but this seems 
fair to me on the basis of the facts of this case.
Mr G has already paid these charges from his pension plan, and so his plan should be 
reconstructed as if 50 percent of those charges had not been deducted.
In closing, Ive noted what Standard Life has said about the prospect of needing to change 
its terms of business on the basis of these findings. That is of course up to Standard Life, but 
Id reiterate what Ive said above in this decision  the circumstances here are quite specific, 
in that, notwithstanding the possibility of Standard Life bringing to Mr Gs attention that he wasnt capitalising on a key benefit rather sooner than it did, the provision of an annual 
review didnt occur at any point during the period Mr G was paying the fee  at little or no 
cost to Standard Life.
In my view, a partial reduction in the fee in this instance therefore seems entirely fair and 
reasonable.
Putting things right
Standard Life should restructure Mr Gs pension plan as if 50 percent of the charges for the 
PCM service had not been deducted. 
The value of the pension plan shouldnt be uplifted if it would conflict with any existing 
protection.
If an uplift of the pension isnt possible or has protection implications, it should be paid 
directly to Mr G as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow for future income 
tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is assumed to be basic rate, and should be 
levied on the redress amount at 15%  - 20% on 75% of the redress, to allow for the prospect 
of tax-free cash being withdrawn.
My final decision
My decision is that Mr Gs complaint against Standard Life Client Management Limited is 
upheld in part and it should refund half of the PCM charges over the period I have outlined 
in the manner set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Julia Chittenden
Ombudsman