DRN-2014948
 
The complaint
Mrs L is dissatisfied with the quality of work carried out by Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) 
on her boiler and central heating system. She would like the termination fee removed and 
compensation for the inconvenience caused.
What happened
Mrs L took out a service and emergency breakdown package for her boiler and central 
heating system in 2016. The emergency breakdown element was an insurance product 
through Amtrust.
Mrs L says the boiler was losing pressure and Amtrust attended in December 2016 and then 
on several occasions through to September 2019 to service the boiler, conduct tests and 
replace various parts. Mrs L says it was generally still necessary for her to re-pressure the 
boiler between these visits and an engineer had shown her how to do this. On some 
occasions the boiler had lost pressure completely and major components were replaced. 
Amtrust records say that following these works the central heating system was tested and 
functioned as it should.
In August 2019 the boiler stopped working again an engineer attended on 5 September 
2019. Water was noticed under the kitchen cabinets below the boiler. The engineer said Mrs 
L would need to arrange access to enable him to locate the leak and repair it. This left Mrs L 
without heating and hot water and uncertain as to the location of the leak.
Mrs L wasnt happy about this and called Amtrust to complain saying the engineer should 
have investigated further and repaired the leak given the length of time shed been having 
problems with the boiler and what she was paying for the cover.
Mrs L decided to cancel the contract and said she wanted the termination fee waived as 
Amtrust had failed to fix the problem and she had lost faith in its competence. Amtrust 
rejected her complaint saying the engineer couldnt access the leak:
due to the leak being under the flooring and behind the walls our engineer will not 
repair the leak without clear access which will require third party work.
Mrs L arranged a plumber who removed the plinth under the cabinet and repaired a plastic 
barrier pipe which had been chewed through, probably by mice. Mrs L said this took around 
15 minutes. The plumber re-pressured the boiler and checked the system and Mrs L says 
there have been no problems since.
Having considered it further Amtrust rejected Mrs Ls complaint concluding it hadnt done 
anything wrong, it said the termination fee was still payable.
Mrs L referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into it. She didnt uphold 
Mrs Ls complaint. She said Amtrusts records showed that the boiler and heating system 
had been tested following both services and repair works and shown to be functioning 
correctly. And no water leaks had been identified. She said the termination charge was 
clearly set out in the terms and conditions (T&Cs).
She said if more evidence could be provided about the leaks and when its likely they were 
noticeable, she could consider it further.
Mrs L provided further information from her plumber including photos. Her plumber thought 
thered been leaks for around two years as nearby timber had rotted and turned black 
suggesting a long term issue. The plumber said the pipe had been chewed in several places 
and was likely to have been leaking slightly before becoming a major leak when the pipe 
was chewed through completely.
Our investigator looked at this additional information but didnt change her view. She said 
there wasnt any evidence of when the leak should have been noticed by the engineers who 
attended before 5 September 2019. The engineers had rectified reported issues prior to this. 
And the policy didnt cover tracing and accessing the leak. So, she couldnt say that Amtrust 
had done anything wrong.
Mrs L disagreed, saying Amtrust had failed to solve the boiler issue for two years. She 
wasnt asking it to pay for the costs of repairs to her kitchen, or the pipe but not to pay the 
termination fee because she was only leaving because of its bad service.
My Provisional Decision
I issued my provisional decision on 8 June 2020. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint I said:
Mrs L says she needed to repressure the boiler on an ongoing basis but Amtrust only has 
records relating to when she called to report issues generally several months or more apart. 
Amtrust replaced major components on a relatively new boiler seeking to solve the pressure 
issue. I doubted it would have done this if a more obvious problem could have been 
identified. Tests conducted after repairs indicated the system was working correctly.
I thought the cause of the problem wasnt clearly apparent until the pipe failed completely. 
Damp and decaying timber from a slow water leak sometimes gets noticed because of the 
smell but doesnt appear to have been apparent here.
However, I thought more could have been done by Amtrusts engineer on the 5 September 
2019, given the long history of call outs for the same problem. The engineers report for the 
visit says Water under the kitchen unit.
Removing the wooden plinth below the kitchen cabinet revealed the damaged pipe. I dont 
think it reasonable to consider this to have been inaccessible, as Amtrust told Mrs L when 
she called to complain.
The policy T&Cs contains the following exclusion:
9.1. When undertaking Claims, we may charge for work required to gain access to 
your System if it is built into the fabric of your Property. This includes, but is not 
limited to, pipes buried in walls or floors. Alternatively, we may ask you to have this 
work completed by a third party.
When Mrs L called Amtrust she was told the leak was under the floor and behind walls, 
which wasnt covered. Amtrust didnt know this was the case as it hadnt checked. I said a 
quick check behind the plinth would have shown it wasnt. I didnt agree that wooden plinths 
clipped to the legs of kitchen cabinets could be considered to be built into the fabric of the 
property like pipes buried in floors.This simple investigation would have revealed the problem. If it hadnt perhaps it would be 
reasonable for Amtrust to want a third party to strip out as required. Had this check been 
made the engineer may have been able complete the simple repair on the day and Mrs L 
would have avoided additional inconvenience and frustration.
I said that Mrs L may not be aware but the policy specifically excludes damage caused by 
vermin. So, the repair would have been chargeable under the policy, had it been carried out 
by Amtrust. However, she isnt seeking reimbursement for the pipe repair or the damage to 
her kitchen and wants the termination fee waived instead. She has already paid the majority 
of the premiums due under the policy.
Amtrust had provided services during the policy year and fixing the problem wasnt covered 
by the policy. But I think Mrs L suffered more inconvenience than she might have. And I 
could see why she lost faith in Amtrusts abilities to solve this long standing issue. So, I 
thought it would be fair and reasonable for Amtrust to waive the termination fee of £74.76 but 
I dont intend to ask it to do anymore than this.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 8 July 2020.
Response to Provisional Decision 
Mrs L said she accepted the provisional decision but advised she had paid the termination 
fee as she had received threatening letters about it. She asked if the fee would be refunded.
Amtrust said it also accepted the provision decision and said it would reimburse the 
termination fee.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision and to direct Amtrust to reimburse the termination fee paid by Mrs L.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold the complaint against Amtrust Europe Limited.
I direct Amtrust Europe Limited to pay Mrs L £74.76 in respect of the termination fee she has 
paid on the policy.
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman