DRN-3885047
The complaint
Mr S complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank, declined to 
compensate him, under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, for his baggage being 
delayed after he disembarked from a flight.
What happened
In January 2022 Mr Ss wife purchased three return flights and paid for them with his Tesco 
Bank credit card. The total price came to £586.98. On their return home  their flight arrived 
at midnight  the return of their baggage was delayed by four hours. Mr S complained to the 
airline, but his complaint was ignored, and so he asked Tesco Bank for compensation 
instead, under section 75. However, Tesco Bank did not agree that the airline had breached 
its contract, and so it did not agree to pay him anything.
Mr S complained to our service. But our investigator decided that section 75 did not apply to 
his claim. That was because section 75 does not apply to a claim so far as the claim relates 
to any single item to which the supplier has attached a cash price not exceeding £100. And 
each flight cost less than £100.
Mr S did not accept that answer. He pointed out that as well as the six flights (three flights 
going out and three returning), the booking confirmation included a seventh item, cryptically 
called STFA, which cost more than £100, and so he must have a valid claim. The 
investigator did not agree, saying that as Mrs S had not bought anything except the flights, 
the STFA must be a charge relating to the flights, and the total price of the booking divided 
by six flights still came to less than £100 per flight. She referred this case for an 
ombudsmans decision.
Subsequently, Mr S provided a link to a news story about another customer of the same 
airline who had won a refund in court. (However, that story does not say how much that 
customer paid for his flights.)
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
I agree with Mr S that there was a breach of contract by the airline. Under section 52 of the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015, there was a statutory implied term that the airlines service 
would be provided within a reasonable time. I think that includes not only the flights 
themselves, but the related service of returning his baggage. I have taken into account the 
fact that the baggage handlers are presumably airport staff rather than employees of the 
airline. But I dont think that matters, because in the airlines terms and conditions it says (in 
paragraph 17.2.1):
We are liable for damage sustained in case of damage to or destruction, loss or delay of 
Checked Baggage upon condition only that the event which caused the damage, 
destruction, loss or delay took place on board the aircraft or during any period within 
which the Checked Baggage was in the custody of [the airline].
I think it is reasonable to assume that Mr Ss baggage was in the hold of the plane, and 
therefore in the custody of the airline, for almost all of the four hour wait, since the delay was 
caused by the baggage handlers having already left for the day. So the baggage would not 
have been removed from the aircraft until the baggage handlers came back.
I am satisfied that four hours is not a reasonable time to wait for baggage claim  especially 
when that period begins at midnight. And I am satisfied that the airline was liable for that 
under its own terms and conditions.
However, section 75 does not make Tesco Bank liable for any breach of contract by the 
airline in relation to any single item which the airline had priced at £100 or less at the time of 
purchase. And since the total cost of the booking, divided by the number of flights, comes to 
less than £100 a flight, I am afraid that means that Tesco Bank is not liable for what 
happened. I believe that is the correct way of counting the STFA item.
(For completeness, I will add that even if the flights had cost more than £100 each, there is a 
another, more technical reason why section 75 would not have assisted Mr S. Under section 
75, a claim may only be brought by someone who is both a party to the contract with the 
airline and also a party to the credit card agreement which was used to pay for the flights. As 
I have said, the purchase was made with Mr Ss credit card, but the airlines invoice names 
Mrs S as the customer who made the booking, and so the airlines contract was with her. So 
neither Mr S nor his wife could bring a claim against the bank under section 75.)
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman