DRN-4254148
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O have complained about a mortgage they held with Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax.
Their complaint can be summarised into the following points:
The interest rate they were charged on their mortgage.
How a field agent treated them in June 2019.
A letter they were sent in December 2019 was incorrect.
How Halifax has treated them over the term of their mortgage.
What happened
I wont detail everything that has happened on this account as it is extensive and goes back 
many years. Instead Ill summarise some key points.
Mr and Mrs O took out this mortgage in April 2005. They borrowed £480,000 on a repayment 
basis over a 25-year term. The mortgage offer indicated the rate would be 0.04% above the 
Bank of England base rate (BoEBR) until 28 February 2007, and then from 1 March 2007 
interest would be charged at the standard variable rate (SVR).
A product transfer mortgage offer was issued in February 2007. That said the new rate 
would be fixed at 5.14% until 30 June 2009, and after that it would revert to the SVR (which 
the mortgage noted was 7.25% at that time). That new rate started on 1 March 2007.
On 1 July 2009 the mortgage reverted to the SVR which was 3.50% at that time. The SVR 
varied over the years:
1 May 2012 3.99%
1 October 2016 3.74%
1 December 2017 3.99%
1 September 2018 4.24%
1 April 2020 3.74%
1 May 2020 3.59%
1 February 2022 3.74%
The account has been in arrears since July 2008. The arrears situation at the end of each 
year has been (all figures are approximate):
December 2008 £8,300
December 2009 £6,600
December 2010 £14,400
December 2011 £22,400
December 2012 £23,600
December 2013 £29,000
December 2014 £49,800
December 2015 £81,900
December 2016 £81,800
December 2017 £91,200
December 2018 £123,500
December 2019 £139,000
December 2020 £162,700
December 2021 £195,300
The account has been referred for litigation over the years.
In June 2019 Halifax instructed a field agent to visit the property, and then a court hearing 
date was booked for mid-September 2019. 
In August 2019 Mr and Mrs O raised a complaint with the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
That complaint covered the following points:
They wanted Halifax to allow them time to sell the property themselves, rather than 
seeking a possession order.
Halifax had refused to capitalise the arrears, despite requests since 2010.
They wanted to downsize, but Halifax wouldnt agree to a new mortgage on the new 
property.
Halifax wouldnt allow them more time to do some works to the property (such as 
redecoration) before selling it.
Repossession would render them homeless.
There was more than adequate equity in the property with the mortgage being 
around £480,000 and the property worth just over £1m by their estimate.
Halifax responded to the complaint saying the Financial Ombudsman Service had issued a 
final decision in July 2015 rejecting an earlier complaint Mr and Mrs O had made, and so it 
would only review what had happened since then. It said Mr and Mrs O were currently over 
£130,000 in arrears and had said they could only afford £1,600 a month, against a 
contractual monthly payment of around £3,400 a month, and even with the £1,600 a month 
the payments hadnt always been made. It said Mr and Mrs O could put their proposals 
before the court but the matter had been ongoing for a long time giving them plenty of time 
to have sold the property. Finally Halifax said it couldnt see an application had been made 
for a new mortgage for downsizing, and Mr and Mrs O would only be eligible for arrears 
capitalisation once theyd made the full monthly payments for a number of months, and were 
able to show future affordability of the new higher payment.
One of our Investigators looked at that complaint and didnt uphold it. He said Halifax had 
agreed concessions over the years (such as temporary changes to interest only) and there 
didnt seem to be any viable options going forward. He said Mr and Mrs O would receive any 
remaining equity upon sale; that is, they wouldnt lose it. Overall, he didnt think Halifax had 
treated Mr and Mrs O unfairly. Although Mr and Mrs O didnt agree, they said they wanted to drop the complaint. Our Investigator explained that we wouldnt be able to look at the same 
thing again in the future and gave them the option to refer the complaint to an ombudsman 
but, after taking some time to think about it, Mr and Mrs O opted instead to close the 
complaint at that time. The same day our Investigator issued his findings, Halifax chose to 
not proceed with the hearing, with an order issued stating proceedings were Adjourned 
generally with liberty to restore by consent.
Halifax wrote to Mr and Mrs O on 6 December 2019, and that letter erroneously said As 
youre aware, we have obtained a possession order on your property It went on to say 
that the terms of the possession order hadnt been kept to, and so the bank could seek to 
enforce it. It asked Mr and Mrs O to get in touch as soon as possible and provided the 
contact number for them to call.
As there was no contact Halifax instructed a further field agent visit on 22 January 2020, 
sending a letter to Mr and Mrs O notifying them of that. The contact notes indicate the field 
agent told Halifax theyd received a letter from Mr and Mrs O cancelling the visit, saying 
theyd be in contact with Halifax directly about the account. A further letter was sent to 
Mr and Mrs O on 5 February 2020.
Mr and Mrs O made contact with Halifax on 19 February 2020 to say theyd sent a letter in a 
few days earlier. After some back and forth over the following days a complaint was raised 
on 28 February 2020. That complaint was about the June 2019 field agent visit and the 
6 December 2019 letter. Mr O also mentioned that he and Mrs O hadnt been happy with the 
service over the past 10 years.
Halifax issued a final response letter on 18 January 2021 apologising for both the June 2019 
field agent visit and the December 2019 letter. For those issues it issued a £400 cheque in 
compensation. The letter also said:
Calls are answered by one of a team, and if Mr and Mrs O didnt mention their 
personal circumstances on those calls then the call handlers wouldnt have explored 
them. 
A payment holiday was turned down due to the level of arrears. It wouldnt have been 
responsible to increase the mortgage debt, and it could instead look at other options 
but it would need to talk to Mr and Mrs O to explore those.
Litigation was now off-hold (following a hold due to covid) and, due to the level of 
arrears on the account, action would be taken once the complaint had been resolved.
It had identified an error on the account relating to how a 2018 account adjustment 
was made. It said if the error hadnt been made, Mr and Mrs O would have needed to 
make higher monthly payments between October 2018 and March 2019 (which 
would mean the arrears now would be higher) so it hadnt adversely impacted them 
at the time. It said it had credited around £900 to the account in respect of the higher 
payments that should have been made.
Mr and Mrs O told our Investigator they werent happy with Halifaxs response and so we 
looked into their complaint.
Whilst the complaint was ongoing Mr and Mrs O sold their property in February 2022, 
redeeming the mortgage. 
Our Investigator first set out their thoughts on our jurisdiction to consider this complaint. In 
that she said we wouldnt consider again any issues that we looked at in any previous 
complaint. That meant we wouldnt consider how Halifax had treated Mr and Mrs O before 
September 2019 (except for the June 2019 field agent visit, as that hadnt formed part of the earlier complaint). She also said that we wouldnt be able to consider a complaint about the 
interest rate charged (both how it varied and that Mr and Mrs O hadnt been able to get a 
new preferential rate) before February 2014 because Mr and Mrs O hadnt brought that 
complaint in time. In summary, she said we could look at complaints about:
the June 2019 field agent visit,
the December 2019 letter,
the interest rate (both how it varied and whether Mr and Mrs O could access a new 
preferential rate) since February 2014,
how Halifax has treated Mr and Mrs O since September 2019.
Mr and Mrs O said that whilst they were disappointed with that, they were willing to accept it. 
Our Investigator then moved onto consider the merits of the parts of the complaint we could 
consider. She said:
Mr and Mrs Os mortgage has been on the SVR since 2009 and, having considered 
everything, she felt that rate had been applied correctly. She said she felt Halifax had 
varied it fairly, and that it wasnt linked to the BoEBR.
Mr and Mrs O hadnt been able to demonstrate a consistent payment history such 
that a new preferential interest rate would be, and remain, affordable. Especially 
once the arrears were capitalised, which would need to be done before a new rate 
was put in place. As preferential interest rate products tend to come with early 
repayment charges and upfront fees, she felt Halifax hadnt treated Mr and Mrs O 
unfairly by not offering them a new rate.
Halifax had already admitted it made a mistake with the field agent visit and 
December 2019 letter and it had apologised and offered £400 compensation. She felt 
that was fair and didnt recommend it do anything more.
Legal action should be a last resort, but the arrears had risen from around £133,500 
in September 2019 to around £198,700 in January 2022 so she felt that point had 
been reached. She didnt think there were any other possible alternatives than the 
property being sold, as Mr and Mrs O would have struggled to maintain even interest 
only payments and would have had no way to repay the debt at the end of the term 
other than selling the property.
Mr and Mrs O didnt agree, saying there was a missed opportunity on the part of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service to properly investigate and address the issues raised. 
Mr and Mrs O then provided a detailed response which said, in summary:
The Investigator had missed the point about the interest rate complaint. They said 
the complaint was not about the interest rate not following BoEBR, but that (I quote) 
Halifax did not apply the general across the board reductions to their SVRs to our 
mortgage account on all of those occasions as at when Halifax did reduce, adjusted 
their SVR in response to the BOE's base rate reduction. They gave an example; 
when they were notified of a 0.25% reduction in the SVR, the corresponding payment 
change was only £13.
The arrears shouldnt just be looked at as a headline figure, but instead the 
background and context should be considered.
Halifax deliberately sends aggressive, bullying, and intimidating field agents to 
vulnerable customers houses and it needs to be stopped from doing this.
The December 2019 letter was deliberately sent by Halifax as part of an orchestrated 
and protracted sinister plot to break them down and repossess their property.
Unless there is a deterrent, Halifax will continue to destroy lives, families, and homes.
Halifax deliberately withheld information from Mr and Mrs Os solicitor for the September 2019 hearing, knowing he had only a few days to pick the case up and 
represent them.
Halifax went back on its word and was heading back to court whilst a complaint was 
with the Financial Ombudsman Service.
As an agreement couldnt be reached the matter was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a decision about our jurisdiction earlier this month. In that I said I will only be 
considering the following points:
The interest rate since February 2014,
The July 2019 field agent visit,
The December 2019 letter, and
How Mr and Mrs O have been treated since the September 2019 court hearing.
The interest rate
Theres no general obligation on mortgage lenders for their SVRs to track the BoEBR, and 
Im satisfied that this isnt the way Halifaxs SVR operated.
Ive reviewed the documentation available, and having done so, I havent seen anything that 
says Halifax would link the SVR to the BoEBR or that compels it to. Nor is there anything 
that suggests that the SVR would be a particular margin above or below the BoEBR.
It follows that Im not persuaded that there was any requirement for the SVR to track the 
BoEBR or for Halifax to maintain any margin between them.
Ive also thought more broadly about whether, and the extent to which, the way in which the 
terms have been used has resulted in unfair treatment for Mr and Mrs O in the interest 
charged to them from February 2014 onwards. In doing so, Ive considered the historic 
context which may have contributed to the interest rate charged from February 2014 
onwards and whether Halifax had legitimate reasons for varying the rate in the way it did.
I can see that between 2008 and 2009, the difference (or margin) between the BoEBR and 
Halifaxs SVR increased from 2% to 3%. Whilst Halifaxs SVR did reduce during this period, 
it didnt fall by the same proportion as the reduction in the base rate.
Halifax has told our service that, despite a reduction in the BoEBR, its funding costs did not 
reduce to the same extent between 2008 and 2009. 
During this time, there was a significant change in the wider lending market as a result of the 
global financial crisis. This impacted on the funding costs of businesses, which was reflected 
in changes to a number of lenders interest rates charged across the market at that time.
Halifax has provided relevant explanations and reasoning behind the decisions made to vary 
the interest rate during this period. This is supported by evidence that shows the direct 
impact of its cost of funding and how this correlated with its decision to vary the SVR. 
Considering this, I dont think Halifax has acted unreasonably by not passing on all of the 
reductions in the BoEBR to its SVR. I can also see that, in May 2012, Halifax increased the SVR from 3.5% to 3.99% when there 
hadnt been any changes to the BoEBR. Halifax has provided evidence to show that its cost 
of funds had increased and it increased the SVR by 0.49% in order to account for those 
increased costs. The terms and conditions of the mortgage allowed it to increase the SVR 
for this reason. Considering this, I dont think Halifax acted unreasonably by doing this.
Since 2012, Halifaxs SVR remained at 3.49% above the BoEBR.
Having considered all the information and evidence available to me, I have not seen any 
evidence to suggest the changes Halifax made were unfair. Rather, the evidence Ive seen 
satisfies me that Halifax acted in line with its terms and conditions to protect its legitimate 
interests while balancing its obligation to treat Mr and Mrs O fairly. And Im further satisfied 
that the evidence Halifax has been able to provide for this period is corroborated by 
evidence of wider market conditions at the time.
Taking everything into account, Im not satisfied that Halifax has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs O said our Investigator had missed the point about the interest rate complaint, 
giving an example as when they were notified of a 0.25% reduction in the SVR, the 
corresponding payment change was only £13.
What I need to keep in mind for any payment change is that Mr and Mrs Os mortgage 
wasnt running as it should. The last time Mr and Mrs O had paid an amount that was equal 
to (or more than) their monthly mortgage payment due had been in August 2017, and that 
was only because the mortgage was on a temporary interest only concession at that time. 
The last period Mr and Mrs O had of meeting the full contractual monthly mortgage payment 
(on a repayment basis) ended in March 2011. 
That meant, as the mortgage term went on, interest was being charged on a much higher 
balance than should have been outstanding at that time. The repayment element of the 
contractual monthly payment would have been calculated based on a balance that didnt 
include the arrears. It would exclude a payment towards the arrears, as that would be 
expected to be cleared separately, on top of the monthly contractual mortgage payment. 
Taking March 2020 as an example, the annual mortgage statement shows a balance of 
around £482,000 but of that around £145,000 was arrears, so the recalculation of the 
monthly payment would be based on paying interest on the full £482,000 but only repaying 
capital of around £337,000 within the remaining term (that is, a capital reduction in the 
arrears wouldnt have been included in the monthly payment).
Mr and Mrs O werent asked for a different mortgage payment each month when the account 
hadnt run as it should, and I wouldnt have expected them to. Instead, again using March 
2020 as an example, the requested monthly payment hadnt changed since April 2019. In 
that year Mr and Mrs O had missed two payments and had paid less than half what was due 
in the other ten months. All that would have altered the overall balance to a significant 
degree such that it would impact the calculation of the revised monthly payment requested 
from 1 April 2020. Which is why, although the interest rate went down, the monthly payment 
wouldnt have reduced by as much as it would have for an account that had run as it should, 
with no arrears.
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied Halifax varied Mr and Mrs Os interest rate in the same 
way as it varied the interest rate for all its other customers on the SVR, so its not treated 
them any differently. And Im also satisfied that the changes to their monthly payments, 
recalculated when the interest rate changed, were also fair  because, as Ive explained the re-calculation included interest on the payments Mr and Mrs O had missed (though not the 
missed payments themselves).
Its not the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to provide an auditing service or carry 
out a forensic analysis of mortgage accounts. Ive looked at the transaction history and 
theres nothing on there that appears unusual or incorrect. Of course, its open to 
Mr and Mrs O to instruct an independent suitably qualified professional to audit their 
account. But that would have to be at their expense. As things stand, Im not persuaded that 
Halifax mis-managed this account, or that the balance or interest charged was incorrect.
Halifax offers new preferential rates to customers  providing they meet eligibility criteria. 
Among Halifaxs eligibility criteria are that the mortgage must not be in arrears.
Lenders are not required to offer rates, or the same rates, to all customers, and are entitled 
to have eligibility criteria. 
A new fixed rate would come with an early repayment charge (ERC). If the borrower is 
showing signs of financial difficulty  either because of arrears on the mortgage, or because 
of credit problems elsewhere, or both  theres a greater risk of the mortgage ending early, 
either because the borrower decides to sell and repay the mortgage, or because the lender 
repossesses the property. And if either of those things happen, the debt would increase 
through the ERC.
So its reasonable that Halifaxs eligibility criteria means it generally doesnt offer new 
interest rates to borrowers in this situation  like Mr and Mrs O
However, a lender is also required to show reasonable forbearance to help a borrower in 
financial difficulties get things back on track. And in some cases, a reduced rate might be an 
appropriate form of forbearance, for example because it makes the difference between the 
mortgage being affordable and unaffordable. In those cases, it might be fair to offer a new 
fixed rate even though the borrower is in arrears  as the best way to help them out of 
arrears.
However, I dont think that was the case here. As I said earlier, the last time Mr and Mrs O 
had paid an amount that was equal to (or more than) their monthly mortgage payment due 
had been in August 2017, and that was only because the mortgage was on a temporary 
interest only concession at that time. The last period Mr and Mrs O had of meeting the full 
contractual monthly mortgage payment (on a repayment basis) ended in March 2011. Even 
if a new preferential rate had been offered, that wouldnt have reduced the contractual 
monthly payment (on a repayment basis, which is what this mortgage was) to a level that 
would have been sustainable for Mr and Mrs O.
And so, in that situation, I dont think the benefit of giving Mr and Mrs O a new rate 
outweighed the risk of an ERC. It wouldnt have made enough of a difference to make the 
mortgage affordable for them and could have made things worse. It wasnt unfair that Halifax 
didnt offer them a new rate.
Theres a provision in the rules of mortgage regulation which says that where a borrower is 
unable to move their mortgage to another lender, it might be unfair for their existing lender to 
treat them less favourably  for example, by offering less favourable interest rates  than it 
would treat other borrowers with similar characteristics.
However, even taking that into account I dont think I can safely find that Halifax has treated 
Mr and Mrs O unfairly. The crucial part of the provision is that borrowers unable to move 
elsewhere shouldnt be treated less favourably than other borrowers with similar characteristics. In other words, if Halifax offered new interest rates to some existing 
borrowers with similar characteristics to Mr and Mrs O, but not to Mr and Mrs O, that might 
be unfair.
However, thats not what happened. Halifax didnt offer new interest rates to any existing 
borrowers in arrears. And therefore, in not offering a new rate to Mr and Mrs O, it was not 
treating them less favourably than other similar customers. All other customers that were in 
arrears were in the same position. It follows that Mr and Mrs O were not treated unfairly in 
comparison to other similar customers of Halifax.
Ive said that there was no obligation on Halifax to offer existing customers in arrears new 
rates, and that its not unfair that it chose not to do so. And since that applied to all 
customers in arrears, Mr and Mrs O were not being treated less favourably than others. 
Finally, Im not persuaded that giving Mr and Mrs O a new rate would have resolved their 
particular situation
Having considered everything, I dont uphold this part of the complaint.
The field agent visit and December 2019 letter
Mr and Mrs O told Halifax how the field agent made them feel as the visit was made at a 
time they had visitors due to a family bereavement. Whilst there would never be a good time 
for such a visit, it is clear the timing would have had a greater impact on Mr and Mrs O than 
would normally be expected. Mr and Mrs O also told Halifax about how the field agent acted. 
Theyve said Halifax deliberately sends aggressive, bullying, and intimidating field agents to 
vulnerable customers houses and it needs to be stopped from doing this.
Field agent visits are a valid and valuable tool a lender can use when a customer is in 
arrears, there is no agreed arrangement in place and there isnt a current productive 
dialogue to discuss the situation.
At the time the field agent was instructed:
Mr and Mrs O were around £120,000 in arrears, 
there was no arrangement to pay,
Mr and Mrs O had made just three payments of £500 each (against a contractual 
payment of around £3,200 a month) since July 2018,
there had been limited contact with Mr and Mrs O in the run up to the instruction.
Having considered everything I dont think Halifax was wrong to make the instruction when it 
did, albeit it has accepted that the field agent visit didnt go as well as it would expect and 
hope for.
I understand Mr and Mrs O feel the December 2019 letter was deliberately sent as a 
malicious act, but I dont think that is the most likely explanation. It seems more likely that it 
was erroneously sent due to someone making a mistake about the outcome of the 
September 2019 hearing. Mr and Mrs O knew there was no court order in place, so it should 
have been apparent to them that the letter was a mistake. Whilst I dont doubt it would have 
been difficult to have received such a letter, it could have been quickly resolved at the time 
by Mr and Mrs O calling the number provided. Instead, Mr and Mrs O didnt mention it until a 
call Mr O had with Halifax on 28 February 2020, saying it had caused Mrs O a lot of worry 
and they spent time with their solicitor dealing with it.Having considered everything I think Halifax made a mistake when it issued the letter, albeit 
Mr and Mrs O could have confirmed it was an error by calling the number provided.
Ive thought very carefully about these parts of the complaint, that is the June 2019 field 
agent visit and the December 2019 letter. Having done so Im satisfied the offer of £400 
compensation (plus the apologies that have been given) are fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances, and I dont order Halifax to do anything further.
How Halifax has treated Mr and Mrs O
As Ive explained, Im only considering the period since the September 2019 hearing.
In September 2019 the arrears stood at around £133,000, and the account had been in 
arrears for 11 years. Mr and Mrs O had previously had two interest-only concessionary 
periods; for two years from October 2011 to October 2013, and a further year and a half from 
December 2015 to August 2017. 
Outside of those concessionary periods Mr and Mrs O hadnt met their contractual monthly 
payment since March 2011, other than one payment in February 2014 (which Mr and Mrs O 
were unhappy about at the time, as theyd only wanted to pay £1,800 but Halifax had been 
able to collect the full payment due under the direct debit).
Its important I look at the decisions Halifax made based on what it knew at the time. I think it 
was reasonable for Halifax to take into account the previous history, since 2005 when 
Mr and Mrs O took the mortgage out. They had struggled with it for much of that time and 
had been in arrears since 2008. I dont think it was unreasonable for Halifax to conclude that 
Mr and Mrs O werent able to stay on track with their mortgage, that their position was 
worsening, and that things had reached the point where it needed to take further action.
Mr and Mrs O had already had two significant periods of an interest only concession, and the 
payments still werent made in full every month during those periods. 
In a period running from September 2014 until July 2016 inclusive (so 23 months) 
Mr and Mrs O had only made four payments. Those payments totalled around £6,100 
against the £35,200 which would have been due even on an interest-only basis. 
Further payments were missed between August 2018 and May 2019 inclusive, with only 
three payments of £500 each made (so a total of £1,500) against the approximately £15,000 
that would have been due in that period if the mortgage was on an interest-only basis. 
A similar pattern was seen between November 2020 and September 2021 inclusive, with 
only two payments of £500 each and three payments of £1,000 each made (so a total of 
£4,000) against the approximately £16,500 that would have been due in that period if the 
mortgage was on an interest-only basis
The mortgage already ran past Mr Os normal retirement age, and they had no way of 
repaying an interest-only mortgage at the end of the term other than selling the property. 
Payment holidays would only increase the balance, as would accepting reduced payment 
arrangements.
Repossession should be a last resort. Forbearance should be explored first. But the purpose 
of forbearance is to give breathing space so a borrower can get the mortgage back on track. 
Given all the history, and what it knew, it was reasonable for Halifax to conclude that was 
unlikely. By September 2019 Mr and Mrs O appear to have accepted that they needed to sell the 
property as the position was irretrievable in the long term, with their letters and contact at 
that time asking for a short period to allow them to get the property to a standard where it 
could be placed on the market. In February 2020 Halifax sent a sale pack to Mr and Mrs O 
as they said the property was on the market. Halifax said, upon receipt of the completed sale 
pack, it could place a hold on any potential legal action to allow time for the property to be 
sold. In a letter dated 27 October 2021 Mr and Mrs O said theyd found a buyer, and a sale 
completed in February 2022. In all that time no further legal action had been taken, despite 
the increasing arrears situation.
Mr and Mrs O didnt have a Covid-19 payment deferral period with Halifax. At the point they 
applied for a payment deferral online they were in substantial arrears and it may be a 
different solution would have been better for them, hence why Halifax wanted to speak to 
them.
In any event, Mr and Mrs O werent disadvantaged by not having the payment deferral as by 
then their account was already many years in arrears (so was reporting at the credit 
reference agencies as such) and the interest would have still been charged during the 
payment deferral period. All that would have happened is that Mr and Mrs O wouldnt have 
made their mortgage payments for those months, and I can see that between January and 
June 2021 (inclusive) they didnt anyway. Either way the interest would have been charged, 
and whether these were missed payments or Covid-19 payment deferrals wouldnt have 
made any noticeable difference to either the mortgage account or their credit files.
Finally, Mr and Mrs O have said Halifax going back on their words and heading back to 
court while our complaint was still being looked into by the FOS, having previously advised 
us and FOS in writing that no further court action will be taken while the complaint 
investigation is still pending. 
But Halifax didnt progress any legal action whilst the complaint was with us. Halifax has a 
regulatory responsibility to send certain letters warning of the potential consequences when 
an account is in arrears, but that doesnt mean it is actively progressing with legal action on 
that particular account at that time. 
I do understand Mr and Mrs Os upset and frustration. But for the reasons Ive given I dont 
think Halifax acted unfairly, and so I cant fairly uphold this part of the complaint.
My final decision
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has already made an offer to pay £400 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax should pay £400 to 
Mr and Mrs O.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 September 2023. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman