DRN-4328733
The complaint
Miss G complains about Gresham Insurance Company Limited declining a claim she made 
on her buildings insurance policy. 
Gresham are the underwriters (insurers) of this policy. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of their appointed agents. As Gresham have accepted they are accountable for the 
actions of their agents, in my decision, any reference to Gresham should be interpreted as 
also covering the actions of their appointed agents.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Miss G and Gresham. In my 
decision, Ill focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
Miss G had a home insurance policy with Gresham. In January 2023 she contacted them to 
register a storm damage claim against her policy. Gresham arranged for a surveyor to visit 
Miss Gs property. 
Gresham ultimately declined the claim. Miss G made a complaint about the claim decline 
and the conduct of the surveyor when they visited. Gresham partially upheld the complaint 
and offered Miss G £100 for any inconvenience caused by the service shed received.
Unhappy, Miss G referred her complaint to our Service for an independent review. Our 
Investigator considered the complaint and partially upheld it. He recommended that the claim 
needed to be reconsidered under the accidental damage peril. As Gresham didnt accept, 
the complaint has now been referred to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision only addresses those issues I consider to be materially relevant to this 
complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to either party  it simply reflects the informal 
nature of our Service. 
Our Investigator has previously explained our well-defined approach to storm damage 
claims. More details are available here https://www.financial-
ombudsman.org.uk/businesses/complaints-deal/insurance/home-buildings-insurance/storm-
damage. 
In summary:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with what we generally see as storm 
damage?
Were storm conditions the main cause of the damage or were there other factors 
that meant the damage might have happened anyway?
As the relevant weather reports dont support that there were storm conditions on or around 
the date of the alleged damage here, I find that Gresham have fairly declined this claim for 
both the internal and external damage under the storm peril and I dont need to consider 
parts two and three of the above test. I will return to the declined claim later in the decision.
The surveyors actions
Gresham accept that theyve let Miss G down through the actions of their agent (the 
surveyor). Im satisfied that £100 is a fair, reasonable and proportionate offer  relative to the 
impact on Miss G. I want to be clear here that Im not dismissing Miss Gs perception of the 
surveyors behaviour, but in the absence of compelling supporting evidence, its difficult for 
me to conclude - on balance, that Gresham need to do more to put things right in regard to 
this complaint point.
Accidental damage cover 
Miss Gs policy also included accidental damage cover. Our Investigator recommended that 
the internal damage to the bathroom sink, bath and some lower level bathroom tiles be 
reconsidered under the accidental damage cover provided by this policy. 
Gresham responded to say they didnt agree, as the ultimate cause of the damage was not 
caused by an outside force (accidental damage policy definition). This may well be the 
ultimate position Gresham reach after considering the claim under this section of the policy, 
but the complaint referred to our Service was about the declined storm damage claim and 
the conduct of the surveyor - and it would be inappropriate of me to speculate on the 
outcome of any new claim before Gresham have fully considered it. 
My direction is that Gresham need to reconsider the claim for damage to the bath, sink and 
lower tiles in line with the remaining policy terms (under accidental damage cover) and pay 
Miss G an additional £100 to recognise that they could have handled this claim better. this is 
in addition to the £100 theyd already offered in recognition that the service provided by the 
surveyor couldve been better.  
Putting things right
Gresham Insurance Company Limited need to:
reconsider the claim for damage to the bath, sink and lower tiles in line with the 
remaining policy terms (under accidental damage cover); and
pay Miss G an additional £100 to recognise how this claim was handled.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint and direct Gresham Insurance 
Company Limited to follow my direction as set out under the heading Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Daniel O'SheaOmbudsman