DRN-2685180
The complaint
Ms W had a mortgage with a different lender. Her interest-rate product was nearing expiry 
and she applied to Santander UK Plc for a re-mortgage. She complains that it took too long 
for Santander to communicate its refusal and that she has incurred fees as a result of initially 
being told that her application had been successful.
Shes been forced to select a product with another lender at a higher interest rate which has 
led to an increase in the overall monthly cost. In addition she had to pay legal fees because 
she was no longer able to take advantage of the free legal service which was part of 
Santanders remortgage package. Shed also paid £108 to a housing association in order to 
change the documented lender.
She believes that Santander should cover these costs.
What happened
Ms Ws mortgage loan was secured on a property purchased with the help of a government 
Help to Buy (HTB) equity loan, which was also secured on the property. Her interest-rate 
product was nearing expiry and on 22 July 2019 she applied to Santander for a re-mortgage 
to take effect on 29 September. She says her application and subsequent correspondence 
to Santander clearly stated that she had an HTB equity loan. However, despite having 
issued a mortgage offer in August 2019, Santander cancelled her application one week 
before expiry of her mortgage product.
Shes now on a variable rate and has to pay an additional £65 per month which she 
struggles to afford. Shes also had to pay over £1,000 from her savings. This has caused her 
high levels of stress and anxiety regarding financial matters.
Shes been advised that Santander doesnt accept HTB mortgages in that part of the UK. 
But she says as the HTB was noted on her application, Santander shouldnt have taken 
money or proceeded with the application.
On Ms Ws complaint to Santander it said she hadnt mentioned the HTB charge. This had 
only come to light via correspondence from solicitors on 2 September 2019. Santanders 
underwriters had confirmed on 26 September to the solicitors that it couldnt proceed until 
the HTB charge was paid off. It added that its fee was only payable on completion of a 
mortgage. 
Ms W wasnt happy with this and brought her complaint to our service. She said shed 
received correspondence from Santander indicating that her application had been 
successful. But on 30 September, a week before her existing mortgage product was due for 
renewal, shed received an email from the solicitors indicating they were unable to proceed 
owing to the HTB loan. She says she was left with no option but to accept a higher rate and 
the financial losses.
She said Santander had said the HTB charge came to light on 2 September. That was 
incorrect as the solicitors had written to her about it on 12 August. Santander had indicated 
they knew about the HTB on 2 September, but didn't advise of the decision not to proceed 
until 30 September.
 
In its submission to our service Santander said that on 30 August 2019 it had received 
correspondence from the solicitors advising that there was a second change over the 
property as part of an HTB scheme, which was not being repaid. Santander was asked 
whether it would agree to an agreement being put in place to postpone this security. 
Santander had replied on 26 September 2019 that it was unable to proceed until the second 
charge was repaid.
Santander said the mortgage application hadnt mentioned this charge. Santander couldnt 
know about it until the solicitors told it. Santanders lending policy didnt allow re-mortgages 
where any element of an equity loan would exist after completion. There had been no delay 
in notifying Ms W.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Ms Ws complaint be upheld. He couldnt say that 
Santander had acted unfairly by issuing a mortgage offer and then withdrawing it when 
further information came to light. Ms W had said she told the solicitors about the HTB loan. 
But the investigator hadnt seen any evidence that it was mentioned in the mortgage 
application. 
Ms W didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to look at the case. She said Santanders 
online application process didnt filter for HTB. There was a significant breakdown in 
communication between the solicitors and Santander, given that it continued to progress her 
application.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On 13 August 2019 Santander emailed Ms W saying her application was approved. It issued 
a mortgage offer the next day. Part B paragraph 5 of the offer required that all existing 
mortgages or charges over the property be redeemed on completion of Santander's 
mortgage. Paragraph 10 said there must not be any other mortgages or charges at 
completion and if there were Santander should be told immediately as it may withdraw the 
mortgage offer or agree to proceed on different terms. I dont consider these were unfair 
requirements. 
Whilst Ms W says she made it clear in her application, Ive seen no evidence to suggest 
Santander was told about the HTB loan. And if it wasnt aware the HTB wouldnt be repaid 
on completion then it didnt do anything wrong by issuing a mortgage offer.
Ms Ws statement that the solicitors had written to her about the HTB on 12 August 2019 is 
correct. They said:
Wehave now completed the title investigation over your property. The investigation has 
shown that you have a second secured loan over your property in favour of [government 
agency]. We cannot proceed with your remortgage unless:
 the second secured loan is repaid and discharged; or
 the second secured loan holder agrees to a legal process in which they accept that their 
loan will be secured over your property after that of your new lender.The solicitors faxed Santander on 30 August 2019 informing it of the HTB charge and that it 
was not being repaid. Its not clear from the documents why it took until then for them to do 
this, but whether it was their delay depends on when Ms W told them she wasnt going to 
repay the HTB charge, and I have no information about that. 
On 30 September 2019 Santander faxed to the solicitors a letter dated 26 September. This 
said that Santander couldnt proceed further unless the HTB charge were repaid in full. I 
consider Santander was contractually entitled to do that under Part B paragraph 10 of the 
mortgage offer. The solicitors emailed the letter to Ms W on 30 September.
I dont consider there was unreasonable delay here. It was reasonable that Santander 
wanted its underwriters to look at the application to see if there was a reason to set the 
policy aside. Its better they gave it proper consideration before withdrawing the offer. 
However Santander also says Ms W failed to mention the HTB charge in her mortgage 
application. Ms W says Santanders online application process didnt validate/filter for HTB. 
I think what she means by this is that the online process didnt ask any question, a truthful 
answer to which would have revealed the HTB. 
But Im afraid I must disagree with her. Ive reviewed Santanders record of the online 
application made on 22 July 2019. Near the top of the first page there appears the question: 
current mortgage. This was where Ms W was supposed to give details of her current 
secured borrowing. She had two current mortgages, the existing first charge lender and the 
HTB, but she didnt mention either of them. She just left this section blank. 
If Ms W had revealed the HTB charge in her application, Santander would have refused to 
proceed unless she paid it off. I dont doubt that her omission was a mistake rather than 
deliberate. But in all the circumstances I conclude that Ms W was the author of her own 
misfortune and that this complaint shouldnt be upheld.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Edward Callaghan
Ombudsman