DRN-3355827
The complaint
Ms P complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) is unfairly 
charging her for damage to a car she took under a consumer hire agreement.  
What happened
In March 2018 Ms P entered into a hire agreement with VWFS, initially for two years, for a 
new car. Under the terms of the agreement, Ms P was to return the car  in good repair 
and condition except for fair wear and tear (as defined in the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association Fair Wear and Tear Guide)  If she did not do so, VWFS could look to 
Ms P to cover repair costs.
Ms P extended the hire agreement for a further 18 months, returning the car in September 
2021. As is usual in such circumstances, VWFS arranged for an inspection of the car. That 
inspection noted a scuffed wheel rim, a gouge to the tyre on the same wheel and a dent. 
VWFS sent Ms P an invoice for £340 to cover the costs of repairing the rim and the dent and 
of replacing the tyre. 
Ms P challenged the invoice. She said that the inspector had told her that wheel damage 
was common, which she took to mean that there was a fault in the combination of wheels 
and tyres leading to damage from fair use. 
VWFS agreed to waive the charge in respect of the dent. Ms P did not think this went far 
enough and referred the matter to this service. 
Our investigator considered what had happened but thought the remining charges had been 
fairly made. The damage was outside the fair wear and tear guidelines referred to in the hire 
agreement. Ms P did not accept the investigators view. She thought that the fact that VWFS 
had conceded that one charge had been made incorrectly was evidence that its approach 
was flawed. She asked that an ombudsman review the case.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered carefully the inspection report made when Ms P returned the car and 
compared it and the photographs included in it with the relevant guidelines. I have not, of 
course, had the opportunity to inspect the car itself, but the photographs are clear and of 
good quality. In my view, they do show damage which is outside the fair wear and tear 
guidelines. 
I note what Ms P says about the pairing of wheels and tyres, but I think it unlikely that the 
manufacturer would have selected a pairing that was unsuitable. In any event, the wheel and 
the tyre show clear signs of damage resulting from contact with something outside the car. I 
accept that such damage is not unusual, but it does not follow that it arose from a defect in 
the car. 
I note too what Ms P says about the decision to waive one charge. On reviewing the 
inspection report, VWFS accepted the dent that had been identified fell within the wear and 
tear exception. I dont believe it follows however that VWFS was wrong to conclude that the 
tyre and wheel damage was not within the exception. Since VWFS has agreed to waive it, I 
make no comment on the initial charge for the dent, but I am satisfied that it was entitled to 
charge for the wheel and tyre damage. I believe the amount charged is reasonable.        
My final decision
For these reasons, I do not require Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited to take any 
further steps to resolve Ms Ps complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman