DRN-1512153
 
The complaint
Mr W's complaint concerns three loans taken out with Provident Personal Credit Limited 
(trading as Satsuma Loans). He says the loans were irresponsibly lent. 
What happened
Mr W took three instalment loans with Satsuma between June 2016 and May 2018. A 
summary of Mr Ws borrowing is shown below.
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 01/06/2016 25/09/2017 26 weeks £300.00 £22.10
2 05/02/2018 25/02/2019 12 months £500.00 £83.00
3 31/05/2018 25/04/2019 12 months £1,200.00 £199.20
Our adjudicator considered the complaint but didn't think it should be upheld. Mr W did not 
agree; he said the finding was inconsistent with his other complaints against other lenders. 
These concerned loans that were taken out around the same time and the lending was 
found to be irresponsible. Mr W feels loans 2 and 3 shouldn't have been given because of 
his credit score and existing borrowings at the time. He had more than one outstanding 
short-term loan at the time both loans were taken. He had also struggled to keep the 
payments up on loan 2 when loan 3 was granted.
I issued my provisional decision on 10 January 2020 explaining why I was thinking of 
reaching a different conclusion to the adjudicator and upholding Mr Ws complaint about 
loans 2 and 3.
Mr W has confirmed he has nothing further to add. Satsuma hasnt responded to my 
provisional decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
As neither party has provided any further evidence or arguments for consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. For completeness, I 
have set this out below.
I should start by saying that just because other complaints have been upheld it does not 
mean that should automatically be the case here. Each case is judged on its own merits and 
what - on the face of it - appear to be based on a similar set of facts - often transpires not to 
be the case. Weve explained how we handle complaints about short term lending on our website and Ive 
used this approach to help me decide Mr Ws complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when Satsuma to Mr W. The 
FCAs Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC) is the specialist sourcebook for credit-related 
regulated activities. It sets out the rules and guidance specific to consumer credit providers, 
such as Satsuma. 
It is important to note that the FCA didnt, and doesnt, specify exactly how an assessment of 
affordability is to be carried out but the extent and scope and the types and sources of 
information to use needed to be enough to be able to reasonably assess the sustainability 
of the arrangement for the consumer.
In other words, the assessment needs to be consumer-focussed. It is not an assessment of 
the risk to the lender of not recovering the credit but of the risk to the consumer of incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequence as a result of the 
decision to lend.
CONC may not mention the number of previous loans a customer has had with a particular 
creditor as a relevant factor in determining what verification checks are proportionate. But as 
outlined in my provisional decision, as set out in CONC, the risk to the consumer directly 
relates to the particulars of the lending and the circumstances of the consumer. Therefore, a 
lenders assessment of creditworthiness would likely need to be flexible. That is to say, what 
is sufficient for one consumer might not be for another, or indeed what might be sufficient for 
a consumer in one circumstance might not be so for the same consumer in other 
circumstances.
Bearing the above in mind, I would expect an assessment of creditworthiness to vary with 
circumstance. In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance, the greater the 
potential risk to the consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. 
Certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include, 
but are not limited to:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Satsuma said it undertook a full credit worthiness and affordability assessment - including 
taking declared values from Mr W. It says it also added additional safeguards to the 
customer's expenditure.I think the checks Satsuma carried out were proportionate for the first loan and the 
information Mr W provided indicated that the loan was affordable. This was Mr W's first 
loan with Satsuma, so I think it was entitled to rely on the information Mr W provided. At this 
stage I dont think Satsuma needed to specifically ask about other outstanding short-term 
loans Mr W may have had or verify the information Mr W provided. 
However, I think Satsuma needed to do more when Mr W took out loan 2. Loan 1 had a
26-week term and was due to end in December 2016. But Mr W had problems repaying the 
£22.10 weekly instalment. It was a further nine months before Mr W finally repaid this first 
loan, in September 2017. There was then a gap of around five months between the late 
repayment of loan 1 and loan 2. However, loan 2 was for a larger amount and Mr W needed 
to sustain repayments over a 12-month term.
So I think Satsuma should have done more than rely on the information Mr W was providing 
about his finances and the credit searches it did. I think it should have taken steps at this 
time to independently verify Mr Ws actual financial position. 
Mr W provided us with his bank statements and his credit file, so we could see what better 
checks would have shown Satsuma. If it had done further checks for loan 2, its likely it would 
have discovered:
Mr W's salary was slightly more than he declared - around £1,278
Mr W had one outstanding short term loan to which he was paying monthly 
instalments of around £118
Mr W was paying almost half his salary towards a running credit facility 
Mr W was also making regular payments of around £198 to a high cost longer term 
loan 
In addition, Mr W had other credit commitments such as credit cards. So as a responsible 
lender, I think Satsuma would have realised that Mr W was having problems managing his 
money and couldn't sustainably afford loan 2. And on this basis it would not have agreed to 
lend.
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Satsumas lending history with Mr W, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Satsuma should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Satsuma should have realised that 
it shouldn't have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ws case, I think that this point was reached by 3. I 
say this because:
Satsuma ought to have realised Mr W was not managing to repay his loans 
sustainably. Mr W had been indebted to Satsuma for 18 months. So Satsuma ought 
to have realised it was more likely than not Mr W was having to borrow further to 
cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his finances and that Mr Ws 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
 
Mr Ws first loan was for £300 and loan 3 was for £1,200.  At this point Satsuma 
ought to have known that Mr W was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall 
in his income but to meet an ongoing need.
 
Mr W wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Satsuma. Loan 3 was 
taken out 18 months after Mr Ws first loan. And it was for four times the amount. Mr 
W had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Satsuma over an 
extended period.I think that Mr W lost out because Satsuma continued to provide borrowing from loan 3 
because:
this loan had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ws indebtedness by allowing him to 
take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
 
the length of time over which Mr W borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mr Ws ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So Im also upholding the complaint about loan 2 as well as loan 3 and Satsuma should put 
things right as set out below.
Putting things right - what Satsuma needs to do
 refund all interest and charges Mr W paid on loans 2 and 3;
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
 
remove any negative information about loan 2 from Mr Ws credit file;
 
the length of time over which Mr W borrowed by loan 3 means any information 
recorded about this loan is adverse. So all entries about loan 3 should be removed 
from Mr Ws credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma must 
give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision Ive decided to partially uphold 
Mr Ws complaint and direct Provident Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma 
Loans) to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2020.
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman