DRN-3118153
The complaint
Miss S and Mr W have complained about a mortgage account they had with Southern 
Pacific Mortgage Limited (SPML).
On 20 October 2021 I issued a decision explaining which parts of the complaint we are able 
to consider, specifically:
fees and charges applied to the account and SPMLs arrears-handling since October 
2014, insofar as those issues are not already covered in previous final response letters 
where the complaints are time-barred;
that SPML failed to inform Miss S and Mr W of the implications for their credit files of 
entering into payment arrangements in February 2019 and September 2019.
To settle the complaint, Miss S and Mr W would like SPML to refund fees, charges and 
interest, remove adverse information from their credit files and pay compensation.
 
What happened
Miss S and Mr W had a mortgage with SPML taken out in 2007 and repaid in 2020. Since 
about 2013, after Miss S and Mr W began to experience financial difficulties, the mortgage 
fell into arrears. Fees and charges were applied to the account.
By October 2014 the arrears were just over £2,200. Arrangements to pay were agreed from 
time to time, but the arrears werent cleared and when the property was sold in March 2020 
the arrears were over £3,500. In line with the account terms and conditions and the tariff of 
charges, SPML applied fees to the account where payments were missed or not met in full.
Miss S and Mr W complained about the fees and charges, as well as other aspects of 
SPMLs handling of their account. Some fees and charges were reversed, but others were 
not.
Complaints were also made about insurance added to the account by SPML, and about 
information being added to Miss S and Mr Ws credit files in relation to arrangements to pay.
Unhappy with SPMLs response to their complaints, Miss S and Mr W brought their 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
As Ive explained above, there are aspects of the complaint we cant consider, as they were 
brought out of time, so I wont comment on those any further.
In relation to the parts of the complaint we could consider, the investigator issued a very 
detailed letter dated 4 August 2021 in which she set out her findings.
As far as fees and charges were concerned, the investigator thought that, for the most part, 
these had either been fairly applied or SPML had reversed the fees, both in relation to 
monthly arrears management fees and field agent fees. But she did think that SPML should 
reverse arrears management fees applied in June 2016, November 2017 and August 2019  
a total of £160. She also thought SPML should pay interest on these at 8% simple per 
annum.
In relation to insurance premiums applied to the account, the investigator noted that, after 
April 2018, when SPML had been given details of Miss S and Mr Ws own insurance, no 
further premiums had been applied and SPML had refunded premiums previous applied. But 
SPML acknowledged that it hadnt replied to Miss S and Mr Ws complaint about this and 
offered them £200 compensation.
In relation to the arrangement to pay markers in February 2019 and September 2019, the 
investigator was satisfied that SPML was allowed to report this information to the credit 
reference agencies. However, she noted that, in relation to the arrangement to pay agreed in 
September 2019, SPML had acknowledged it hadnt explained the credit reporting 
implications when the arrangement was set up. SPML had offered compensation of £100 for 
this. 
Overall, the investigator thought that SPML needed to refund fees of £160 plus 8% simple 
interest, and that the compensation already offered was fair. She didnt think any other part 
of the complaint should be upheld.
Miss S and Mr W didnt agree with the investigators findings, and asked for an ombudsman 
to review the complaint.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
Our decisions are published, so its important I dont include in this decision anything that 
might lead to Miss S and Mr W being identified. In addition, the investigators letter dated 
4 August 2021 set out in detail what happened, and all parties have had a copy of that letter. 
So for those reasons, I will not set out the specific details of the complaint. However, I 
confirm Ive taken into account everything Miss S and Mr W and SPML have said.
Ill also explain that I dont have any power to tell SPML what interest rates it should apply to 
its lending. The mortgage contract set the interest rate for the product and in this case the 
mortgage offer showed that the rate applied to the account reflected past or present 
financial difficulties. Arrears-handling: Ive looked at what Miss S and Mr W have said about the way SPML 
dealt with them after they fell into arrears. Ive thought about what SPML is required to do by 
the regulator, and what it has actually done.
The starting point is that lenders have a duty to treat all customers, but particularly those 
facing financial hardship, fairly. Balanced against that, one of the fundamental principles 
underpinning the mortgage contract is that a lender has the right to receive payment of the 
money owed to it. 
The Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (known as MCOB) 
sets out at MCOB 13 what lenders are required to do to help borrowers in arrears. The 
Council of Mortgage Lenders (CML) also has its own guidelines about what it expects 
lenders to do to comply with MCOB, which mirror closely the requirements of MCOB.
A lender is required to explore ways to resolve an arrears situation, especially if the problem 
that created the arrears to begin with is one that looks to be short-term and capable of being 
resolved. For long-term difficulties, a lender must also look at other ways to help, such 
transferring a mortgage from capital and interest repayment to interest-only, deferring 
interest for a period of time or capitalisation of arrears. Balanced against that is the lenders 
obligation to ensure that any arrangement is affordable and sustainable. 
Im satisfied that, over the years, SPML has acted fairly in its handling of this account. It set 
up payment arrangements (which were not always adhered to) and took into consideration 
Miss S and Mr Ws specific circumstances. The mortgage was already interest-only, so there 
was no option to reduce payments by granting an interest-only concession. 
Overall, after reviewing the account history, Im satisfied SPML treated Miss S and Mr W 
fairly in its handling of the arrears.
Fees and charges: I note SPML has refunded the majority of the arrears management fees 
charged to the account, either as a gesture of goodwill or after reviewing the account in line 
with regulatory guidelines. However, where a monthly repayment has been made, or where 
the majority of the payment has been made in a month, SPML shouldnt charge an arrears 
management fee. Consequently, I agree with the investigator that the further fees she 
identified (and detailed above)  totalling £160  should also be reimbursed to 
Miss S and Mr W, along with interest at 8% per annum simple.
Field agents: Im satisfied SPML was entitled to instruct a field agent to visit both the 
secured property and the address(es) where Miss S and Mr W resided. Its not unreasonable 
for SPML to want an independent report on the situation. This wasnt a buy-to-let mortgage, 
and so SPML was entitled to know who was living in the property and to report on its 
condition.
I see that two field agent fees totalling £103.20 were reversed on the account for visits that 
didnt take place in June 2018. Other than that, Im not persuaded any other fees should be 
reimbursed for field agent visits.
Buildings only insurance: SPML wasnt provided with confirmation that the property was 
insured from October 2014 to April 2018. In the circumstances, it was reasonable for SPML 
to arrange its own insurance and to charge Miss S and Mr W for this, in line with the account 
terms and conditions. SPML was provided with the insurance schedule in April 2018, after 
which no further insurance premiums were charged to the account.Miss S and Mr W say that the only reason no further premiums were charged after April 
2018 is because SPML stopped offering insurance cover. Im not persuaded that is entirely 
correct; lenders always have the provision to insure if the borrowers dont have any or 
adequate insurance cover. However, nothing turns on this; the fact remains that no further 
premiums were charged after April 2018. 
SPML acknowledged that it didnt address Miss S and Mr Ws concerns about the insurance 
when it should have done. I think the compensation offered of £200 for this is fair and 
reasonable.
Arrangement to pay markers:  Two arrangements to pay were set up in February 2019 
and September 2019 respectively. 
Miss S and Mr W are unhappy that SPML reported the information about the arrangements 
from March 2019 to May 2019 and from October 2019. However, SPML is required to 
provide accurate information about the conduct of an account  including arrears and 
arrangements to pay off the arrears  to credit reference agencies. As the investigator 
explained, this is in line with the guidance published by the Information Commissioners 
Office. Indeed, it would be wrong for SPML to report anything other than accurate 
information about the account history. So although I acknowledge this has had an impact on 
Miss S and Mr Ws credit files, I dont think SPML acted unfairly or unreasonably in reporting 
this information.
SPML has acknowledged that, for the September 2019 arrangement, its agent failed to 
explain the implications of the arrangement on Miss S and Mr Ws credit files. SPML did, 
however, explain the implications during the phone call to set up the February 2019 
arrangement. As there had been previous arrangements to pay, Im persuaded that 
Miss S and Mr W knew, or ought reasonably to have known, in September 2019 that the 
arrangement would be recorded on their credit files. I think that if this had been explained, 
they would still have gone ahead with the arrangement in September 2019.
For its mistake in not explaining this, however, SPML has offered compensation of £100, 
which I think is fair in all the circumstances.
 
Putting things right
I require SPML to do the following to settle this complaint:
refund arrears management fees for June 2016, November 2017 and August 2019 (a 
total of £160)
pay interest at 8% simple per annum on the refund, from the dates the fees were 
charged to the date of refund;*
if it has not already been paid, pay compensation of £200 for not addressing 
Miss S and Mr Ws concerns about buildings insurance;
if it has not already been paid, pay compensation of £100 for the error when setting up 
the arrangement to pay in September 2019.
I understand Miss S and Mr W are now separated. As they are equally entitled to the 
compensation, if Miss S and Mr W accept my decision, SPML must pay 50% to Miss S and 
50% to Mr W. I would ask Miss S and Mr W to provide our investigator with their separate 
bank details so that SPML can do this.
  
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I direct Southern Pacific Mortgage 
Limited to pay the compensation set out above in full and final settlement of this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman