DRN-2676876
The complaint
Ms L and Mr P are unhappy with the way AXA Insurance UK Plc dealt with a claim for 
accidental damage under their home insurance policy.
What happened
In November 2018 Ms L and Mr P made a claim to AXA. While they were having their oil 
boiler serviced two months earlier, the contractor used a vacuum cleaner to clear out the 
system. That caused soot to poor out into the utility room and kitchen. It then spread 
throughout their house.
AXA appointed a loss adjuster to manage the claim and a disaster recovery firm to clean the 
property. The loss adjuster thought the utility room needed redecorating and the rest of the 
house should be cleaned. Electrical items also needed to be tested. At first he didnt think 
AXA should pay for Ms L and Mr P to stay elsewhere, although they told him Ms L suffers 
from asthma.
Alternative accommodation was offered in mid-December 2018 on the recommendation of 
the disaster recovery firm. The firm produced a schedule of required cleaning and strip outs. 
Ms L and Mr P werent happy with the extent of these and felt that more thorough strip outs 
would be required to remove soot that had got into materials. As the parties didnt agree, the 
cleaning didnt start. AXA then withdrew the offer of alternative accommodation as it said 
there was no immediate risk to health.
After Ms L and Mr P complained in June 2019, AXA appointed another loss adjuster to 
review the handling of the claim. The second loss adjuster agreed that more works would be 
required than AXA had previously agreed. AXA agreed to the appointment of an 
independent surveyor of Ms L and Mr Ps choosing to determine the extent of these. It also 
accepted the need for alternate accommodation.
In August 2019 AXA accepted that significant errors had been made in the handling of the 
claim. It paid Ms L and Mr P £1,700 compensation for the delays it had caused and for the 
failure to provide alternative accommodation.
As Ms L and Mr P didnt think this was enough, they brought their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator upheld their complaint. She thought AXA should pay a further £800 
compensation.
As the parties didnt agree, the matter has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I confirm that in this decision Im looking at how AXA handled Ms L and Mr Ps claim from 
November 2018 when the claim was first made to 22 August 2019 being the date of AXAs 
final response regarding the complaint. In June 2019 AXA appointed another loss adjuster 
and it seems from July the claim started to get back on track. There were two main failings 
on AXAs part. They are the delays and the failure to provide alternative accommodation. Ill 
consider each of them in turn.
I can see that the claim really ground to a halt between January and July 2019. To some 
extent that was because AXA was waiting for Ms L and Mr P to share their concerns with it. 
That only happened in June 2019 when Ms L and Mr P made a formal complaint in writing. 
But if at the outset AXA had correctly assessed the restoration works, any delay could have 
been avoided.
With regard to alternative accommodation it seems to be accepted that this should have 
been offered from the outset. It wasnt fair for the first loss adjuster to withdraw the offer in 
January 2019 just because Ms L and Mr P had some concerns about the extent of the 
planned restoration works, especially when those concerns turned out to be justified.
Ms L and Mr P say they moved out of the property in March 2019 to stay with family and 
friends at great inconvenience to themselves. That means for a four month period due to 
failings on the part of AXA they were living in conditions which were damaging to their 
health. Ms L has provided evidence that her asthma condition deteriorated due to the soot. 
Mr P said he suffered a problem with his eyes. 
Theyve also provided evidence of the possibility of other longer term health risks from the 
exposure to the soot. I cant make an award for something which might happen in future, 
although Ill take their concern into account when looking at trouble and upset.
In addition I dont think that they should have had to impose on family and friends for 
something that should have been provided as part of their claim.
Ms L and Mr P would like to receive by way of compensation for this a sum equivalent to 
what AXA would have paid for accommodation for the period in question. However, awards 
of compensation arent intended to fine or punish a business  thats the job of the regulator. 
When this service considers how much compensation to award, were looking at what 
trouble and upset the insurer has caused to its policy holder above and beyond that which 
wed normally expect to see associated with a claim of this type.
It wouldnt be fair for me not to recognise that AXA has acknowledged its service should 
have been much better and it has offered a total of £1,700 to compensate Ms L and Mr P for 
the trouble and upset caused by its poor service. Our investigator suggested that it should 
increase its compensation offer to £2,500 in total. Bearing in mind the impact of the poor 
claim handling on Ms L and Mr P and having taken all the circumstances into account, I think 
this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Putting things right
To put things right I think AXA should pay Ms L and Mr P a further £800 for the trouble and 
upset it caused them.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay a further £800 
compensation to Ms L and Mr P for the trouble and upset it caused them.
AXA Insurance UK Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it Ms L and Mr P accept my final decision (if they do accept it). If it pays later than this it must also pay interest* on the compensation from the date of my final 
decision to the date of payment.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amount specified and from/to the 
dates stated. If AXA Insurance UK Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from any interest due to Ms L and Mr P, it should tell them 
how much its taken off. It should also give Ms L and Mr P a certificate showing this if they 
ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman