DRN-4082709
The complaint
Mr E complains The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) wrongly informed 
him he held a personal pension, by way of issuing annual statements for around 10 years. 
He says his retirement planning has been badly affected when it came to light this was not in 
fact his pension. He asks to be compensated. 
What happened
I set out the background to this complaint in my provisional decision.
In September 2012, Prudential contacted Mr E, as they were trying to trace a customer, they 
had lost contact with. His address had been provided by the Department of Works and 
Pensions as a possible match. On 13 September 2012, Mr E returned a questionnaire to 
Prudential providing information such as his address, date of birth and national insurance 
number.
Prudential queried Mr Es national insurance number, as it was different from the one held 
on to their records. They asked for evidence such as a payslip or tax record to confirm the 
number. There is no evidence to show Mr E provide this evidence, but Prudential updated 
the details on the plan to show Mr E as the policy holder. They then began to send annual 
statements.
Between 2012 and 2021, Prudential provided information about the plan, its bonuses, 
transfer value etc to Mr Es appointed financial adviser.  Mr E says he discussed the policy 
and his options at retirement with Prudential advisers on a number of occasions. They also 
sent retirement option packs and reminders about adding a nominated beneficiary to the 
policy. In August 2021, Prudential responded to an information request from Mr E confirming 
the policy transfer value was £34,718.47.
On 21 January 2022 Mr E contacted Prudential again. Although Mr E wasnt informed the 
representative noticed there had been a change of name and address on the policy and it 
had been encashed in September 2021. The matter was referred to the fraud department for 
investigation.
On 15 February 2022, Mr E wrote to Prudential to ask for their help in finding his policy. He 
said he had spoken with a number of representatives but wasnt getting anywhere. Mr E was 
in Spain, and he asked them to contact him there. Mr E was not aware that Prudential had 
written to the address they held on file, which was his mothers address, to say the policy did 
not belong to him.
Prudential treated Mr Es letter as a complaint and on 16 March 2022, they issued a final 
response. They explained they should have realised when he returned the questionnaire in 
2012 that the policy did not belong to him, but unfortunately this didnt happen. When the 
actual policy holder contacted Prudential, they had to update the plan details, which was 
what led to Mr E being unable to access the plan any longer. They recognised their letter 
confirming the policy didnt belong to Mr E didnt address the importance of the matter and 
should have elaborated on what was said.
Prudential apologised that there was no due diligence carried out when they updated the 
details in 2012 and allowed Mr E to believe, for around 10 years, that the policy was his. In 
recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused, they sent Mr E a cheque for £2,000.
Dissatisfied, Mr E brought his complaint to this service. He said he had not made any further 
pension provision precisely because he had this policy, and he didnt feel the offer made by 
Prudential was fair or reasonable.
An investigator looked into matters for Mr E. She issued a view in which she said she could 
understand the disappointment expressed by Mr E and thought this could have impacted his 
wider retirement planning. She couldnt find any evidence that would have led Mr E to think 
Prudential had made a mistake and this pension wasnt his.
Prudential confirmed this pension was opened in 1987 and so Mr E assumed this was 
something to do with a former employer he was working for at the time. He was 51 years of 
age when the Prudential first contacted him and 61 years of age when he discovered this 
pension plan wasnt his, so she felt he had limited time to address the situation in terms of 
his retirement provision.
She felt Prudential had a number of opportunities to limit the distress to Mr E. The first being 
when it realised the national insurance number was incorrect and Mr E wasnt able to 
provide the correct information and it had additional information from HMRC in 2017.
On balance our investigator felt the redress should be increased to £3,500 for the trouble 
and upset this matter had caused.
Mr E didnt agree. He felt this still wasnt a fair reflection of the upset and loss of expectation 
he has suffered.
Prudential also didnt agree. It said notwithstanding its error, which it acknowledged would 
have caused Mr E significant distress, it had provided advice previously to Mr E. This was in 
1999, and Mr E had only wanted to discuss savings and investments, he had no desire to 
discuss pensions at that time. The fact find confirms he had no pension provision at that 
time. The pension plan in question was also a protected rights only plan. In other words, no 
actual contributions were made to the plan other than those made by Department of Work 
and Pensions. It said therefore, there was no actual financial loss to Mr E.
Because both parties disagreed the complaint was passed to me for review.
In my provisional decision I explained I had reached a similar view to that of our investigator, 
but because my reasoning differed slightly, and I issued a provisional decision to allow both 
parties to provide any further submissions they wish me to consider before issuing my final 
decision.
I explained Id taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. I also carefully considered the submissions made by Mr E and 
Prudential.
I explained this service isnt intended to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  
that is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. Instead, this service looks to resolve 
individual complaints between a consumer and a business. Should we decide that 
something has gone wrong we would ask the business to put things right by placing the 
consumer, as far as is possible, in the position they would have been if the problem hadnt 
occurred.
I said there is no dispute that Prudential failed to update its records and sent Mr E annual 
statements for a plan that wasnt his for over 10 years. It is further acknowledged that Mr E has suffered considerable trouble and upset and a loss of expectation after assuming he had 
an additional pension. I explained what is in dispute, and what I must consider, is how to put 
things right. 
Mr E has told us he stopped paying into his existing pension with another provider, because 
he thought he had an additional fund with the Prudential. But he has also told us he stopped 
paying into his existing pension without taking any financial advice and because he was self-
employed with limited earnings, he had decided to move to Spain and had a limited budget  
so he felt the £100 could be better used elsewhere. So, there were a number of reasons why 
Mr E stopped contributing to his pension provisions rather than solely because he thought he 
had this plan with the Prudential, but I accept, the fact that he thought he had this plan did 
form part of his decision making.
He did have an independent financial adviser at some point, but he told this service he had 
looked at his pensions with a view to transferring them and Mr E found him very pushy and 
eventually didnt want to proceed with any recommendations. So, I cant be sure what the 
adviser discussed with him in regard to this pension.
This is important because the Prudential Pension was a pension fund entirely in respect of 
contracted out benefits (protected rights). So, Mr E made no contributions at all to this 
pension, the contributions received into the fund were made by the Department for Work and 
Pensions (DWP). This is important because Mr E will still have these benefits available to 
him either with another provider (if contracted out) or through his second state pension (as 
long as he was eligible). In other words, Mr E hasnt suffered a financial loss, but he has 
suffered a loss of expectation.
I said Id thought about how this loss of expectation may have impacted on Mr Es retirement 
planning. Mr E has said he had tried to withdraw the funds on one occasion but was advised 
there would be fee of £1000 which he didnt want to pay, and he has given a number of 
reasons has to why he chose not to continue making pension contributions, so Im not 
persuaded that the existence of this fund was the sole reason he chose not to take advice 
about his retirement planning.
Having said this, I said I dont wish in any way to underplay the disappointment Mr E must 
have felt after 10 years when he discovered this fund was not his. I said I can appreciate that 
must have come as a shock.
I explained Id then gone onto look at the scale of the error and what steps Prudential made 
to minimise the impact on Mr E. In this case, it would seem there was a very serious error 
that was perpetuated over a ten-year period. I also considered that when Prudential were 
aware there was an incorrect National Insurance Number it could and should have taken 
steps to check the information. I said in failing to do so and just attributing Mr Es name and 
address to this plan was in my view negligent. So, there are a number of opportunities here 
where Prudential could have acted to clarify the details of this pension and it failed to do so. 
These missed opportunities were also failings in minimising the impact on Mr E.
I also took into consideration how old Mr E was when he finally discovered the fact that this 
was not his pension, at age 61 he has limited opportunity to make any corrections.
I appreciate Prudential has pointed to other cases where the redress was as it has offered in 
this case or lower, but each case brought to this service is considered on its own individual 
merits.
I explained the awards this service makes for trouble and upset are relatively modest, again 
reflecting the fact this is a free service and alternative to the courts. However, in this case 
Prudentials failure to carry out due diligence has let to Mr E thinking he had a pension plan 
in place for more than 10 years, as a result he now has limited time to address his retirement planning.  I accept that the plan itself was contracted out pension plan, but I dont think Mr E 
would have known what that meant, nor at any time that this wasnt his plan.
I said, in my view the error itself could have been avoided on a number of occasions and the 
impact of this error on Mr E, according to his testimony has impacted hie mental health and 
wellbeing. For these reasons, I said I was persuaded that the offer of £2,000 by Prudential 
should be increased to reflect the impact this has had on Mr E to £3,500.
I allowed both parties time to make any further submissions they may wish me to consider 
before issuing my final decision.
Mr E accepted the findings of my provisional decision.
Prudential did not. It said my provisional decision did not acknowledge the fact find from 
1999, when Prudential gave Mr E advice. It questions why Mr E didnt mention a pension in 
1999 but thought he had one in 2012. It went on to say it did query the national insurance 
number in 2017, but had no response form Mr E. It argues that its offer of £2,000 is fair and 
reasonable and in line with other similar decisions from this service and doesnt agree the 
award for the trouble and upset should be increased.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have seen no evidence to persuade me to alter my earlier decision, 
however, for clarity I will address the comments raised by Prudential.
Firstly, the matter of other similar decisions and the awards made is not relevant to my 
decision making in the circumstances of this complaint. Each complaint is considered on its 
own individual merits. Whilst there may be similarities or even, as Prudential argues, cases 
where it feels the circumstances where more deserving of a higher award, it isnt possible to 
compare one with another as the background and circumstances will be different.
Ive listened to the calls between Mr E and our investigator, and Im persuaded by his 
testimony that he didnt really know anything about pensions, he assumed this had 
something to do with a previous employment. It was Prudential who contacted him regarding 
the pension, and it went on to update its records to show Mr E was the policyholder. It then 
sent statements for the next ten years. Between 2012 and 2021, Prudential provided 
information about the plan, its bonuses, transfer value etc to Mr Es appointed financial 
adviser.  Mr E told this service he discussed the policy and his options at retirement with 
Prudential advisers on a number of occasions. They also sent retirement option packs and 
reminders about adding a nominated beneficiary to the policy. In August 2021, Prudential 
responded to an information request from Mr E confirming the policy transfer value was 
£34,718.47. So, on balance, Im persuaded the basis of Mr Es belief that this pension was 
his was because Prudential told him it was for a sustained period of ten years and interacted 
with him on a number of occasions, without ever raising any concern this pension did not 
belong to him.
With regard to the check on the National Insurance number, although Mr E didnt respond to 
Prudentials enquiry, the responsibility to pursue the matter lay with Prudential rather than Mr 
E and I Havent seen anything to show that it did follow up its concern. That would seem to 
be a matter of due diligence that Prudential should have pursued.
When considering redress, I have considered both the impact the mistake has had on Mr E 
and what steps Prudential took to minimise the impact its mistake had on Mr E. In its final response, Prudential make it clear in the first paragraph that when Mr E returned 
the questionnaire in 2012, it should have been able to identify Mr E was not the correct 
customer but it failed in its due diligence. It seems to me that there were a number of 
occasions since 2012, when Prudential should have identified this wasnt Mr Es policy. By 
its own admission it contacted Mr E again in 2017 to query his national insurance number 
but didnt follow this up. When it did recognise its error, it withdrew the online access to Mr E 
and sent him a letter which essentially caused Mr E to think someone had stolen his pension 
or he had been defrauded. All of this caused him great anxiety and worry and non-more so 
that actually finding out this pension had never belonged to him. 
So, in my view this was a huge error, that impacted hugely on Mr Es wellbeing and he 
although he suffered no financial loss, he suffered a huge loss of expectation. This coupled 
with Prudentials failure to carry our due diligence on more than one occasion or to minimise 
the impact of its mistake is the reason I was persuaded and remain of the view that the 
redress for the trouble and upset caused should be increased to £3,500.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I direct The Prudential Assurance Company Limited to pay Mr 
E £3,500 for the trouble and upset this matter has caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman