DRN-4358522
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that they were unable to re-mortgage their buy to let properties 
because Barclays Bank UK PLC wrongly recorded mortgage arrears on their credit files. By 
the time this was corrected, interest rates had increased. They ask for compensation.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A have a number of buy to let mortgages with Barclays. In late 2021 they 
received letters from Barclays saying two of these mortgages were in arrears. Mr and Mrs A 
complained. They say Barclays acknowledged it made an error and said their credit files 
wouldnt be affected. 
Mr and Mrs A say they were concerned about interest rate rises and in early 2022 decided to 
re-mortgage and take out long-term rates for three mortgages with other lenders. They took 
advice and their broker started applications for three buy to let mortgages. Their broker says 
each lender declined the applications following preliminary credit assessments. The broker 
said he was unable to source mortgages for Mr and Mrs A, despite attempts over several 
weeks, and advised them to look into the source of the adverse data.
Mr and Mrs A complained again to Barclays in June 2022. They say they were unable to re-
mortgage until late 2022 due to the arrears wrongly recorded by Barclays, and they missed 
out on lower interest rates available in early 2022.  
Our investigator said he couldnt fairly find that Barclays error was the only reason that Mr 
and Mrs A werent offered mortgages in early 2022. He said Barclays offer of £400 for the 
upset and inconvenience caused was fair.
Mr and Mrs A explained why they didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman re-consider 
their complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Barclays accepts that it incorrectly recorded arrears on Mr and Mrs As mortgage accounts in 
September and October 2021. It sent a final response in late August 2022. It said it had 
asked the credit rating agencies to remove the arrears, and this could take up to 30 days. It 
offered £400 for the upset and inconvenience and said Mr and Mrs A should send evidence 
of any financial loss for it to consider, although there was no guarantee it would refund the 
costs. It sent a further final response in December 2022 in which it again said it made an 
error and offered £400 compensation. Mr A and Mrs A each raised a complaint separately 
and Barclays has confirmed it offered £400 to each of them.
Theres no dispute that Barclays made an error here, and I think its right that it offered 
compensation. What I need to decide is whether the compensation it offered is fair and 
reasonable. When considering compensation, we consider the effect of an error on a 
customer. This could include financial loss or worry, upset and inconvenience. We also take 
into account the wider circumstances and whether the customer could have taken steps to 
limit any losses. I need to bear in mind here that letting properties is a business. Mr and 
Mrs A have a number of buy to let properties and its reasonable to expect them to manage 
their buy to let mortgages as part of their business. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs A. But having carefully considered what theyve said, I 
dont think its fair and reasonable to order Barclays to pay compensation for their financial 
loss in missing out on interest rate products available in early 2022. This is for the following 
reasons.
Mr and Mrs A provided a statement from their broker saying their mortgage applications 
were declined at the initial stages in February 2022. Mr and Mrs A say this was due to 
the arrears recorded by Barclays. But they didnt provide evidence this was the only or 
the main reason. They didnt provide a copy of their credit reports from that time, to 
demonstrate they had no other adverse data. Their broker wasnt able to provide 
evidence from the relevant lenders that it was the arrears recorded by Barclays that was 
the only or the main problem.
Even if I had evidence that Mr and Mrs As applications were declined at the initial stage 
due to the arrears recorded by Barclays, this isnt the same as finding that these lenders 
would (but for the arrears) have offered them mortgages at the rates available in 
February 2022. The lenders might have decided that Mr and Mrs A and/or their 
properties didnt meet lending criteria or other problems could have emerged during the 
application process. 
Mr and Mrs A say they were concerned about interest rate rises and wanted to secure a 
long-term rate. If so, Id have expected them to take steps promptly to identify and sort 
out the problem with their credit files. Theres no evidence they did this until June 2022, 
some four months later.
Mr and Mrs A could have contacted one or more of the credit rating agencies, or one of 
several businesses that provide credit reports free of charge, to obtain their reports. They 
could have checked the source of the adverse data in February 2022. 
Mr and Mrs A say they made a complaint in late 2021 about Barclays mistakenly saying 
two of their mortgages were in arrears. Barclays said their credit files wouldnt be 
affected. Nonetheless, when there were problems in early 2022, it would have been 
reasonable for Mr and Mrs A to consider whether this was related to the same matter. 
They could have contacted Barclays in February 2022.
Mr and Mrs A contacted Barclays about the adverse data on 10 June 2022. Barclays 
arranged for Mr and Mrs As credited files to be corrected in August 2022, about two 
months after they contacted it. If Mr and Mrs A had contacted Barclays in February 2022, 
its likely it would have corrected their credit files in April 2022. 
Mr and Mrs A provided emails with a lender between June to August 2022. In one of 
these emails, Mrs A says recently, as part of making the mortgage application to 
[lender] in June, I became aware of a credit profile issue. Upon investigating this, this 
appears to be resulting from an administrative issue at Barclays. This suggests Mrs A 
became aware there was an issue with her credit profile in June 2022, rather than in 
February 2022.Mr A says they both have impeccable credit scores. However, they didnt provide a copy 
of their credit reports to us. Mr and Mrs A provided a screen shot of part of the first page 
of their credit reports. These are undated and only uses their first names, but they say 
its for May 2023. The screen shots show they both have a 999 credit score, but this 
doesnt evidence the content of Mr and Mrs As credit reports in early 2022. 
Mr and Mrs A say they were able to re-mortgage two properties by providing Barclays 
August final response letter (which said the arrears were wrongly recorded) to the lender. 
They say otherwise the lender would have declined the application due to the arrears 
recorded by Barclays. They provided a recent email from the lender which they say 
confirms this. It seems these mortgages completed, despite the lenders initial concerns 
about the adverse data. 
Had Mr and Mrs A contacted Barclays in February 2022, it might have provided a similar 
letter which Mr and Mrs A could have provided to the lenders they approached in early 
2022. 
Mr and Mrs A say they couldnt source a re-mortgage for the third property with the same 
lender as its a consumer buy to let. They didnt provide evidence of lenders declining to 
lend due to the arrears recorded by Barclays. They say they havent applied for a 
mortgage for this property since the arrears were removed from their credit files as 
interest rates are too high and they might sell the property. I dont think, based on the 
available I can fairly find that any problems re-mortgaging this property were solely or 
mainly due to the arrears recorded by Barclays. 
Barclays made an error when it recorded arrears on Mr and Mrs As mortgage accounts. 
But I need to take into account that Mr and Mrs A didnt contact Barclays until June 2022, 
some months after they say they became aware of possible adverse data on their credit 
files. Thats not to say that Barclays didnt make an error  it did. But, as I said, we take 
into account whether customers could have taken steps to mitigate or limit any loss. If Mr 
and Mrs A had contacted Barclays in February 2022 it would have had an opportunity to 
put matters right sooner.
Mr and Mrs A say the arrears wrongly recorded on their credit files by Barclays prevented 
them re-mortgaging between late 2021 and late 2022. But, based on the available evidence, 
I dont think I can fairly find this was the only reason or the main reason Mr and Mrs A didnt 
re-mortgage during this period. 
It follows that I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Barclays to pay compensation 
for the difference between the interest rates being paid by Mr and Mrs A and the rates 
available in early 2022.
This matter did cause Mr and Mrs A inconvenience. They had to contact Barclays and ask it 
to put matters right. They had to explain the situation to the lender they applied to in June 
2022. I think, for this inconvenience, Barclays offer of £400 compensation (for each of them) 
is fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs A complain about the way Barclays dealt with their complaint. Complaint 
handling isnt a regulated activity and this means its not something we can always look into. 
I can look into it if the way the complaint was dealt with delayed the subject matter of the 
complaint  here the arrears on Mr and Mrs As credit file  being sorted out. I dont think 
that was the case here. Barclays arranged for the arrears to be removed and sent a final 
response confirming this and offering compensation in late August 2022. There was some 
confusion as to whether Mr and Mrs A should raise a complaint jointly or in separate names 
but I can see that Barclays told Mr A in June 2022 that it would automatically clear adverse data for all customers linked to the accounts. 
My final decision
My decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay £400 to each of Mr A and Mrs A as it 
offered to do (unless of course it has already done so).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman