DRN-2909212
The complaint
Mr B complains about The Claims Experts Ltd trading as Impakt Claims (TCE) and the 
settlement fee theyre charging following a successful claim for a mis-sold payday loan. 
What happened
On 19 October 2020, Mr B instructed a separate claims management company (CMC), who 
Ill refer to as A, to pursue a claim for a mis-sold payday loan against lender M. But Mr B 
became unhappy with the service A provided, and he cancelled his contract with them in 
early November. A confirmed this cancellation on 5 November.
Two days before, on 3 November, Mr B instructed TCE to pursue the same claim against 
lender M on his behalf. He signed a letter of authority (LOA) authorising TCE to act as his 
representative and TCE submitted a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) to lender M the 
same day.
The following day, lender M explained to TCE a claim had already been submitted by A, so 
they wouldnt be responding to the DSAR. TCE made Mr B aware of this and explained they 
wouldnt be able to continue. On 6 November, Mr B told TCE hed cancelled his contract with 
A and that they were the only authorised CMC acting on his behalf. So, TCE submitted a 
claim to lender M on 12 November. 
On 13 November, lender M upheld Mr Bs claim and provided him with a refund, which Mr B 
accepted. On 20 November, lender M made TCE aware that the claim had been upheld and 
TCE proceeded to issue Mr B with an invoice for their fees on 24 November. Mr B was 
unhappy with this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr B stated he wasnt prepared to pay TCEs invoice, as they hadnt represented him in the 
claim. So, he wanted TCE to waive the fees and cease any collection activity. But TCE didnt 
agree. They responded saying they were authorised to act on Mr Bs behalf and that lender 
M had provided them with a copy of the offer letter, confirming TCE were noted as Mr Bs 
representative. So, they thought they were fair to charge a fee, in line with the terms and 
conditions of the agreement, and stated the fee remained payable. Mr B remained unhappy 
with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. He recognised Mr B had authorised 
TCE to act on his behalf and didnt dispute that TCE had authorisation when the offer was 
made by lender M. But, crucially, he thought the refund Mr B received had resulted from the 
claim submitted by A, rather than TCE. And this was confirmed in a conversation he held 
with lender M. So, he didnt think TCE were fair to charge a success fee and thought this 
should be waived. But he recognised TCE had completed work in good faith on behalf on Mr 
B, so he thought they should be able to invoice Mr B for their costs to complete this work 
with a breakdown of how it was calculated.
Mr B didnt respond to our investigators view. But TCE did, and they didnt agree. They 
thought it was clear Mr B had authorised them to pursue the claim and that the offer was 
made when Mr B was in an agreement with them. They explained theyd submitted a claim 
on the request of Mr B and this was made before lender M made their offer. So, they thought 
they were fair when charging a fee. They thought it was a dangerous precedent to set saying 
the fees should be waived, as this would allow Mr B to instruct two separate CMCs, receive 
a refund and not have to pay a fee for the work that was completed. As TCE didnt agree, 
the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Im aware that the fees are the main dispute in this instance. Mr B thinks TCE have acted 
unfairly by invoicing him. But TCE think their fees are payable. For me to say the fees are 
payable, Id need to be satisfied that TCE had authority to pursue to the claim on Mr Bs 
behalf and that the work they completed was of value to the claim. Its important to note that 
both parts of this test must be met for me to decide the fees are payable. And in this 
situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive first thought about whether Mr B provided TCE authority to pursue his claim. Ive seen 
Mr B signed a LOA instructed TCE on 3 November 2020, authorising them to act on his 
behalf. And Ive seen e-mails Mr B sent to lender M stating TCE were the CMC that had 
authority over his claim. So, I do think Mr B entered into an agreement with TCE before 
lender Ms offer was made and that TCE were provided with the relevant authority.
But Ive also seen an e-mail from lender M to TCE, sent on 16 November which was three 
days after the offer was made to Mr B. And this e-mail explains that an offer had already 
been made and communicated with A, Mr Bs previous CMC. So, lender M told TCE there 
will be no need for the transfer of authority. This satisfies me that, at the time lender M 
made the refund offer to Mr B, they didnt note TCE as holding authority over the claim. 
And this led me to consider whether the work TCE completed was of any value to the claim. 
Its not in dispute that TCE submitted a claim to lender M, on the wishes of Mr B. Ive seen 
lender M initially rejected TCEs DSAR and TCE told Mr B they would be unable to continue. 
But Mr B expressed his wish for TCE to continue with the claim, and so TCE submitted the 
claim to lender M on 11 November.
But this claim was submitted only two days before lender M issued a refund to Mr B. And Ive 
seen the offer letter from lender M, which was originally sent to only Mr B and A. Within this, 
lender M explain the offer was based on the information Mr B and A provided. There was no 
mention of TCE within this. So, although I recognise TCE submitted a claim to lender M in 
good faith, I dont think this impacted the success of the claim. I think lender M upheld the 
claim based on the information submitted by A before Mr B cancelled his agreement with 
them. So, I dont think I can fairly say the work TCE completed was of value to the claim. So, 
I dont think TCE have acted fairly when invoicing Mr B for their fees on a claim that wouldve 
been successful without their involvement.
Putting things rightAs I dont think TCE have acted fairly, Ive then thought about what I think they should do to 
put things right. And in this situation, I think the error TCE has made is invoicing Mr B for 
fees on a claim that they completed no work of value. So, I think they should waive these 
fees.
I understand TCE doesnt agree with this, and thinks it sets a dangerous precedent in 
situations where a customer can authorise two CMCs, receive a refund, and not pay a fee. 
But in this case, Im not saying Mr B shouldnt pay a fee. I think A completed the work that 
led to Mr Bs refund, so its As decision whether they want to invoice Mr B for this. This 
comes down to their terms and conditions, and their charging structure should an agreement 
be cancelled before a claim has been completed.
And I dont think its fair for me to say TCE should be able to charge a fee, if A have decided 
not to do so. My decision has focused on the work TCE completed, and whether it was of 
value to the claim. And I dont think it was.
But I do recognise Mr B asked TCE repeatedly to submit a claim on his behalf, and that he 
entered into an agreement with TCE for them to do so. And I cant see that this agreement 
was cancelled. I think TCE completed this work on good faith, not knowing that A had 
already done the work required to secure Mr B a refund. I think this wouldve taken TCE time 
and effort to do so, and I think they should be able to charge Mr B for this. So, although I 
dont think TCE should invoice Mr B for a success fee, I think they should be able to invoice 
Mr B for the costs associated to the work they completed. They should invoice Mr B for 
these, alongside a breakdown of how the costs have been calculated. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr Bs complaint about The Claims Experts Ltd 
trading as Impakt Claims and direct them to take the following action:
Waive the outstanding invoice relating to their success fee for Mr Bs successful pay 
day loan claim; and
Proceed to invoice Mr B for the costs of the work they completed, alongside a 
breakdown of how this is calculated, should they wish to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman