DRN-3389783
The complaint
Mrs P and Mr S have complained about how National Westminster Bank Plc has handled 
Mrs Ps data. They say NatWest provided information to unauthorised third parties about 
their joint holdings, gave information about Mrs Ps sole holdings which it shouldnt have 
done, and gave incorrect information generally. Mrs P also said NatWest cancelled an 
arrangement shed entered into to repay the arrears on the mortgage account, and she 
started to receive strange phone calls.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision earlier this month, the findings of which said:
I trust Mrs P and Mr S wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed this complaint in 
the way that I have. Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my 
comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not 
because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order 
to reach the right outcome. This service is impartial between, and independent from, 
consumers and businesses. What this means is that we dont represent either party, and 
we look at things independently without taking sides.
 
The starting point here is that the mortgage is still held in joint names, irrespective of what 
Mrs P and Mr S may have arranged between them about the ownership of the property. 
For that reason NatWest did nothing wrong in providing information about the mortgage 
to B. 
Mrs P and Mr S say that some of the different parties that contacted NatWest had no 
legal authority to act in Mr S bankruptcy. Im satisfied NatWest did nothing wrong in 
accepting the information requests it received in good faith based on what it was provided 
with, and then providing the requested information to those parties.
The information requests NatWest received were from the same company  B - that was 
named in Mr S bankruptcy order. Mrs P and Mr S say that only the individual named in 
the order has the right to act as the practitioner (rather than the company as a whole), but 
as the people were contacting NatWest from that same company it doesnt seem 
unreasonable for NatWest to have responded to those requests.
Mrs P and Mr S told us that the ICO have already upheld a complaint about this, but 
when asked for evidence of that would only provide a heavily redacted document that 
indicates something had been upheld by the ICO, but not what. Some words are still 
readable through the redaction, and from the words I can read it appears the complaint 
that was upheld may have related to the timescales for the provision of information. It 
may be the ICO did uphold a complaint about the other issues, but Ive not been provided 
with anything to prove that.
Having considered everything, I dont think NatWest did anything wrong in replying to the 
parties that contacted it based on the information that was provided. If Mrs P and Mr S 
feel those parties didnt have the authority to act in Mr S bankruptcy and so acquired the 
information through deception then that is something theyd have to take up with those 
parties directly.
Mrs P and Mr S have said that a note on the mortgage account, that was disclosed to B, 
was wrong as it said the arrears on the mortgage were due to Mr had to buy a vehicle 
and return the lease car and previously had tenant issues. Theyve said Mrs P had to 
buy a car and had issues with her tenants, not Mr S.
Ive listened to the call in question from October 2019 and Im satisfied that Mr S did 
confirm those facts as relating to him, going so far as saying [the car company] took back 
the car I had and I had to go and buy a car cash.
Mrs P has said that the contact was not from Mr S alone, it was from them both. But 
having listened to the call I dont think NatWest was made aware of that. There was no 
indication that Mrs P was with Mr S when he made the call, and he didnt say that was the 
case to the NatWest call handler. He answered all the questions as they related to him, 
and there was no pause before any information he had to give about Mrs P (in relation to 
her income and expenditure) as if he was checking the information with her before 
providing it to NatWest.
In any event, that information was recorded on the mortgage account in respect of a 
phone call between Mr S and NatWest, and so NatWest had to disclose it as part of the 
information it was asked for due to Mr S bankruptcy.
That same phone call deals with Mrs P and Mr S complaint that they say the repayment 
arrangement to clear the arrears was set for a 24-month term and was then cancelled 
without notice after it spoke to B.
At the end of the call (between Mr S and NatWest in October 2019) NatWest said that 
whilst it was intending to set it as a 24-month plan, because the current preferential rate 
product was due to end the following month it could only set the agreement for one month 
as at that point the monthly payments would be changing. The call handler said that Mr S 
(or Mrs P) would need to call back once theyd arranged the new rate as then theyd know 
what the new monthly mortgage payments would be, so a reassessment could be done 
as to what was affordable each month to be paid towards the arrears.
There wasnt an agreement that this would carry on for 24-months without Mrs P and/or 
Mr S calling back to re-set the arrangement once their new monthly payments were 
known, and the agreement wasnt cancelled due to a conversation between NatWest and 
B.
Having considered everything Im satisfied NatWest told Mr S that the agreement would 
only be keyed for one month and that either he or Mrs P would need to call back in a 
months time.
Mrs P says that NatWest gave out her personal mobile phone number and she then 
received strangely disturbing and harassing calls about her bank accounts with NatWest, 
but that the calls werent from NatWest. She says only NatWest could have told the 
callers that she banked with it. We have no way of knowing what happened that led to 
Mrs P receiving those calls. I acknowledge how disturbing that must have been for Mrs P, 
and she has my sympathy  it couldnt have been easy, especially with the calls being 
made to her private number. Mr S has said that one such call was made by someone he 
has named as working for B. I wont quote what Mr S has said the caller said to Mrs P 
due to the discriminatory nature of it.B would have known that Mrs P banked with NatWest because of her joint current 
account she held with Mr S, and I dont know how B obtained Mrs Ps mobile phone 
number. That may have been through the information NatWest sent it, it may have been 
through other means. I cant hold NatWest liable for calls made by another company, 
especially when I cant say it is more likely than not that the calls were only made due to 
NatWest disclosing information it shouldnt have disclosed. If Mrs P remains unhappy 
about the calls I can only suggest that she complains directly to the company that made 
the calls  the one Mr S has mentioned he says was from B.
NatWest has accepted it made a mistake when it sent a new debit card for Mrs Ps sole 
named current account in a letter addressed to Mr S. Having considered everything Im 
satisfied its apology for the mistake and payment of £75 compensation is sufficient for 
that error.
I havent dealt with every individual point Mrs P and Mr S have raised but having 
considered them all there are no grounds for me to uphold any part of this complaint 
about NatWest and I make no order or award.
NatWest made no further submissions. Mr S sent us a response from Mrs P which was an 
annotation of my provisional decision with comments on the individual points and asking a 
series of questions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in my provisional decision This service is impartial between, and independent 
from, consumers and businesses. What this means is that we dont represent either party, 
and we look at things independently without taking sides. As part of that I dont take 
directions from either party on how a complaint should be considered, and what questions 
should be asked and answered, either by this service or by NatWest. 
For that reason, I wont be answering Mrs P and Mr S list of questions they sent in their 
response to my provisional decision, nor will I be commenting on each individual annotation 
theyve made if I dont think it makes a difference to the overall outcome of this complaint.
Mrs P and Mr S have said that Ive shown bias and prejudice, failed to read the evidence 
and that I seemed to be suffering an emotional response to the criticism of our investigator. 
Im sorry to see that Mrs P and Mr S feel that way and I would seek to reassure them thats 
not the case at all. 
I understand my provisional findings were disappointing for Mrs P and Mr S. Its the nature of 
what we do that we generally have to find in favour of one party or the other. Our findings 
are based on a consideration of all the facts and all the submissions made by both parties. 
We look at what happened and decide whether we think a business has acted fairly and 
reasonably. 
Mrs P and Mr S said So you clearly acknowledge that there is not legal authority, be it by 
statute or Court Order, for NatWest to provide my information to anyone other than [Ms W], 
the named person in the Court Order. Its not clear why they think that as I said that I wasnt 
making any findings on that argument  that is, I made no findings either way as I was 
simply explaining the descriptor of B that I would be using in my decision.The certificate of appointment of trustee by the secretary of state, dated 4 September 2019 
states the trustee appointed is [Ms W] of [B] of [Bs address], and more recently online it 
showed that Mr Ps bankruptcy discharge had been suspended indefinitely and named a 
different person  Mr B - also at B. 
 
Mrs P and Mr S dont agree that NatWest had the right to accept the information requests it 
received in good faith, stating that good faith isnt a defence known in law. They also said 
that meant any of the multiple branches of B could then have received Mrs Ps personal 
information irrespective of involvement in Mr S bankruptcy. But that didnt happen  the only 
branch that received information was the branch whose address was given in the certificate 
as stated above. We cant decide a complaint based on what might have happened but 
didnt. 
Mrs P and Mr S have also said there were other entities, but as theyve listed all those 
entities (which I cant list here as the only business I can name in this decision is NatWest) 
Im sure they can see they are all part of B. If any of those arent B at the address given, 
then that is something Mrs P and Mr S can take up with those companies directly. As far as 
this complaint is concerned, NatWest responded to B at Bs given address.
Mrs P and Mr S have said NatWest didnt report matters to the police, but it doesnt have to. 
Mrs P and Mr S are the ones making allegations of criminal conduct and fraud, so if they 
want matters to be reported to the police then they are free to do so themselves. Ive no 
reason to believe NatWest wouldnt cooperate with any police investigation if Mrs P and 
Mr S instigated it, but NatWest didnt have to report it for them.
It is clear Mrs P and Mr S feel very strongly about this, but theyve not proven that theyve 
suffered any financial loss due to NatWest disclosing information that it shouldnt have 
disclosed, and that B (or other parties) couldnt have obtained any other way. Our role is to 
put right financial loss, but there has been no proven financial loss that can be solely and 
directly attributable to NatWest here. And whilst Mrs P and Mr S may believe the calls Mrs P 
received were solely and directly attributable to the actions of NatWest and that those 
actions were incorrect, theyve not proven that to be the case.
Whilst Ive a great deal of sympathy for the position Mrs P and Mr S are in, I can only 
suggest that they continue to pursue things with the ICO if that is what they want, and 
subject to any time limits or other restrictions a court might impose, any rights Mrs P and 
Mr S may have to take legal action against NatWest over the subject matter of this complaint 
wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of it.
In summary, Ive read everything Mrs P and Mr S have said in response to my provisional 
decision and considered the entire file afresh, and having done so Im not persuaded to 
depart from my provisional decision, that is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman