DRN-4439728
The complaint
Mr E complains that Society of Lloyds hasnt settled his claim made on his motor insurance 
policy. He wants it to pay his claim and his storage charges.
What happened
Mr E told Lloyds he was involved in an incident and had arranged for his car to be taken into 
storage. But he had given Lloyds incorrect information about what had occurred. Mr E had 
been arrested at the scene of an earlier incident by the police and his car had been 
impounded. Lloyds then declined his claim, but it requested the police report in order to 
investigate a claim for the initial incident. Mr E said he had mental health issues which had 
affected him at the time of the incident, and he thought Lloyds should take this into account. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought 
Lloyds had reasonable concerns about the claim and needed the police report and medical 
evidence to further investigate it. So he didnt think it needed to settle the claim or pay the 
storage charges. But he thought it had delayed the claim by not chasing the police for its 
report. So he thought Lloyds should pay Mr E £200 compensation for this. 
Mr E agreed. But Lloyds said that not chasing up the police report hadnt caused any delays 
in the claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that it is now more than a year since the incident, and I can understand that Mr E 
wants the matter resolved. I was glad to hear that his circumstances have improved. 
Lloyds has an obligation to deal with claims promptly and fairly. I can see that when it found 
out the full circumstances of the incident that had damaged Mr Es car it needed evidence to 
validate the claim. I think thats fair and reasonable. And I dont think Lloyds needs to settle 
the claim or pay any storage charges until it has investigated the claim and decided to 
accept it. 
Aside from other investigations, Lloyds requested a police report. And it thought it should 
consider evidence of Mr Es medical condition at the time of the incident. But I cant see that 
it has requested this. And I note that Mr E hasnt provided it to our service as he said he 
would. 
Lloyds requested the police report in December 2022. It queried the lack of a response in 
May 2023 and the police said it hadnt been able to match the payment made with a report 
until further prompted by Lloyds. So Lloyds thought the police had caused the delay and it 
wasnt responsible for this. 
But I disagree. Another party involved in the incident had been able to obtain a police report, 
albeit redacted and not useful for Lloyds. So I think that if Lloyds had been proactive it could 
have prompted the police to match the payment to a report and process the report request 
sooner. 
Lloyds also said the delay in obtaining the police report didnt cause any delay in the claim 
because Mr E was unavailable for interview until the middle of April 2023. But I think Lloyds 
could still have chased the police for its report in the meantime. It was pursuing other lines of 
inquiry. And I still think that an earlier prompt may have progressed the request. 
Lloyds said that it had later chased the police further but hadnt obtained the report to date. 
So it thought earlier chasers wouldnt have produced a report any sooner. But Im not 
persuaded by this as the initial delay was due to the police not processing its request. This 
wasnt done until May 2023, five months after the payment and request. And so I think this 
more likely than not has caused an avoidable delay in the claim that was due to Lloyds 
error. 
Mr E is keen to have the matter resolved and this delay has caused him trouble and upset. 
Our Investigator recommended that Lloyds should pay Mr E £200 compensation for the 
trouble and upset this caused. I think thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping with our 
published guidance where an error has had an impact over several months.
Putting things right
I require Society of Lloyds to pay Mr E £200 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its delay in handling his claim.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Society of Lloyds to carry out the redress set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman