DRN-3371590
The complaint
Mr B complains about how Trinity Lane Insurance Company Limited dealt with a claim on his
car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B was involved in a car accident, so he called his broker to report the claim. Mr B was
initially referred to an accident management company (AMC). The AMC said it couldnt deal
with Mr Bs claim and wrote to Mr B to let him know. The AMC also asked Mr B to get in
touch with his car insurer and let him know his car was kept in storage which would be
charged for.
Trinity Lane received a third party claim against Mr Bs policy so contacted him about the
details of the claim. When Trinity Lane reviewed the claim, it said Mr Bs car was a total loss
and valued it at £1,500, however as it didnt have a valid MOT Trinity Lane deducted 20% of
the cars value. Trinity Lane also said there were 40 days of storage which needed paying.
Mr Bs policy covered him for seven days of storage so Trinity Lane said there £1,112.10
worth of storage fees it would need to pay to collect Mr Bs car for him.
Trinity Lane said because of the deductions for the policy excess, lack of MOT and the
storage charges from the AMC, that Mr B would owe £162.10 to Trinity Lane. Because of
this Trinity Lane said it wouldnt get involved in Mr Bs claim. Mr B didnt think this was fair
and complained. He said hed made Trinity Lane aware of the claim and so it wasnt fair to
deduct the storage fees from the settlement. Trinity Lane didnt agree so Mr B referred his
complaint here.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 6 May 2022 where I said:
Its not in dispute that Mr Bs car suffered a total loss, or how much Trinity Lane valued
Mr Bs car for. The issue at the heart of this complaint is whether Trinity Lane was told about
Mr Bs claim and therefore whether its fair and reasonable to deduct the storage costs from
the settlement.
Ive considered whether Trinity Lane was made aware of Mr Bs claim by him and Im not
persuaded it was. I say this because Mr B called his broker, and the claim wasnt passed
onto Trinity Lane. I can also see Mr B was made aware of this by the AMC. So, while Mr B
has provided phone records to show the calls he made, they dont show he called Trinity
Lane. Trinity Lane has also searched its records for a call from Mr B from the time he said he
called and been unable to find one. Im therefore not persuaded Trinity Lane was made
aware of Mr Bs claim before the third party contacted them.
Trinity Lane hasnt said where in the policy it says it can deduct the storage costs from the
settlement. Ive therefore considered whether it is fair and reasonable to do so. In this
particular case Im satisfied its fair and reasonable for Trinity Lane to say that if Mr B wanted
it to recover his car then it would deduct the storage costs. This is because Trinity Lane
wasnt made aware of Mr Bs claim until the third party contacted them, so it isnt responsible
for paying all of the costs. Mr B would also have had the option of recovering his car from
storage himself.
However, when looking at Mr Bs complaint I can see Trinity Lane has deducted 20% of the
cars value due to it not having an MOT. While I agree not having an MOT would affect a 
cars value, considering you can get an MOT for around £55, Im not persuaded its fair and
reasonable to deduct £300 from Mr Bs settlement purely for not having an MOT. I havent
seen anything to indicate that the car would have needed additional repairs in order to pass
an MOT.
Im therefore satisfied a fair and reasonable deduction for not having an MOT would be £55.
If Trinity Lane had done this then Mr B would have been offered a settlement figure rather
than telling Mr B he owed them money. Looking at the breakdown of the settlement Trinity
Lane offered, and amending the deduction for the car not having an MOT, Trinity Lane
would have offered Mr B £1,500 for the market value of his car, minus £55 for not having an
MOT, £1,112.10 for storage fees and the excess of £250 which leaves, £82.90 as the
settlement for Mr Bs claim. Therefore, to settle Mr Bs claim Trinity Lane should have offered
Mr B £82.90.
I understand that Trinity Lane hasnt dealt with the claim and Mr B has said he hasnt
collected his car or knows where it is. If Trinity Lane had offered Mr B £82.90 as it should
have done, Mr B would have had the option to decide if he wanted to claim on his policy for
£82.90. If Mr B wants to claim and accept this amount in settlement for his claim, then the
fair and reasonable outcome is for Trinity Lane to pay Mr B £82.90 and record the claim
accordingly.
Mr B didnt respond to my provisional decision by the date requested. Trinity Lane 
responded and disagreed. It said the policy terms and conditions allow it to decline a claim 
for not having an MOT. And considering Mr Bs car was overdue its MOT, Trinity Lane said it 
thought it acted fairly and reasonably by deducting 20% of the cars value. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Trinity Lanes response, but its not persuaded me to depart from my 
provisional decision. I say this because while the policy terms allow Trinity Lane to decline a 
claim when a car doesnt have a valid MOT. It would only be fair and reasonable to rely on 
this term to decline the claim if the lack of MOT also meant the car wouldnt have passed an 
MOT, and the reason for failure was material to the accident. As Trinity Lane hasnt shown 
Mr Bs car wouldnt have passed an MOT, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable 
to rely on that term to turn down the claim. 
My provisional decision, copied above, explains why its not fair and reasonable to deduct 
20% of a cars value for not having an MOT. So, I wont repeat that again. And as Trinity 
Lane hasnt persuaded me to depart from my provisional decision, I see no reason to 
change my findings. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is I partly 
uphold this complaint. I require Trinity Lane Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr B £82.90, 
if he wants to pursue a claim on his policy.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman