DRN-3781128
The complaint
Mrs D and Mr D complain about U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (UKI), 
declining a claim under their home insurance policy for damage to their property caused by 
bad weather. 
UKI use agents to administer the policy and to assess claims. Reference to UKI includes 
these agents.
What happened
In February 2022, at the time of Storm Dudley, Mrs D and Mr Ds property suffered damage 
to the rendering on the end wall of their property. Part of the rendering fell off in the storm, 
leaving the wall underneath exposed. Mrs D and Mr D contacted UKI to tell them about the 
damage and lodge a claim.
UKI appointed a firm (C) to handle the claim, who in turn arranged for a surveyor to visit the 
property and assess the damage. He inspected the damage to the rendering but concluded 
the render had become bossed1 due to water penetrating hairline cracks and render 
abutments2 and due to the actions of frost, the render had become detached from the 
brickwork behind it over time. As such, C concluded the bad weather had merely highlighted 
a pre-existing issue. C also noted that tap testing of the render on the front elevation of the 
property indicated other areas that were bossed. Based on Cs assessment, UKI declined 
Mrs D and Mr Ds claim, referring to exclusions in the policy for gradual damage. 
Mrs D and Mr D challenged UKIs decision and complained. They didnt accept Cs 
conclusions, saying they maintained their property and didnt let issues develop, always 
taking remedial action when necessary. The end wall of the property was intact before the 
bad weather and hadnt given them any cause for concern, having been painted every few 
years. And the render came away during the bad weather.
But UKI didnt uphold the complaint, maintaining their decision to decline the claim. While 
they accepted there were high winds at the time of the incident, based on the conclusions of 
C they said the actions of frost had detached the render from the brickwork over time and as 
such the adverse weather merely highlighted a pre-existing condition. UKI referred to the 
policy exclusion that meant any damage caused gradually wasnt covered.
Mrs D and Mr D then complained to this service. They disagreed with UKI about the reasons 
for the damage to the render, saying they maintained their property was maintained (as the 
policy required) and the render was intact before the storm. And it was the storm that caused 
the damage. They also disagreed with Cs conclusion about the impact of frost. They said 
the decline of their claim had a significant financial impact on them from the cost of repairing 
1 Bossing of render occurs where render has come away from the wall underneath and sounds hollow when 
tapped (tap testing). Bossing is a common problem that occurs when water seeps in through hairline cracks 
and gets behind the render, which expands and contracts with frost.
2 An abutment is the junction of a roof surface with a wall, or any other structural feature which rises above it 
(the wall).
the render. They also said theyd suffered significant stress from the attitude of C (who they 
thought had already concluded that the claim should be declined before he visited the 
property). They were also concerned about the length of time between the incident and C 
visiting the property. Mrs D and Mr D wanted UKI to apologise (for how theyd handled the 
claim) and to accept their claim and cover the cost of repair.
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding UKI didnt need to take any action. 
He thought Cs report, together with the photographs of the damaged wall, showed gaps 
between the render and the fascia around the roof. He also thought render (if installed 
correctly) isnt typically blown off in a storm and if in good condition without pre-existing 
issues should remain in place during bad weather. On balance, the Investigator thought the 
render was suffering from age-related damage, which the storm highlighted. On the 
approach of C, the Investigator acknowledged what Mrs D and Mr D said about this aspect, 
but he didnt think it affected the outcome of the claim (to decline it). With regards to the 
delay between the incident and Cs visit to the property, given the significant impact of the 
bad weather around the date of the incident (and the number of claims made as a result), 
the Investigator thought the claim was handled within a reasonable timeframe.
Mrs D and Mr D disagreed with the Investigators conclusions, so Ive been asked to review 
the complaint. Mrs D and Mr D reiterated their view that the render wasnt damaged before 
the storm and came off during the storm, so the damage was caused by the storm. And that 
UKI had unfairly used wear and tear as a reason to decline their claim. They were also 
unhappy with Cs approach and the way he carried out the inspection of the property and the 
damaged wall and render.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first want to say that Ive considered carefully all the information and evidence available in 
this case, both from Mrs D and Mr D and from UKI (including the report and photographs 
from C). Ive also considered all the detailed points made by Mrs D and Mr D when 
responding to our Investigators view. Ive borne this in mind when forming my findings and 
conclusions. 
My role here is to decide whether UKI has acted fairly towards Mrs D and Mr D.
The main element of Mrs D and Mr Ds complaint is that UKI unfairly declined their claim, on 
the grounds that while there were storm conditions at the time of the incident, these werent 
the main cause of the damage. Rather, it was due to pre-existing issues with the render, 
which the storm had merely highlighted. Mrs D and Mr D dispute this, saying the wall and the 
render were intact before the storm and hadnt given them any issues. So, it was the storm 
that caused the damage.
In considering this issue, whether the damage resulted from a storm or from a pre-existing 
issue, there are three key issues we consider:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main (or dominant) cause of the damage?
On the first question, in their final response UKI refer to high winds. In their case notes, they 
also refer to weather data on the date of the incident that indicated violent storm force gusts 
(up to 66 mph) and severe gale force gusts (up to 51 mph) the previous day. Ive looked at the reports from the weather firm this service uses. For the weather station nearest to Mrs D 
and Mr Ds property, the report indicates a peak gust of 68 mph on the date of the incident 
and describes the conditions as a dry storm.  Based on this, Ive concluded there were 
storm conditions present on the date of the incident. 
On the second question, the photographs from C show a section of the render on the wall 
has fallen off, revealing the block wall behind. While storm damage, particularly involving 
high winds, can often be associated with more exposed parts of a property  for example the 
roof  damage to render is less common. In this case, its only a section of the render 
towards the top of the end wall that has come off (not all of it) and theres no indication of 
damage to other areas of render (or damage more generally). While I think this suggests the 
damage in this case may be untypical of that a storm would cause, I think the more 
important issue here is the third question we consider in cases involving damage from a 
storm  whether the storm conditions were the main (or dominant) cause of the damage. 
The third question is also where Mrs D and Mr D and UKI disagree. Ive considered both 
views carefully, together with the reports from C and the points made by Mrs D and Mr D. 
Ive also considered the further representations made by Mrs D and Mr D when responding 
to our Investigators view. Taking all these points into account, Ive concluded UKI have 
acted fairly in declining Mrs D and Mr Ds claim. I know this will be disappointing to Mrs D 
and Mr D, so Ill set out why Ive come to this conclusion.
Firstly, as a general principle, where a policyholder makes a claim for damage or loss under 
a policy, the onus is on them to show there was an insured event that caused the damage or 
loss. In this case, given my conclusions there were storm conditions at the time of the 
incident, I think its reasonable to conclude there was an insured event (storm) and there 
was damage at the time of the storm. 
However, where an insurer relies on an exclusion in the policy to decline a claim (as UKI 
have done), then the onus is on them to show the exclusion applies. Looking at the available 
information and evidence, on the balance of probabilities, I think UKI have done so in the 
specific circumstances of this case. Ill explain why Ive come to this view.
In their final response, UKI refer to the following policy booklet wording:
This policy doesnt cover 
x Just like most insurers we dont cover:
Any damage caused gradually.
UKI also refer to Cs report, which states:
Whilst the area was subjected to high winds it is clear that the wet cast render had 
become bossed due to water penetrating hairline cracks and render abutments due 
to the actions of frost the render has detached from the brickwork over time and as 
such any adverse weather has merely highlighted a pre-existing issue.
Theres a further reference in the report to: 
The wet cast render has partially detached and areas of the remaining render on the 
gable wall is bossed. Tap testing of the front elevation render confirmed that several 
areas are also bossed.
C also states that Mrs D and Mr D accepted the render was bossed as demonstrated to 
them by tap testing (though C also states Mrs D and Mr D said if it were not for the storm, 
the render would not have detached).Ive also considered the photographs of the damaged wall and the remaining render. I think 
theyre consistent with Cs conclusions. 
The first point made by Mrs D and Mr D is about there not having been an issue with the 
render before the storm, and the render coming off in the storm meant that was the cause of 
the damage. However, given the conclusion of the surveyor, I dont think it excludes the 
render being vulnerable to the effect of the high winds at the time of the incident. Also, I think 
that a well-applied render wouldnt be likely to be displaced unless there was an underlying 
issue or weakness. And such an issue or weakness wouldnt necessarily be obvious, which I 
think would have been the case given the surveyors conclusion. Also, as only one section of 
the render on the end wall has fallen, and the render on the remaining section of the end 
wall (and on the main part of the property) wasnt damaged. 
Mrs D and Mr D are also unhappy at what they see as UKI applying a wear and tear reason 
to decline the claim (when the policy states that storm damage is covered). I can understand 
why they feel this, but a policy has to be looked at as a whole. Id expect it to set out what it 
covers, in terms of specific insured perils (including storm damage). But equally, Id expect it 
to also set out what it doesnt cover, including exclusions. And in seeking to rely on 
exclusions, its reasonable for UKI to indicate the specific exclusion they conclude applies to 
the circumstances of a claim. Exclusions for gradual damage, pre-existing issues and wear 
and tear are included in most household insurance policies.
On Mrs D and Mr Ds point about the approach of C to the inspection and the decline of the 
claim, I understand from what theyve told us why they are unhappy. However, the issue 
here is whether Cs report and the findings and conclusions it contains are persuasive about 
the likely reason for the failure of the render  and therefore whether UKI have acted fairly in 
declining the claim. Given my conclusions above about the likely pre-existing issues with the 
render, then I think the report does support UKIs applying the exclusion to decline the claim.
Taking all these conclusions into account, then Im persuaded UKI have shown the exclusion 
applies. And so, they acted fairly in declining Mrs D and Mr Ds claim for damage to the 
render.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mrs D and Mr Ds 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman