DRN-2581430
The complaint
Mr S complains about his mortgage with National Westminster Bank Plc. He says it didnt tell 
him how much it had paid out on his behalf in ground rent and service charge. He says he 
has never received any communication about his arrears or how much he owes. And he 
says it failed to put in place a new interest rate in July 2019 despite agreeing to.
What happened
Mr S has had a mortgage with NatWest for some years. He took a fixed interest rate in 2016, 
which expired in 2018.
From late 2016 onwards, Mr S stopped making regular mortgage payments. His direct debit 
bounced, then was no longer collected. The arrears were cleared in February 2017, but then 
built up again.
Other than one payment in January 2018, Mr S made no further payments until a lump sum 
 which reduced but didnt clear  the arrears in September 2018. Mr S paid a further lump 
sum to clear the arrears completely in February 2019. But again, no further monthly 
payments were made and by the time the complaint was brought to us the arrears were over 
£7,000 again.
NatWest had previously obtained a possession order, and went back to court to enforce a 
warrant for eviction. But it agreed to cancel the warrant when Mr S made a complaint  and 
then paid him £100 compensation when he complained because it hadnt cancelled the 
warrant as agreed.
Mr S was also in arrears with the ground rent and service charge on his leasehold property. 
The freeholder took Mr S to court, and the court ordered him to pay the outstanding amount. 
When payment wasnt made, the freeholder wrote to NatWest notifying it that it planned to 
forfeit the lease  that is, to reclaim the property from Mr S  unless the arrears were paid. 
To protect its mortgage over the property, NatWest paid the demand and added the sums to 
Mr Ss mortgage balance.
When NatWest pays a service charge or ground rent claim, its policy is to create a separate 
sub-account on the mortgage for that debt. It expects this sub-account to be repaid in one 
year. As a result, Mr Ss contractual monthly payments significantly increased. Mr S says 
NatWest didnt write to him to notify him of this. And when he telephoned to find out what he 
needed to pay, and to ask how much the balance on this sub-account was so he could clear 
it, NatWests advisers werent able to tell him.
Mr Ss fixed rate came to an end in 2018. He says NatWest didnt write to him or notify him 
that the rate had ended, or that his monthly payments would go up as a result. And he says 
he contacted NatWest in July 2019 to request a new rate. He was told he had been given a 
rate, but it couldnt be implemented on his account because of a technical error. Someone 
would call him back to finalise things once the error had been resolved. But no one ever did.
Mr S complained to us. He said he could clear the arrears and resume making payments, 
but wasnt willing to do so until his concerns had been addressed and a backdated interest 
rate put in place. 
Our investigator didnt think that, overall, NatWest had done anything wrong in adding the 
service charges and ground rent to the mortgage or in not giving Mr S a new interest rate. 
But he thought it should pay £150 compensation for some communications failings. Mr S 
didnt accept that and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive set out something of the history of the mortgage above. Overall, Mr S has been in 
arrears  apart from a couple of occasions when hes made lump sum payments  almost 
continually for at least five years, and hasnt made any regular monthly payments for much 
of that time.
Mr S has said that hes been working abroad and has had some issues with his income. And 
hes more recently been withholding payments because of his concerns about the mortgage. 
But its still his responsibility to make his mortgage payments  if he doesnt, hes in breach 
of the mortgage contract and risks having his property repossessed.   
Ive seen copies of very many letters NatWest has sent Mr S in recent years. These include 
mortgage statements, arrears letters, letters about changing mortgage payments and letters 
about adding the ground rent and service charges to his mortgage. All these letters were 
correctly addressed to him and I have no doubt that they were sent in the post.
Mr S says he didnt receive any letters, but he did receive all his statements. He says theres 
no other problems with receiving mail at the property.
Mail does  very occasionally  go astray in the post. But thats a rare occurrence. I think its 
very unlikely that none of NatWests letters, but all of its statements, arrived. Its possible that 
Mr S disregarded them, or didnt put in place arrangements for dealing with his mail while he 
was working abroad. But NatWest isnt responsible for that.
Mr S accepts that NatWest was acting reasonably in paying the ground rent and service 
charge on his behalf, as it was protecting its security. But he complains that it didnt tell him  
at the time that it had done so, or tell him what the impact on his monthly payments would 
be.
Ive seen copies of the letters NatWest sent at the time, and for the reasons Ive given above 
Im satisfied that its more likely than not that these letters were sent and were delivered to 
Mr Ss property  even if he didnt see them at the time.
But I do think that NatWest could have done more to explain what was happening when 
Mr S called it. There was some confusion about what he would have to pay and what his 
monthly payment would be  and whether the ground rent and service charges were 
included or not. 
I think its reasonable for NatWest to pay some compensation for the confusion and 
inconvenience this caused Mr S. But  since he wasnt making payments of any amount 
anyway  I dont think it ultimately caused him any further loss than that.
As for the interest rate, again Im satisfied that NatWests letters telling Mr S of the expiry of his rate in 2018 and the change to his monthly payments that would result were sent and 
received. Once NatWest notified Mr S of this change, it was up to Mr S to get in touch and 
request a new rate.
Mr S did that, in July 2019. Its recorded in NatWests notes that he rang to ask for a new 
rate, but one couldnt be processed because of a system error  as Mr S says.
But its also recorded that, in fact, Mr S wasnt eligible for a new rate, because he was in 
arrears at the time. He hadnt made a payment for five months, and the arrears were over 
£4,500.
Like all lenders, NatWest has eligibility criteria for its preferential interest rates. One of 
NatWests criteria is that a borrower isnt eligible for a new rate if theyre in arrears. I dont 
think this is unreasonable. A fixed or tracker rate generally comes with an early repayment 
charge  ERC  which can be very substantial. An ERC is payable if the mortgage ends 
before the end of the rate period. A borrower in arrears is more likely to end their mortgage 
early  either through property sale or repossession  and adding an ERC to the balance 
would worsen existing financial difficulties. 
In some situations, a new rate might be a fair way forward despite the ERC risk  for 
example where its enough to make the difference between the mortgage being affordable 
and not. But thats not the case here, since Mr S wasnt making any payment at all, and so 
would still be in arrears even with a lower rate.
Im therefore satisfied that it was fair for NatWest to refuse Mr S a new interest rate in 2019. 
But I cant see that it ever told him that. Theres a note of a discussion between members of 
staff, but not of a call with Mr S.
I think its reasonable for NatWest to pay some compensation for the confusion and 
inconvenience this caused Mr S as well. But since Mr S was never eligible for a new rate, I 
dont think it would be fair to require NatWest to apply one. Despite what Mr S was told, it 
wasnt only a system error that prevented him getting a rate. And while he should have been 
told the correct reason, it wouldnt be fair to compensate him for that mistake by giving him a 
rate he was never entitled to.
Putting things right
Overall, Im satisfied that NatWest has treated Mr S fairly. It wrote to him regularly to keep 
him updated, tell him about the arrears, and try to get payments restarted. It reasonably 
added ground rent and service charges to the mortgage once a court had ordered Mr S to 
pay them. And although it didnt give him a new interest rate, he wasnt eligible for one while 
he was in arrears. 
However, the communication failures Ive identified did cause Mr S some trouble and upset, 
and I agree £150 is fair compensation for that.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint to the limited 
extent that I think it would be fair and reasonable for National Westminster Bank Plc to pay 
Mr S £150 compensation in recognition of the times its communication failures caused him 
frustration and inconvenience. But I dont require it to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021. 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman