DRN-2141910
The complaint
Mr J on behalf of Mrs J complains that a car she acquired with the assistance of finance with 
Santander Consumer (UK) Plc isnt of satisfactory quality.
 
What happened
Mrs J entered into an agreement with Santander to finance the purchase of a used car on 27 
March 2018 for £13,862.96. A few weeks after Mrs J took possession of the car, she says 
she noticed that there was a jerking with the gears and the car felt like it was being hit from 
behind. Mr J has explained on behalf of Mrs J that they went back to the supplying 
dealership to complain but were told this was normal with an automatic car.
In August 2019 the gearbox failed on the car and it was no longer driveable without costly 
repairs. Mrs J returned the car to the dealership and it was repossessed by the finance 
company. Mr J on behalf of Mrs J says that it is clear that the car had a fault from the start, 
and they were reassured into keeping it by the dealership. He says the car isnt of 
satisfactory quality and Mrs J should be allowed to reject it.
Mrs J complained to Santander, but it didnt uphold the complaint and said that there was no 
evidence that the fault was there at finance inception. Mrs J didnt accept this and brought 
the complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. He didnt 
think there was enough evidence to say that the faults the car had now were there or 
developing at the point of sale given the age of the car and the miles it had travelled.
Mr J on behalf of Mrs J didnt agree and replied to say that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality from the start and it wasnt fair that they would have to pay for a car that had these 
faults within such a short period of ownership.
So, the matter has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander, as the supplier of the car under the finance agreement, was responsible for 
ensuring that it was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mrs J - whether or not it 
was of satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it.
The car that was supplied to Mrs J was around four and a half years old, had been driven for 
around 60,000 miles and had a price of £13,862.96. Satisfactory quality also covers 
durability which means that the components within the car must be durable and last a 
reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long that time is will also depend on a number 
of factors. Clearly, it can be reasonable to expect an older car to have more faults and 
require replacement of items more often than a brand-new car.
Mr J has explained that there were issues with the car jerking at the outset which resulted in 
a visit to the dealership within a few weeks of taking delivery of the car. Mr J hasnt said that 
this got any worse during the time they owned the car. At the point the gearbox failed in 
August 2019 Mrs J had been driving the car for around a year and four months and had 
driven around 11,000 miles.
An independent inspection of the car concluded that the car did have faults with the gearbox, 
but it wasnt clear what the cause of those faults were. The inspection report suggested that 
it may be contaminants in the gearbox oil.
Theres clearly a fault with the gearbox but Ive seen no evidence to show that this fault was 
present or developing when the car was supplied to Mrs J. Although there was an early 
report of a jerk, Mrs J never raised the matter again. If the fault was such that it felt like a 
rear end collision when changing gear, I would have expected Mrs J to return the car for 
inspection.
Mrs J has been able to use the car for well over a year and to drive around 11,000miles in it 
before the gearbox has failed. Although there was a report that the car was jerking there is 
no evidence that this is the same fault  so Im not persuaded that the issues the car has 
now were present or developing when the car was supplied to Mrs J.
I understand the point Mr J is making with respect to the car being faulty from the start, but I 
think that it is unlikely that this is the cause of the issues the car is having now because of 
the miles Mrs J has been able to travel and the age of the car. I sympathise with Mrs J for 
the issues that shes had with the car and for the repairs that it now needs  but Im not 
persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality 
when it was supplied to her.
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require 
Santander to allow Mrs J to reject the car, to pay for any repairs to it, to pay any 
compensation to her or to take any other action in response to her complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or reject my decision before 
6 November 2020.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman