DRN-2607185
The complaint
 Miss B complains that TSB Bank Plc (TSB) acted irresponsibly in giving her an overdraft 
because she had a poor credit history.
What happened
 Miss B applied for an overdraft from TSB in January 2018. She initially asked for £500, then 
asked for further increases on the same day, and in the next few days, rising to £1,450.  She 
says that the overdraft shouldnt have been given because she had 6 defaults and was on a 
debt management plan.
TSB says it had no reason to doubt Miss Bs ability to repay her borrowing. It says it reviews 
the way a customer runs their account. It also looks at credit reference agency information. It 
says it based its decision on the information she provided in her application and its 
assessment of her account. It says that Miss B had chosen to apply online rather than 
discuss her account with a member of staff, so it assumed she had considered how much 
she wanted to borrow and how much she could afford to repay.
It says that a debt management plan would not have shown on Miss Bs credit file. TSB says 
that it couldnt confirm what her credit file said at the time but didnt believe it would have 
agreed borrowing if there was adverse data. It says it followed its usual processes and that 
its actions were appropriate.
Miss B did not agree and complained to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. 
TSB and Miss B were only able to provide limited information about the applications. TSB 
had lost records as a result of an IT incident, and Miss B did not provide a copy of her credit 
file.  
Our investigator looked at Miss Bs credit history. She thought that a debt arrangement plan 
wouldnt necessarily show on a credit report. She could see from the information provided by 
Miss B that a default had been registered a few years earlier. She didnt think this would 
reasonably have prevented TSB from lending to Miss B.     
Our investigator also looked at bank statements before and after the overdraft was given, 
and the information that Miss B gave her about her income and expenditure at the time of 
her applications, and concluded that TSB did nothing wrong when deciding to lend to Miss B.   
Miss B was unhappy with this, so the case was passed to me to decide. As my conclusions 
were different to the investigators, I issued a provisional decision to give both parties the 
opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below.
Miss B applied for an overdraft of £500 online in January 2018. She asked for and was 
given further increases on the same day to £1,000, and then £1,200, and finally to £1,450 by 
the end of January. She says that TSB should not have lent her the money because of her 
credit history, and because she was on a debt management plan. TSB says it acted 
appropriately in agreeing the overdrafts. It was not aware of the debt management plan and 
would not have lent if there had been adverse credit reference agency information. 
I will start by saying that Miss B has borrowed and had the benefit of the overdraft, so I think 
it is fair that she should repay it. 
As to the application process, unfortunately, TSB is unable to give detailed information about 
Miss Bs application as the records were lost as a result of an IT failure, so I am relying on 
the description of its processes in its final response to decide whether it acted fairly and 
reasonably in agreeing the overdrafts. TSB referred to the way it makes lending decisions 
using credit scoring, taking account of credit reference agency information and how a 
customer runs their accounts. It said it uses this to build up a picture of the customers likely 
ability to repay.
Starting with credit reference agency information, Miss B has only provided screenshots of 
certain information. This shows a default from a few years before her applications, and does 
not refer to a debt management plan, which I would not expect to show in a report. So, 
based on what I have seen, Miss Bs credit history does not suggest that TSB was 
unreasonable in lending to her.    
Under the FCA rules set out in CONC (Consumer Credit Sourcebook), TSB also had a 
responsibility to make a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether Miss B could 
afford to repay the overdraft in a sustainable manner.  
TSB gave the following additional information about its processes. It said it relied on the 
information provided by Miss B but is only able to confirm that Miss B said that she was not 
aware of any potential change to her circumstances that would affect her ability to repay or 
manage her overdraft. It said that Miss B applied using internet banking and chose not to 
discuss her finances with a member of staff, so it assumed she had considered how much 
she wanted to borrow and how much she could afford to repay. It said that if she had applied 
in a branch, details of her income and expenditure would have been collected and used to 
consider how much she could afford.   
TSBs response suggests that it did not ask Miss B for her income and expenditure 
information because shed made an online application. There is no set way to assess 
affordability, so I cannot say what TSB should have done. But the assessment should be 
proportionate. I have looked at proportionality in relation to the initial £500 overdraft, and 
then the applications that followed.
When Miss B asked for a £500 overdraft, taking account of the relatively small amount, what 
TSB have said about their processes, and what I can see of Miss Bs credit file, I cannot say 
that TSB acted irresponsibly. But when she made repeated further applications for increased 
borrowing on the same day and shortly after that, I think TSB should have given her 
applications greater scrutiny as this could signal potential financial difficulties.  
I have reviewed Miss Bs bank statements from the time around her application. While she 
had a significant credit balance a few months before she applied for her overdraft, that 
steadily reduced to an overdrawn position at the time she made her first overdraft 
application. This suggested that her financial situation was getting worse. It is fair to say that 
her situation will not have been helped by the amount of non-essential spending, for 
example on lottery tickets, but as her income was unlikely to cover essential spending, I 
dont think this is why her increased overdraft was unaffordable.   
The account showed regular credits of about £700, including those from the Department of 
Work and Pensions. There were regular outgoings which are potentially rent of £450 until shortly before she applied for the first overdraft, when it changed to £695. These figures 
would suggest little or no disposable income after essential living expenses are accounted 
for. Miss B told our investigator that she was earning £19,000 per year at the time, but this is 
not reflected or supported in her bank statements. Based on the information I have, TSB did 
not ask her for this information. However, it will have readily been available to it. So, I think 
TSB could have seen what was going in and out of Miss Bs account before it agreed to any 
further requests for borrowing.       
I can also see from Miss Bs bank statements that she had two standing orders for £1 to 
financial organisations, at least one of which was a payday lender. This suggests she was 
making nominal repayments on outstanding debt, and potentially struggling financially. This 
could have prompted further questioning. 
The account balance was mostly within the overdraft limit in the months shortly after the 
overdraft was granted, but the regular credits did not change significantly, so I dont think 
that means it was affordable. 
Taking account of what I have seen on Miss Bs bank statements, I think that TSB wasnt 
responsible in increasing her overdraft from £500 to £1,450. I think the picture of information 
that was available would have shown the level of borrowing wouldnt have been sustainable 
and there were signs of financial distress. 
TSB have already refunded or stopped all interest and charges on the account from May 
2018, and the remaining balance of Miss Bs overdraft is now being dealt with as part of a 
debt management plan. I think it would be fair for TSB to refund any interest and charges 
applied in the period before charges were stopped, to the extent that they relate to borrowing   
over the £500 amount and this should be used to reduce the outstanding balance 
accordingly. I also intend to ask TSB to remove any adverse information recorded on Miss 
Bs credit file relating to the overdraft of between £500 and £1,450
I invited both parties to respond. Miss B accepted the decision, but TSB provided further 
information about its application process, and the charges that had been applied to Miss Bs 
account. In summary, TSB felt that due to the information Miss B had provided, its decision 
was reasonable, and that in the light of the amount of charges it has waived, no further 
refund should be required.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have commented below on the new points raised by TSB and explained how they affect my 
final decision.
TSB has said that although it doesnt have a record of the application itself due to the IT 
issues Ive referred to in my provisional decision, it would have asked for information about 
Miss Bs income and expenditure. It provided a screenshot to show that in April 2018, Miss B 
had said her net monthly income was £1650. She had told our investigator she had an 
annual income of £19000, and TSB think that it was likely that Miss B would have included a 
figure of £1300 as her monthly income. Miss B told the investigator that she couldnt 
remember what shed told TSB but given the figure she had previously given our 
investigator, I agree that it is reasonable to conclude that she would have included a figure of 
around this amount.  TSB says that as it was an online application, it wouldnt have made additional checks to 
verify the information provided, and that it was reasonable for it to rely on the information 
provided by the customer. While I agree that it is reasonable to expect customers to give 
correct information, I dont think that is the end of the story. I said in my provisional decision 
that Miss Bs repeated requests to increase her overdraft in the course of one day were a 
sign of potential financial difficulty, and I havent changed my mind about that. So, I think that 
it would have been reasonable for TSB to have looked beyond the information provided by 
Miss B, particularly as it could see the activity on her current account. 
TSB had access to the information on Miss Bs current account, which showed considerable 
transactional activity, but didnt show the income that Miss B said she had. TSB say that its 
not uncommon for a customer to have credits to another account, and I dont disagree with 
that, but the activity on the account does not suggest that this is the case here. There are 
debits for bills, and household and other expenditure, and credits showing some income, but 
there are no credits from another account in Miss Bs name. So, in this case, I am not 
persuaded that it would be reasonable to infer that Miss B had income that was not apparent 
from her TSB account. And given the clear discrepancy, I think it would have been 
reasonable of TSB to have taken account of this when deciding whether to agree to increase 
Miss Bs overdraft. I would also add that Miss B says that she did not have another account. 
TSB also says that its automated system doesnt analyse who standing orders are paid to, 
so only a manual review would have picked up the nominal payments to payday lenders. It is 
not for me to tell TSB how its systems should operate, or how it should generally apply the 
affordability rules in CONC. But in Miss Bs case I remain of the view that it would have been 
reasonable and proportionate for TSB to have given her application greater scrutiny and to 
have taken account of the information that could reasonably be derived from the activity on 
her current account with it.
In the light of all of this, my view is unchanged, and I dont think TSB acted responsibly in 
increasing Miss Bs overdraft from £500 to £1450.
Putting things right
TSB have provided a schedule of charges refunded to Miss B, which shows that it has 
waived the bulk of charges, but some charges do still remain  those applied between 
January and April 2018. While I can understand that TSB feels it has already waived a 
significant amount in charges, in line with my provisional decision, I will require TSB to also 
refund those charges as well. 
I will also require TSB to remove all adverse information recorded on Miss Bs credit file 
relating to the overdraft of between £500 and £1,450.   
My final decision
I uphold Miss Bs complaint.
I require TSB Bank Plc to refund the interest and charges on the overdraft which have not 
already been refunded, to the extent that they relate to borrowing in excess of £500, and to 
apply the refund to reduce the outstanding balance. 
I require TSB Bank Plc to remove all adverse information recorded on Miss Bs credit file 
relating to the overdraft of between £500 and £1,450. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Rosemary Campbell
Ombudsman