DRN-4459283
The complaint
Mr C complains that Financial & Legal Insurance Company Ltd (F&L) did not provide cover 
for legal costs following a claim on his after the event (ATE) legal expenses insurance 
policy.
Where I refer to F&L, this includes it agents and claims handlers acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr C instructed solicitors to act for him in relation to a professional negligence claim. He 
entered into a conditional fee (no win no fee) agreement with the solicitors and took out 
ATE insurance with F&L to cover disbursements and his opponents costs if his case was 
not successful.
Proceedings were issued. Mr C and his solicitors had a conference with counsel shortly 
before the trial date. Counsel advised that his claim was not likely to succeed and said they 
should try to settle or if that wasnt possible, discontinue the case.
The solicitors tried to negotiate but the defendant was not willing to settle and said it would 
proceed with the trial. The solicitors emailed F&L saying they intended to discontinue the 
claim and sought F&Ls consent to this, saying they needed an urgent reply the same day 
before further costs were incurred. 
F&L didnt reply but the solicitors went ahead and discontinued the claim to avoid further 
costs. 
As the case was discontinued, Mr C became liable for the defendants costs. When he 
sought to claim on the policy F&L rejected the claim. It said Mr C had breached the terms of 
the policy, in particular by discontinuing the case without obtaining its consent.
The solicitors reached an agreement with the defendant to pay £35,000. As F&L had refused 
to indemnify Mr C, the costs were paid by the solicitors and their professional indemnity 
insurers. 
Mr C complained about F&Ls refusal to pay the costs but F&L said it had acted in line with 
the policy terms. F&L made a number of points, including:
it was a requirement for cover to be provided that the chances of success were at 
least 60% and following the conference with counsel it was clear the chances of 
success were low;
Mr C should have notified F&L of this change but failed to do so;
the solicitors only contacted F&L at the last moment, needing a reply the same day, 
which didnt allow it time to make an informed decision; and
the solicitors should not have discontinued the case without its consent.
Mr C referred his complaint to this Service. Our investigator said F&L should not have 
rejected the claim because
whether or not the solicitors should have contacted F&L sooner, it would have been 
unreasonable to decline the request to agree to discontinue the claim, and the late 
notification didnt cause F&L any prejudice; 
F&L said it was entitled to void the policy entirely but that would only be the case 
where Mr C failed to disclose something material to the conduct of the proceedings, 
which wasnt the case here;
But the investigator said Mr C hadnt suffered any loss as the costs had been paid and it was 
unlikely the solicitors or their insurer would try to recover those costs from him. So he didnt 
think F&L needed to pay anything.
Neither party has accepted the investigators view. 
F&L says it was entitled to reject the claim, and it was prejudiced as it was denied the 
chance of the case proceeding to court and winning, which would have reduced its loss.
Mr C says its not clear on what basis the investigator can say he wont be pursued for the 
costs, and in other similar cases the ombudsman has upheld the complaint.
As no agreement has been reached I need to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules and guidance say insurers must deal with claims promptly and 
fairly; provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress; and not unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy provides cover for disbursements and for the defendants costs. But as with all 
insurance there are policy terms and conditions that limit when cover will be provided. F&L 
has relied on conditions which say
Mr C had to notify it as soon as reasonably practical of any material changes;
costs will only be paid where the court has ordered Mr C to pay costs or it has agreed 
to terms of settlement in circumstances where the claim no longer has a reasonable 
chance of success;
theres an exclusion that applies where proceedings are compromised or 
discontinued unless it has given its written consent, which will only be done where 
the solicitors advise there is no reasonable prospect of success.
F&L says Mr C or his solicitors should have contacted it after the conference with counsel to 
say the advice was that his case no longer had a reasonable chance of success, and should 
not then have discontinued the claim without its consent.
I agree that F&L should have been told about the change in circumstances. But that doesnt 
mean it was reasonable for F&L to reject the claim, nor would that be grounds to void the 
policy. 
The solicitors were attempting to settle the case on the best possible terms. Once it became 
clear the defendant would not agree to settle they concluded the best option was to 
discontinue and contacted F&L. And they did provide an update before then in the form of a 
spreadsheet with brief descriptions of where each of the solicitors cases were. For Mr C it 
said, On-going but may need to be discontinued if no offers  no limitation issues.F&L says it was prejudiced, because it would have advised to continue to trial; it says the 
costs had almost reached the indemnity limit so it wasnt likely to have to pay more and there 
was a chance it could limit its loss. 
But cover is only provided if the claim has a reasonable chance of success. Indeed, if Mr C 
had continued to trial without telling F&L that his case was no longer likely to succeed, F&L 
would no doubt have said he was in breach of the policy terms. F&L cant have it both ways 
 saying Mr C should have told it earlier that his case no longer had prospects, but then 
expecting him to proceed to trial anyway. Particularly when the policy terms required him to 
keep costs to a minimum. 
The costs were settled for £36,000, well under the indemnity limit of £50,000. If the trial had 
gone ahead, the likely outcome would have been not only that Mr C would have lost, but that 
the costs would have been considerably higher  most likely above the indemnity limit, 
leaving Mr C having to pay costs himself.
It would not be fair to expect Mr C to pursue his case where he was likely to lose. The terms 
say F&L will not withhold consent to discontinue unreasonably. It would have been 
unreasonable to withhold consent in these circumstances.
But having said all that, there is no loss to Mr C. The costs have been paid and theres 
nothing to indicate he is being pursued for those costs. Hes referred to decisions in other 
complaints but every case is considered on its own circumstances. The circumstances here 
are that Mr C hasnt had to pay any costs and is not likely to.
He also says hes suffered distress and inconvenience  if the solicitors or their insurers 
hadnt paid the costs he would have faced court proceedings against him personally, and 
this would be stressful for anyone. I agree that would be distressing if it happened. But this 
hasnt happened. So, based on what hes said, Im not satisfied F&L has caused him such 
distress and inconvenience to justify compensating him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman