DRN-1752065
The complaint
Mr A has complained Advanced Payment Solutions Limited, trading as Cashplus, wont 
refund a transaction he didnt make.
What happened
After noticing a transaction he didnt recognise, Mr A contacted who he thought the seller 
was. They confirmed they had not record of this and it was unlikely to be them as they sold 
small domestic appliances. The transaction was for £407.55.
Mr A contacted Cashplus to dispute the transaction as hed not received any goods. Mr A 
didnt return forms related to this dispute until too late for Cashplus to process any refund 
under the card schemes chargeback rules.
Mr A was unhappy with this outcome and brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence and also contacted a third party business whod 
processed Mr As disputed transaction. Their evidence showed Mr A had had an item 
delivered to his home address from someone who traded on a shared marketplace. Our 
investigator believed that Cashplus hadnt managed Mr As complaint well. They could have 
considered this as a section 75 claim as well as a chargeback dispute. She asked Cashplus 
to pay Mr A a further £100 on top of the £25 theyd already offered him.
Despite Mr A having a worsening relationship with Cashplus and pursuing other complaints, 
he was happy to accept this resolution. Cashplus disagreed and has asked an ombudsman 
to consider Mr As complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for roughly the 
same reasons.  Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations (PSRs) are the relevant law here. These primarily 
require banks to refund customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. 
Certain other circumstances do apply but nothing thats had an impact on the decision Im 
making here. So when we look at whether a financial institution has acted fairly in rejecting 
someones fraud complaint, one of the things we consider is whether the customer made the 
transactions themselves or allowed them to be made. If they did, then we generally wouldnt 
ask the bank to refund them.
Im not going to cover all the points raised in the previous view dated 6 February 2020 as 
this covered the details of what had happened. As far as I can tell theres no real dispute on 
what happened or when.
This is partly because Mr A has submitted detailed and clear evidence and weve had the 
benefit of Cashpluss customer contact records and copies of phone calls they had with 
Mr A. This included the call on 14 December 2019 when Mr A first raised his dispute with 
them.
The issues Ive considered include:
Mr As transactions history show a number of transactions of a similar nature around 
the same time;
Mr A believed the transaction record showed a purchase from someone he knew 
hed not bought anything from. All the evidence points to a seller from the shared 
marketplace using those details when they process payments.
Evidence from the third party payment processor shows a transaction made using 
Mr As Cashplus credit card for £407.55. The goods related to this payment, 
according to this evidence, were delivered to Mr As address.
Mr A has said hed not have bought the size of cooker hood detailed in this evidence. 
Ive noted this but this could just be a simple error in the description.
Overall I believe Mr A did carry out this purchase but I can see why he disputed this 
transaction.
Cashplus viewed this dispute purely as a chargeback claim. These claims have a time 
period for them to be completed. But they could just as easily have viewed this as a 
fraudulent transaction or a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Neither 
of these have such tight timescales for completion.
Putting things right
It seems to me that if Cashplus had treated this dispute properly, the relationship between 
Mr A and them wouldnt have disintegrated so badly. On this basis I will be asking Cashplus 
to pay Mr A a small amount of compensation for the trouble caused.
Cashplus offered Mr A £25 in compensation initially. I dont believe this has been paid. I 
think its fair and reasonable to ask Cashplus to pay Mr A a further £100 on top of this.
Mr A has provided us with plenty of evidence to show that he has a rash of complaints with 
Cashplus. I can only confirm what our investigator has said. If he has final responses from 
Cashplus, he can raise these as new complaints with our service where they can be properly 
considered.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct Advanced Payment Solutions 
Limited, trading as Cashplus, to pay Mr A a total of £125 for the trouble caused.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2020.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman