DRN-3031733
The complaint
Mrs C says  Financial Administration Services Limited (FASL) should be held accountable 
for losing a £5,000 deposit she made into her Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP), which 
it administers, on 18 March 2020; for not locating the deposit until 7 April 2020; for the 
trouble and upset this caused her; and for the loss of investment opportunity this caused her.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should not be upheld 
because FASL has offered enough to fairly resolve it. He found mainly as follows:
Following the deposit, Mrs C engaged with FASL between 23 March and 7 April to 
find out why it had no record of its receipt. On 7 April FASL contacted her to confirm 
it had located, and received, the deposit. Mrs C asked for a return of the deposited 
£5,000 and it was returned to her on 8 April.
FASL offered Mrs C a total of £250 as compensation for the trouble and upset the 
matter caused her and £3.86 for lost interest on the deposited amount whilst it was 
lost (at the rate of 1.6% simple (gross) for 22 days) as compensation for loss of use 
of the money. Mrs C rejected this offer and counter proposed £750 compensation for 
the trouble and upset she had been caused. 
FASL disputed Mrs Cs compensation claim for lost investment opportunity because 
she asked for the deposited amount to be returned to her and because she did not 
invest it until four months after the event, in August 2020. 
£250 is a reasonable amount to compensate Mrs C for the trouble and upset the 
matter caused her. Her request for compensation based on her professional pay rate 
is inconsistent with this services approach and is not upheld. FASLs assessment of 
interest based compensation for the loss of use of her money during the event is also 
reasonable. 
Mrs Cs compensation claim for lost investment opportunity fails for broadly the same 
reasons that FASL argued. She says she intended to invest the deposited amount 
during a low period in the markets; the markets were still relatively low on 8 April 
2020; yet instead of investing the money she withdrew it; she also says she did not 
invest because of a loss of trust in FASL; but the investment she proceeded to make 
in the same SIPP in August 2020 suggests otherwise; overall, her claim for lost 
investment opportunity is unsupported by a lack of evidence of investment intent.
Mrs C strongly disagreed with this outcome and considered that the investigator had 
misunderstood and misrepresented her complaint. She said contrary to his findings, her 
primary pursuit is not for compensation for lost investment opportunity, it is about ensuring 
FASL is held accountable and culpable for losing her money for over two weeks without 
having an explanation for why that happened; that the compensation claim is secondary; that 
if she had committed such a failing in her profession she would face severe regulatory 
disciplinary action; that with regards to the compensation claim, there is evidence from the 
investments she made with a £5,000 deposit on 16 March 2020 that the same investments 
would have been made with the deposit of 18 March (given that she intended to invest the 
total of £10,000 but had to make separate deposits due to banking restrictions); that, having 
lost trust in FASL in March/April, the August 2020 investments were made in the SIPP only 
after she had appointed a financial adviser to handle her financial affairs; that the facts she 
did not invest the money in April and then invested in August are being used against her 
unfairly; and that the investigator trivialised the trouble and upset the matter caused her.
The investigator clarified his findings  including confirmation that this service does not have 
a punitive remit and cannot accommodate the punishment of FASL that Mrs C appears to 
seek  and he was not persuaded to change them. He also sought an explanation from 
FASL for the lost funds and conveyed its response to Mrs C. The matter was then referred to 
an ombudsman, as Mrs C requested.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute that FASL lost the £5,000 Mrs C deposited in her SIPP on 18 March 
2020 and that it did not resolve this failing until 7 April 2020. There is no dispute that it does 
not have a precise explanation for this event, it suggested no more than a possible cause(s) 
in its response to this service  which is what the investigator shared with Mrs C. The 
matters in dispute are Mrs Cs call for FASL to be meaningfully held accountable  including, 
it appears, punishment  for its failing; Mrs Cs compensation claim for lost investment 
opportunity; and Mrs Cs assertion that £250 does not sufficiently compensate her for trouble 
and upset.
Accountability
FASLs responsibility for losing Mrs Cs £5,000 between 18 March 2020 and 7 April 2020 is 
expressly confirmed in this decision. As stated above, I also find that FASL has been unable 
to provide a precise explanation for its failing in this respect. These findings provide a form of 
accountability.
If, as it appears, Mrs C wants more than the above findings, it should be noted that this 
services remit is mainly to address complaints and, if upheld, to consider compensation (for 
financial loss and/or trouble and upset) that could be due in the complaints. I address these 
in the next two sections. As the investigator explained, we do not have a punitive remit, so it 
is beyond my power to consider and issue a penalty to FASL. This service is not the industry 
regulator, so it is also beyond our power to have any sort of regulatory response to FASLs 
failing.
Financial Loss (including lost investment opportunity)
A claim for compensation in this respect must be supported by available evidence. Such a 
claim cannot fairly be based on assumption or speculation, and it must be substantiated. 
Where a claim for financial loss is based on alleged lost investment opportunity, requisite 
substance would usually include evidence that such an opportunity existed and that the 
relevant individual would have used that opportunity, but for the firms wrongdoing.
In Mrs Cs case, I too consider it somewhat conflicting that she chose not to invest the 
£5,000 upon it being located on 7 April; that, instead, she withdrew it on 8 April because of 
her loss of trust in FASL; and that, without a resolution to her loss of trust in FASL, she then invested in the same SIPP four months thereafter. I have used none of these facts against 
Mrs C. They are simply factual events which are relevant to her claim and which cannot 
reasonably be ignored. 
I have noted Mrs Cs point about the investments she made with the 16 March deposit. The 
SIPP account statement shows that it was invested in Fidelity International funds on 17 
March. FASL was and is a Fidelity International company. 
Mrs C says she  lost all faith and confidence in Fidelity  when her deposit was lost and 
that when she was told her money  had not been received by Fidelity [she] believed it had 
been stolen. I have not seen evidence that what she describes as a loss of all faith and 
confidence in FASL/Fidelity was ever addressed and resolved at the time or thereafter. Yet, 
her investments in the Fidelity funds of 17 March remained and she invested further in the 
SIPP in August. This is not a criticism, I do not suggest that Mrs C should have behaved 
differently and I acknowledge her right to have managed her investments as she wished, but 
I do observe that, on balance, an investor who had lost trust in a firm  trust being a very 
important factor for consumers of financial services  would probably have sought to cease 
dealings with that firm immediately (or as soon as possible) and would probably not have 
increased such dealings months thereafter.
Overall, on balance and for the above reasons I am not persuaded by Mrs Cs argument that 
she did not invest the 18 March deposit because of a loss of trust in FASL. Her conduct, as 
summarised above, does not support her claim of lost trust. Furthermore, even if she had 
lost trust in FASL, if an intention to invest existed that intention would probably have been 
paramount. For that reason, she would have probably taken alternative investment steps. 
There is no evidence of such alternative investment steps being considered or taken at or 
around the time of her deposit withdrawal on 8 April. 
Whilst Mrs C could argue that the investments she made on 17 March 2020 are the 
investment opportunities relevant to her claim, I am not satisfied that she has established an 
intention to make the same (or any other) investments at or around the time. It is also 
noteworthy that following the deposit on 18 March 2020 she did not enquire into it until 23 
March. If she intended to mirror the investments of 17 March, and to invest the total of 
£10,000 similarly as she has said, it is reasonable to expect that she would have sought to 
do so with the 18 March deposit earlier than 23 March.
Like the investigator, I am satisfied with FASLs calculation and offer of compensation for 
financial loss in terms of lost interest on the deposited £5,000  which compensates Mrs C 
for the loss of use of her money for the relevant period.
Trouble and Upset
I have considered Mrs Cs description of the trouble and upset the matter caused her from 
when she learnt about the lost deposit to when it was resolved, and throughout in between. 
During the period of her enquiries  around two and half weeks  the chronology she has 
provided shows that she called FASL around six times and exchanged a number of emails. I 
also accept that nothing appears to have been said or done to ease her distress, until the 
matter was resolved on 7 April.
Our awards for trouble and upset are not based on an exact science. Each case is 
considered on its own facts and merits, but we also seek to maintain a reasonable level of 
consistency in our awards. I echo the investigators suggestion that Mrs C should perhaps 
inform herself about the details of our approach towards these awards, as she will find that 
an award would not be based on her professional pay rate as she has submitted. On balance, I consider that £250 is fair compensation for the trouble and upset caused to 
Mrs C by FASLs loss of her deposit over the course of around two and a half weeks. It 
reflects the distress she was caused but balances that with the fact that her money was 
subsequently found at the end of this period. It is also broadly consistent with the sort of 
award this service has made in comparable cases. This amount is what FASL has already 
offered to Mrs C, it is a fair offer and I am not persuaded that it should offer more.
Conclusion
Overall, on balance and for the reasons given above I consider that FASLs offers to Mrs C 
reasonably resolves her complaint and that it should not have to do more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman