DRN-2955081
The complaint
Mr J complains about Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva), who gave him mis-leading 
information regarding his home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr J contacted Aviva following a blocked drain at his tenanted property. He told Aviva that 
he had called out the water company who unblocked the drain but wouldnt clean up the 
waste that was left. So, he asked Aviva to attend to do the clean-up. 
Aviva told Mr J that the clean-up wouldnt be covered under the policy. But it could send an 
engineer to ensure that the drain was unblocked. Mr J refused this and said that his agent 
had called the water company who cleared the blockage, as the policy documents were not 
clear enough, as to who was responsible. 
Aviva told Mr J that it had nothing to do with the water company. With this information Mr J 
contacted the water company who confirmed the same. It said that it had unblocked the 
drain as a gesture of goodwill and wouldnt be liable for the clean-up. Mr J said that he 
wanted to make a complaint. At which, the water company said that it would send engineers 
to clean-up. Those engineers attended but refused to carry out the clean up as they said it 
wasnt their responsibility and Mr J would have to pay for this privately. 
Mr Js agent then contacted the water company who confirmed that it had only sent the 
clean-up team there to assess the situation. Mr J then raised a complaint as he believed that 
the water company and Aviva had misled customers in believing that they are one and the 
same, to avoid settling claims. He said that its staff had been rude to him. Mr J also felt that 
his claim was a valid one and as such Aviva ought to bear the cleaning cost. Mr J said that 
he had to pay around £500 to get the area professionally cleaned. 
In its final response, Aviva confirmed that it was not one and the same company with the 
water company. It said the policy make it clear who are the insurers and gives details about 
who to contact to make a claim. It apologised that Mr Js agents contacted the wrong 
company and advised that he take this up with them. It reiterated that had the agent 
contacted them, it wouldve unblocked the drain as this was permitted under the policy. But 
cleaning up afterwards, wasnt covered by the policy. So, there was nothing further it could 
reasonably do. 
Mr J was not happy with this outcome and referred a complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said that except one logo appearing on the first page of the welcome letter and a small area 
that provided details about what each company was responsible for, none of the policy 
documents had any other reference to the water company. And the documents made it clear 
that his policy was provided by Aviva.  He considered Mr Js complaint about Avivas 
response to him, but he didnt see any evidence that it had been rude. 
Mr J didnt accept the view. He said that the main issue of his complaint is the water 
company and Aviva in their documentation, strongly imply that they are in the same group or 
are one and the same company. So, Aviva should be responsible for the clean-up costs. He 
also mentioned that the rudeness of the staff was irrelevant and asked for a decision from an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr J will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Rather 
than repeat all of the information again here, Ill focus on the key reasons for my decision. 
Mr Js claim is whether the water company and Aviva misled its customers into believing that 
it was one and the same company or part of the same group. And as such Aviva ought to be 
liable for the costs, he incurred to clean-up the waste. 
Mr J said that both Aviva and the water company told him that they were separate 
companies. I have considered all the policy documents that Mr J then passed on to his 
agents. Apart from the first page of the welcome letter (where there is the water company 
logo to the left of the page) and the outline of the different companies responsibilities, there 
is no mention or logo of the water company, throughout the documents.
The documents indicate that: this product provides assistance in the event of certain 
plumbing and drainage problems at their tenanted property. Cover is arranged and 
administered on our behalf. Im satisfied that this means that the policy covers the 
immediate emergency and here this meant the unblocking of the drain, which Aviva wouldve 
been responsible for, had the agents contacted them, instead of the water company. 
Mr J said that his agents contacted the water company and it was the water company who 
unblocked the drain. The water company confirmed that it did so as a goodwill gesture and 
normally it wouldve been a chargeable service. I note that Aviva offered to send an engineer 
to check that the drains had been correctly unblocked, which Mr J refused.
Under the terms and conditions of the policy I am satisfied that had Aviva been correctly 
contacted, it wouldve attended to alleviate the immediate emergency  especially as it had 
offered to attend to ensure that the drain had been correctly unblocked. 
I have further reviewed the policy documents to see if there is provision for Aviva to clean-up 
the waste. From the evidence, I cant see that there is any provision for Aviva to clean-up 
any waste. The policy does cover for plumbing and drainage issues, such as leaking pipes 
or clearing blockages. And as the water company had dealt with the blockage, there was 
nothing further for Aviva to do. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Aviva to have 
declined to clean up the waste. 
Overall, taking all of this into consideration, I dont think that Aviva or the water company 
misled its customers into believing that it was one and the same company. I think that Aviva 
wouldve dealt with the immediate emergency had it been correctly contacted. And I dont 
think it unreasonably declined to clean up the waste.  So, I wont be asking Aviva to do 
anything more to resolve this complaint.
My final decisionFor the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman