DRN-2292572
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about the level of service received from Barclays Bank UK PLC 
(Barclays) with regards to its customer and banking services; it is also about his claim for a 
financial loss arising from these issues. Barclays concedes  and has apologised for  the 
service issues, but it disputes his claim for compensation.
What happened
The relevant events began around April this year. Correspondence between both parties 
features, in the main, the following information:
In early April Mr M called Barclays with an enquiry about investing £175,000. He 
refers to being kept on hold for around 45 minutes before reaching an official who 
was unequipped to help him; being promised a return call from Barclays Premier 
Banking service but never receiving this call; and to calling Barclays to chase the 
matter but being faced with, and frustrated by, waiting times of at least one hour. He 
also says the official he spoke to could have signposted him to Barclays Smart 
Investor service during the call but failed to do so.
In May Mr M sought to use Barclays banking app to transfer £150,000 from his 
savings account into a Unit Trust and Individual Savings Account. He refers to 
receiving a message confirming a maximum transfer amount of £30,000; attempting 
to make five transfers in this amount and then receiving another  and conflicting  
message which said the maximum transfer amount was £5,000; to calling Barclays, 
through the app, to resolve the problem only to be faced with, and frustrated by, the 
same long waiting times; and to his transfer attempt being hindered by these issues.
Mr M has also raised a point about Barclays anti money laundering safeguards, with regards 
to large deposits that did not appear to have been subjected to such checks. In the course of 
his complaint to Barclays, Mr M gave notice of closure of his accounts.
Barclays concedes Mr M did not receive the return call promised in April and it has 
apologised to him in this respect; it did the same with regards to the long waiting times he 
experienced; it explained that its service had been impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic and 
that it was working towards restoring its service levels. 
However, Barclays notes that the app transfer limits were correctly displayed  £5,000 was 
the initial limit for the first transfer to a new recipient and £30,000 was the limit for 
subsequent transfers to that recipient; that Mr M could instead have used online banking or a 
branch service for the transfer(s); and that he could also have contacted his Relationship 
Manager, which he did not. With regards to the trouble and upset caused to Mr M by the 
service issues, it offered him £50 for the return call he was promised but did not receive and 
£150 for his experiences of the long waiting times. 
Mr M declined this offer. He referred to a financial loss arising from lost reinvestment 
opportunity related to his April enquiry; to the cost of 11 hours (in total) of his time wasted on 
calls to Barclays in the above events; and to a claim for negligence. He sought 
compensation under these heads, but Barclays disagreed and stood by its offer(s). 
One of our investigators looked into the matter and concluded that Barclays should not have 
to increase its offer(s) or do any more for the complaint. She considered that its offer(s) was 
reasonable and that it had apologised for the service issues experienced by Mr M. The 
investigator also did not consider that an anti-money laundering issue exists in his complaint.
Mr M disagreed with this outcome. He considered that the investigator had not addressed all 
the issues he raised  Barclays online banking, banking app and live chat services; the 
inconsistent information provided through the first two and the unfitness for purpose of the 
third; the continuing nature of Barclays service failures; and the lack of training for and 
competence in its staff. He made points on how its overall service could have been 
addressed and improved. In response, the investigator accepted that Barclays service and 
communication could have been better, but she retained the view that it has addressed the 
complaint fairly.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I address the claim for financial loss, as reflected in Mr Ms complaint correspondence 
with Barclays. I am not persuaded by this claim as I do not consider sufficient evidence 
exists to sustain it. 
I can understand why Mr M would argue that Barclays concession of its service failure 
provides justification for this claim, but I disagree and I consider that more is required. 
Evidence of the precise investment and/or price opportunity, of pre-determined 
arrangements for it, of notice to Barclays about this, of a direct connection between the 
service problems faced by Mr M and a loss of the opportunity and of Mr Ms responsibility to 
mitigate the matter would all be relevant to such a claim  and I do not suggest that this list 
is exhaustive. Overall and on balance, I have not seen enough in these respects to uphold 
the claim for financial loss.
With regards to the anti-money laundering point made by Mr M, I consider that it is well 
intended but, like the investigator, I cannot find a definitive complaint issue related to it. I 
agree that meaningful anti-money laundering systems should exist where laws and 
regulations require them to exist, but it is beyond my remit to conduct an appraisal of 
Barclays operations in this respect, without a related complaint issue to determine. There is 
no specific claim within Mr Ms complaint to determine in this respect, so there is no finding 
to reach.
The matters that remain are that of the service issues  in totality  faced by Mr M and the 
level of compensation he should receive for the trouble and upset they caused him. I do not 
disregard his separation of the different service issues, but they collectively relate to the 
hindrances he faced in making his investment enquiry in April and in transferring his funds in 
May. 
Where he was unable to have his investment enquiry addressed by Barclays, Mr M mitigated 
this by having it addressed elsewhere; and where the banking app hindered the transfer(s) 
he sought to make it appears that he thereafter progressed the transfer through a cheque 
payment. He was not prevented from doing either of these things, so compensation should 
not be considered in this context. Instead I consider that Barclays failed to deliver a service 
to assist him in both respects and that he was entitled to that service. Mr M has made points about how the service issues could have been addressed or 
prevented. I do not consider that his points lack merit and I accept that their implementation -
before or during the relevant events  could have given him a better or different experience. 
However, the issue to determine remains that of compensation to him for the trouble and 
upset caused by his experience. This is not a punitive exercise, so such compensation is not 
about concluding the number of failures committed and then punishing Barclays  through 
compensation to Mr M  for each (or, in accumulation, for all). 
The purpose of compensating him for trouble and upset is essentially to acknowledge  
through compensation  the distress and inconvenience caused to him by his experience. 
This is not an exact science, however the sort of service issues he experienced are 
comparable to other such issues that this service has addressed in other complaints. In this 
context and with due regard given to the facts in Mr Ms case, I am persuaded that Barclays 
total offer of £200 is reasonable  and is broadly reflective of awards for trouble and upset 
that have been made in other comparable complaints. I am not convinced to cater, 
separately, for his personal time and effort invested in the matter. It is arguable that he had a 
duty to mitigate his circumstances through such time and effort. I also do not consider that 
he has established a claim for negligence  and, as I addressed above, the same applies to 
the claim for financial loss. 
Overall, on balance and for the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint 
because I do not consider that Barclays should offer more compensation than it has offered 
him.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman