DRN-4127258
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K are unhappy as they feel that Target caused delays issuing them a deed of 
postponement which prevented Mr and Mrs K from completing on their remortgage on 1 
November 2021.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K took out a help to buy loan in 2019. They took out a mortgage and also took 
out a help to buy loan to part-fund their deposit. 
Help to buy loans are government-funded shared equity loans. The lender is a government 
agency, and the scheme is administered by Target. 
On 31 October 2021, Mr and Mrs Ks two-year fixed rate was due to expire so they decided 
to move their mortgage to another lender. 
Because the help to buy loan is secured over Mr and Mrs Ks property by way of a second 
charge, their new mortgage lender needed Target to agree to a deed of postponement  so 
that when the old lender removed its charge, the new lender could take first charge ahead of 
the help to buy loan.
Mr and Mrs K said their solicitor contacted Target in August 2021 about the deed of 
postponement as they were looking to remortgage and borrow additional funds for work they 
were going to complete on their property in order to support Mr Ks disability. 
Mr K called Target on 12 October 2021 as he hadnt heard anything. He advised Target that 
they were going to remortgage to a new lender and required a deed of postponement. 
Mr K said he called Target again on 14 October 2021 to ask for an update and Target told 
him they were waiting for the original mortgage offer; the new mortgage offer and a 
redemption statement. 
On 20 October 2021 Target called Mr K to discuss the outstanding requirements and asked 
him for a General Practitioners (GP) letter. Mr K challenged this as he said he had already 
sent in his Personal Independence Payment (PIP) letter. Target confirmed that they would 
accept the PIP instead of obtaining a letter from the GP.
On 21 October 2021, Target emailed Mr K to request an administration fee of £115.00, the 
new mortgage offer and the mortgage redemption statement. This email confirmed that once 
these documents were received, it would take between four to six weeks for the deed to be 
sealed. 
On 25 November 2021, Target confirmed they did need a GP letter but told Mr K that they 
could approve the deed of postponement in principle as long as they had the letter before 
the deed was sealed. 
The sealed deed was received on 8 December 2021 and posted on 9 December. 
Mr and Mrs K said Target delayed them completing on their remortgage which was due to 
start in November 2021, after their fixed rate expired. They said they had to pay a few 
months on the standard variable rate because of Targets delays. 
Target said there was a delay of around four days migrating Mr and Mrs Ks details over 
from a different system but didnt think they had caused any other delays. They explained 
that it can take four to six weeks for the documents to come back sealed which is the 
process.
Mr and Mrs K didnt agree with this, so they brought their complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service where it was looked at by one of our investigators. Our investigator 
didnt think that Target were responsible for all the delays due to how long the process takes, 
but thought they had delayed things by a few weeks. So she asked Target to pay the 
difference of the old lenders SVR and their new lenders fixed rate  for one month. The 
investigator also thought that Target should pay Mr and Mrs K £50 for the stress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Mr and Mrs K didnt agree with this. They said they had been caused a considerable amount 
of stress by Target and didnt think £50 was sufficient. They also thought that Target should 
refund three months of additional difference in the standard variable rate due to the delays 
caused from the start. 
As they disagreed with the investigator, they asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 27 April 2023. I said:
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs K applied to their new lender, and received a mortgage offer in 
September 2021. They said that their solicitor sent an email to Target in August 2021 
to start the process. 
Mr and Mrs K have provided us a copy of the email that their solicitor sent to Target 
in August 2021. Target have said they never received this email, so they didnt start 
the process until 12 October 2021 when Mr K contacted them. 
I have looked at the email that the solicitor sent to Target on 20 August 2021 which 
says they have attached the deed of postponement and they are looking forward to 
receiving the executed deed. Its evident that this email was sent to Target in August 
however, there is a process that needed to be followed. This involved sending the old 
and new mortgage offer to Target, paying an administration fee, sending details of 
the solicitor who is acting on Mr and Mrs Ks behalf and a copy of the new lenders 
deed of postponement. Had Target of received this email, they should have advised 
Mr and Mrs K of this process. 
Mr K didnt contact Target again until 12 October where it became apparent that this 
process hadnt yet started. I would expect Mr K or his solicitor to chase up Target if 
they didnt hear anything on receipt of the solicitors email from August 2021  
considering that there was an urgency due to the fixed rate ending at the end of 
October 2021. 
Mr and Mrs K didnt get their mortgage offer from the new lender until 10 September 
2021 so even if the email had been received by Target, they still needed further 
information such as the mortgage offer. So as this wasnt received by Mr and Mrs K 
until September 2021, things still wouldnt have been in place in August or 
September. I would have expected Mr and Mrs K to contact Target on receipt of this 
mortgage offer to find out what needed to happen  rather than to wait until October 
to do so. So I cant hold Target responsible for any delays from 20 August until 12 
October  when Mr K called Target to find out what was going on. 
Target sent Mr K an email on 21 October 2021 which confirmed that once they had 
received all the required documents, the deeds would be sent to the relevant 
department to be sealed and that this process can take up to four to six weeks. The contact notes provided by Target show that the deed of postponement was sent 
for sealing on 25 October 2021 and were sent out on 9 December 2021  so this was 
done within their specified timescales. 
Target did accept that there was a delay by a few days where they had to migrate Mr 
and Mrs Ks details from an old system to a new system, but they didnt think they 
were responsible for any other delays. 
However, its clear that there were delays when Target initially said they would 
accept Mr Ks PIP letter rather than asking for a GP letter. This was needed because 
of work that had been carried out at the property to make things easier for Mr K.
Target wouldnt normally want the main mortgage to increase but its something they 
would agree to if adjustments had to be made to a property which were needed by 
the borrower  as is the case here.  Target did agree with our investigator that there 
was a delay of around three to four weeks, so they said they were happy to pay one 
months difference in interest rates. I agree with this as based on the evidence I have 
seen, Im satisfied that there was a delay.
Mr and Mrs K have explained they would like Target to pay the difference in their 
interest rates for three months  due to the delay at the start. But as Ive already 
explained, I cannot hold Target responsible for not receiving the email that the 
solicitor sent in August 2021. And even if they did, there was a process to follow. I 
understand the urgency in Mr and Mrs K wanting to get this sorted out sooner due to 
the increase in the interest rate, but Mr K didnt contact Target for an update until 12 
October. So I dont think it would be fair to ask Target to pay for an additional two 
months of payments when this email wasnt received  but more importantly, wasnt 
chased up by Mr K or his solicitor. 
I do however agree with Mr and Mrs K that the issue with the GP letter did cause 
them stress and worry. It would have been frustrating for Mr K to have to obtain a 
letter from his GP, but this is something that he always had to obtain. But he wasnt 
told that from the start as Target said the PIP letter was acceptable. He was given 
information that wasnt correct and due to his circumstances, I think this had a bigger 
impact on him than it needed to.
Mr K has found this very difficult, especially with his medical condition and I know this 
caused stress to him and his family. I dont think that £50 is enough to recognise that. 
I therefore think that Target should increase this payment to £150  so pay Mr and 
Mrs K an additional £100. 
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, I am minded to uphold this complaint and will ask 
Target Servicing Limited to:
Cover the difference on one months mortgage payment between the old lenders 
SVR rate and the new lenders fixed rate. (Target should consider that the new 
mortgage is for a higher balance, so the calculation should compare the SVR on 
the balance with the fixed rate on the new higher balance).
Pay Mr and Mrs K £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused
Developments
Mr and Mrs K responded to the provisional decision and accepted what I had said. Target 
also responded and said for them to make the calculation to cover the one-month difference 
of the SVR rate, they would like to see evidence of these costs. Target said once they have 
received the evidence, they can commence proceedings to process the redress requirement.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs K have accepted what I said in the provisional decision and Target have 
requested evidence in order to process the redress  so I can take it from their response that 
they have also accepted what I have said.
Mr and Mrs K have sent us the evidence that Target require, and our investigator has sent 
these documents to Target for them to start the calculation for the one-month difference in 
payments. Once they have done this, I would expect Target to refund this to Mr and Mrs K 
along with the £150 distress and inconvenience payment.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Target Servicing Limited to:
Cover the difference on one months mortgage payment between the old lenders 
SVR rate and the new lenders fixed rate. (Target should consider that the new 
mortgage is for a higher balance, so the calculation should compare the SVR on 
the balance with the fixed rate on the new higher balance).
Pay Mr and Mrs K £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman