DRN-3927273
The complaint
Ms F complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited held her at fault for a claim made 
on her motor insurance policy. She thought both parties were at fault. Ms F is represented in 
this matter by her husband, Mr C.
 
What happened
Ms F was involved in a collision with another driver when she entered a roundabout. Admiral 
said Ms F would be held at fault as the other driver was already established on the 
roundabout and Ms F should have given way. Ms F said the other driver had crossed two 
lanes and they collided. She said an independent witness had said she wasnt at fault. 
Admiral said its level of service had been wanting and it paid Ms F £50 compensation for 
this. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Admiral 
had reasonably decided not to pursue the other drivers insurer to recover its outlay. He 
thought it was entitled to do this by the policys terms and conditions. He thought the witness 
statement didnt change the fact that Ms F should have given way to her right. But he agreed 
that Admiral should have obtained the statement before telling Ms F that she was at fault. 
And he thought its £50 compensation was sufficient for the trouble and upset this caused. 
Ms F replied that she too was established on the roundabout when the other driver cut in 
front of her to exit. She was upset that the independent witness evidence had been 
dismissed. Ms F asked for an Ombudsmans review. So her complaint has come to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Ms F and Mr C feel frustrated that Admiral has held Ms F liable for the 
collision. They said they were upset that it made this decision very quickly and without 
considering all the evidence. They were also concerned that Ms Fs account of what had 
happened had been misinterpreted. 
The Investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it 
treated Ms F the same as someone else in her position. 
Admiral is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Ms F to take over, 
defend, or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Ms F has to follow its advice in connection with the 
settlement of her claim, whether she agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term 
in motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a 
commercial decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to 
compromise.
I can see that the evidence that Admiral had to consider was Ms Fs version of events, a 
diagram provided by Ms F, photographs of the damage to Ms Fs car, and a diagram and 
statement provided by the witness. 
Admiral agreed that it shouldnt have told Ms F that she would be held liable before it had 
obtained and considered the witness evidence. It apologised for this and paid Ms F £50 
compensation for the frustration and upset this caused. And I think that was fair and 
reasonable compensation for the impact this error had. 
Admirals reasoning for holding Ms F liable was that it thought that Ms F had entered the 
roundabout after the other driver was already established on it. And so it thought Ms F 
should have given way to her right. But she didnt and so the two cars collided when the 
other driver tried to leave the roundabout. 
Ms F said she too was established on the roundabout. But Admiral thought she entered the 
roundabout after the other driver. This was because Ms F said she first saw the other driver 
in front of her. And the diagrams provided by both Ms F and the witness showed the other 
driver established on the roundabout before Ms F entered it. 
The damage to Ms Fs car was to the front whilst the damage to the other car was to the rear 
passenger side showing that they were exiting the roundabout when the cars collided. 
Admiral said the lane the other driver had been in wasnt relevant. And so Admiral said it 
would be unable to defend Ms F. 
I can see that Admiral considered the witness evidence and explained to Ms F why this 
hadnt changed its decision. It said this was because Ms F should still have given way to her 
right.
So Im satisfied that Admiral reasonably investigated the claim and considered the evidence 
available before making its decision on liability. I think its entitled to do this by the policys 
terms and conditions and so I cant say that Admiral did anything wrong. I dont require 
Admiral to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman