DRN-3749340
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G have complained about service delays and that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited (Admiral) declined their claim for chimney damage under their home insurance 
policy.
What happened
At the end of December 2021 Mr and Mrs G noticed that a chimney pot on their property had 
been damaged. They thought that this had happened at some point in the previous six 
weeks and contacted Admiral about a possible claim. The relevant policy had started in April 
2021.
Mr and Mrs G arranged for a roofing contractor to assess the damage however he didnt 
clearly conclude that the chimney pot was unsafe. Mr and Mrs G had intended to get a new 
flue liner installed and decided to have the chimney fixed at the same time. They therefore 
didnt immediately pursue the claim with Admiral. Mr and Mrs Gs neighbour contacted them 
however at the end of January 2022, the chimney being a joint chimney. The neighbours 
own contractor thought the chimney was unsafe. The original contractor then said that he 
agreed with this view. Mr and Mrs G therefore arranged work to make the chimney safe and 
to prevent further damage. 
Their share of the work cost £2,250. Mr and Mrs G contacted Admiral to make a claim for 
this work on their insurance, less a £100 excess amount. Admiral declined the claim as it 
considered that the damage was pre-existing or due to wear and tear. Mr and Mrs G then 
complained to Admiral as it had based its view on a google maps photograph dated April 
2021 and hadnt sent anyone to review the damage in person. They also complained that 
there had been delays in Admiral dealing with the claim. Finally, they believed that their 
premiums had been increased unfairly as a result of the claim. 
Admiral partially upheld the complaint as to delays which had occurred and offered £50 
compensation. It however maintained its position that the damage was pre-existing or due to 
wear and tear. Mr and Mrs G remained unhappy and wanted Admiral to settle the claim and 
to pay a further sum for the time theyd spent, so they referred their complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint. She didnt uphold it and explained that not all 
damage to a property is covered by buildings insurance. In this case, she didnt think that the 
damage had been caused by one of the insured perils. She said that the service would 
usually only consider storm damage claims within a few days of being able to pinpoint the 
exact day of the storm and that the onus was broadly on the customer to identify the storm 
event. She further stated that: as you believe the damage happened sometime between 18 
November 2021 and 28 December 2021, theres no clarification on when a storm actually 
took place.
Our investigator thought that the compensation of £50 for delay was fair and in line with the 
awards this service makes. She also explained that as the complaint about the increase in 
Mr and Mrs Gs policy premiums was raised after Admirals final response letter, the service 
was unable investigate that matter at this stage.
Mr and Mrs G remain unhappy about the outcome of the complaint and the matter has 
therefore been referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key questions for me to determine are whether Admiral treated Mr and Mrs G fairly and 
reasonably, both as to the general service it provided and also as to its application of the 
terms and conditions of their insurance policy. Im satisfied that Admiral hasnt acted in an 
unfair or unreasonable manner here, and Ill explain why.
My starting point is the policy itself and it covers the usual perils such as storm events which 
are defined in the policy as; Wind with gusts of at least 48 knots (55mph), heavy rainfall at a 
rate of at least 25mm per hour, snow to a depth of at least 30cm in 24 hours, or hail that 
causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass.
There are also general exceptions which include the following: -
10. Gradual causes 
Any loss or damage caused by anything that happens gradually, including wear and tear, 
wet and dry rot, or damage due to exposure to sunlight or atmospheric conditions, 
settlement, mildew, rust or corrosion. 
11. Existing damage 
Any loss, damage, injury, or liability resulting from an event which happened before this 
policy started.
Ive considered what both parties have to say about the matter. Turning first to Mr and Mrs 
Gs submissions on the central issue of damage to the chimney pot, they say that Admiral 
based its decision on a Google Maps image dated April 2021. They considered this 
approach to be unacceptable and subjective. They also noted that Admiral hadnt sent 
anyone to assess the damage in person. Mr G said a photograph hed taken in mid-
November 2021 didnt show the chimney stack to be in a perilous state or problematic and 
didnt consider it to be overly different to the Google Maps image. He compared this to a 
photograph hed taken at the end of December 2021 and said it then showed a clear 
difference. He also produced a detailed account of key events. At the beginning of January 
2022, he said that Admirals adviser mentioned that the damage could be linked to storms 
around the beginning of December 2021. 
As to the precise date of any storm, Mr and Mrs G felt that it wasnt practical to know 
necessarily when the damage occurred for various reasons, partially as we were both in 
enforced isolation for a period on mid December 2021 and location of the chimney
was not something we looked at daily because of its location. They considered that the only 
sensible conclusion is the damage was caused by storms of which there were several over 
that period. They considered that the date of any such storm was irrelevant as the 
insurance was live throughout that time. 
Mr and Mrs G said theyd spent a significant amount of time dealing with the claim, chasing 
the outcome and dealing with subsequent claim rejection. In summary, Mr and Mrs G 
wanted Admiral to settle their claim of £2,150 and to pay much more compensation than £50 
which they considered to be a derisory amount. They considered there had been extended 
delay and that the overall service had been extremely poor.Finally, Mr and Mrs G said that they hadnt changed insurance provider following the claim in 
case it caused issues on insuring the property. They said that this had left them with a 
premium increase of 54% (which they subsequently re-calculated at 38%), and yet Admiral 
hadnt paid their claim and therefore felt theyd been twice hit financially due to Admirals 
actions.
Turning next to Admirals response. It said that: - Admiral and our suppliers use various 
methods to help us validate a claim. In some circumstances, Google Maps and other 
websites such as Zoopla will be used to help us understand the condition of the property 
prior to the claim. Admiral referred to Mr and Mrs Ds request for a review of their claim in 
May 2022. It received a report from its agent in mid-May 2022, however it acknowledged that 
this fact hadnt been picked up on three occasions when Admiral spoke to Mr G. 
On the main claim issue, Admiral considered that the Google Maps photograph showed that 
the chimney pot was leaning at an angle in April 2021. It had compared this with the 
photographs supplied by Mr and Mrs G and said that this showed that the same chimney pot 
had fallen over. It said that the photographs also showed cracks in the surrounding cement 
and that damage was evident before any storm in December 2021. It said that pre-existing 
damage and wear and tear wasnt covered by the policy and this was why it declined the 
claim. It thought that any bad weather would have highlighted the existing issues.
Admiral accepted the service element of Mr and Mrs Gs complaint and apologised for any 
inconvenience the delay may have caused, and offered £50 in compensation. As to the 
increase in premium, it said that as this concern hadnt been raised prior to issue of its final 
response letter, it would investigate and provide a final response to Mr and Mrs G.
Having carefully considered the parties submissions and all available evidence, Ive reached 
the following conclusions.
Our services approach to storm events, is to consider three key questions: - 
- whether theres evidence of a storm event on or around the time the damage was 
caused? 
- whether the damage claimed for was typical of damage that would be caused by a 
storm? 
- whether the relevant storm was indeed the main cause of the damage. 
The service is likely to uphold the complaint if the answer to all three is yes. If the answer to 
one of the questions is no, the complaint is unlikely to be upheld.  
Mr and Mrs G identify a six-week timescale during which they think the damage occurred. 
They also think that Admiral offered a possible date in early December. I agree with our 
investigator that this period is too long to be able to say the damage was caused by a storm 
or indeed a particular storm event. Neither party is able to pinpoint when any damage 
occurred. Whilst there may well have been storm events during this six-week winter period, 
its likely that the underlying damage had occurred by April 2021.
Google Maps evidence of the position in April 2021 is of relevance and does shows that the 
chimney pot was leaning. The photograph taken at the end of December 2021 shows that 
the angle of lean of the chimney pot had increased. No evidence was provided to show that 
this additional lean happened suddenly in connection with a particular storm event. Indeed, it 
wasnt noticed until the end of December 2021, although Mr and Mrs G do offer plausible 
explanations as to why this wasnt noticed. In summary, its not possible to say that there was a storm on, or shortly before the date the damage occurred to link the damage to a 
particular storm.
Nevertheless, I note that Admiral hasnt argued the point and hasnt disputed that a storm 
event may have occurred during the relevant six-week period. Nor indeed has it argued that 
the damage claimed for wasnt typical of damage caused by a storm. Admiral did however 
decline the claim on the third criteria. It didnt think that any storm caused the relevant 
damage. It considered that there was pre-existing damage and that there were signs of wear 
and tear.
I note that our investigator felt unable to conclude that a particular storm event was 
responsible for the damage and didnt uphold the complaint on this basis. However, as 
Admiral hasnt disputed the policy-holders contention that there was a storm event on or 
around the time of damage, I wont proceed to make a formal finding on the issue. On the 
second question, its clear that the toppling of a chimney may indeed be caused by storm 
events. I therefore move on to consider the third question. 
Having carefully considered all the relevant evidence, including the photographic evidence, I 
do consider that the photograph of April 2021 shows pre-existing damage. The relevant 
chimney pot is already leaning, I consider that the mortar shows evidence of cracking and 
discolouration. On the balance of probabilities, I consider that the damage wasnt caused by 
an insured storm peril and that the underlying cause of the increased lean of the chimney pot 
was the state of repair of the chimney stack. In other words, Im satisfied that the underlying 
damage had occurred before mid-November 2021 and that the predominant cause of 
damage was general wear and tear.
As to the question of service delay, I note that Mr and Mrs Gs claim wasnt formally set up 
until the end of March 2022. Prior to this, there had been telephone contact between Mr and 
Mrs G and Admiral, however none of this formally noted a claim. Eventually the claim was 
declined in mid-May 2022. Mr and Mrs G then asked for a further review and as there was 
no effective response to this, Admiral paid £50 compensation. I cant say that Admiral acted 
in an unfair manner by paying this sum of compensation, and its in line with what our service 
would expect.
Finally, as to Mr and Mrs Gs complaint about Admiral increasing premiums for their policy, I 
agree with our investigator, that this complaint was raised after Admiral had issued its final 
response letter. As such, unfortunately, the service cant yet look at the matter as its only 
able to investigate concerns raised up to the date of the insurers final response.
In conclusion, whilst I have sympathy with Mr and Mrs G in having to deal with a difficult 
situation which has arisen at their property, Im satisfied that Admiral didnt act unfairly or 
unreasonably in declining their claim. Im also satisfied that Admirals offer of £50 
compensation was a reasonable response to the delay element of their complaint and I 
expect Admiral to re-issue this sum to Mr and Mrs G if its not already been accepted.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint and I dont 
require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to do any more in response to their 
complaint, save for ensuring that its existing offer of compensation is paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Claire JonesOmbudsman