DRN-2406180
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) rejected his insurance claim for his 
computer equipment when his bag was stolen. 
What happened
Mr Ss bag containing his laptop and a pair of headphones was stolen in August 2020 while 
he was travelling by train. He said he was sitting in the middle of the carriage and that the 
bag containing the items was placed in the luggage rack at the end of the carriage. 
Mr S reported the missing bag to station staff who then tried calling several other stations to 
see if it had been handed in. He said he was also told to try contacting lost property for 
three consecutive days. 
Mr Ss insurance policy covers him for computer equipment that has been accidentally 
damaged or stolen. But Amtrust declined the claim on the basis of an exclusion which states 
that items left unattended wont be covered for theft. Left unattended is defined as not 
within Your sight at all times and out of Your arms-length reach. 
Mr S said he would usually have had his bag at his feet, but his bag was quite large. He also 
said that the train manager had asked all passengers to store their luggage in the luggage 
racks, rather than next to them or overhead. He told us he didnt have time to take out his 
laptop and didnt think to do so as others were following the instructions without objection, 
including those with similar items. 
Amtrust said it contacted the train company and was told that passengers are generally able 
to keep small items with them but that it wouldve ultimately been for the train manager to 
decide on the day. 
Our investigator considered this complaint. She said it would be difficult to find out precisely 
what the train managers instructions were but that shed thought about Mr Ss actions. She 
felt he couldve done more to keep his items safe and mitigate his loss. And she thought he 
couldve removed these items from the bag to keep hold of while travelling. So she didnt 
uphold this complaint. 
Mr S disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr S, as the laptop is particularly 
important to him, Im not upholding this complaint  Ill explain why.
My role is to consider whether Amtrust has acted fairly and in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy when declining this claim. 
The term, outlined above, is very clear about what is meant by an item being left unattended. 
Its evident from Mr Ss version of events that he wasnt in a position to see the bag being 
taken, or close enough to be able to intervene. So, in line with the policy terms, Amtrust has 
declined this claim. 
Ive thought about the wider circumstances and whether declining the claim feels fair and 
reasonable. Mr S has, unfortunately, been the victim of a theft. And he has insurance for his 
computer equipment. But I have to consider whether its fair to ask Amtrust to reconsider a 
claim thats clearly excluded by the policy terms. I recognise that Mr S has told us he was 
simply following instructions, as others were, but Ive thought about whether he could 
reasonably have been expected to do anything else. And, ultimately, Im not persuaded that 
Mr S couldnt have taken his equipment out of his bag and kept hold of it for the journey, 
particularly given its value and importance to him. 
So while I appreciate that Mr S needs his items  his laptop in particular  this doesnt mean 
that Amtrust has acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining the claim. So I wont be asking it 
to reconsider the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint against Amtrust Europe Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman