DRN-3925220
The complaint
In summary, Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc cancelled his overdraft facility on 
the current account he has with it. He would like the overdraft to be reinstated.
What happened
Mr M had an agreed overdraft with Barclays which had been in place for some time. In 
September 2022 Barclays wrote to Mr M. It explained that his account was overdrawn more 
than his agreed overdraft limit. It asked him to make a payment into his account to bring it 
back within the agreed overdraft limit. 
Mr Ms account continued to remain overdrawn over the agreed overdraft limit. Barclays 
wrote to him again on several occasions asking him to pay off the unauthorised borrowing. 
As the account remained overdrawn over the agreed overdraft limit, Barclays wrote to Mr M 
in October 2022 to inform him that it was restricting access to his account, which included 
removing his overdraft facility. 
In December 2022 Barclays wrote to Mr M again in respect of the overdraft. It explained the 
balance on the account exceeded his agreed overdraft limit. It asked him to get in touch to 
discuss the account. 
Mr M complained to Barclays about his account being restricted. Dissatisfied with its 
response, he brought his complaint to this service. Mr Ms concerns were looked into by one 
of our investigators. He explained why he didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong. 
In response Mr M explained that he had used the account over for over 40 years and that 
there had been minor instances of it having been overdrawn above the agreed limit. He 
thought Barclays actions were unfair. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been referred to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
I do understand that Mr M is concerned and upset that, having banked with Barclays for a 
considerable number of years, his overdraft was withdrawn. But I can see from the 
correspondence provided by Barclays that prior to restricting his account, it wrote to him on 
several occasions informing him that his account was overdrawn by more than the agreed 
overdraft limit. And despite its requests to him to bring the account back within the agreed 
overdraft limit, he didnt do so. 
The overdraft facility had been in force it seems for several years and provided a relatively 
substantial limit which Mr M appears to have been using shortly before the account was 
restricted, close to the maximum limit that had been agreed. I can understand in those 
circumstances that Barclays may have become concerned when the limit it agreed had been 
exceeded and despite its requests, the account wasnt brought back within the agreed limit.
Mr M argues that the overdraft limit on previous occasions by a small amount without 
Barclays having taken any action. But I dont think that necessarily means that it has done 
anything wrong in having taken the steps to restrict the account that Mr M complains about. 
It is a commercial decision for Barclays to decide what terms it will lend on. And its account 
terms and conditions do provide for it to change, remove, or cancel an arranged overdraft 
facility. And given the circumstances Ive summarised above; I dont think Barclays was 
wrong to take the actions it did in respect of Mr Ms overdraft facility. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is not to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman