DRN-2651115
The complaint
Mr S has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold him a fee-paying Plus 
account in December 2006. The Plus account was later renamed as an Advance account in 
February 2010.
Mr S says that he was led to believe that by having the Plus account, it would help improve 
his chances of obtaining credit, such as loans and mortgages. 
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and she didnt think that the Plus account 
had been mis-sold. Mr S disagreed, so the matter was referred for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having done so, I dont think that 
the account was mis-sold. I will explain why.
I think it might also help to explain at this point that where matters are in dispute and 
evidence is lacking, as is the case here, I have to decide what I think was most likely to have 
happened, based on everything that is available.
HSBC says that when Mr S applied for the Plus account, he already held a fee-free account 
that included an arranged overdraft. So based on what I have seen, I am satisfied that when 
Mr S agreed to the account, I think he did so knowing that he didnt have to have a fee-
paying account to obtain credit from HSBC. 
However, Mr S says he was led to believe the Plus account would help improve his chances 
of obtaining credit. At the time, I understand that the Plus account included various banking 
features such as lower rates of interest on overdrafts, loans and mortgages  alongside 
other benefits such as worldwide travel insurance, fee-free foreign cash machine 
withdrawals and better interest rates on savings accounts. 
Unfortunately there is no record of what exactly was discussed with Mr S during the sale of 
the account. But I think its likely that when explaining what the account came with, HSBC 
wouldve explained the features of the account to Mr S. Afterall, HSBC wouldve wanted to 
make the account seem attractive and worthwhile taking out so that Mr S would agree to it. 
Based on what Mr S has said, its clear that obtaining credit was clearly important to him. 
And I think its just as likely, if not more so, that he agreed to the account as he was told 
about the account features and was interested in getting better interest rates on lending 
(compared to what wouldve been available to him at the time), rather than because he 
thought itd help him obtain lending in the first place. I say this particularly as I cant see that 
Mr S had any declined applications for credit prior to upgrading to the Plus account that 
mayve led him to believe that he needed to take action to improve his credit score. 
Furthermore, I note that Mr S kept the account for many years. This to me suggests that Mr 
S held the Plus account for reasons other than because he thought it was helping him to 
obtain lending. I say this especially as Mr S continued to hold the packaged account even 
after he was declined for a mortgage by HSBC. And Mr S continued to hold the Advance 
account even after HSBC had written to him in 2014 to say that the account would be fee-
free and the insurance benefits were included as a separate fee-paying packaged called 
Insurance Aspects  which he was given the option to opt out of.
So, when weighing everything up, Ive not seen enough evidence to say that Mr S was more 
likely than not misled into thinking that the Plus account would help improve his chances of 
obtaining credit. On the contrary, I think it was just as likely that Mr S agreed to the account 
because he was told about the benefits, which included better rates of interest and cashback 
when borrowing and was attracted to them.
Mr S says that the account was recommended to him. Whereas HSBC says that it wouldve 
been sold on a non-advised basis. 
Based on what has been provided, I think the account was more likely to have been sold on 
a non-advised basis. I say this as there does not appear - even by Mr Ss recollections - to 
have been any assessment of Mr Ss demands and needs at the time. And it does not 
appear to be the case that it was sold to him on the basis that the account included 
insurance benefits that would meet his particular needs either. This means that HSBC did 
not have to check if the account was right for Mr S. But it did have to give Mr S the important 
information about the account so that he could decide this for himself.
Mr S says that he was not given all of the information about the terms and conditions and 
exclusions of the various account benefits. However, as outlined above, I think it was likely 
that the main features of the account wouldve been discussed with Mr S. And it does not 
appear to be in doubt that Mr S was aware that he was being charged a monthly fee for the 
account and that fee-free alternatives existed.
Mr S says that his English was not that strong at the time, so did not understand the 
intricacies of the account and its benefits. But I dont think this necessarily means that HSBC 
was unfair or unreasonable because it sold him the account. If it was the case that Mr S 
didnt understand all of the information that he was provided with, I see no reason why he 
could not have asked HSBC to clarify things for him at the time; chosen not to proceed with 
the upgrade; asked for account information so he could go away and mull things over; or 
arranged for a friend or relative to attend branch with him another time to help him 
understand what exactly he was agreeing to. This is especially the case, given that Mr S was 
clearly aware that there was no obligation to agree to the Plus account. 
I accept that Mr S might not have been presented with all of the important information about 
the account and the associated features. But Ive not seen anything about his circumstances 
that makes me think that he wouldve been put off from agreeing to the Plus account, had he 
been given even more information about it.
So taking everything into account, on balance I dont think that the account was mis-sold.
I understand that Mr S wrote to HSBC and asked for the account to be downgraded, and this 
request was not immediately actioned. However it seems that the Insurance Aspects 
package has now been removed from Mr Ss account and HSBC paid him £50 to resolve 
this matter, which seems reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman