DRN-1727296
 
The complaint
Mr F complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) was 
irresponsible in its lending to him. 
What happened
This complaint is about the loans Sunny provided to Mr F between October 2013 and 
November 2015. Mr Fs first loan was a credit facility which he used for numerous 
drawdowns between October 2013 and when it was closed in April 2015. Following this, 
eight instalment loans were provided. His borrowing history is set out below.
Loan Type Date Date closed Amount
1 Line of credit 12/10/2013 30/04/2015  
2 Instalment 04/03/2015 31/03/2015 100
3 Instalment 31/03/2015 30/04/2015 200
4 Instalment 04/06/2015 15/07/2015 500
5 Instalment 23/07/2015 24/08/2015 500
6 Instalment 08/09/2015 11/09/2015 450
7 Instalment 15/09/2015 23/09/2015 450
8 Instalment 28/09/2015 30/10/2015 450
9 Instalment 03/11/2015 13/04/2016 500
 
Mr F said that adequate checks werent carried out before the loans were provided and that 
he had other short term loans outstanding at the time.
Sunny said that before all loans are provided, robust and proportionate affordability and 
credit checks take place. In its final response letter it partially upheld Mr Fs complaint and 
offered to refund all interest and charges from the point at which he had a balance with it for 
18 months. Mr F didnt accept this offer.
Our adjudicator upheld this complaint in regard to Mr F's borrowing on the line of credit from 
6 June 2014 and all his instalment loans. 
Sunny didnt accept our adjudicators view. It provided a counter offer, however this was for 
a lesser amount than it had previously offered and Mr F had previously rejected.
As a resolution hasnt been agreed, this case has ben passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
issue a decision. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr F could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and the 
consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr F could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
The line of credit was provided before CONC. At that time the relevant guidance was 
provided by the Office of Fair trading (OFT) and this also set out the need to make a 
reasonable assessment of whether a borrower can afford to meet repayments in a 
sustainable manner. Section 2.2 of the General Principles of Fair Business Practice section 
of the OFT guidance says: creditors should monitor the borrowers repayment record during 
the course of the credit agreement, offering assistance where borrowers appear to be 
experiencing financial difficulty.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Fs complaint.
Before the line of credit was provided, Sunny gathered information about Mr Fs income. It 
said it assumed that the maximum amount would be drawn down and assessed this 
compared to Mr Fs income. It said it also checked Mr Fs credit file. Before the instalment loans were provided Sunny said that eligibility, affordability and creditworthiness checks 
were carried out.
When the line of credit was provided, Mr Fs income was recorded as £3,090. The line of 
credit appears to be been for an amount of £500. This was the first loan provided to Mr F 
and given the cost of the repayments compared to his monthly income, I find that the checks 
carried out were adequate. As these didnt raise concerns I do not find it unreasonable that 
this line of credit was provided.
Sunny was required to monitor Mr Fs usage of the line of credit. I have looked at the 
drawdowns Mr F made. His initial drawdown was £500 and while he did make repayments 
he would then draw down the £500 again within a few days. He was often drawing down the 
full amount in one transaction and this was remaining outstanding around a month later. 
While there was a period in March 2013 when Mr F appeared to be making more regular 
repayments and reducing the outstanding balance this didnt last and in early April he again 
took out £500 and his pattern of having this outstanding for a round a month before repaying 
and then drawing down again returned.
I think this pattern of borrowing should have raised concerns that Mr F was struggling to 
manage his money and was reliant on the borrowing. Therefore I agree with our adjudicator 
that by the tenth draw down, Sunny should have done more to check that its lending to Mr F 
was sustainable and that he wasnt experiencing any financial difficulties. Mr F has provided 
his bank statements from the time and I find that had further checks been carried out at this 
point it would have been clear that Mr F was experiencing financial difficulties and that 
lending to him was unsustainable.
Mr Fs pattern of borrowing continued and while I can see he started to pay down the 
balance in the line of credit in early 2015, he was then provided with an instalment loan. 
Sunny, in its final response letter, upheld Mr Fs complaint from the point at which it had 
been lending to him for 18 months. I have looked at Mr Fs continued pattern of borrowing 
and I can see that he was taking out new loans shortly after repaying existing loans 
suggesting that he was unable to make repayments without borrowing again. Given this I 
think that Sunny should have realised that the instalment loans provided to Mr F, following 
the line of credit, weren't sustainably affordable.
Based on the above, I think that Sunny should have carried out further checks in June 2014 
when Mr F had been making use of the line of credit for around eight months and made 10 
drawdowns. Had this happened it would have realised that lending to him wasnt sustainably 
affordable and I think from this point onwards the loans shouldnt have been provided.
Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Mr F paid on the line of credit from 6 June 2014, and 
all interest and charges Mr F paid on all the instalment loans;
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement*;
 
remove any negative information about the line of credit from Mr Fs credit file;
 
the overall pattern of Mr Fs borrowing from the first instalment loan onwards means 
any information recorded about them is adverse, so these loans should be removed 
entirely from Mr Fs credit file. 
 *HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
 My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Fs complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should pay Mr F compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman