DRN-2778993
The complaint
Mr M on behalf of DBMPL is unhappy that a claim for an escape of water under its 
residential property owner insurance policy was declined by Allianz Insurance Plc.
What happened
DBMPL owns a property which is let to students. One set of students vacated the property 
on 30 June 2020. DBMPLs agent told us that another set of students entered into a tenancy 
agreement starting on 1 July 2020 but they didnt move in straight away.
Over the following weeks DBMPLs agents and contractors visited the property several times 
to carry out inspections and checks up to 14 August. On 18 August cleaners discovered that 
the water tank had fractured and split, causing a lot of water damage.
DBMPL made a claim to Allianz. It said DBMPL should have told it the property was 
unoccupied and ensured that all the mains services were turned off or disconnected. It said if 
it had known the property was unoccupied, the policy would have been altered so that there 
was no cover for escape of water claims. It declined the claim.
DBMPL brought its complaint to this service. Our investigator upheld it. He didnt think it was 
fair for Allianz to decline the claim. He thought Allianz should deal with the claim and if it was 
cash settled, it should add interest at 8%.
As Allianz didnt agree, the matter has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The question I need to decide is whether Allianz treated DBMPL fairly in the circumstances 
in declining its claim. To decide this Ive reviewed the wording of DBMPLs policy to see what 
it says about cover in its situation. Ive then looked at whether Amtrust made this clear to 
DBMPL.
DBMPLs policy requires it to tell Allianz when the property is unoccupied. If it didnt tell 
Allianz when it was unoccupied and comply with other conditions such as turning off the 
water supply, then it wouldnt be covered for damage caused by a water leak.
The policy defines unoccupied as meaning:
any Building or part of any Building which is empty or not in use by the Insured or any 
Tenant of the Insured for more than 45 consecutive days.
DBMPL disputes that the property was unoccupied during July and August as Mr M and 
various tradespeople were there regularly for various purposes. It has provided a timeline of 
these visits. But, apart from these visits, the property was empty, so I think it was fair on a 
strict interpretation of the policy terms for Allianz to treat the property as unoccupied, since it 
was classed as unoccupied if the property was either empty or not in use. But it seems to me 
unfair in the circumstances to rely on a term in a policy of student accommodation that is at 
odds with the way student lets are commonly managed.
Allianz has said it was never made aware that the property was let to students or that it 
would be unoccupied for long periods of time in the summer months. But its clear from the 
Schedule and statement of facts that DBMPL declared the property was let to students. 
Allianz allowed a third party to enter into policies of insurance on its behalf. If it didnt want to 
cover properties let to students, it should raise that with the third party. I dont think DBMPL 
was at fault in this respect.
As is common with student lets, DBMPLs tenants were paying rent from 1 July 2020 and 
were entitled to move into the property at any time after that date, although typically they 
wouldnt be expected to until nearer the start of the autumn term. Its also usual in that 
intervening period for a student landlord to have work done to the property to prepare it for 
the new tenants. It wouldnt be practicable for this to be done without a water supply. This is 
what in my view makes it an onerous condition for a student let.
The validity of the policy was dependent on this condition being complied with. Since this is 
an onerous term, its only fair that Allianz should highlight it to the policyholder. In this case 
the condition was on page 11 of the 47 page policy booklet. It isnt referred to on the 
schedule of insurance under the heading Special Terms and Conditions or the statement of 
facts. Im not satisfied that Allianz did enough to bring it to DBMPLs attention. It follows that I 
dont think its fair and reasonable for Allianz to rely on breach of this condition to decline the 
claim. 
Putting things right
To put things right I think Allianz should settle the claim. If the claim is cash settled, it should 
add simple interest of 8% a year from the date of the loss.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Allianz Insurance Plc to:
settle DBMPLs claim subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy; and
add simple interest at 8% a year to any cash settlement calculated from the date of the 
loss.
If Allianz Insurance Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off tax 
from any interest due to DBMPL, it should tell DBMPL how much its taken off. It should also 
give DBMPL a certificate showing this if DBMPL asks for one, so DBMPL can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask DBMPL to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman