DRN-3797168
The complaint
Mr G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt credit a cheque within the expected 
timescale.
What happened
In June last year, Mr G deposited a cheque into his account using a deposit machine in 
branch. Mr G says he expected the cheque to clear into his account by midnight and is 
unhappy that this didnt happen. Mr G adds that his account was overdrawn at the time, so 
he unnecessarily received reminders about this because the cheque didnt clear by the 
expected time.
Mr G refers to a notice that he says was on the deposit machine, explaining that the cut-off 
time for cheques was 3.30pm and anything deposited after this time will be credited the next 
working day. Mr G paid in his cheque before the cut-off time, so he expected the funds to 
clear by the end of that same day.
After he complained, HSBC explained that it had met its timescales and paid Mr G £75 
compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
Mr G asked this service to review his complaint. Our investigator concluded that HSBC had 
acted fairly and had met its timescales for processing the cheque. Mr G doesnt agree and 
remains of the view that his cheque shouldve cleared by midnight. 
Because Mr G didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided that HSBC has acted fairly  Ill explain why.
HSBC has shared its information about cheque processing. Ive also considered the banks 
literature on its website, which I understand Mr G has recently reviewed too. Given the 
information Ive seen, Im satisfied that the bank has processed Mr Gs cheque within its 
published timescales.
Mr Gs cheque cleared into his account around midday the following working day  I dont 
find this to be unreasonable. HSBCs process explains that cheques deposited before the 
banks cut-off time, will clear and the funds will be available before the end of the next 
working day. The banks literature says, If you pay in a cheque on a weekday (before our 
cut-off time) you can withdraw the funds by 23:59 on the next weekday. HSBC has met this 
timescale so I cant agree it has done something wrong.
Mr G points to the notice he says was at the branch and relies on this to claim the bank 
didnt adhere to its timescale. I havent seen the notice so I cant say for certain what it says. 
Based on the information Ive seen about HSBCs process, I dont agree with Mr Gs 
interpretation of the banks cheque clearing timescale. All the information Ive seen points to 
the cheque clearing by the end of the next working day. 
Its unfortunate that Mr G was notified about his overdraft again because the cheque hadnt 
cleared when he expected it to. Although I empathise with him, I havent seen anything that 
suggests he experienced a degree of distress or inconvenience or suffered a loss that would 
merit instructing HSBC to pay more compensation. So I wont be asking the bank to add to 
the £75 it has already paid to him. 
For these reasons, it is my decision that HSBC has acted fairly. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman