DRN-4082406
The complaint
Mr M is complaining about the way The Co-operative Bank Plc (the Co-op) handled a call 
when he called to set up a password for his credit card.
What happened
Mr M is unhappy with the way the Co-op handled a call when he called to set up a VISA 
password. In particular hes unhappy for the following reasons:
He was on hold for around 45 minutes before the call was answered.
He was asked an unreasonable number of security questions.
It took the call handler around 40 minutes to set up the password.
The Co-ops website said the phone lines were open 24 hours, 7 days a week. But they 
werent.
The Co-op didnt initially uphold Mr Ms complaint, so he referred his complaint to this 
Service. Since then, the Co-op has offered Mr M £50 in compensation for the length of time 
he was on hold.
Our investigator thought £50 was fair compensation. She acknowledged that Mr M had been 
on hold for longer than he should have before the call was first answered. She also thought 
the call handler could have handled the call better. But she didnt think the Co-op needed to 
do anything further to put things right.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigators opinion and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the Co-op has taken reasonable steps to put things right.
I should first set out that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not the regulator of the 
banking industry  thats the Financial Conduct Authority. So its not our role to fine and 
punish a business or to tell it what systems it should have in place. This Service is a dispute 
resolution service and its our role to assess whether a business has acted fairly. And, if not, 
to consider whether its taken reasonable steps to put things right.
Ive listened to the telephone call Mr M had with the Co-op and its clear that he was 
frustrated with the way the call was being handled and I can understand why. I do think the 
call could have been handled better as Mr M was put on hold a number of times and also I 
dont think it should have taken 45 minutes for the Co-op to answer the phone. The call 
handler set out at the start that he was new to the area and it was clear he was unsure how 
to process Mr Ms request. That said, the Co-op is required to have robust security 
measures in place and it seems the call handler was following its internal processes. And its 
clear Mr M was fundamentally unhappy with the security measures the Co-op had in place. 
But I dont think its acted unreasonably in this regard.
However, as I said, I do think the Co-op could have handled the call quicker than it did. And 
its not fair or reasonable that it took Mr M over an hour to arrange to set up a password. 
However, I think £50 in compensation the Co-op has offered is fair compensation for the way 
the call was handled in general. And I dont think it needs to pay anything further.
Finally, I can also see that Mr M was given misleading information about the times      
the Co-ops telephone lines were open. But I havent seen anything to show he has lost out 
as a result of that. So I dont think it needs to pay him further compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I think the £50 in compensation 
The Co-operative Bank Plc has offered Mr M is fair compensation. It should pay this to Mr M 
directly if it hasnt already done so. I make no further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman