DRN-3603371
The complaint
Mr S complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money (Madison) are 
holding him liable for a loan agreement that he says he didnt enter into. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In October 2019 a loan was taken out with Madison in Mr S name. The credit amount was 
£1,000 and the duration of the loan was 24 months. The loan was paid into an account that 
was jointly held between Mr S and his wife (Mrs S). The loan funds were subsequently 
transferred to an account in Mrs S name before being used towards household spending 
such as car insurance and a mortgage repayment. 
In December 2019 Mr S told Madison that his wife had taken out the lending without his 
knowledge or consent. Madison investigated but ultimately said they were holding Mr S 
liable for the loan. They said that if they were to be contacted by the police about an 
investigation, they would re-open their own fraud investigation and consider any new 
evidence that had come to light. But they concluded there was insufficient evidence to 
support that the loan application was fraudulent. 
Mr S complained and when Madison maintained their position the matter was referred to our 
service. One of our Investigators didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. In 
summary she didnt think it would be fair to ask Madison to do anything further. Mr S 
disagrees and has asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our Investigators outcome for the following reasons: 
Im not persuaded that Madison ought to have been concerned someone other than 
Mr S was behind the online loan application. The name and date of birth matched his 
genuine details. Its common for online businesses to accept a typed e-signature 
and I dont think Madison were wrong to do so in this case. 
The loan was credited to an account that at the time was held in Mr S name and Im 
satisfied he benefitted from the funds (by the way in which they were spent). Ive also 
seen evidence that this loan is included on a joint IVA that Mr and Mrs S voluntarily 
entered into in February 2021. 
In these circumstances I dont think Madisons decision to hold Mr S liable for the 
debt is unreasonable. 
Taking all of the above into consideration, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to 
require Madison to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman