DRN-3237740
The complaint
Ms H complains about advice given to her by ReAssure Limited (formerly Legal & General)
to transfer her occupational pension scheme to a personal pension plan.
Her representative complains that Ms H has lost out financially as a result of the transfer and 
the money paid to her by ReAssure in 2001 was insufficient compensation for that loss.
What happened
In 1993 Ms H was advised by ReAssure resulting in her transferring her occupational
pension scheme to a personal pension plan with ReAssure (comprised of two policies).
In February 2001 ReAssure reviewed the advice it had given to Ms H and offered her a lump
sum payment to be paid into her plan in full and final settlement of any claims. Ms H replied
in April 2001 and signed a document agreeing to accept the settlement.
That payment was paid into her personal pension plan in 2001.
Ms H is represented by a claims management company (CMC). In 2019 it complained to
ReAssure on her behalf. It said the compensation paid was inadequate as it estimated Ms H
had suffered past and future losses of tens of thousands of pounds. The CMC said that
ReAssure should carry out a loss calculation in line with Financial Conduct Authority
guidelines.
ReAssure didnt uphold Ms Hs complaint. It said her complaint about her plan being missold
was finalised in 2001 during the industry wide Pensions Review. So, it wasnt prepared
to revisit Ms Hs concerns about that advice.
ReAssure said a net payment of £3,243.10 was added to Ms Hs plan in full and final
settlement of all claims against ReAssure arising out of the advice Ms H received, that
resulted in her transferring her benefits from her occupational pension scheme to a personal 
pension plan with ReAssure.
Ms Hs representative disagreed and said that Ms H had signed the documentation on the
understanding that the payment being offered represented fair compensation. It said the
payment was insufficient to compensate her for the financial loss caused by transferring her
pension. Her representative referred her complaint to our service.
Our investigator considered Ms Hs complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He noted
there was an industry-wide review of pension business carried out by authorised firms.
He said ReAssure wrote to Ms H on 26 February 2001 advising her it had conducted a
review of her pension in line with the Pension Review. As a result of this it offered Ms H
compensation and on 9 April 2001 it received Ms Hs signed acceptance of this offer.
The investigator said ReAssure was required to carry out the review using the assumptions it
was told to use by the regulator at the time. He said the fact those assumptions were not
achieved was not grounds to redo the calculation. The investigator said he didnt consider
there were any errors in the calculation ReAssure had carried out.
He acknowledged that Ms H accepted the offer in good faith. However, the investigator
thought the letter made it clear that if its offer was accepted Ms H would have no further
claim against ReAssure. So, he considered it was clear that this was meant to be a final
settlement.
Ms Hs representative disagreed. Further information about the pension review was
provided. Ms Hs representative said ReAssure had failed to demonstrate it had tried to
reinstate Ms Hs plan which would have been her preferred option.
The representative also said that the calculation had been carried out incorrectly as
ReAssure had used assumptions for future costs that were unrealistic and too low. He said it
should have used the actual costs of the personal pension plan.
Ms Hs representative referred to guidance from 1994 which stated that the future expenses
of the personal pension should be the normal basis of charges applying to that contract at
the date of review. So, the business calculating the potential loss couldnt reduce it by
assuming a reduction in the future expenses to be charged under the personal pension. He
said that the annual management charge, together with the other charges used in the
calculation, only amounted to 0.75 percent per year which he said couldnt be correct. The
representative said this had a large impact on the result of the calculation, overstating the
future value of the personal pension benefits.
The investigator said ReAssure had provided further evidence that showed it was not
possible for Ms H to be reinstated into the defined benefit scheme as her former scheme did
not allow the reinstatement of former employees.
The investigator also said he had reviewed the calculation and the assumptions made by
ReAssure and he hadnt found any errors. So, he was satisfied that the calculation had been
carried out in line with the regulators directions at the time.
Ms Hs representative reiterated the points he had made in relation to the figures used for
the future costs and said that the amounts were too low.
ReAssure provided evidence of the annual management charge applicable to Ms Hs
personal pension plan and said that charge had always been 0.5 percent. So, it said that
was the charge at the time the pension review was carried out.
Ms Hs representative said the documentation provided by ReAssure didnt show the charge
was 0.5 percent at the time of the pension review in 2001. It also said that even if the charge
was 0.5 percent, that didnt represent all the costs incurred on the personal pension plan. It
said there were substantial additional costs and that was why fund managers have been
required to inform investors of the "T.E.R." (Total Expense Ratio) or "O.C.F." (Ongoing
Charges Figure).
As no agreement could be reached Ms Hs complaint was referred to me for review.
I provisionally concluded that Ms Hs complaint shouldnt be upheld for the reasons outlined 
later on in this decision.
The parties were then given an opportunity to respond to my provisional decision with any 
further representations that they wished to make. Both parties acknowledged receipt of the 
decision and indicated they had no further representations to make.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so my conclusions remain the same as those set out in my provisional 
decision. Ill reiterate them as follows.
The pension review
Ms H was advised by Legal & General (now ReAssure) to transfer from her occupational
pension scheme to a personal pension plan. That advice was reviewed by ReAssure in 2001
as part of a process known as the pension review.
The pension review was designed to be a one-off exercise and was put in place to resolve
widespread mis-selling of pension plans by financial businesses. The aim of the review
process was to put customers as much as possible back into the position they would have
been in had they not received inappropriate advice.
The methodology for putting things right was set by the regulator of the time. The financial
business firstly had to determine whether it was possible for the customer to be reinstated
into their previous defined benefit scheme. If that wasnt possible, the financial business
needed to put the consumer back into the position they would have been in by way of a lump
sum pension contribution. Several assumptions, based on what the regulator thought were
fair at the time, were used in the redress calculations  including the expected future growth
rate of the pension funds to produce the required benefits at retirement. Most pension
reviews were done between 1994 and 2003 and the assumptions were revised regularly
during that time.
In general, the assumptions to be used for the calculation were those relevant to the time
that the calculation was carried out and the compensation paid. This included where
mistakes were discovered in the original calculations. A re-calculation would usually be
carried out using the same assumptions that applied at the date of the original calculation.
Unfortunately, in many cases the assumed growth rates used in the calculations didnt
materialise. This, combined with annuity rates falling, have had an impact on the benefits
provided by personal pensions. So, although it was thought the compensation paid following
the review plus the existing value of the pension would be high enough to match the
occupational scheme at retirement date, this hasnt been the case for many consumers.
But that in itself isnt a reason to redo the pension review and recalculate compensation. The
review was designed to provide finality to both parties and draw a line under the matter 
businesses could provide redress for mis-selling knowing that they wouldnt be liable for
future compensation; and consumers could be re-assured that the mis-selling had been
recognised and put right at that point in time using what were considered to be reasonable
assumptions without the need to revisit the matter many years later.
In 2017 the Financial Conduct Authority issued new guidance  FG17/9. This was
designed for complaints upheld about occupational pension scheme transfers received after
3 August 2016 or for complaints received before this date that hadnt been settled in full and
final settlement already.
It was initially envisaged that any case that fell within the pension review period would be
excluded from the updated guidance. But after the consultation period, FG17/9 said some
cases could be included  where the financial business didnt review the relevant pensiontransaction in accordance with the regulatory standards at the time and/or where the
particular circumstances of the case were not addressed by those standards.
What happened in 2001
ReAssure contacted Ms H and indicated it had conducted a review of the advice it had
provided. It offered her compensation which was expressed to be in full and final settlement
of any claims she might have.
In its offer letter it said:
I recommend that you read this offer carefully before taking any further action. If you have
problems understanding any aspect or require any further information, please feel free to
contact me before reaching your decision. Alternatively, you may wish to seek independent
advice, although the cost of this will be your own responsibility.
It also warned Ms H that:
You should be aware that accepting this offer will prevent you bringing any further claim
against Legal & General concerning this matter.
ReAssure explained the compensation had been calculated in accordance with the
guidelines set out by the regulator and said:
In practice, the occupational scheme benefits you have given up are guaranteed, whereas
the benefits available from your replacement plan with Legal & General will be dependent on
fund performance and annuity rates which reflect market conditions. It is only when a claim
is made on your Legal & General plan that the exact value will be known. This could be more
or less than assumed in our calculation, but if you accept this offer your case will be deemed
to be settled.
So, I think ReAssure made Ms H aware that the calculation was based on an unknown
value- namely the future value of her personal pension plan. That meant there was a risk
she might not get the full difference in values between what she had given up, her
occupational pension scheme, and her current pension plan.
I am satisfied that Ms H accepted ReAssures offer because she signed a document which
said:
1 .My acceptance of this offer is in full and final settlement of all claims that I have
against Legal & General arising out of the advice that I received which resulted in my
transferring out of the XX(redacted) Pension Fund and into the above plan with Legal &
General.
2. Upon the actioning by Legal & General of the offer that I have accepted, any right 
of action that I have or may have, against any relevant third parties in relation to the 
circumstances which led me to transfer from the XX(redacted) Pension Fund and into 
the above plan with Legal & General shall automatically be transferred and assigned 
to Legal & General.
I consider therefore that it was made clear that acceptance would mean no further claim 
could be made and Ms H agreed to accept the compensation on that basis.
Overall, I am satisfied on balance that the terms of the acceptance were made clear to   
Ms H and that Ms H accepted the offer having been made aware of those terms.The fact that some of the assumptions ReAssure was required to make by the regulator 
in relation to future growth and annuity rates didnt materialise, doesnt in my view 
invalidate Ms Hs acceptance of that offer. Because, as I have said, the offer wasnt 
based solely on factors that were known and certain. It was also based on what the 
personal pension plan was predicted to be worth at retirement age.
Calculation of compensation in 2001
ReAssure has provided evidence of the calculations it carried out at the time which it has 
said were carried out in line with the regulators requirements.
Ms Hs representative says those calculations were carried out incorrectly. Specifically, 
he says that the figures ReAssure used for the future costs of the personal pension plan 
were incorrect as they were too low.
ReAssure has provided its calculations from 2001 which I can see were carried out and 
signed by one individual and then checked by a different person. It has used an annual 
management charge of 0.5 percent. It has also used a figure of £3.00 a month under 
average policy fee.
I can also see the 2001 statement for Ms Hs plan shows a monthly charge of £1.50. As 
there are two policy numbers within Ms Hs plan, I am satisfied that totals £3.00 a month 
which is in accordance with the figure used in the pension review calculations for 
average policy fee.
ReAssure has provided evidence of the annual management charge currently applied to 
Ms Hs plan at a rate of 0.5 percent. It has also provided plan documentation from 2012 
which shows the same annual management charge. It states:
The Annual Management Charge (AMC) of accumulation units of 0.75% for generation 05 
and 0.5% for generation 06 (Aggressive Growth Fund has an additional 0.25% AMC) is 
reflected in the fund prices rather than unit deduction.
ReAssure has explained that the annual management charge on the type of plan taken out 
by Ms H, namely personal pension plans taken out since 1990, has always been 0.5 
percent. Plans taken out prior to 1 January 1990 had an annual management charge of 
0.75 percent.
Ms Hs representative disputes this is the correct annual management charge and says 
that annual management charges at that time were typically much higher. I have asked 
whether he has any evidence to demonstrate the annual management charge figure was 
incorrect. The representative hasnt provided anything and has said the onus is on 
ReAssure to demonstrate it used the correct charges and provide the paperwork to prove 
those.
This pension review took place some 20 years ago. ReAssure has provided 
documentation from the time to show its calculations, how they were carried out and the 
assumptions they were based on. I also take into account that those calculations were 
checked and signed by a second person and that the regulator at that time carried out 
checks on businesses to ensure they were carrying out these calculations correctly.
I also note ReAssure has pointed out pension review calculations were under strict 
scrutiny at the time and had to follow prescribed methodology with all calculations having 
to be checked and authorised before any offer could be made.ReAssure has said the annual management charge has always been 0.5 percent for this 
type of plan provided it was taken out after 1990, which was the case for Ms H. It has also 
provided information going back to 2012. Where there is a dispute on the facts, I have to 
consider what is more likely than not to have happened. Overall, on balance, I am 
satisfied that ReAssure used the correct percentage for the annual management charge 
and the correct average policy fee.
Ms Hs representative has also said that the annual management charge didnt represent 
the total amount of costs. He has referred to the total expense ratio and the ongoing 
charges figure but hasnt specified what other costs should have been included in this 
calculation.
I am satisfied on balance that ReAssure applied the future costs in the calculation on the 
normal basis of the plan charges applying at that time, as required by the regulator. I have 
to assess its actions on the basis of what was required at that time. And, as I have said,  
Ms Hs representative hasnt expressly pointed out which costs he says werent included. 
So, overall, Im not persuaded on balance that ReAssure carried out the calculation 
incorrectly.
Reinstatement
I am satisfied that ReAssure has provided documentation which demonstrates that it 
considered the issue of reinstatement, but it was not possible to reinstate Ms Hs 
occupational pension scheme because that scheme didnt allow the reinstatement of 
former employees.
Summary
I appreciate Ms H is disappointed that the compensation she received in 2001 hasnt 
increased the value of her personal pension plan to the level she would have received if 
she had remained with her occupational pension plan, and I do sympathise. But I have to 
consider whether ReAssure has done anything wrong here. I am not persuaded on 
balance that it carried out the calculations incorrectly or outside the guidance provided by 
the regulator at the time.
As I have said the pension review was supposed to provide a degree of finality to both 
parties and it was carried out using assumptions provided by the regulator at the time. 
Unfortunately, some of the assumptions, which were based on what was believed to be 
likely at that time, have not materialised. But that isnt a reason to undo a calculation 
carried out twenty years ago with the aim of providing compensation and resolving matters 
between the parties involved.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Ms Hs complaint against ReAssure Limited for the reasons 
outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Julia Chittenden
Ombudsman