DRN-1549310
The complaint
Mr V is a director of a business that Ill refer to as T. He complains on Ts behalf that 
First Data Europe Limited failed to defend T in relation to a chargeback claim made against 
it. 
What happened
The details of the complaint are known to both parties and so I wont repeat them at length 
here. 
Briefly, in May 2019 T accepted a payment of £400 over phone and provided the relevant 
service for the payment. But this amount was re-debited to T under a chargeback claim 
made in June 2019. 
First Data advised T that the cardholder had denied making the payment and that the 
payment was fraudulent. It said that as the transaction was manually keyed, it was unable to 
challenge the dispute on the basis that it was a card not present (CNP) transaction. 
Mr V says that he was not advised at the time when the merchant account was opened that 
if he took payments over phone that it would be at his own risk. He feels that T complied with 
whatever it was asked by First Data and so it should be covered for any fraudulent 
transaction. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and was of the opinion that the complaint 
couldnt be upheld. She said, in summary:
This complaint is about the £400 chargeback. As regards another chargeback of £8.50 
that happened few months later, T needed to raise it first with First Data. 
In relation to this complaint, it is evident that the £400 payment was a CNP transaction. 
Section 8 of the terms and conditions of the Merchant agreement states that T must not 
accept or process CNP transactions unless First Data specifically allowed them. It 
doesnt appear that there was prior approval from First Data allowing T to make 
transactions without the card holder present. So, these types of transactions werent 
actually permitted within the merchant agreement T had with First Data.  
The merchant agreement also says that these transactions are in all cases at Ts own 
risk and any transaction disputed by the cardholder may be charged back. 
Mr V responded to say that he now understands that it is risky taking payments over the 
phone. However he had been compliant and so First Data ought to cover him for any loss 
due to fraudulent transactions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion, essentially for the same reasons. 
As stated by the investigator, T could not accept or process CNP transactions unless First 
Data allowed it to do so on writing, and I havent seen anything to show that First Data 
agreed to it. 
In any case, Section 8.3 of the Merchant agreement states that CNP transactions are at Ts 
risk and any CNP transaction disputed by the cardholder may be charged back, even where 
T had complied with the merchant agreement and First Data had given authorisation.
Further, the merchant agreement operating guide also states that CNP transactions are 
considered high risk, as the merchant could not check the card or the customer. The guide 
states that fraudulent CNP transactions are merchants liability and are likely to be charged 
back.
That is what seemed to have happened here. Mr V accepted the payment over telephone 
and as such it was a CNP transaction. But later the sale was disputed by the cardholder as 
fraudulent and the chargeback was made. In the circumstances, for reasons given above, 
First Data couldnt challenge the chargeback. 
I am sorry that T had been a victim of fraud and had lost money as a result.  But I cant say 
that this was because of anything First Data did or failed to do, in respect of the chargeback 
process. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against First Data Europe Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman