DRN-4155201
The complaint
Mr C complains about the advice given by TenetConnect Limited to transfer the benefits 
from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a self-invested personal 
pension (SIPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a 
financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS (the DB pension scheme) from the 
company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved pension benefits, one of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide compensation to members of 
defined benefit pension schemes when their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was 
closed to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated 
Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that, if 
risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Cs employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the 
BSPS2 or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 
11 December (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
Mr C met with Tenet in October 2017 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. Mr C and 
Tenet completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Cs circumstances and 
objectives. This showed that he was aged 54 and married with no dependent children (they 
were older). Both he and his wife were employed. The owned their own home that was 
subject to a mortgage, and they had some savings and investments. Tenet also carried out 
an assessment of Mr Cs attitude to risk, which it said was agreed as being five on a scale of 
one to ten or medium. 
In respect of Mr Cs pension arrangements, he had received a cash equivalent transfer value 
(CETV) from the BSPS in September 2017. This showed that he had around 28 years 
service. He was entitled to an annual pension of about £17,000 at the date of leaving the 
scheme. The CETV was about £440,360. Mr C had also joined his employers new defined 
contribution (DC) scheme. He was contributing 6% of his salary into this and his employer 
was contributing 10%.
In November 2017, Tenet advised Mr C to transfer his pension benefits into a SIPP and 
invest the proceeds in a range of funds that it said matched his attitude to risk. The suitability 
report said the main reasons for this recommendation were that Mr C wanted to retire in the 
next few years and he wanted some flexibility when he did this. For example, he could use 
this fund to bridge the gap between retiring at age 55 and drawing his state pension. He 
didnt want to take a reduced pension from the DB scheme, and he was worried about the 
future of the BSPS. 
Mr C complained in 2022 to Tenet about the suitability of the transfer advice. He said that 
the necessary critical yields were unattainable and so he thought that he may have lost out 
due to the transfer. 
Tenet upheld Mr Cs complaint and calculated compensation based on the regulators 
guidance at the time which was contained in FG17/9. This showed that Mr C hadnt suffered 
a loss due to the DB transfer. 
Mr C referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An Investigator looked at 
the offer made but didnt think that it was necessarily fair. He thought that it was right that 
Tenet used Mr Cs age 55 as his retirement date (as he retired then). But as it was clear that 
he wanted to retire early at the point of sale then Tenet should have advised him to join the 
PPF and compensation should be based on this. Our Investigator also thought that Tenet 
should pay Mr C £200 for the distress the advice has caused him. 
Tenet disagreed, saying that the value of the PPF benefits would be very similar to the 
BSPS2 benefits in the loss assessment. It looks like the third party it used to perform the 
calculation investigated this  although its not clear if it performed a loss assessment on this 
basis. So, it said that its likely that Mr C would still not have suffered a loss. And it didnt 
agree with the payment for distress and inconvenience, again as it said Mr C hadnt suffered 
a loss. 
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, he still thought that new 
calculations should be made on the correct basis. 
And after this the regulator has since developed, and now provides access to, a BSPS-
specific redress calculator. Both parties to the complaint have been informed that Im likely to 
award compensation based on this. 
Tenet has said that it doesnt want to perform a new calculation using the BSPS-specific 
redress calculator this as it has already correctly calculated the loss, in line with the FCAs 
guidance of the time, and feels that it shouldnt have to do this again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Tenet said in its final response that it had investigated the suitability of the advice and now 
was prepared to calculate and offer compensation. So, its reasonable to conclude that it 
thinks the advice it gave wasnt right for Mr C. And Tenet hasnt said that the advice was 
suitable for Mr C as part of the complaint. But for the avoidance of doubt, I agree that the advice Tenet gave Mr C to transfer away his 
DB scheme benefits wasnt suitable for him. The critical yields, that is the amounts the new 
arrangement would need to grow by, are very high and so it seemed likely at the point of 
sale that Mr C would receive lower benefits due to the transfer. He didnt seem to need the 
flexibility, or changed life cover, that a personal arrangement offered. Overall, it looks like the 
provision he already had was the most appropriate way to meet his retirement needs. Given 
this I will focus in this decision on the redress method.
The aim is to put Mr C back in the financial position he would have been in at retirement had 
he remained in the DB scheme. As I said above the FCA has developed a calculator 
specifically for situations such as this. The BSPS-specific redress calculator has been 
developed by actuaries and is programmed by the FCA with benefit structures of the BSPS, 
BSPS2 and PPF (including the impact of the subsequent buy-out) and relevant economic 
and demographic assumptions which are updated regularly. This information cant be 
changed by firms.
I think this is now the most appropriate way to calculate the redress here and Im directing 
Tenet to use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator. I know that Tenet does not feel 
that it is within my remit to make such a direction, and says it intends to continue using an 
independent actuary. But it is for me to determine what redress would be appropriate here 
and that can include a direction to use the FCAs calculator.
 
The FCA developed the calculator as part of the BSPS consumer redress scheme, to ensure 
consistency in the calculations and to ensure consumers receive fair and quicker redress. It 
also reduces the burden on firms by removing the need for actuarial support in most 
calculations. While the calculator was developed as part of the BSPS consumer redress 
scheme, the FCA is also encouraging businesses to use the calculator for non-scheme 
cases, such as Mr Cs complaint with the Financial Ombudsman. And overall, I think it would 
be reasonable for Tenet to use the FCAs calculator here as the calculator output is easily 
understood and I think it will provide Mr C with reassurance that any redress owed to him 
has been calculated fairly.
Our Investigator recommended that Tenet also pay Mr C £200 for the distress caused by the 
unsuitable advice. Mr C said that worrying about the amount of income he could take 
affected his mental health. And this was in the period before he made his complaint, so 
Tenets initial loss calculation wont have alleviated this. I dont doubt that Mr C has been 
caused concern in relation to his retirement planning, in what was already a difficult time for 
employees of the company he worked for. And Im conscious this wouldnt have happened 
but for the unsuitable advice. And so, in the circumstances, I think the award the Investigator 
recommended is fair. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr C, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr C would most 
likely have remained in the occupational pension scheme and moved with it to the PPF if 
suitable advice had been given. 
I have noted what Tenet has said about the PPF perhaps giving a similar outcome (in the 
compensation) to the BSPS2. But given Mr Cs situation I think this is what he would likely 
have done, if hed been given suitable advice. And so, this is what compensation should be 
based on. Tenet must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Tenet should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr C and the Financial Ombudsman 
Service upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what Tenet 
based the inputs into the calculator on.
Mr C has retired at age 55. So, compensation should be based on him taking benefits at this 
age.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of [Mr Cs] 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Tenet should:
calculate and offer Mr C redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr C before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr C receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr C accepts Tenets offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr C for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Cs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr C as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Tenet may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr 
Cs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Tenet should also pay Mr C £200 for the distress and inconvenience the poor advice caused 
him. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Tenet to pay Mr C the compensation as set out in the 
steps above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman