DRN-3081520
The complaint
Ms T complains that Ageas Insurance Limited declined her claim made on her motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
Another insurer notified Ageas that Ms T had been involved in an incident whilst abroad. 
Ageas investigated and settled the other drivers claim for repairs. But it declined Ms Ts 
claim as she couldnt provide evidence that she hadnt been abroad for longer than 90 days. 
So it said it couldnt validate Ms Ts claim. Ms T thought that because Ageas had settled the 
other drivers claim, it should also settle her claim.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought the 
policy excluded cover when the consumer was abroad for longer than 90 days. She thought 
Ageas was entitled to ask for evidence to validate a claim. Ms T was unable to provide 
evidence to show that she was abroad for less than 90 days. So she thought Ageas had 
settled the other drivers claim as it was entitled to do by the policy terms and conditions. But 
she thought this didnt mean that it should accept Ms Ts claim.
Ms T replied that she was unable to provide the required proof as the ticket had been 
booked by a friend and they had since fallen out. Ms T asked for an ombudsmans review, 
so the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Ms T feels frustrated that Ageas wont consider her claim, especially 
as it has now settled the other drivers claim. Our approach in cases like this is to consider 
whether the insurers acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and 
reasonably.
I can see that Ageas is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Ms T to take 
over, defend, or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Ms T has to follow its advice in connection with 
the settlement of a claim, whether she agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term 
in motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a 
commercial decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to 
compromise.
So I think Ageas was entitled by the policys terms and conditions to settle the other drivers 
claim. From what I can see, Ms T confirmed that the incident had occurred, and the repairs 
claim matched the described incident. So I cant say that Ageas did anything wrong in this. 
But that doesnt mean that Ageas now needs to settle Ms Ts claim. I can see that the policy 
has a clear exclusion from cover for trips abroad that are longer than 90 days duration. This 
is set out on page 20 of the policy booklet under the heading European Motoring 90: 
There is no limit on the number of trips You can make in any Period of Insurance, but each 
trip must be for no more than 90 days. This cover only applies if Your permanent home is in 
Great Britain, Northern Ireland, the Channel Islands or the Isle of Man, and You return to the 
UK within 90 days.
The policy also requires consumers to provide requested information to help Ageas manage 
their claims. And I also think the onus is on Ms T to demonstrate that she has a valid claim.
So Im satisfied that Ageas was entitled to ask Ms T for evidence to show that she was 
abroad for less than 90 days. Unfortunately, Ms T has been unable to provide this. And so 
Im satisfied that Ageas was entitled by the policy terms and conditions to decline her claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman