DRN-2390188
The complaint
Mr G complains about how Admiral insurance Company Limited handled a claim made on 
his motor insurance policy. Mrs G is a named driver on the policy. They want their No Claims 
Discount (NCD) reinstated, their outstanding premiums waived and an apology.
What happened
Mrs G was involved in an incident with another driver and a claim was made. Mr G was 
unhappy that Admiral settled the other drivers claim without speaking to him first, as it had 
agreed to do. He was unhappy with the amount Admiral paid for the claim. And he had a 
witness who said the other car already had a dent from an earlier accident, but Admiral 
settled the claim before considering this. Admiral paid Mr G £50 compensation for not 
contacting him as it said it would. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Admiral 
had reasonably settled the claim based on photographs and engineering evidence, as it was 
entitled to do by the policy terms and conditions. She didnt think the witness statements 
would have made any difference. A fault was recorded, and so she thought the NCD would 
be affected. And she thought the policy had been used, and so the premium must be paid. 
Mr G asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final 
decision. Mr G said hed had an earlier conversation with our service where he was led to 
believe his complaint would be upheld. He said not all his calls with Admiral had been 
passed to our service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G was concerned that not all his calls had been provided to our service. The investigator 
checked with Admiral and it said only three calls were available. Ive also been able to check 
Admirals contact notes. And I think these calls, along with the other evidence provided, are 
sufficient for me to reach a decision. 
Mr G said he had advice from our service before the current investigator considered his 
complaint. I think it would be unusual for our service to provide an outcome before it had 
considered the evidence provided by both parties. The relevant call recording isnt available. 
So I have no explanation to offer for Mr Gs recall that he was told his complaint would be 
upheld before we had received Admirals file.  
Mr G told us that the accident was at low speed, but a large dent appeared on the other car. 
He said Mrs G hit the rear of the car, but the dent was on a corner. He thought the other 
driver braked hard. I can see that hes suspicious of the other driver and thinks the claim was 
exaggerated. I can understand that this must be frustrating, and I can also see that its had 
an impact on his NCD. 
The investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it 
treated Mrs G the same as someone else in her position. 
I think Admiral is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr G to take over, 
defend, or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mr G has to follow its advice in connection with the 
settlement of a claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in 
motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial 
decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to 
compromise.
That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
available before making its decision on liability. 
From the calls Mr G made to Admiral, I think its agreed that Mrs G did hit the other car in the 
back. I can see that Mr G was told this would be a fault claim on his policy. I think thats 
standard industry practice as the onus is on Mrs G to maintain a safe braking distance.
Admiral then settled the other drivers claim for repairs and car hire. Mr G later said Mrs G 
had only made a scratch on the other car. He said he had witnesses that saw the other 
drivers car in a collision earlier that day. He thought his wife was held to blame for damage 
she hadnt caused. 
I can see from its file that the evidence available to Admiral was its engineers inspection of 
the photographs provided by Mr G. I can see there was damage to Mrs Gs cars front corner 
and the other drivers rear corner. The engineer thought the claimed for damage, and its 
height, was consistent with the accident circumstances. He also saw red marks on the dent. 
Mrs G was driving a red car at the time. I cant see that there was any CCTV footage or 
independent witness statements for this accident to be considered. 
So I think, based on the accident circumstances, Admiral had no recourse but to accept 
liability for the accident. Its engineers inspection of the photographs confirmed that the 
claimed for damage was consistent with the circumstances. 
Admiral has agreed that it didnt contact Mr G before settling the claim. So it didnt then know 
of the witnesses to the earlier accident. But I think, on balance, this would have been unlikely 
to provide evidence for Admiral to defend the claim as it would need to show that the latter 
incident hadnt caused the dent. 
So I cant say that Admiral has acted unfairly or unreasonably in investigating the claim and 
settling the other drivers claim. I think its entitled to do this according to the policy terms and 
conditions. So I cant say that Admiral made a mistake in this. 
Admiral agreed that it had told Mr G that it would contact him before settling the claim. I can 
see that this was recorded on its file notes, but it didnt do this. It paid Mr G £50 for the 
frustration this caused. I think this was fair and reasonable as its in keeping with what Id 
require in similar circumstances. 
A fault claim was registered, and so the NCD was affected. I think this was fair and 
reasonable. Mr G wanted to cancel his policy, but Admiral said the remaining premiums 
should be paid. A motor insurance policy is an annual contract, even though a policyholder 
may pay for it by instalments. The policy had been used as a fault claim had been made and Admiral had made an outlay. So I think its entitled to ask for the remaining premiums for the 
policy year to be paid. I dont require Admiral to waive these.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman