DRN-2120701
The complaint
Ms K is unhappy with Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd.s handling of the insurance renewal for 
her buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Ms K received a renewal quote from Triton to renew her buildings insurance policy in 
September 2017. To ensure her policy remained in force, Ms K paid the full amount to 
Triton. The amount paid was £343.43.
In September 2018 Ms K received a renewal quote from Triton again. This time, Ms K paid 
the full amount of £329.35. 
Ms K didnt receive her renewal documents from Triton and realised that she hadnt received 
the policy documents for the previous year either. She sent Triton an email asking for the 
policy documents to be sent so she could be assured her house was insured. Triton never 
responded to this request from Ms K. 
As she hadnt received a response from Triton, Ms K emailed the insurer shown on her last 
renewal quote. They confirmed they had stopped trading with Triton in 2017 and hadnt 
provided any insurance for Ms Ks house from that time. 
Ms K complained to Triton and asked for the full refund of her insurance premiums paid in 
2017 and 2018. Triton never responded so Ms K brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator asked Triton to provide their response. They didnt so the investigator 
upheld the complaint for Ms K. He asked Triton to refund the total premiums paid of £672.78, 
pay interest on that amount and pay Ms K £100 compensation for the upset the matter had 
caused her.
As Triton didnt respond to our investigators opinion, the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information is incomplete, Ive based my decision on the balance of probabilities, 
or whats most likely to have happened. In this case, Triton havent provided our service with 
any information, so my decision is based solely on what Ms K has provided. I find her 
information plausible and persuasive.
Ms K paid Triton to ensure her policy remained active. And, once she was aware she didnt 
have any insurance cover in force, she made sure she sought cover immediately.
Ms Ks original insurers cancelled their agreement with Triton in 2017. Unfortunately, Triton 
havent responded to our request for information so I cant provide Ms K with an explanation 
as to why the error occurred. But Im satisfied Triton shouldnt have offered Ms K any 
insurance cover with the original insurer. And they should have refunded the money Ms K 
paid to them.
Given this, its reasonable for Triton to refund the premiums paid by Ms K. Ms K has also 
shown that she tried to contact Triton several times to get her policy documents and then her 
money back, and she wasnt able to speak to anyone. None of her emails were answered. 
Because of this upset, its reasonable for Triton to pay Ms K £100 compensation. I think this 
amount fairly recognises the inconvenience and upset caused in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd must:
Pay Ms K her premiums of £672.78;
Pay interest at 8% simple on the amount due from the date Ms K paid for her 
insurance policy to the date this amount is paid; *
Pay Ms K £100 compensation for the upset shes been caused.
*Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd deducts 
income tax from the interest it should tell Ms K how much has been taken off. Triton 
Insurance Brokers Ltd should give Ms K a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so 
she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman