DRN-3200067
The complaint
Mrs B says Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) has unfairly declined her claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
In October 2020, Mrs B used her Nationwide credit card account to pay a dentist in Spain 
£752.66. Mrs B says she went to Spain for an implant, which the dentist agreed to provide. 
(However, Mrs B says she speaks no Spanish and the dentist spoke no English.) She says 
that without telling her, the dentist tried to give her a crown instead and, in the process, 
broke her tooth. Mrs B says the dentist then told her to return the next day. However, when 
she got home and after the anaesthetic had worn off, she realised the dentist wasnt going to 
give her an implant. Mrs B therefore asked the dentist for a full refund, but he refused. She 
says he didnt even give her the crown  he simply broke her tooth.
Mrs B subsequently contacted Nationwide to make a claim under section 75 of the CCA.
Initially, Nationwide declined the claim because Mrs B hadnt provided an invoice or contract 
to show what goods or services were purchased. Mrs B then provided a recibo and a till 
receipt. Nationwide wrote to Mrs B on 5 March 2021. It said these still didnt show what 
goods or services were purchased and once more declined her claim.
Unhappy with Nationwides response, Mrs B referred her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators didnt think it was unfair for Nationwide to decline Mrs Bs claim on 
the evidence provided.
Mrs B disagrees with the investigators conclusions and has asked that an ombudsman 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 of the CCA protects consumers who buy goods and services on credit. It says, in 
certain circumstances, the finance provider is legally answerable for any misrepresentation 
or breach of contract by the supplier.
Ive carefully considered the evidence Mrs B sent Nationwide to support her claim: a 
handwritten recibo (which is receipt in Spanish) for €790, and a till receipt for £752.66, 
both dated 5 October 2020. The till receipt shows £752.66 was €790 at the exchange rate 
that day. Theres no information about what the money was for. (The receipt includes the 
handwritten words setecientos noventa, spelt slightly differently, which simply means seven 
hundred and ninety.)
Mrs B has also sent us a one-page claim form for a Spanish court, which hasnt been 
completed, and a one-page presupuesto (or quote) dated 9 October 2020 from the dentist. 
The quote refers to two coronas metal porcelana for €170 each and two other items. A 
coronas metal porcelana is a porcelain metal crown. At the bottom of the page, it says:
Abono (payment) 790
Tratamiento realizado (treatment performed) 640
150 Dinero de devolcion (money returned)
Theres no mention of an implant.
I appreciate that the quote Mrs B has provided is dated 9 October 2020, which is four days 
after she paid for the treatment. However, as it refers to porcelain metal crowns and doesnt 
mention implants, I dont think I can safely say the dentist agreed to, and failed to, provide an 
implant.
Mrs B hasnt provided a copy of the terms and conditions, so its not clear what refund, if 
any, she was entitled to when she chose not to the receive the treatment she paid for. And 
she hasnt provided any evidence that her tooth was damaged and in circumstances that 
would suggest it was a breach of an express or implied term of the contract.
I appreciate that Mrs B will be very disappointed, but Ive seen insufficient evidence to 
conclude that there was a breach of contract. So I dont think it was unfair for Nationwide to 
decline her claim under section 75 of the CCA.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Christopher Reeves
Ombudsman