DRN-3366871
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) did not inform him that due to 
changes in the provider of the Tech pack insurer, his digital camera was no longer covered. 
This in turn led to Mr S having a claim declined when he attempted to claim on the Tech 
Pack when his digital camera was lost.
What happened
One of our adjudicators looked into this complaint. She concluded that Barclays had 
informed Mr S, via letter, through the Barclays app that the cover had changed. Mr S did not 
agree as he explained that he had his contact preferences set so that he should have 
received a letter through the post, as well as in the app. Mr S provided screenshots that he 
says demonstrates this.
Barclays provided evidence to show that Mr Ss contact preferences for letters were set to 
online only and it explained that the screenshots provided by Mr S were for his online 
statements.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this instance I should explain that where there is a dispute about what has happened and 
evidence is lacking, I have to base my assessment on what is most likely to have happened 
based on the available evidence. 
The crux of this matter is whether Barclays contacted Mr S correctly about the changes to 
the Tech pack.
Mr S says he set his contact preferences for general letters to post and online and has 
provided a screenshot that he says demonstrates this. I have looked at the contact options 
available for general letters on the Barclays app and this does not seem to be an option, 
there is either online, e-mail or post. There is no option for post and online. That said I can 
see that this is an option for bank statements. And the screenshot that Mr S has provided 
seems to show his preferences for how he receives his bank statements  and not for 
general letters. So I am unable to conclude that the screenshot that Mr S has provided 
demonstrates that he had set his contact preferences for letters to post and online.
Conversely Barclays has provided screenshots of its records which show that Mr S has set 
his preferences for letters to be issued online only. Taking everything into consideration,  I 
think that it is more likely than not that these were the options chosen by Mr S and perhaps 
Mr S has presumed (incorrectly) that the preference he selected for bank statements also 
applies to letters as well. However, based on everything I have seen, I cant see that 
Barclays did anything wrong because it informed Mr S of the changes to the Tech Pack 
electronically, as it was following the preferences that Mr S had selected.
Because of this, whilst I do understand Mr Ss frustration that his claim was declined, 
ultimately I dont think Barclays did anything wrong and it therefore follows that I dont think it 
would be appropriate in the circumstances to require Barclays to cover the cost of Mr Ss 
camera.
I should explain at this point that this decision represents the last stage of this services 
process but if Mr S remains unhappy, he may be entitled to pursue this complaint elsewhere 
such as court.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman