DRN-3495892
The complaint
Mr O is complaining about the service he received from British Gas Services Limited (BG).
What happened
Mr O took out a HomeCare Four policy with BG in January 2021. He had an issue with his 
boiler in February 2021 and again in March 2021. An engineer visited his home on both 
occasions (two faults were logged on the one visit in March 2021), and Mr O was charged 
excess payments of £60 for these visits. During the March visit Mr O raised concerns with 
his Hive system and I can see there was another visit in July 2021.
Throughout this time there was much confusion around Mr Os account. He was charged an 
incorrect excess, and his policy was cancelled and then reinstated. He was sent cheques 
and then told not to cash them. He discovered his name had been spelt incorrectly, and it 
transpired that BG had been communicating with Mr O via an incorrect email address, and 
he never received any of this correspondence. Mr O was also very concerned about his 
energy costs, as they had risen, and he felt this was due to the running of the Hive system. 
So, Mr O complained. BG wrote to Mr O and explained what had happened. It asked Mr O to 
submit evidence of his increased energy usage. Mr O remained unsatisfied, so he brought a 
complaint to our service. 
When the complaint came to this service, BG offered to pay Mr O £80 for the inconvenience 
its errors had caused. One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and recommended 
that BG increase its inconvenience award to £150.
BG disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Firstly, please note I cant comment on the alleged increase in energy use complained about 
by Mr O. Our investigator has sent Mr O details for an alternative ombudsman service to 
which he can complain.
Secondly, there was a large amount of correspondence on this file. Ive read and taken into 
account all of the information provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not 
reflected something thats been said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its 
because I didnt deem it relevant to the crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a 
discourtesy to either party, but merely to reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and 
reasonable outcome is. 
Administration
Mr Os name was spelt incorrectly, and his email address was wrong. BG has sent us 
a screen shot, showing the errors and the date the name was amended  8 March 
2021. BG say this was a creation error. BG say the policy was set up online and was 
set up using the name and email address Mr O provided.
But Mr O says he took this policy out via a phone call. Mr O says hes never signed 
up to anything online ever. In fact, hes told us he doesnt have a smartphone or a 
tablet and he manually controls the Hive system.
I appreciate BGs screenshot could suggest this policy was taken out online. But it 
could also suggest the details were given via a telephone call and filled in by BG. 
Having listened to the calls Mr O has had with our service, I think its more likely than 
not this policy was taken out via telephone. Mr O only has an email address because 
he needs one. He has requested that we write to him via post. He submitted his 
complaint to us via post. Mr O is elderly and has been very open with us about how 
he prefers using telephone and post. So, Im satisfied he more likely than not took the 
policy out over the telephone and the administration errors relating to his name and 
email address were not made by him.
Payments
I appreciate that BG uses an automated system that will generate correspondence as 
next steps for whats missing or whats required from a consumer. But this system 
can get very complicated if not used correctly when a consumer uses the more 
traditional methods of communication such as letter or cheque. 
Its clear that BGs system was generating correspondence that was being sent to Mr 
O, even though he had already carried out the actions required such as paying bills. 
This in turn caused much confusion, as there were instances where Mr O had sent a 
cheque, but there was a delay in receiving it via post and logging it, which in turn 
meant he was receiving unnecessary debt collection letters which added to his 
distress. 
And I think there is still an outstanding error thats gotten lost in the confusion that 
needs rectifying. 
Mr O paid £60 via cheque for a site visit in March. BG advised in May that it would 
cancel this invoice. The call notes from 6 May say BG agreed to refund the £60 as a 
goodwill gesture. So, it sent Mr O a letter and a cheque. Ive seen a copy of the 
cheque Mr O sent BG, and Ive seen a copy of the letter dated 12 May 2021 where 
BG sent a cheque back to Mr O. But Mr O was then told not to cash this cheque, and 
further to this an outstanding balance remained incorrectly on Mr Os file for months, 
up to September 2021. 
In short Mr O paid this amount, and BG refunded it. But it looks like it was never 
cashed, as the cheque was cancelled, and Mr O was told not to cash it. The cheque 
Mr O received has now expired. So, if this amount was never refunded to Mr O, Im 
requesting that BG issues the cheque again, as the original one has expired.  
Cancellation
The cancellation issue is unclear. So I need to consider whats most likely to have 
happened. Mr O is adamant he never cancelled the policy. But BG sent him a 
cancellation letter. He does recall the conversation. But the notes provided from BG 
arent clear, and even though weve requested it weve never received a copy of this 
call. 
I think from reading the notes Mr O only wanted to cancel if he received a full refund. 
The notes from BG from May show that BG told Mr O he was getting a full refund. 
But then the next call note says he wasnt receiving a full refund. So, I think its more likely than not cancellation was discussed, but this conversation took place based on 
incorrect information. So even if Mr O did cancel the policy, he did so based on 
incorrect information, So the cancellation would never have been fair. I do note that 
BG confirmed the policy was reinstated in its final response.
Putting things right
Mr O is an elderly man who only ever wanted his Hive system repaired. This issue has led 
to 12 months of errors, miscommunications, distress and inconvenience. If a businesss error 
has caused more than the levels of frustration and annoyance you might reasonably expect 
from day-to-day life, and the impact has been more than just minimal such as a single 
mistake then an award over £100 is fair. I appreciate BG have offered £80. But I think the 
award of £150 as recommended by our investigator is a fairer and more reasonable amount 
in these circumstances to compensate for the distress and inconvenience Mr O suffered for 
the errors and mistakes BG made. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things 
right I require British Gas Services Limited to:
Reissue the cheque for £60 to Mr O that was issued and then cancelled in May 2021 
(if this hasnt already been done).
Pay £150 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused for the reasons 
Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman