DRN-3219909
The complaint
Mrs Ms representative, a Claims Management Company (CMC), complains on her behalf 
that she was given unsuitable investment advice by Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax, 
referred to as Halifax or the business. 
In short, the CMC said Mrs M was advised to invest at the wrong time following her 
husbands diagnosis with a serious illness and limited life expectancy. 
What happened
In October 2001, Mrs M was approached by Halifax to discuss her savings and investments 
after she received funds from her husbands pension. 
She was advised to invest £15,000 in the Halifax Bonus Bond (the bond) and £3,000 in the 
Halifax ISA Saver (the ISA). Her husband was also advised to invest in the ISA. However, 
Mrs M chose to invest £20,000 in the bond, invested in the With Profits fund. 
In June 2003 Mrs M instructed the business to take out £1,000 a year in income, and in 
August 2003 she made a partial withdrawal of £10,000. In November 2004, she surrendered 
the investment in its entirety. 
In 2001, it was recorded that Mrs M and her husband had two dependent children and that 
she was in good health. They had a joint monthly income of £1,034, and an expenditure of 
£895, leaving a net monthly disposable income of £139. Her husband had been diagnosed 
with a serious illness and retired due to this. I note he was also given approximately two 
years to live. He was in receipt of disability benefits. 
Mrs M and her husband had joint savings of £42,000 held in a deposit account. Aside from a 
joint mortgage she/they had no other debts or liabilities. I note she also put aside a 
contingency fund of £27,000 for emergencies. It was noted that Mrs M didnt want to repay 
part of the mortgage because the mortgage protector plan would pay the mortgage for two 
years and there was life cover that would pay out in the event of her husbands death. 
I note her priority was to look for capital investments for growth/income. She agreed with the 
following regarding her risk appetite:
want to protect any gains you make. You want the opportunity for your money to
grow higher than it does in your (name anonymised) Bank account. You are prepared to look 
at investments which are, in part, linked to the stock market, provided that there is an
element of guarantee, aimed at protecting your money
you dont want to make your own investment decisions. You would prefer to let this be
done by experts, on your behalf.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Hes unable to safely say that the recommendation was unsuitable for Mrs M given 
her circumstances. 
She had a monthly disposable income after expenses, and a reasonable cash 
reserve was recommended (and put aside) for unexpected emergencies. 
The CMC mentioned that Mrs M started making withdrawals when her son got 
himself into debt. But the investigator is satisfied the recommendation wasnt 
unaffordable even though the bond was surrendered early.   
Her husband being unwell wasnt a reason for her not to invest. He doesnt agree 
that she shouldnt have been advised to invest at all.  
The investment was in line with Mrs Ms attitude to risk and met her objective for 
growth, for which she wouldve needed to take a risk. 
The advice was in Mrs Ms name only and was recommended to be held for a 
minimum of five years. This wasnt affected by her husbands diagnosis. 
The bond also provided a capital guarantee, if held for a period of five years. The 
relevant key policy documentation provided made clear the nature and operation of 
the plan. 
The documentation also made clear the effect of surrendering early and the impact of 
taking withdrawals. 
The CMC disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, it said:
Given Mrs Ms husbands diagnosis and life expectancy, her income would be 
affected within the minimum five-year term of the bond. 
There wasnt a high disposable income, and it wasnt clear how this would be 
impacted following the death of her husband.   
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says, Im unable to 
safely say that the recommendation to invest in the bond was unsuitable for Mrs M or that 
she was advised to invest at the wrong time.
Before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise the 
strength of feeling Mrs M has about this matter. The CMC has provided submissions to 
support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope Mrs M 
wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in 
as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
Im aware of the submissions made by the CMC in relation to Mrs Ms recent position as a 
victim of crime, the physical and mental impact it had on her and her employment status. So 
as not to undermine her anonymity I wont repeat the details of what was said by the CMC. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading  its not what Im required to do  in order to reach a decision in this case. I appreciate this can be frustrating, but it doesnt mean Im not considering the pertinent 
points.
 
My role is to consider the evidence presented by the CMC and Halifax, and reach what I 
think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In 
deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, 
based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
 
Im mindful that in 2001 Mrs M was in her early 40s, married with two children. She also had 
a disposable income, a mortgage and was in reasonable health, notwithstanding what shed 
experienced previously I note it was recorded in the fact find that she was in good health. In 
the circumstances, and on balance, I dont think the advice to invest generally was wrong. 
Im not persuaded that she shouldnt have been advised to invest because of her husbands 
circumstances which she and the adviser were aware of.  
I note that aside from a mortgage  which Mrs M didnt want to pay off and had contingency 
for  she didnt have other debts to pay. I cant blame Halifax for Mrs M doing something she 
wanted to do instead of paying off all/or part of her mortgage. It was an option that she didnt 
wish to pursue, and Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mrs M wasnt capable of making her 
own decisions. 
Mrs M had savings was evidently keen to invest for growth but with a guarantee to at least 
get her capital back, which she would if she remained invested for a minimum of five years. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest that this was unreasonable for her, or that it was unrealistic as 
she had no plans for the money and would benefit from capital growth/income. 
I note it was possible that her circumstances could change in the next two years if her 
husband passed away, but it was something that she and the adviser were aware of and had 
taken account of and was therefore unlikely to affect her investment. It wasnt as if the 
adviser chose to disregard this point and offer advice on the basis that all was well when it 
wasnt. I note it was recorded that she had a pension from her employer and gave up her job 
to help look after her husband whod been given two years to live following his diagnosis. 
I note that Mrs M had life cover in place and would receive a pay out in the event of her 
husbands death. With the additional sum of money, and potentially being able to return to 
work at some point, it could be argued that Mrs M wouldve been better off financially 
following the sad death of her husband, not financially worse off. In addition, I note Mrs M 
had access to savings, so, in the circumstances it was reasonably unlikely that shed need 
the money during the term of the investment. 
On balance, I think Mrs M was in a reasonable position to invest and take a risk with a 
portion of her money from her savings, which Im satisfied she wasnt reliant upon at the time 
and probably unlikely to need anytime soon. 
This might also explain why she opted to invest £20,000 in the bond despite being advised 
to invest only £15,000. I note she had two meetings with the adviser and was clearly in a 
position to make an informed decision about the investment and her future. 
The above notwithstanding, Im satisfied that Mrs Ms attitude to risk was discussed and that 
she was willing to take a (low) risk to meet her objective for capital growth in respect of the 
bond  which I think presented a limited exposure to risk given the capital guarantee 
element.  In the circumstances, Im satisfied that Mrs M was also aware that her investment could go 
up as well as down, and she was willing to take a measured risk to meet her objective for 
capital growth/income. On balance Im broadly satisfied that the recommendation met her 
objective for potential growth whilst not taking more risk than she was comfortable with.  
Im satisfied that the key policy documentation made clear the nature and operation of the 
investment. Im not aware of Mrs M raising any issues about anything she was 
uncomfortable with or didnt understand. 
I think Mrs M was aware that aside from the guarantee offered by the bond, she wasnt 
offered a guarantee with regards to what she might get by way of return and she was 
comfortable with that. Im also satisfied that she was aware, or ought reasonably to have 
been aware, of the impact an early surrender would have on her investment. So, in the 
circumstances Im unable to say that the recommendation was unsuitable for Mrs M. Im 
mindful Mrs M prioritised helping her son over any losses or penalties she might incur.
Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mrs M was risk averse or didnt want to take any risk with 
her money in order meet her objective. Despite what the CMC says, on a balance I cant say 
that its more likely than not Mrs M wouldnt have invested, because she opted to invest 25% 
more than she was advised to invest in the bond. Like the investigator Im satisfied that Mrs 
M made an informed decision to go with the recommendation, based mainly on her need to 
invest for capital growth with some guarantee. 
Despite what the CMC says, Im satisfied that Mrs M was left with access to a reasonable 
amount of cash for any emergencies or unforeseeable expenses. The fact that she chose to 
surrender early to help her son who was in financial difficulty doesnt mean that the 
recommendation was wrong. She chose to do so of her own volition without advice. I dont 
think this was something that she or the business couldve foreseen or predicted. 
In conclusion, Ive not seen enough persuasive evidence that the bond was unsuitable for 
Mrs M in 2001. I appreciate she will be disappointed Ive reached the same conclusion as 
the investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isnt what she wants to hear. Whilst I 
appreciate her frustration, Im not going to ask Halifax to do anything. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman