DRN-3290424
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) declined their 
travel insurance claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W took out an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy. The policy start date was 
13 February 2020 and expired on 12 February 2021. The policy was underwritten by Great 
Lakes.  
Mr and Mrs W booked a ski trip on 23 January 2020 and their intended travel dates were 
from 14 March 2020 to 21 March 2020. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, they cancelled their 
trip on 12 March 2020. 
On the 12 March 2020, the date they cancelled their holiday, the UKs Foreign,  
Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO)  formerly the Foreign and Commonwealth 
Office (FCO)  said for the country (Country X) they were travelling to:
There is an ongoing outbreak of coronavirus (COVID-19) in China, but cases have 
been confirmed in other countries, including Country X. The government (of Country 
X) has announced a range of restrictions on travel and events.
On 17 March 2020, the FCDO advised against all but essential international travel.
Mr and Mrs W cancelled their trip on 12 March 2020 and submitted a cancellation claim on 
their travel insurance policy with Great Lakes. They wanted their claim paid for the cost of 
the flights and hotel accommodation theyd lost out on. Great Lakes declined the claim 
because it said they had no cover for the situation that Mr and Mrs W found themselves in.
Unhappy with Great Lakes response, Mr and Mrs W brought their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and she didnt uphold it. She explained their 
reason for cancellation isnt covered as a listed insured event under their policy. 
Mr and Mrs W disagreed with the investigators findings. They say they didnt want to cancel 
their trip but the circumstances at the time were so uncertain that they didnt feel safe to 
travel and there was no clear guidance available about international travel at the time. And, 
had they continued with their travel plans, looking back, they would have been advised to 
return home.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules and guidance
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly.
Im satisfied that our investigator identified, and set out, the relevant industry rules and
guidance which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. The investigator also
highlighted, and referred to, the key documents which are relevant to this complaint.
The policy terms and conditions
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ws policy as this forms the basis of 
the travel insurance contract with Great Lakes. 
In the cancellation section of Mr and Mrs Ws policy booklet - Section 1, page 24, sets out
what is covered in the event of a trip being cancelled and provides a list of reasons:
What is covered:

Unforeseen illness, injury or death of You, a Close Relative or any person with
whom You have arranged to travel or stay during the Trip.
 You abandoning Your Trip following the cancellation of or a delay of more than 12 
hours in the departure of Your outward international flight, sea-crossing, coach or 
train journey, forming part of the booked Trips itinerary, as a result of Strike or  
Industrial Action (of which You were unaware at the time You either booked the Trip 
or purchased this policy, whichever is the latest), adverse weather conditions, or the 
mechanical breakdown of, or accident of, the aircraft, sea vessel, coach or train.
 You or any person with whom You plan to travel being called up for Jury Service or 
being subpoenaed as a witness in a court of law (other than in a professional or 
advisory capacity).
 If You are made redundant and You qualify for redundancy payment under current 
legislation.
 Your Home being made uninhabitable or place of business being made unusable 
(including if Your presence is required by the Police in connection with such events), 
up to 7 days before the commencement of Your Trip.
 Your compulsory quarantine.
 You or Your travelling companion having agreed leave subsequently cancelled by 
the emergency services or armed forces, for operational reasons. This cover does 
not apply to cancellation of leave due to war, invasion, acts of terrorism, hostilities 
(whether war be declared or not), civil unrest, revolution, rebellion, act of foreign 
enemy or any similar event.
Mr and Mrs Ws trip wasnt cancelled for any of the reasons listed above. This means their 
cancellation claim isnt covered under the terms and conditions of the policy. 
In the same section, on page 26, theres a list of events that are not covered under the 
policy:
What is not covered:
o) prohibitive regulations by the government of any country, or delay oramendment of the booked Trip due to government action.
Has the claim been declined fairly?
Im not upholding this complaint as I dont think Great Lakes treated Mr and Mrs W unfairly. I 
say this because:
Mr and Mrs Ws trip wasnt cancelled for any of the reasons set out in the 
cancellation section of the policy. So, what happened here isnt covered under the 
terms and conditions of the policy. Ive also looked at the remaining sections of Mr 
and Mrs Ws policy, but I dont think they held any cover which would pay a benefit in 
the circumstances they found themselves in.
Ive considered whats fair and reasonable in the overall circumstances of the case, 
taking into account industry rules, guidance and the relevant law.
The cancellation section of Mr and Mrs Ws policy also excludes claims for 
cancellation arising from regulations set by the government of any country.
I understand Mr and Mrs W feel strongly about the circumstances they found 
themselves in and there was uncertainty at the time they decided to cancel their trip. I 
also appreciate this must have been a challenging period for them. However, Ive 
considered these carefully and while I have every empathy for their circumstances, 
the reason for their cancellation isnt listed as an insured event under their policy.
While I appreciate that had they continued with their travel plans, they may well have 
had to return to the UK (because of the FCDO advising UK nationals to return home), 
this isnt what actually happened. Mr and Mrs W cancelled their trip on 12 March 
2020 and did this before the FCDO advised against all but essential international 
travel. So the reason for their cancellation isnt one thats listed as an insured event 
under the cancellation section of their travel policy.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs W but I dont think their claim is covered under the 
terms and conditions of their policy. And I dont think there are any reasonable 
grounds upon which I could fairly ask Great Lakes to accept their claim.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied Great Lakes hasnt acted unfairly or 
unreasonably by declining Mr and Mrs Ws claim. It follows that I dont think Great Lakes 
needs to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ws complaint against Great 
Lakes Insurance SE. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman