DRN-4161846
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with the repairs carried out by QIC Europe Ltd to settle a claim 
they made under their home insurance policy.
Mrs B has primarily dealt with the claim, so Ill refer to her only for ease of reading.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the circumstances arent in dispute, Ill summarise the main points:
QIC accepted a claim for damage to the driveway caused by a leaking underground 
pipe. To repair the leaking pipe, access holes were made through the driveway. The 
holes were temporarily repaired and QIC accepts a permanent repair is required. It 
also accepts a section of the block paving has dropped and needs to be replaced.
QIC offered to settle the claim by paying for a patch repair to the damaged areas. 
Mrs B thought the entire driveway should be replaced and provided quotes for that 
scope of work. QIC said its policy only covered the damaged sections of the 
driveway. But it was nonetheless prepared to offer 50% toward the full replacement 
cost to settle the claim.
Mrs B said she couldnt find a contractor willing to carry out a partial repair  they 
would only replace the driveway in full. And QICs offer meant she would be left with 
a shortfall if she did that.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She said QIC should 
provide a settlement that indemnifies Mrs B and provides her with a lasting and 
effective repair of the damage. She thought the evidence showed that the only way to 
achieve this was for QIC to replace the driveway in full and asked it to pay the 
associated cost.
Mrs B agreed with this. QIC didnt. In summary, it said:
oThe holes were confined to one area of the driveway.
oReplacing the entire driveway would amount to betterment. It offered 50% to 
ensure Mrs B wouldnt be left with a driveway that had patch repairs visible.
oThe damaged areas amount to less than 50% of the driveway, so the offer 
includes a contribution to undamaged areas  which goes beyond what the 
policy terms require QIC to do.
Both parties agree a permanent repair is required to put right the damage caused by 
the access holes. This dispute centres on how to settle the claim for that permanent 
repair fairly.
The policy covers damage to the driveway. Taken literally, that means QIC only 
needs to carry out a patch repair to the holes.
But there are two relevant and longstanding principles to take into account here. The 
first is that the aim of the policy is to indemnify the policyholder. An insurer can do 
this by putting the policyholder back in the position they were in immediately prior to 
the damage. The second is the fair and reasonable expectation that any repair 
carried out to insured damage should be lasting and effective. That means properly 
putting right the damage for a reasonable amount of time.
In this case, QIC originally suggested a patch repair involving hot rolled tarmac but 
accepted it wouldnt provide a long term resolution as it may split from the original 
tarmac at the boundary between the two. I understand it hasnt offered any other 
repair options. So by its own admission, it hasnt offered a lasting and effective 
repair. And it recognises a patch repair is likely to be unsightly. That means a patch 
repair isnt a reasonable way of settling the claim.
Mrs B has provided quotes and comments from three contractors. One said the 
driveway had become unrepairable as a result of the temporary repairs and the 
impact of the water leak. Another said it wouldnt be able to guarantee a patch repair 
as the entire driveway needed replacing. Both quoted for full replacement, as did the 
third, although they didnt add any narrative. Theres no dispute that full replacement 
is likely to provide a lasting and effective repair.
As I understand it, QIC has offered 50% towards one of the quotes on the basis that 
less than 50% of the driveway is damaged. And replacing half the driveway would 
avoid patch repairs, which are unlikely to be lasting and are likely to be unsightly.
I agree that replacing a larger area is likely to be more visually appealing than patch 
repairs. However, this will still create some kind of boundary between old and new 
driveway and thats likely to face similar problems bonding in the long term. And I 
note the contractors were clear that only a full replacement would likely be 
successful. So Im not satisfied only replacing a larger area is likely to be effective 
and lasting. And Im not aware that QIC or any other contractor is prepared to carry 
out this work for Mrs B. So I dont think this is a reasonable way of settling the claim.
That means the only option available to Mrs B thats likely to be lasting and effective 
is a full replacement. QIC hasnt offered her enough money to have that work carried 
out, which means she cant be indemnified. As a result, Im not persuaded QIC has 
offered to settle the claim fairly.
QIC has placed a lot of emphasis on the limitations of its policy and its view that 
replacing the driveway in full would amount to betterment. As our investigator 
explained, the simple fact is that we expect QIC to carry out a lasting and effective 
repair of the insured damage. If the only way to do that is to carry out work to 
undamaged areas, by replacing the driveway in full, then that is the fair and 
reasonable thing to do in the circumstances of this case.
To put things right, QIC should pay the cost to replace the driveway in full. The 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy apply, such as the excess.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. 
I require QIC Europe Ltd to pay the cost to replace the driveway in full.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman