DRN-3835314
The complaint
Mr P complains about the advice given by CST Wealth Management Limited (CST) to 
transfer the benefits from a defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme, the British 
Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable 
for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ps employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB pension scheme) from the 
company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved pension benefits, one of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide compensation to members of 
defined benefit pension schemes when their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was 
closed to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Ps employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
Mr P sought advice from CST about his pension, in light of the uncertainty around it. CST 
completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ps circumstances and objectives. It 
also assessed his attitude to risk (ATR). He was 31, in good health, single and employed, 
earning approximately £33,000 per year. His ATR was deemed to be high medium. In 
addition to the benefits held in the BSPS, Mr P was also a member of his employers new 
defined contribution (DC) pension scheme, to which he and his employer were making 
combined contributions equivalent to 16% of his salary.
Mr P was a long way from retirement and so noted he didnt know what income hed require 
in retirement, although retiring early, around age 60, was something that potentially 
appealed to him. He also noted that he was unmarried and had no dependents but did think 
this was likely to change in the medium term. CST recorded that Mr P was concerned with 
his employers handling of his pension and was looking to potentially transfer for this reason.
The RAA was signed and confirmed in August 2017 and the agreed steps were carried out 
shortly after. Updated transfer valuations were provided by the BSPS trustees to qualifying 
members in September 2017. And in October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a time 
to choose letter which gave them the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to 
the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere.
On 31 October 2017, CST advised Mr P to transfer the cash equivalent transfer value 
(CETV) of his BSPS benefits (£56,157.43) into a personal pension with a named provider 
and invest the proceeds in one of its managed portfolios. Mr P accepted this advice.
CST set out the reasons for its recommendation in a suitability report which said Mr P had 
made no plans for retirement but would like the option of retiring early without restriction. So, 
it said he wanted to explore the option of transferring because:
he would like flexibility in respect of his income, 
he was concerned about the scheme entering the PPF, 
his income needs between retiring and state pension age were greater than the 
benefits the DB scheme offered and
in the event of his death there would be little legacy for his family. 
CST said a personal pension gave him flexibility, control and access to alternative death 
benefits so it recommended he transfer. CST also recommended that he take ongoing 
advice from it on his pension, at a further cost.
Mr P complained in 2022 to CST about the suitability of the transfer advice. He said he felt 
hed been given bad advice to transfer out of the scheme rather than join the BSPS2 or the 
PPF and had lost valuable guaranteed benefits and was likely to be worse off.
CST didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. It said Mr P had considered the BSPS fund of low value 
when he contacted it and had wanted to take the risk of investing it. And CST had agreed 
that he was unlikely to need to rely on the BSPS benefits in retirement.
Mr P referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our Investigators 
looked into the complaint and said it should be upheld. He felt Mr P was unlikely to improve 
on the benefits that he couldve taken via the scheme at retirement by transferring. And he 
didnt think, particularly given how far away retirement was for Mr P, that there were any 
other reasons that meant transferring was in his best interests. So, he recommended that 
CST compensate Mr P for any losses caused by the unsuitable advice and pay him £300 for 
the distress hed incurred.
CST disagreed. It said it was required to take reasonable steps to ensure the advice was 
suitable for Mr P, which it thought it had done, not guarantee that it would be suitable. It said 
the Investigator had placed too much weight on an assessment of the critical yield and it was 
under no obligation to consider the discount rates the Investigator had referenced. CST 
didnt agree that Mr P wouldve joined the BSPS2 had he been given alternative advice and 
indicated it felt hed have still looked to transfer given the atmosphere at the time. And it said 
that the BSPS2 was not a confirmed option at the time of the advice anyway. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
I note, more recently, CST has indicated that, despite not agreeing that the advice was 
unsuitable, it would look to carry out a calculation to see if Mr P was worse off. But as it 
continues to dispute the Investigators opinion and the matter is not resolved, in fairness to 
all parties, Ill now make a decision on this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
CST has said that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has undertaken a 
review of its advice process in relation to members of the BSPS and didnt highlight any 
concerns. It has therefore questioned how our service can come to a different conclusion  
that transfer advice was unsuitable. But our role is different to that of the FCA. It is to look at 
the individual circumstances of a complaint and decide what we consider is fair and 
reasonable. That is what Ive done here.Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of CST's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
CST says that its adviser was only required to take reasonable steps to ensure the advice 
was suitable for Mr P. I agree that under COBS, CST was required to take reasonable steps 
to ensure that its personal recommendation to Mr P was suitable for him (COBS 9.2.1). But it 
was also required, under COBS 2.1.1R to ensure it acted in accordance with his best 
interests. And, as Ive mentioned above, additional regulations and guidance apply to 
advising on transferring out of DB schemes. These say that the starting assumption for a 
transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. And that CST should only have considered 
a transfer out of the scheme if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ps 
best interests (COBS 19.1.6G). And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not 
satisfied it was in his best interests. Ill explain why.
CST was required, by the regulator, to produce a transfer value analysis (TVAS). 
This included calculating critical yields which showed how much Mr Ps pension fund 
would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same benefits as his DB 
scheme. 
The critical yield to match the full starting pension the BSPS2 wouldve paid from age 
65 was 5.1%. And to match the maximum tax free cash (TFC) and reduced starting 
pension the BSPS2 wouldve provided it was 4.56%. To match the full starting 
pension the PPF wouldve provided at age 65 the critical yield was 4.46% and to 
match the maximum TFC and reduced pension from the PPF was 4.21%. The critical 
yields were though the estimated returns required just to replicate the benefits being 
given up, not improve on them.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 
as to how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments 
where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 
2017 similar rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our 
website. CST has said it was not required to consider these discount rates. But the 
regulator required businesses to compare the benefits likely to be paid under a DB scheme with those payable under a personal pension, using reasonable 
assumptions. And the discount rates give a useful indication of what growth rates 
would have been considered reasonably achievable for a typical investor. And so, 
while CST was not obliged to use the discount rate, it would, in my view, be a 
reasonable assumption to consider. And CST was free to consider it. The relevant 
discount rate at the time was 4.7% for 33 years to retirement  relevant if Mr P retired 
at age 65. 
CST said that Mr Ps attitude to risk was high medium (although the suitability report 
suggested that his capacity for loss was less than this and only medium). In CSTs 
risk profile report, an explanation was included that said the target portfolio for a high 
medium risk profile investor had an estimated annual growth rate of 3.25%.
There would be little point in Mr P giving up the guarantees available to him through 
his DB scheme and take on the associated risks only to achieve, at best, the same 
level of benefits outside the scheme. And by transferring Mr P would have to pay 
annual fees and charges for the personal pension, which would reduce any gains the 
funds made. And those are not charges he would have had to pay if he didnt 
transfer.
Here given Mr Ps recorded attitude to risk, what CSTs report said about the 
expected returns for a portfolio for someone with that profile, the discount rates and 
considering the regulators standard projection rates at the time of 2%, 5% and 8% 
for low ,medium and high rate returns respectively, I think there was very little scope 
for Mr P to improve on the benefits hed have received under either the PPF or the 
BSPS2. And, if his fund had an extended period of poor performance or suffered 
losses then he would likely find himself worse off in retirement. 
In fact, in respect of the benefits the BSPS2 wouldve offered, I think Mr P was 
always unlikely to achieve the critical yield required to match the benefits being given 
up. And indeed, in the suitability report, CST said in its opinion the critical yield could 
not be guaranteed to be achievable year on year.
CST has referred to the past performance of the recommended fund in its response 
to the complaint, as well as the performance since the advice was given. But what 
has happened since was neither known nor guaranteed at the time of the advice. 
And, as CST will know, past performance is no guarantee for future performance and 
so I consider the discount rates and the regulators standard projections to be more 
realistic in this regard in the long term rather than projecting historic returns forward, 
particularly over such a long period of time.
CST has said we have placed too much weight on an analysis of the critical yield. But 
the regulator required CST to calculate critical yields and consider the cost of the 
guarantees being given up. So, I do think an analysis of the critical yield is a relevant 
consideration here. And the critical yields arent the only thing that, in my view, 
indicates Mr P would potentially be worse off in retirement by transferring. The TVAS 
said that to purchase an annuity at age 65 to match the TFC and reduced pension 
the BSPS2 wouldve offered would cost an estimated £175,029.73. And to match an 
annuity paying equivalent benefits to the full pension, this figure would be 
£207,914.40. A personalised illustration from the personal pension provider said 
though that if the mid-rate of growth was achieved until age 65, after accounting for 
fees and charges, the value of the pension was likely to only be £83,300. 
CST has said that its models indicate that Mr P was unlikely to need to rely on the 
BSPS benefits in retirement, given hed be building up other provisions in the time until retirement. And it said he wanted to transfer to try and exceed the rate at which 
the DB scheme benefits would revalue. CSTs role wasnt that of wish fulfilment or to 
put in place what Mr P mightve thought he wanted when seeking advice. It was to 
give him objective advice about what was in his best interests. Exceeding the 
revaluation rate wouldnt mean Mr P would improve on the benefits he had. And, 
even if he was expected to have other provisions, that doesnt mean it was in his 
interests to give up the guaranteed benefits  particularly considering those expected 
other provisions were already subject to investment risk and gave him the option to 
influence how they were invested. 
CST said Mr P was interested in potentially retiring before the normal retirement age 
of the scheme without there being restrictions on his pension income and that the 
scheme benefits alone wouldnt have met his expected income needs. But Mr P was 
only 31 at the time of the advice, a significant amount of time away from when hed 
be able to access his pension benefits. I think, when asked, most people would say 
they would like to retire early. But Mr P was too far away from retirement to decide 
this. And the information recorded in the fact-find reflects this.
The BSPS2 and the PPF wouldve allowed him to access benefits prior to the normal 
scheme retirement dates. It is true that these wouldve been subject to actuarial 
reductions. But that was to reflect the fact that benefits wouldve been payable for 
longer than if he waited until his normal retirement age. This reduction was not a 
penalty. 
Mr P was a member of his employers new workplace pension. And it is reasonable 
to expect hed have continued to build pension benefits, either through this scheme 
or with another employer if he moved roles, until he retired. These benefits were 
likely to be significant by the time he reached potential retirement age and couldve 
been accessed flexibly. So, I dont think Mr P needed flexibility in terms of how he 
could access his DB scheme benefits.
And I think it was too soon for Mr P to make an irreversible decision to transfer out of 
his DB scheme. Particularly when he had the option of joining the BSPS2, because 
by joining it he would retain the option to transfer out at a later date if his 
circumstances required it. CST has said that the BSPS2 was not confirmed at the 
time of the advice so was not a genuine option for Mr P. But I think it is overstating 
the chance of this. The restructuring of the BSPS had been ongoing for a significant 
amount of time by the point it gave advice. Actions had been agreed with the 
pensions regulator and carried out as scheduled  not least a significant lump sum 
payment into the BSPS which enabled the provision of improved transfer value 
quotations. Members had been sent time to choose letters, with opting into the 
BSPS2 one of the options offered to them. And CSTs analysis of Mr Ps benefits was 
based on the BSPS2 going ahead. So, based on what had happened to that point, I 
think the relevant parties, not least the trustees, were confident the BSPS2 would go 
ahead.
The fact-find suggested that the death benefits were not an important consideration 
to Mr P as he was not married. But the suitability report referred to a transfer 
providing him access to lump sum death benefits. And the complaint response has 
suggested that this was a positive for Mr P.
Mr P was still young at the time of the advice. His circumstances couldve changed, 
and the fact-find indicated he expected them to in the medium term. So, the spouses 
pension the DB scheme provided couldve become useful.While the CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump 
sum death benefit, the sum remaining on death following a transfer was always likely 
to be different. Mr P held death in service benefits through his employer. And Mr P 
was in good health and expected to build benefits in his employers new pension 
scheme, which would provide lump sum death benefits. So overall, I dont think 
different death benefits available through a transfer meant it was in Mr Ps best 
interests. 
I dont doubt that Mr P was likely to have been upset by what had happened with his 
pension to that point. Or that he had negative feelings about his employer and 
mightve thought moving his pension away from it was appropriate. I think that would 
have been a very natural emotional response to what was happening. But I dont 
think, based on what Ive seen, that he was committed to that course of action. And 
again, CSTs role was to give impartial, objective advice. Mr Ps employer and 
pension scheme were not one and the same. And Mr P intended to continue in his 
job and was paying into a new pension scheme with his employer. So, the 
relationship may not have irretrievably broken down as suggested. 
Mr P may have held concerns about the prospect of his deferred benefits entering 
the PPF. But there had been a number of key announcements that all pointed toward 
the BSPS2 being established as an alternative. Which was expected to provide 
better benefits than the PPF and still provide Mr P the option to transfer closer to 
retirement. But even if this hadnt happened, the PPF still provided Mr P with 
guaranteed income and the option of accessing his benefits early. Mr P was unlikely 
to improve on these benefits by transferring. So, entering the PPF was not as 
concerning as he mightve thought, and I dont think any concerns he held about this 
meant that transferring was in his best interests.
And I cant see that Mr P had any investment experience or an interest in or the 
knowledge to be able to manage his pension funds on his own. Indeed, the 
recommendation to transfer was on the understanding he would take ongoing advice 
about how his pension was invested from CST, at a further cost. So, I dont think that 
having control over his pension was a genuine objective for Mr P  it was simply a 
consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Ps best interest to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension, particularly given how far from 
retirement he was.
CST says that Mr P made an informed decision to transfer and his unhappiness with his 
employer meant hed have always looked to transfer. As Ive explained I dont think, based 
on what Ive seen, that Mr Ps mind was made up about this. I can see that CST did give 
information about some of the risks involved in a transfer, when it made its recommendation. 
But ultimately, it advised Mr P to transfer. And I think he relied on that advice. If CST, a 
professional adviser whose expertise he had sought out, had explained why it wasnt in his 
best interests to transfer I think hed have accepted that advice.
As a result, Im upholding this complaint as I think the advice Mr P received from CST was 
unsuitable. 
Mr P had over 25 years before he could access any pension benefits. And, as Ive said, I 
dont think his plans for retirement were known. I don't think that it would've been in his 
interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would've faced by the scheme entering the 
PPF, as it wouldn't necessarily be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early 
retirement. And by opting into the BSPS2, Mr P wouldve retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. The annual indexation of his 
pension when in payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. So, I think, had 
he received suitable advice not to transfer, Mr P wouldve opted into the BSPS2.
Our Investigator recommended that CST make a payment for the distress caused to Mr P. I 
accept that Mr P has likely been worried to find that the advice might not have been suitable 
for him. And given the circumstances and uncertainty under which he first asked for this 
advice, I dont doubt he has been concerned. This wouldn't have occurred but for the advice 
that is the subject of this complaint. So, in the circumstances, I think the recommended 
award of £300 is fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for CST to put Mr P, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr P would have most 
likely remained in the occupational pension scheme and opted to join the BSPS2 if suitable 
advice had been given. 
CST must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
CST should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr P and the Financial Ombudsman Service 
upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what CST based the 
inputs into the calculator on. 
For clarity, Mr P has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ps 
acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, CST should:
calculate and offer Mr P redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr P before starting the redress calculation that:
- the redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr P receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr P accepts CSTs offer to calculate how much of the redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr P for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ps end of year tax position.Redress paid to Mr P as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, CST may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to 
Mr Ps likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20. So, making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
In addition, CST should pay Mr P £300 for the distress caused by the disruption to his 
retirement planning.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require CST Wealth 
Management Limited to pay Mr P the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
CST Wealth Management Limited pays Mr P the balance.
If Mr P accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on CST Wealth 
Management Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr P can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr P may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman