DRN-3936996
The complaint
Ms S complains about Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limiteds (Red Sands) 
handling of a claim made under her buildings insurance policy.
Ms S is being represented by Mr W. Any references to Red Sands include its agents.
What happened
In May 2022, Ms S found a leak in the downstairs of her home. It caused damage to a wall in 
between the bathroom and utility room. It also caused damage to the bathroom flooring, and 
the same design ran throughout the downstairs of Ms S home. 
Red Sands instructed a loss adjuster who contacted Mr W. To settle the claim, Red Sands 
identified the repairs that needed to be carried out to the wall and offered to pay for the cost 
of replacement flooring in the downstairs bathroom and the hall. Mr W said Ms S was 
unhappy with the offer for the flooring. He said the policy covered Ms S for damage and the 
flooring was one continuous piece. As the original flooring was no longer available to 
purchase, they considered all the flooring in the downstairs of Ms S home should be 
replaced. 
Ms S didnt agree with the proposed settlement and complained. Red Sands issued a final 
response and said the policy only covered damage, and while it noted the flooring ran 
continuously through the open plan downstairs of Ms S home, it didnt think a fair outcome 
was to meet the cost of replacing all the flooring.
This complaint was referred to this Service and considered by one of our investigators. She 
thought the offer to replace the flooring in the downstairs toilet and hallway was reasonable 
in the circumstances. As Ms S didnt agree, this matter has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In offering to pay for only the cost of the laminate flooring in the downstairs toilet and the 
hall, Red Sands states theyre relying on the following policy terms:
We pay for:
All costs (without limit) for repairing or replacing any sudden and unforeseen 
damage over and above £400 (including any necessary architects' and surveyors' 
fees, removal of debris from the site and costs to meet municipal or local authority 
bye-laws), caused by:
Water escaping from pipes, tanks or appliances, including finding and 
accessing the leak..
They key part of the policy wording here is, in Red Sands view, the part about sudden and 
unforeseen damage. And in relying on this policy term, Red Sands are of the view the 
entirety of the flooring wasnt damaged by the leak, so its not required to replace all the 
flooring laid on the ground floor of Ms S house. Whereas Mr W says because the flooring 
flows as one continuous piece without dividers between rooms, its not possible to put Ms S 
back in the position she would have been in before the leak if theres only a contribution to 
the cost of the flooring in the downstairs bathroom and hall.
The policy Ms S took out is silent on matching sets. As part of his submissions, Mr W sent 
examples of where ombudsman colleagues had directed an insurer to replace the entire 
flooring. But I consider those examples to be unlike this one as they both related to damage 
in a single, open plan room. Whereas here, Mr W considers a fair outcome to be for Red 
Sands to replace the entirety of the downstairs flooring because one area was damaged. 
In some circumstances where there is a loss of match, we might consider a contribution to 
be a fair and reasonable outcome. In the circumstances of this case, I consider the offer 
made to pay Ms S the cost of replacement flooring for both the bathroom and the hall is 
reasonable and proportionate. 
I say this in acknowledgement the flooring runs consistently through the downstairs of the 
house. However, the file also noted there are exceptions to this, such as the kitchen and the 
utility room. So, it doesnt seem the flooring runs as one piece throughout the entirety of the 
downstairs as Mr W argued.
And the bathroom itself is a separate, defined space. The images on the file show theres a 
door which separates the bathroom from the hall. In light of this, I consider the offer from 
Red Sands is fair and reasonable. Im satisfied the offer to cover the cost of the bathroom 
and hall flooring is proportionate in the circumstances and is appropriate compensation for 
Ms S in respect of there now being a loss of match. Im not going to require Red Sands to 
increase its offer or to do anything more to put things right for Ms S. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman