DRN-3363039
The complaint
Miss H complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) defaulted her account and reported 
this to the Credit Reference Agencies.
What happened
In 2015, Miss H entered into a loan agreement with Santander. She maintained the 
contractual monthly repayments until 2017, when her circumstances changed. She 
contacted Santander in May 2017 and says she agreed to make reduced payments each 
month. Miss H says that she was told by Santander that her account wouldnt default if she 
maintained the reduced payments.
But Miss H says she recently found out that Santander did default the account and reported 
the default to the Credit Reference Agencies. She cleared the loan balance in 2019, but says 
she was turned down for a mortgage recently because of the default. She says that, when 
she called in 2019 to pay off the outstanding balance, she was assured by Santander that it 
hadnt affected her credit rating. She complained to Santander that she had been mis-led 
and mis-informed and asked it to remove the default from her credit file.
Santander didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had told Miss H about the possibility of her 
account defaulting and sent her a Default Notice. But Miss H says she didnt receive the 
Default Notice. She wasnt happy with Santanders response, so she came to this service.
Our Investigator didnt think Santander had acted unfairly. But Miss H didnt agree and asked 
for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, as some of it is here, Ive reached my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to have 
happened, in light of the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Santander doesnt have recordings of its calls with Miss H, due to the amount of time which 
has passed. But it has provided Miss Hs account notes, which contain notes of the calls. 
Notes of the call in May 2017, when Miss H told Santander about her change in 
circumstances, say: agreed paydown agreement and adv to pay what can afford on a 
monthly basis. Cancelled dd and put cust through to c.s. to set up £1pm s/o. adv of credit 
file, default, agents.
The notes from a call in July 2017 say Adv of conseq, def & ext agency. I find this to 
be a reference to default. So I find that Miss H was made aware of the possibility of her 
account defaulting.
Santander has provided copies of letters dated July and November 2017. The July letter 
confirms Santanders agreement to Miss Hs plan to repay the balance on her account. The 
letter explains how interest will be affected and says that Santander will continue to send 
Miss H statements and notices including a Default Notice. It goes on to say: Please note a 
record of the arrears will continue to be sent to the credit reference agencies with which we 
share data. You should also be aware that in due course we may need to record your 
account as being in default with the credit reference agencies.
The November letter says that, as Miss H isnt able to clear the outstanding amount, 
Santander has no alternative but to issue a Default Notice. The letter says that Santander 
will also have to advise the credit reference agencies that the account has defaulted, which 
will remain on her credit file for six years and may impact her ability to get credit in the future. 
This letter was followed by the Default Notice.
Miss H says she didnt receive the letters. But I find that they were sent by Santander. And 
Santanders contact notes record that Miss H called it in December 2017 about the default 
notice she had received. So, on balance, I find that Santander did notify Miss H of the 
default.
As well as the issue of what Miss H was told, Ive thought about whether it was reasonable 
for Santander to default the account at all. I think it was. A default happens when someone 
fails to meet certain financial obligations under an agreement. It generally happens when the 
arrears have built up to an unacceptable level. Here, Miss H wasnt able to make the 
contractual monthly payments under her loan agreement, over a period of months.
I realise Miss H had agreed to make reduced payments each month. But I dont find that 
there was a formal arrangement to pay in place, whereby Santander had formally agreed to 
accept payments which were less than the contractual amount. What happened here was 
that Santander agreed to stop collections activity while Miss H made token repayments 
towards the debt. But it was clear that she wasnt able to make her contractual payments, 
and the arrears were building up significantly.
 
I wouldnt expect a business to record a default as soon as one payment was missed. But, 
where a customer is more than three months in arrears, I think its reasonable for the bank to 
view it as a default. And Id expect the bank to treat an account as defaulted by the time a 
customer is six months in arrears with no formal arrangement in place. So I think it was 
reasonable for Santander to default the account when it did.
Santander has a duty to report accurate information to the credit reference agencies. Miss 
Hs account was in default, so I find that it was correct for Santander to report this. I think the 
default itself was reasonable, so Im not going to ask Santander to amend the entries on 
Miss Hs credit file.
Finally, Ive looked at the call notes from 2019 when Miss H cleared the balance. There were 
two or three calls. The notes from one of these record advised date of default. Notes 
from another call state Adv conq of DEF on CF, which I understand to mean that Miss H 
was advised of the consequences of the default on her credit file. There arent any other 
details about discussions around the default. Ive taken account of what Miss H has said 
about the calls. But, on balance, I find it unlikely that she was told her credit rating hadnt 
been affected. In any event, the account had already defaulted around 12 months before, so 
the credit file had already been impacted by the time these conversations took place.
I realise that my decision will be disappointing to Miss H and Im sorry for that. But, from the 
evidence Ive seen, I cant safely conclude that she wasnt made aware of the possible 
consequences of making reduced payments, or of the default itself. I havent seen anything which makes me think Santander acted unreasonably here, so Im not going to ask it to do 
anything.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman