DRN-2304865
The complaint
Ms G complains that TSB Bank plc didnt help her recover the money she lost to a binary 
options investment scam company.
What happened
Ms G was searching for investment opportunities online after her son advised her to invest in 
Bitcoin and she was cold-called by a representative from T Ltd (a binary options merchant) 
in March 2019.
Ms G decided to invest and deposited two payments to them totalling £4,560 (using her TSB 
Visa debit card) between 6 March 2019 to 22 March 2019. Ms G discovered her investment 
had reduced to zero shortly after she made her final payment. She contacted TSB for 
assistance. 
TSB said it couldnt help Ms G with chargeback claims and it later confessed it lost some of 
her correspondence. In recognition of the trouble and upset caused, it credited £29 
compensation into her current account.
 
Unhappy with TSBs response, Ms G referred the matter to this service. 
One of our investigators felt that TSB could have attempted chargeback claims which would 
have likely succeeded, so she suggested that TSB refund the disputed payments. 
TSB didnt agree, it said in summary:
T Ltd were a genuine company offering genuine services  albeit may have been 
acting in a deceitful way and were not regulated within the UK
It does not treat similar scenarios as fraud. If a bad investment is made, it doesnt 
automatically follow that the bank should reimburse the customer. 
Ms G was actively looking to invest online and didnt carry out any due diligence 
checks on the company or take account of the risks that comes with this type of 
investment. 
Visas reason code 13.5 required specific evidence and Ms G did not have the 
evidence required to process a successful chargeback claim. 
The complaint has therefore been passed to me for determination. 
I wrote to TSB asking why it didnt consider processing chargeback claims under another 
reason code (reason code 12.7  invalid data) which is also suitable for binary options and 
investment trading disputes. I explained that Visa required unlicensed merchants offering 
binary options, forex, CFDs etc to re-code using a Merchant Category Code (MCC) 
identifying themselves as high-risk which took effect on 1 December 2018. I noted that the 
transactions processed to T Ltd were processed using a MCC that required a merchant to be 
licensed and I could not locate any evidence to suggest that T Ltd was regulated or licensed 
anywhere. I suggested that TSB could have processed chargeback claims using reason 
code 12.7 given that the sale of binary options was illegal in the UK. I invited TSB to provide 
its comments.
 
TSB didnt provide any additional commentary and instead reiterated its previous position 
that it had no chargeback options available to it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint and Ill explain why. 
The chargeback process is relevant here. 
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a 
dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them after two 
presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are limited 
grounds on which a chargeback can succeed or be deemed a valid claim. Our role in such 
cases is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decisions or scheme rules, but to determine 
whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. TSB) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or 
choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder.
Having considered Visas rules, the possible chargeback reason codes did cover binary-
options trading at the time of Ms Gs payments. Visa expanded its rules to cover situations 
whereby binary options/investment traders prevented cardholders from withdrawing their 
available balances from on or after 14 October 2017. 
The applicable misrepresentation reason code was 53 (later re-coded by Visa to 13.5) and 
it required very specific evidence. Ms G needed to present dated evidence that she had an 
available balance (in the form of a screenshot or confirmation from the T Ltd) and that she 
tried to withdraw sums equal to, or less than, her available balances on the same day. Im 
satisfied Ms G did not have this evidence as she explained her balances were quickly lost 
after she deposited her money onto T Ltds platform. 
From 1 December 2018, Visas rules changed again to require binary-options merchants 
(and other high-brand risk merchants) to be coded under MCC 7995Betting, including 
Lottery Tickets, Casino Gaming Chips, Off-Track Betting, and Wagers at Race Tracks. Visa 
Business News dated 6 September 2018 stated:
Visa has discovered that certain binary options, rolling spot forex trading, financial spread 
betting and contracts for difference merchants are being acquired in markets that do not 
require licensing or regulate merchant trading platforms. In addition, some of these merchants 
are selling into countries where local laws prohibit such transactions or require licensing by 
the relevant financial services authority.
This change gave a further chargeback right available to the card issuer  reason code 12.7 
(invalid data). This is where a merchant used an invalid MCC; but it has a much shorter 
timescale of 75 days for a claim to be processed. 
Visa has been clear that reason codes 13.5 and 12.7 are the most likely reason codes to 
succeed in claims like this, providing the evidence requirements have been met. I can see 
that T Ltd was using an invalid MCC (based on them operating without the required 
licensing) and Ms G had raised her claim in time for TSB to have processed chargeback claims under reason code 12.7. This is especially so following the ban of the sale of binary 
options in the UK the previous year. 
Im therefore satisfied that TSB acted unfairly in not attempting chargeback claims for Ms G. 
Had it done so, Im not satisfied that T Ltds bank could have defended the claims and so, 
Ms G would most likely have recovered all of her payments. As TSB did not process 
chargeback claims for Ms G, it should refund her disputed payments. 
Ive carefully thought about TSBs concerns around Ms Gs actions contributing to her 
losses. But these arent relevant to whether a chargeback claim would have likely 
succeeded, so I dont need to address those concerns here.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I have decided to uphold this complaint. I therefore require 
TSB Bank plc to refund Ms G her disputed transactions paid to T Ltd (totalling £4,560). 
The funds were paid from Ms Gs current account so TSB should add interest to the above 
sum (less any tax properly deductible) at our usual rate of 8% simple per year from the 
date it declined to process chargeback claims to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman