DRN-3845713
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) made errors in sending her 
international payment.
What happened
On 3 September 2021, Mrs L visited her local branch of Nationwide and instructed an
international payment of EUR 16,000 to a beneficiary in Albania. The GBP equivalent was
£14,035.09. The payment was returned as the account number couldnt be identified - and
Mrs L received a credit for £13,457.24 on 21 October 2021.
Mrs L complained. She said the staff member at the branch was responsible for completing
the payment form and made an error. She was also later misinformed by Nationwide about
when the payment would be received by the beneficiary  her mothers solicitors. The money
was needed to complete for a property purchase. As a result, she incurred expenses
totalling £596.64 and an exchange loss of £577.85 when the money was returned. Mrs L
then made the payment using another payment provider  on 16 September 2021. 
Mrs L was pregnant at the time, and she said she suffered a lot of stress and worry over the
whereabouts of her money, and because of the need to make several adjustments to her
mothers traveling arrangements. She asked for a compensation payment of £1,000.
Nationwide didnt have the opportunity to respond to Mrs L in a final response as Mrs L
brought her complaint to us in the meantime. But they said to us that a testimony from the
branch said that Mrs L advised the payment details to the branch member of staff. And the
account number was two digits too long  it was ten digits, but the form only took eight. And
so, the eight-digit number was entered and the full number put in the additional details
space. 
The branch manager became involved and said that Mrs L called someone when in
the branch to confirm the details and then she confirmed the payment could go ahead. The
manager also said Mrs L was advised that the payment may take a long time to be
recovered if the payment details werent right. The testimony said Mrs L was advised the
timescales for the payment might be at least four working days. Nationwide said the
exchange loss shouldnt be refunded as theyd not made an error.
Mrs L brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said Nationwide had a duty to ensure the
form was completed properly, but it wasnt. And then, when Mrs L called Nationwide on 7
September 2021, she was wrongly told the payment would be credited by the end of that
day. On 15 September 2021, Nationwide said on an internal call that the form had been
completed incorrectly and then asked for the funds to be recalled. Because our investigator
felt that Nationwide were responsible for the completion of the form, he said that they should
reimburse the exchange loss of £577.85 and pay compensation of £250.
Mrs L accepted the findings. Nationwide didnt agree. They said while Mrs L couldnt be
familiar with payment processes, Nationwide also wouldnt know the beneficiarys account
number. Nor could they be responsible for knowing the SWIFT code of the beneficiary bank
 of which there are over 11,000. They are reliant on customers to provide accurate
information  and this was stated on the payment form signed by Mrs L. Mrs L had re-
checked the payment details when in the branch and gave the go-ahead.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
I understand completely the frustration and anxiety felt by Mrs L here  a large sum of
money went missing, and she needed to understand what had happened, and why.
This is a finely balanced provisional decision, with arguments from both Mrs L and
Nationwide. But on balance, I think that what happened here was that Mrs L was responsible
for providing the beneficiary account details to Nationwide and was warned about the
consequences if they were wrong. But also  she wasnt given enough information about the
timescales involved for a payment to Albania, especially when she called Nationwide on 7
September 2021. And so  I am not intending that Nationwide refund the exchange loss, or
meet her total expenses, but a payment of compensation is appropriate.
Payment instruction in branch on 3 September 2021: Looking at what happened here,
Nationwides terms of business for such payments are clear. The payment instruction signed
by Mrs L said International Bank account number (IBAN)this number is used to identify
the recipients bank account. Please check carefully that the number you enter is correct. If it
isnt, your payment may go to the wrong account and we may not be able to get your money
back. I also looked at Nationwides terms and conditions which say You must give us the
correct details. If you dont, the payment may be delayed or not even received by the right
person and we may not be able to get it back for you.
In other words, the onus was on Mrs L to make sure the account details on the form were
correct. On the call on 28 September 2021, I heard Mrs L say she had a screenshot of the
account details on her phone which she used in the branch. And the branch testimony said
that she made a call while in the branch to ensure the details were OK and then told
Nationwide to go ahead  this was after there was a discussion about the ten-digit account
number not fitting into the eight-number field on the form. So here, I think Mrs L must bear
responsibility for the payment going astray.
Turning to what Nationwide have said, I think this is reasonable  they cant be expected to
know the beneficiarys account number, and must rely on a customer to provide this
accurately, and therefore cant be held responsible if there is an error.
I accept that the branch member of staff said that the eight-digit number could be tried  but I
didnt see there was any guarantee that it would work. And it looks to me as it the branch
member of staff acted diligently and genuinely tried to help Mrs L. Im also persuaded that 
the branch manager stated to Mrs L that if the payment went astray, it would take a long time
to get it returned  but despite that, Mrs L said to go ahead.
Mrs L has evidenced the call on 15 September 2021  which was a recording of an internal
call at Nationwide. Ive listened to the call. The participants to the call agreed that the wrong
IBAN number was put on the form  but they didnt say whose error that was  whether it
was the branchs or Mrs Ls error, simply that the form had the wrong account number on it.
So  this piece of evidence isnt conclusive one way or the other.
And therefore, on balance, I think the onus was on Mrs L to give the correct payment
instructions but she didnt. And she was given sufficient warning as to what would happen if
the payment went astray.
Timescales advised for the payment: Ive gone on to consider what Mrs L was told, and I
think Nationwide couldve done better here. The payment instruction said, Paymentsoutside the EEA will take longer (than four working days)  please ask for details.
Nationwides terms and conditions say, Payments outside the EEA will take longer  please
ask us for details.
And here, the branch testimony says she was told it would be received in a minimum of four
working days. But given what the terms and conditions, and the payment form says  the
onus was on Nationwide to advise Mrs L of timescales  but they werent clear enough 
they shouldve (at least) said the payment could take a lot longer than four working days. But
 Mrs L was given the expectation of about four working days.
I then listened to the call on 7 September 2021. Mrs L was seeking the whereabouts of the
payment.
She was clearly told, in a confident manner it should arrive by 5pm today. Nationwide
say they assumed it was a CHAPS payment when it wasnt. But that wasnt Mrs Ls fault 
as far as she was concerned the payment was about to be received by the beneficiary that
day.
Mrs L then called Nationwide again on 15 September 2021, and I listened also to that call 
by then it was clear there was a problem  and a payment recall was started to get the
money back.
And so  Nationwide didnt communicate the probable timescales reasonably and made a
mistake in advising Mrs L on 7 September 2021. And its only fair that they pay some
compensation for this  I propose £100.
Mrs L has also made a strong case for the stress and anxiety she suffered when she was a
at critical time in her pregnancy. She made frequent calls to Nationwide as to the
whereabout of the funds and had to make a number of last-minute travel arrangements for
her mother. And so, for this, she should receive compensation of £200. Our service has set
out criteria for deciding compensation. These say an award of up to £300 might be suitable
where there have been repeated small errors, or a larger single mistake, requiring a
reasonable effort to sort out  and for the poor communications by Nationwide, I think the
total amount of £300 is right.
This provisional decision is subject to anything more that either Mrs L or Nationwide want to
bring forward. Mrs L says she has some further call recordings and she may wish to submit
those.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Nationwide had no further comments, but Mrs L did. She said:
- The payment form only had eight spaces  so could only take an eight-digit number. 
So, there was a fault on the forms design, and Nationwide should therefore be 
responsible.
- She was never told there would be an exchange loss on the return of the funds.
- She was told on the phone that the payment would be in the beneficiarys account by 
17.00 on 7 September. Because of this, her relative extended her stay in the country 
at a personal cost.
I now need to consider the additional points made and make a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We asked Nationwide for a copy of the payment form. We saw a copy. It has 32 spaces for 
the IBAN. So, the form couldve taken the full 10-digit number. And as I said in the 
provisional decision, the onus was on Mrs L to ensure the number on the form was correct. I 
think this is the crux of the outcome of this complaint  and unfortunately, the core of the 
error lay with Mrs L, rather than Nationwide.
On Mrs Ls point about not being told there would be an exchange loss  this is a new 
complaint point. But Ive considered this  but as the payment had gone astray because of 
the error on the account number  I cant hold Nationwide as responsible for that.
I accept that Mrs L was told that the payment should be credited on the evening of 7 
September 2021. And that was an error by Nationwide. But the crux of the complaint 
outcome is that the error on the payment was due to Mrs L not providing the correct payment 
details on the form. Im confident that the compensation I proposed was right for the error 
Nationwide made on the phone call.
Therefore, having reviewed again the points that Mrs L has made, my final decision is 
consistent with the provisional decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Nationwide Building Society must:
- Pay compensation of £300 for stress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman