DRN-2436293
The complaint
Mr W complains his gadget insurer, Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust), has unreasonably 
handled a claim he made when his laptop computer broke.
What happened
Mr W raised his claim in November 2019, saying his laptop wouldnt turn on after being 
dropped. Amtrust told him to get the laptop inspected, to see if the problem was covered by 
the policy. Mr W paid £25 for an inspection, which said the laptop wasnt working due to 
physical damage to the mainboard. The report made no mention about how or when that 
might have happened.
Amtrust raised questions about Mr Ws claim. Some of these, about the location of the 
accident and the likelihood of ice being present, seem not to be major issues, so I wont 
cover them in this decision. But a question about when the laptop was last used stopped the 
claim from progressing.
Amtrust said if Mr W paid his excess and sent them the laptop, they could proceed. They 
said they would inspect the laptop again when they received it. In their complaint response 
they said one of the following could then happen:
  If no usage can be determined, the claim will be declined.
  If the last usage date shows it was not used [after] the inception of the policy, the 
claim will be declined.
  If there is evidence of usage after inception of the policy, the repair will be carried 
out.
They also said that if the claim was declined, theyd deduct the shipping and inspection costs 
from Mr Ws excess before returning what was left to him.
Mr W complained. He felt a second inspection was unreasonable, given hed already paid for 
one. And he felt he should only pay the policy excess when Amtrust accepted his claim.
In my provisional decision I explained that Id found it was unreasonable for Amtrust to tell 
Mr W to get the initial inspection, or to say they would deduct the cost of the second 
inspection from his excess if his claim wasnt successful. But I found it was reasonable for 
them to ask Mr W to pay his excess in order for the claim to proceed. 
Amtrust have responded saying they accept my view. But Mr W still isnt happy with having 
to pay his excess before its confirmed the claim will be successful. And he feels Amtrusts 
wish to do a second inspection isnt reasonable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the details of the matter again, Ive decided my provisional decision was 
the right one for this case. Ill explain why, adding to what I wrote before to respond to 
Mr Ws main comments.
Last time, I explained whos responsible for what in an insurance claim. Our general 
approach is that its a policyholders responsibility to show they have a valid claim for 
something that the policy covers. If theyve done so, its then the insurers responsibility to 
show, on balance, that an exclusion clause applies which means that a claim wont be 
successful, and shouldnt be paid.
Theres a difference worth noting between a valid claim and a successful one. Mr Ws claim 
for damage to his laptop when he dropped it seems valid, as the policy covered accidental 
damage. This was really all the detail he needed to provide, and Amtrust shouldnt have 
asked him to have his own inspection done before accepting he had a valid claim. The cost 
Mr W incurred for that inspection should therefore be reimbursed to him. 
But Mr Ws claim wont be successful if a policy exclusion applies. Insurers can set out, 
through policy exclusions, events theyre not willing to cover. Here, page 14 of Amtrusts 
policy terms says a claim wont be paid if proof of usage cant be evidenced. Page 10 of the 
policy says proof of usage is evidence showing the laptop had been used between the policy
starting and the event giving rise to the claim.
The bullet points from Amtrusts response to Mr Ws complaint tell me the new inspection 
they want to do will check if this exclusion should apply. I have no issue with them checking 
that, if they feel they need to given what Mr Ws said about his use of the laptop prior to the 
accident. But they, not Mr W, should be responsible for the cost of that inspection. So I find it 
was unreasonable for Amtrust to say they would deduct the cost of the second inspection 
from Mr Ws excess. 
Mr Ws said he doesnt feel a second inspection should be done, since hes already had the 
first one done. But the point is that the first inspection makes no comment about when the 
laptop was last used. So I can appreciate why Amtrust want to see if their inspectors can find 
that out. 
Mr Ws also questioned the independence of a second inspection carried out by Amtrust. He 
puts forward arguments about it being unfair, on the basis his claim is going to be 
unsuccessful. But Amtrust dont look to have made that decision yet. Im not going to base 
my decision on something that might not happen. At the moment, Amtrust want to inspect 
the laptop, and I find it reasonable for them to do so. But they should bear the cost of that 
inspection. 
Putting things right
The policy terms say Mr Ws excess must be paid in each and every valid claim he makes. 
Hes made a valid claim, so its reasonable for Amtrust to ask him to pay the excess. But if 
the claim becomes unsuccessful, theres no terms that say Amtrust can make deductions 
from the excess. So he should get the excess back in those circumstances. 
Mr W should also get the £25 back that he paid for the unnecessary first inspection. And Ive decided Amtrust should pay Mr W £50 for the trouble and upset caused by their 
unreasonable position in this case. The claim has been drawn out longer than was 
necessary as a result.
Last time, I said I couldnt see Mr W was without access to a computer during this time, as 
hes mentioned having use of a desktop machine. Hes come back to me saying he would 
actually have made use of the laptop though. 
Ive thought about this, but I cant say for certain that if the service had been reasonable in 
this case, Mr Ws claim would have been successful. Its not clear to me whether Amtrust will 
repair or replace the laptop, or whether theyll say the policy exclusion should apply. Until 
that decision is made, Im not going to assume Mr W would have been able to use his 
laptop, or replace it with money from the insurance.
Im aware that my remedy directs Amtrust to pay Mr W a total of £75. But Mr Ws excess 
here is also £75. So if Mr W wants to Amtrust to use the £75 payment as his excess instead 
of making a payment to him, I would accept that the remedy has been completed. Ill leave it 
for Mr W and Amtrust to arrange that between themselves. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ws complaint about Amtrust Europe Limited. To put this right, they should:
reimburse him £25 for the inspection he paid for;
make no deduction from his excess for a proof of usage inspection, if they feel its 
needed; and
pay him £50 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
These payments can be offset against any excess Mr W needs to pay, if both parties are 
happy to do that. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman