DRN-3632974
The complaint
Mr N complains that Lloyds Bank PLC closed his account and added a marker at CIFAS, the 
national fraud database.
What happened
Mr N says he contacted Lloyds in March 2021 to complain about a CIFAS marker. This 
related to a payment he had received into his account in May 2017. And he says that this 
was for the sale of an item. Since then Lloyds has removed the marker and offered him 
compensation of £250 which he thinks is insufficient. And it wont reinstate his account.
Lloyds accepted that it could have handled the matter better and asked for more evidence to 
confirm that Mr N had delivered the item at the time. It apologised for the poor service and 
paid Mr N £250. Lloyds said that it wouldnt be offering him an account and had considered a 
lot of information when making that decision.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Lloyds do anything further. Lloyds had already 
removed the marker. The compensation was reasonable. She said that if Mr N had any 
evidence of why this should be higher he should provide it. And Lloyds was entitled to close 
the account.
Mr N didnt agree. He said that this had affected his credit record, his ability to access other 
financial products and to apply for a job he wanted. He wanted the account to be reinstated, 
Lloyds actions and breach of protocol investigated and a recognition of the impact on his 
mental health and of the distress caused to him. It hadnt been fair to close his account and 
he wasnt contacted. He had been accused of wrongdoing. He said that his credit report is 
now completely clean, and he has had to contact other parties about this matter with proof 
and evidence that the marker is removed. He said that this had caused him years of 
problems and that he was being discriminated against.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 4 July 2022. I set out below what I said.
It wasnt in dispute here that Lloyds didnt have grounds to apply the CIFAS marker. There is 
a high bar for a marker, and it needed to have more than a suspicion or concern. It had to be 
able to show it had reasonable grounds to believe that a fraud or financial crime had been 
committed or attempted and that the evidence would support this being reported to the 
authorities.
Given the marker has been removed I didnt need to look in any more detail at Lloydss 
processes to make a fair decision about this complaint. This service isnt the regulator and 
provides informal dispute resolution. I saw no evidence of any discriminatory behaviour.
In order to add a CIFAS marker Lloyds needed to have withdrawn the relevant product. That 
was Mr Ns current account. It gave him notice on 15 May 2017 that this was blocked and 
would be closed. It has given Mr N the impression that this related to other factors and that it 
oughtnt to have opened the account in the first place. I didnt accept that as a reasonable 
explanation here. His basic bank account was opened on 8 March 2017 and that was based 
on Lloyds assessment of Mr N at that time. What changed was the report of him receiving a 
fraudulent credit. I didnt have evidence that his account would otherwise have been closed. 
So, I considered he was then inconvenienced by this happening.  
I was unclear what alerted Mr N to the CIFAS marker in 2021. But based on his testimony 
dealing with this marker caused him distress and inconvenience. I noted that the marker was 
removed by Lloyds on 26 March 2021.
Mr N has referred to the potential impact of the marker over an extended period. I didnt 
have supporting evidence about that. But if he was for example turned down for other 
applications then I thought that he might reasonably have looked into why that was at the 
time. And I didnt know what additional information about his background and history might 
have been taken into account by other businesses. The presence of a CIFAS marker 
shouldnt lead to automatic refusal and businesses need to make their own assessments. 
And there is no evidence that this CIFAS marker alone resulted in any applications being 
declined.
A further complaint point of Mr N is that Lloyds wouldnt reinstate his account on removing 
the CIFAS marker. Id expect it consider this but not to disclose exactly how it made a 
decision about it. Id seen information to show that it approached that decision in a 
reasonable way. And so, I didnt consider it can fairly be required to open a new account for 
Mr N.
I appreciated that Mr N doesnt think £250 is sufficient compensation to reflect the impact for 
him. I didnt have evidence of any financial loss. But Id set out above the elements of 
inconvenience he was caused, and I accepted that when he found out about the marker he 
would have been distressed. Id taken into account our published guidelines about 
compensation and applied my own judgement in light of what happened. Having done so I 
considered that fair compensation would be a total of £400 - so a further payment to him of 
£150. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds said that it accepted my provisional decision.
Mr N said that he accepted the compensation. But that he wanted Lloyds to remove any 
internal markers that were stopping him obtaining an account in the wider Lloyds business 
group. He said that his credit record was clear and that he hadnt committed fraud. Mr N said 
that he is able to access products from other financial business. He wants any markers 
removed by Lloyds.
I set out in my provisional decision that I thought that Lloyds had approached Mr Ns 
application for an account in a reasonable way. It is a matter for its commercial discretion 
whether or not to offer an account. And it is entitled to make that decision on the information 
available. So, I wont be reviewing what it has recorded about that internally. And even if as 
Mr N suspects there are internal markers recorded I dont need to look into those to resolve 
this complaint fairly. I note Mr N has said he can access products elsewhere.
As a result, Im not going to be departing from the conclusions of my provisional decision.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part, and I require Lloyds Bank PLC to:
1) Pay Mr N a further £150 making total compensation of £400.
2) Remove any external fraud markers it has recorded relating to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman