DRN-1569506
The complaint
Mrs W complains that AXA France IARD mis-sold her a monthly premium payment 
protection insurance ('PPI') policy in 1997 when she applied for a store card. 
What happened
Mrs W complained to this Service. She bought a PPI policy in 1997. It was added to 
her store card account which she applied for in the store. She says she wasnt told it was 
optional; she didnt need it and her sick pay was enough to cover her if she couldnt work.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should not be upheld. Mrs W disagreed with 
our adjudicator's view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs W's case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs W's complaint. I know this will be 
a disappointing result, so Ill explain why.
I first looked at whether AXA made it clear the policy was an optional product. AXA produced 
a copy of Mrs W's store card application. I can see there was a tick box stating Yes, I want 
my account covered by Payment and Purchase Protection Insurance. This box is ticked 
on Mrs Ws application but she declined other offers on the form. So I think the form was 
diligently completed. She says the form was completed by the person in store. But as she 
signed the form, I can reasonably assume she checked the details were correct. So I think 
the ticked box and her signature means AXA probably made it clear that Mrs W didnt have 
to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she may 
not be able to remember this.
I noted Mrs W was eligible to buy PPI. The policy wasn't recommended so AXA had to make 
sure Mrs W received enough information which was clear, fair and not misleading so she 
could make an informed decision.
Its possible the information given to Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But as I think she chose to take it out, it looks like she wanted this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong because she 
told us she had no savings but would get full pay if she was on sick leave for six months, 
followed by half pay for another six months. Although this is a good employee benefit, the 
PPI could have lasted for longer than and in addition to her decreasing sick pay. So I think 
she would have received a benefit from PPI. It also looks like PPI was affordable at the time 
of the sale. So I dont think better information about the PPI cost and benefits would have put 
her off from taking out the cover.Mrs W suggested she could have relied on her partners income. However, she may not 
have been able to rely on this support at some unknown point in the future. So I still think the 
policy could have been of benefit to her.
AXA should also have pointed out the things the policy did not cover (the exclusions). I 
don't know how they did this, but it does not appear that Mrs W was affected by the 
main exclusions. So - even if she'd been given a full list of the exclusions - I don't think it 
would have put her off from buying the PPI.
Taking everything into account, I think the policy was most likely shown as optional and 
Mrs W was probably given enough information to make an informed decision. So I am not 
going to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman