DRN-4036777
The complaint
Mr S complains HSBC UK Bank plc (HSBC) charged him fees for international payments he 
made without prior notification.
What happened
Mr S says he holds a bank account with HSBC and in late August 2022 and early September 
2022 he made two international payments to his bank account in India. Mr S says at the time 
he was led to believe the cost of those payments would be £5 each and these were debited 
at the time of the transactions. Mr S says in early October 2022 he was charged with two 
amounts of £16.23 which he was unaware of. Mr S says when he contacted HSBC by 
webchat he was informed the charges were applied by the beneficiary bank. Mr S says when 
he checked this with his bank in India he was told the charges were from HSBC. 
Mr S says he then raised a complaint and was told these charges were levied by an 
intermediary bank, but he was never pre-advised of this. Mr S says HSBC agreed to refund 
the charges and offered him £50 by way of compensation, but it has since charged him on a 
further three occasions for three more international payments he sent. 
Mr S says he wants HSBC to be transparent about any charges to his bank account for 
international payments and doesnt feel he should be charged for any hidden charges and 
wants to be compensated for the financial and mental loss he has suffered. 
HSBC says it has apologised for the misinformation Mr S received about these charges 
during a webchat and has paid him £50 by way of apology for that. HSBC have pointed out 
that when Mr S elected to pay all the fees when he made those international payments 
online, he would have been informed at that time, that in addition to HSBCs standard £5 fee 
he may be charged for any intermediary banks costs. HSBC says it has no control over the 
intermediary banks charging policy and it could take some time before it is informed of any 
charges, but Mr S can control where the charges are deducted. As a gesture of goodwill for 
this HSBC agreed to refund the two charges levied in early October 2022 totalling £32.46. 
Mr S wasnt happy with HSBCs response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says under HSBCs terms and conditions when making an international payment 
it may use an intermediary bank, which may apply its own charges. The investigator says 
when completing the transaction Mr S selected the option to pay all charges which included 
those charges from the intermediary bank. The investigator says HSBC incorrectly informed 
Mr S that the charges were applied by the receiving bank and apologised for this 
misinformation and paid him £50 for that, which the investigator thought was fair. 
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Mr S to learn he had been charged 
additional charges for international payments that he had made when he believed the fee to 
be only £5. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if HSBC made Mr S aware of the charges that 
could be made when making international payments.  
Mr Ss complaint centres around the fact in late August 2022 and in early September 2022, 
he made two international payments online using his recently opened HSBC bank account 
and was charged £5 for those transactions at the time. Mr S says in early October 2022 he 
was charged a further two charges of £16.23. Mr S says when he queried this with HSBC he 
was told these were the recipient bank costs but found that not to be the case and HSBC 
then informed him the charges were intermediary bank charges. 
Mr S makes the point he was never pre advised of any such intermediary charges and 
although HSBC have refunded the earlier two sets of fees, he has been charged for a further 
three payments he made. Mr S doesnt want to be charged these fees going forward and 
wants HSBC to be more transparent about any charges that it makes for these types of 
transactions. 
I understand the points Mr S makes here, but Im not fully persuaded by his arguments. I say 
this because HSBC have provided information to this service to show that when Mr S made 
the online international payments to India, he elected to pay all charges. HSBC have 
provided the wording that Mr S would have seen at the time of the transaction being made 
which says:
 pay all the fees. Youll pay the charges in the table above and any intermediary, agency 
and beneficiary bank charges, which can be applied later.
Additionally in the other charges section of HSBCs terms and conditions relating to 
international payment fees, on page 52 it also states under sending money outside the UK : 
If we send money outside the UK, we may use an intermediary bank. The intermediary and 
the bank receiving the money may apply their own charges. This could include payments 
sent through, or to, another HSBC bank. Youll only have to pay these charges if you tell us 
you want to pay all the charges when you ask us to make the payment.
So here, I am satisfied Mr S was advised prior to him making the international payments that 
other charges may be applicable here and that there were other sources he could have 
looked at such as the terms and conditions of the account referred to above. Afterall, Mr S 
has told this service he was new to the UK banking systems and HSBC, so it would have 
been beneficial for him to familiarise himself with those terms and conditions, which in any 
event is his responsibility to do so. I cant hold HSBC responsible for the fact Mr S may not 
have read or understood the notice he selected when making the payments  after all he 
had the option to query this with HSBC before making the payments if he wasnt sure. 
I am also satisfied HSBC wouldnt be in a position to know definitively what the intermediary banks charges would be until they were passed onto them, as it has no control over the 
intermediarys charges now or going forward. 
As far as Mr Ss point that he has continued to be charged for other international payments 
he has made, although HSBC agreed as a gesture of goodwill to reverse the two 
intermediary charges he incurred in October 2022, it hadnt ever agreed he wouldnt be 
charged these fees going forward and did explain to Mr S why these charges were made. 
I can see Mr S was initially given misleading information regarding the origin of these 
charges via a webchat and HSBC have apologised for that and paid him £50 - I am satisfied 
that is reasonable in the circumstances. 
While Mr S will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of HSBC. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman