DRN-2407291
The complaint
Mr B complains about the quality of a new car that was supplied through a conditional sale 
agreement with Santander Consumer (UK) Plc (SCP).
  
What happened
The circumstances surrounding this complaint and my initial findings were set out in my 
provisional decision of 7 May 2021, which said:
On 4 November 2018 Mr B acquired a second-hand car through a conditional sale 
agreement with SCP. The car was registered on 9 July 2014, which means it was about four 
years and five months old at the point of supply. The price of the car was £8,687.80 and had 
travelled 72,658 miles. Mr B paid a deposit of £4,000 which meant that the credit agreement 
was for £4,687.80 payable over 24 months.
In March 2019 while on his usual commute Mr Bs car experienced significant engine failure.
Warning lights appeared on the dashboard and the car could not go beyond 30MPH. Mr B 
explained that his usual commute is around 100miles each day.
On 20 March 2019 Mr B took the car to a local garage (garage A) that he was familiar with
and asked for a diagnosis of the issue. Garage A carried out initial repairs to clear the fault
codes but that hadnt completely resolved the issues, so garage A asked that they be 
allowed to remove the engine for further investigation. Mr B agreed to this. The report from 
garage A, dated 10 April 2019 advised that a new engine was required and provided an 
estimate for £8,021.27.
The diagnostics by garage A noted the following:
initial investigation leads us to number 3 injector, after replacement, cylinder 3 was 
still mis-firing
carry out compression test found no compression on number 3 cylinder
advised customer of cylinder head removal for further inspection
head bolts sheered (Torx ends) on removal required drilling out for head removal
head removed, initial inspection found exhaust valve rocker arm broken, exhaust 
valve hit piston damaging the crown, collets missing for the valve, unable to locate 
also damaged end of injector
with the extent of damage to the piston and possible valve guide damage we have 
advised a new short engine
After receiving the diagnostics and quote for a new engine, Mr B referred the issues of the
car to the dealer whom he acquired the car from. The dealer collected the car from garage A
for further investigation. The dealer has suggested that the original engine was retained at
garage A, of which Mr B was advised would be disposed of at the end of the month it was
received. The dealer advised that the car was recovered with a different engine in its boot
and concluded that a new engine was required.
Mr B explained that he was told by the dealer that hed need to pay for the new engine and
also provided him with a courtesy car which he used until July 2019. In May 2019 he
received an invoice for £4,600.80 for the new engine which he paid.
Mr B explained that towards the end of June 2019 he received an email and phone call from
the dealer requesting an additional £2,300 for parts required in relation to the engine. Mr B
felt this was excessive so declined to pay this; instead he requested a full refund of what he
had already paid towards the engine and asked for the works to cease. In July 2019 Mr B
requested to reject the car and so returned the courtesy car to avoid any conflict of interest.
later that month he was told again by the dealer that the cost of the engine would be
refunded.
In September 2019 Mr B purchased a new car as his existing car was still with the dealer
and the repairs were yet to be completed. In October 2019 Mr B had a meeting with the
dealer who again agreed to refund what he had paid for towards a new engine. On 25
November 2019 Mr B complained to SCP.
SCP contacted the dealer who arranged for an Automotive Consulting Engineers (ACE)
inspection to be completed. On 23 Jan 2020 the ACE engineer advised that the inspection
couldnt go ahead because Mr Bs car appeared to be abandoned, and so they couldnt
confirm the various car parts belonged to it.
On 24 January 2020 SCP sent their final response to Mr Bs complaint. They didnt uphold
his complaint because of the mechanical works that had been carried out at garage A, which
they considered as an unauthorised repairer. Mr B was advised by SCP to settle the
agreement as the car was considered a write off and the dealer had gone into
administration.
In May 2020 Mr B brought his complaint to us here. One of our investigators looked into his
concerns and upheld the complaint on the basis that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at
the point of supply.
However, SCP disputed the investigators findings reasserting that the car was repaired by
an unauthorised repairer, so requested the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a
final decision.
In February 2020 Mr B learned that the dealer had gone into administration so he could not
get access to his car. In August 2020 Mr B explained that some weeks earlier hed found his
car on the forecourt of the closed dealership with the bonnet removed and engine beside it.
Mr B provided a video recording of this. More recently Mr B has noticed the car has been
removed from the forecourt, so hes reported it to the police as missing.
Mr B explained that the time devoted to chasing the dealer and the uncertainty he felt by the
situation has caused him a considerable amount of anxiety.
In January 2021 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
The agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such, this service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. SCP is also the supplier of the goods under this 
type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) applies to contracts which supply goods to a 
consumer and is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract to supply goods, there is 
an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for purpose and as 
described. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods would need to meet 
the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. So, it seems 
likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would consider 
might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history. 
My starting point is that SCP supplied Mr B a second-hand car at a cost of £8,687.80. With 
this in mind I think it is fair to say that a reasonable person would expect the level of quality 
to be less than a more expensive and less road worn car; and that there may be signs of 
wear and tear to various parts due to usage. Having said that, £8,687.80 isnt insignificant, 
so theyd also expect that it could be used, free from any major issues, for a reasonable 
period of time.
From the information provided its clear to me there was a fault with the car. This is apparent 
from the diagnostics provided from garage A, the conversation our investigator had with the 
mechanic at garage A, the invoice provided from the dealer for a new engine, along with 
what Mr Bs has said and the correspondence from SCP addressing Mr Bs concerns about 
the car. Having considered the car had a fault, it seems to me there are two key issues for 
me to consider in relation to Mr Bs complaint: 
1. Was it reasonable for garage A to carry out initial repairs?
2. Was the car of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr B?
was it reasonable for garage A to carry out initial repairs?
SCP have said that garage A wasnt an authorised repairer, and because they repaired 
mechanical parts of Mr Bs car this meant that under the CRA, SCP were no longer liable for 
Mr Bs repairs. Having thought about this, I dont consider anything in the CRA specifically 
covers this issue. In addition, SCP have also said that the terms of their agreement with Mr 
B say that any issues with the car should be brought to them in the first instance. Ive given 
regard to this also, however, in deciding what is fair I have thought about whether Mr B acted 
reasonably in taking his car to garage A for the initial diagnostics and repairs. 
Mr B explained that he was travelling his usual daily commute of about 100miles when the 
engine failed. I think a reasonable person would have brought their car to a professional 
garage for it to be looked at in the first instance. In addition, I think that had Mr B contacted 
SCP in the first instance its likely they would have recommended a similar course of action. 
So I dont think Mr Bs actions here was unreasonable. Garage A is a professional car dealer 
and servicing centre that has been in business for many years. So, Im persuaded that their 
opinion and diagnostics are both professional and reliable. Mr B asked garage A to carry out initial repairs in order for them to understand the extent of 
the problem.  I think a reasonable person would want to at least have a problem diagnosed 
in the first instance. I dont think its beyond reason that their first thought isnt to contact their 
finance provider. Mr B paid for the initial repairs himself which were over £500. However, as 
it became clear that the issue was more severe than hed realised, and the costs were also 
significantly higher than what hed already paid, and close to the value of the car itself, Mr B 
decided to involve the dealer where he acquired the car. In the circumstances Im persuaded 
that Mr Bs decision in asking garage A to carry out initial repairs and diagnostics was 
reasonable in the circumstances.
A note from SCPs system states the dealer as saying theyre uncertain whether the engine 
provided with the car, on recovery from garage A, belongs to the car, as theyve identified it 
has a different serial number to the original engine. However, the dealer is no longer around 
to clarify this point, and overall it seems unlikely that garage A switched the engine that was 
in the car. Besides what the dealer has said to SCP, Ive not been provided with any further 
evidence that the engine was different to what had been sold to Mr B. In fact there isnt 
persuasive evidence that garage A has acted in such a way as to worsen the condition of the 
car  or prejudice any repairs that might be attempted later on. 
All things considered I dont think Mr B acted unreasonably in taking the car to garage A  
nor do I think what happened impacts the potential liability for faults which were present at 
the point of sale. So, in the circumstances I havent thought about this as a matter for 
consideration in my decision.
was the car of satisfactory quality when supplied to Mr B?
Ive already established that I think it was reasonable for Mr B to bring his car to garage A, 
and to allow them to do the works that they did. So, Ive now had to consider whether the 
issues identified by garage A and the dealer would deem the car of unsatisfactory quality 
when it was supplied to Mr B. 
Garage A provided a report which noted the following:
fault code p0269 - issues with cylinder 3
a leak in injector 3 
after a road test the engine was making mechanical noises so a strip down of the 
engine was required
on removal of the cylinder head, eight bolt heads snapped. drilled removal of the 
bolts were carried out
removed cylinder head, found damage to the piston and exhaust valve. The exhaust 
valve is bent causing the rocker arm to snap. 
engine collets were missing
advise with the swarf build up and damage to the internals of the engine a new unit is 
fitted.
Ive thought about the age and mileage of the car when it was supplied to Mr B, Ive also 
considered that Mr B had travelled 4,757 miles prior to the engine failure. However, I have 
also taken into account the fact that a major component has failed in a relatively short time 
after supply. I also note that while the mileage at point of failure was fairly high  this was not a very old or particularly cheap car. In fact it cost the consumer almost nine thousand 
pounds. In the absence of misuse of the car (or some other factor like accident damage) I 
think a reasonable person would consider this to be unacceptable.
Ive not seen any evidence which suggests Mr B hadnt looked after his car. And due to the 
short time he owned the car its unlikely a service would have been due. I have considered 
what the CRA considers about goods including a requirement that they are reasonably 
durable.
I dont think a reasonable person would expect after purchasing a car with similar mileage as 
Mr Bs to experience catastrophic engine failure after driving 5,000 miles in five months. In 
the circumstances Im persuaded that the car as supplied was not of satisfactory quality.
putting things right
Under the CRA if goods are not of satisfactory quality they do not conform to the contract. 
Section 19 of the CRA sets out certain remedies available to the consumer for goods that do 
not conform:
Ive already established that the car was of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr 
B, so in the circumstances I thinks its clear that he shouldnt have had to pay for any engine 
related repair costs, connected with the failure in this instance. I think its fair that he be 
allowed to reject the car. I say this because there had already been an attempt at a repair by 
the dealer, which were causing considerable inconvenience due to the time they were 
taking. So Mr B had the right to reject the car at that point. However, as Mr B has completed 
the agreement, Ill expect SCP to arrange with Mr B to take ownership of the car and 
compensate him for what has occurred.
In November 2020 Mr B confirmed that hed made all the payments on the agreement; and 
more recently he provided correspondence from Santander confirming his finance 
agreement was completed. So, In the circumstances Mr B should be afforded a full refund of 
the deposit he paid along with any payments relating to the period he spent without the use 
of his car or a courtesy car. This is fair because at that point he was effectively paying for a 
car which he did not have.
Mr B has proven that hes paid £4,600.80 towards the engine repairs, by supplying a copy of 
an account transaction to the dealer for that amount. Ive also seen an invoice from the 
dealer for that amount. 
Ive also seen an invoice from garage A detailing the costs for the engine related repairs 
carried out initially, Ive detailed the itemised costs below: 
description cost
injector holder £325.22
injector holder prov £93.00
flange bolt £1.54
return pipe £47.61
fork £7.65
outlet pipe £14.05
filtering pad £33.12
injector protector £3.06    
total £525.25
The above table shows the costs that Mr B voluntarily paid toward the initial repairs of his 
cars engine. Had the engine been of satisfactory quality he wouldnt have had to pay these 
costs. Ive already established that I think it was fair for Mr B to ask garage A to carryout the 
initial repairs and I think its fair that SCP reimburse Mr B for these. So, Ill be instructing 
SCP to reimburse the total amount, as in the above table, to Mr B.
I also acknowledge the distress and inconvenience this would have caused Mr B. Although 
he was supplied a courtesy car, he would have had to make alternative arrangements on 
occasions. In addition to this hes had to purchase another car while maintaining payments 
to his agreement with SCP. Mr B said this whole affair has caused him a degree of anxiety 
and considering the circumstances of this complaint I cant say Im surprised. From what Ive 
seen Mr B has acted reasonably throughout and at times perhaps more than what would 
have been reasonably expected, for example paying for the initial repairs himself and for a 
new engine. At over £5,000 the amounts were not insignificant. 
Mr B has provided an overview of his additional costs, approximating £3,065.20 which 
includes costs prior and after being provided a courtesy car. Mr B has provided information 
showing the cost of travel to his place of work and a statement of payments for his car 
insurance. The information Mr B provided has been useful, however I wont be asking SCP 
to pay the amount suggested by Mr B. 
Mr B explained that he was paying travel costs between 20 March 2019 and 3 May 2019. 
This was the period after his car failed and prior to being given use of a courtesy car. This is 
particularly relevant considering his daily commute of around 100miles. In the circumstances 
Ill be instructing SCP to refund to Mr B 35% of March 2019 monthly repayment (£78.07) and 
all of April 2019s payment (£223.06) to reflect the time he spent without the use of a car; 
considering that commuting costs would likely to have been incurred in any circumstance 
without a car. In addition, Ill also be instructing SCP to refund the monthly repayments Mr B 
made from July 2019, when he handed the courtesy car back, to the end of his agreement 
with SCP. As Mr B hadnt had use of a car between these times, Im satisfied that this is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. 
In addition to this, Mr B has calculated his additional insurance costs (on the second car he 
purchased) to be approximately £2,550. Im not persuaded that Mr Bs insurance costs were 
completely mitigated, for example returning his courtesy car when he did was something he 
decided was best for him in the circumstances. I recognise that Mr B did this this to avoid a 
conflict of interest, nevertheless its my opinion that his right to complain wouldnt have been 
affected had he continued to use it; and continuing to use the courtesy car would have 
undoubtedly gone some way to mitigate his additional costs. So, in the circumstances I wont 
be asking SCP to reimburse Mr B for the insurance costs he incurred. 
In the circumstances I think Mr B should be compensated to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience this situation, as explained above, has caused him. And I think £500 is fair 
and reasonable. So, Ill be instructing SCP to pay this amount to Mr B.
Mr B responded to say he agreed with my provisional decision but added that he no longer 
knew the whereabouts of the car as he said it had been removed from the forecourt of the 
dealer. However, SCP responded to say that they didnt accept my provisional decision. 
SCP made some further comments which Ill address below. Now both sides have had an opportunity to comment, I can go ahead with my final decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Within their response SCP gave the following reasons (mainly) why they disagreed with my 
provisional decision:
1. Mr B didnt give SCP the opportunity to inspect or repair the fault 
2. Mr B went against the terms of the agreement and got the car repaired without 
informing SCP
3. Our service has found in favour of SCP on a different case with similar circumstances
The points above are not exhaustive but a summary of what I considered to be the main 
issues raised in SCPs response to my provisional decision. To be clear, Ive considered all 
the information provided by both parties in relation to this complaint, however to maintain the 
informal approach of this service Ive focussed on what Ive considered to be the main issues 
here.
Mr B didnt give SCP the opportunity to inspect or repair the fault, and Mr B went against the 
terms of the agreement and got the car repaired without informing SCP
Points 1 and 2 have already been addressed in some depth in my provisional decision, 
which is included above, and so I wont repeat that here. So, for the reasons explained in my 
provisional decision Im persuaded that Mr Bs decision in asking garage A to carry out initial 
repairs and diagnostics without informing SCP in the first instance was reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Our service has found in favour of SCP on a different case with similar circumstances
SCP has referred to an investigators view that was completed on a different complaint that 
had been brought to our service, where the outcome was in favour of SCP. SCP have said 
they considered the circumstances of that complaint to be similar to that of Mr Bs complaint. 
Each complaint brought to our service is treated on its individual merits. So, it wouldnt be 
appropriate, nor would it be fair for me to comment on a complaint, other than Mr Bs, or to 
base my decision on the merits or outcome of any other complaint that has been brought to 
our service.
I recognise that this decision is likely to be disappointing for SCP, however I can assure SCP 
that Ive considered all the evidence provided and believe in the circumstances that SCP 
need to put things right for Mr B.
I still consider my provisional findings to be fair and reasonable. Neither party has added 
anything which gives me cause to change these. Therefore, for the reasons as set out above 
and in my provisional decision, my final decision is the same.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint and instruct Santander Consumer (UK) 
Plc to:arrange with Mr B to take ownership of the car
refund Mr Bs deposit of £4,000
refund 35% of March 2019s payment and all of April 2019s payment as described in 
my provisional decision. This amounts to £301.13 
refund all payments Mr B had made towards his agreement from July 2019 to the 
end of the agreement. This amounts to £3,568.96
remove the agreement from Mr Bs credit file along with any adverse information that 
may be present as a result of this agreement
reimburse the £4,600.80p that Mr B paid the dealer towards an engine replacement
reimburse to Mr B £525.25p, the costs of the initial engine related repairs carried out 
by garage A, as detailed in the table in my provisional decision which is taken from 
their invoice; and
pay Mr B £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused
Santander Consumer (UK) Plc should pay 8% yearly simple interest on all refunds 
calculated from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
 
If Santander Consumer (UK) Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr B how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mr B a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman