DRN-2979246
The complaint
Mr R complains that JaJa Finance Ltd rejected his claim under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974.
What happened
Prior to travelling abroad in 2019, Mr R hired a car via a third-party introducer (RC) and paid 
the sum of £48 to book a rental car. On arriving at his destination, Mr R collected a rental car 
from a supplier (GT) and provided his Post Office credit card details.
On returning home, Mr R found that he had been charged £225.60 on his Post Office credit 
card for damage to the right-hand door of the car.
Mr R disputed the damage with the suppler but wasnt able to resolve the issue. He 
contacted JaJa Finance to make a section 75 claim for a refund of £225.60.
JaJa Finance rejected the section 75 claim. It said that Mr Rs contract was with the rental 
car broker and that because he hadnt paid the initial payment of £48 on his Post Office 
credit card, it wasnt liable for the section 75 claim.
Mr R was unhappy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said the required debtor-creditor-supplier 
relationship required for a section 75 claim hadnt been established and that it was the credit 
card on which Mr R had made his initial payment of £48 who was the creditor for the 
purposes of the debtor-creditor-supplier relationship, and that any section 75 claim should be 
raised against that credit card provider, not JaJa Finance. The investigator concluded that 
JaJa Finance hadnt made an error in declining the claim.
Mr R didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of 
goods or a provider of credit. There can only be a valid claim under section 75 if payment 
was made under what is known as a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement and if it can be 
shown that the supplier acted in breach of contract or misrepresented the contract. 
The issue in this case is the relationship between Mr R, the company who received the initial 
payment (RC) and the credit card provider whose card was used by Mr R to make the £48 
payment. Mr R made the initial payment to RC on a  credit card from a different provider. 
This means that the creditor for the purposes of the debtor-creditor-supplier relationship was 
that credit card provider and not JaJa Finance.
Although I can see that the charge of £225.60 was applied to Mr Rs Post Office credit card, 
this only came about as a result of the original agreement which was established when Mr R 
paid £48 using his other credit card.
Because of this, the creditor  for the purpose of any section 75 claim  is Mr Rs other credit 
card provider. 
In the circumstances, there can be no valid section 75 claim against JaJa Finance because 
the necessary debtor-creditor-supplier relationship hasnt been established.
I appreciate that Mr R feels very strongly about this. However, any section 75 claim should 
be raised with the credit card provider on whose card Mr R made the initial payment of £48.
For the reasons Ive given, Im unable to say that JaJa Finance acted unfairly in declining the 
section 75 claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman