DRN-3205259
The complaint
Mr C complains that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) declined his travel insurance claim. 
My refences to URV include its agents.
What happened
In February 2020 Mr C bought a single trip travel insurance policy, insured by URV, for a trip 
abroad to see family from mid-March to mid-April 2020.
During the outbound trip Mr C was taken off the aircraft at a country on route to his final 
destination and hospitalised overnight. He says no diagnosis was established and he 
continued his trip the next day.
Due to the airlines cancellations of return flights to the UK Mr Cs stay abroad had to be 
extended for over 11 weeks beyond his original return date and during that time Mr C ran out 
his medication for glaucoma and restless leg syndrome. He had to see a doctor and have a 
telephone consultation with an ophthalmologist abroad to get prescriptions for the 
medication he needed as he couldnt get the medication through the NHS from the UK. He 
claimed for the costs of the medication and the medical professionals he saw to get the 
medication.
URV declined the claim. It said the policy excluded cover for replenishment of any 
medication (Mr C was) using at the start of the trip.
Mr C complained to us. He said he wasnt stockpiling the medication, he was getting the 
medication for his urgent medical needs which he ran out of only because he couldnt get 
home as planned. He asked that URV pay the medication costs he claimed and also the 
costs relating to his hospitalisation on his outbound trip.
Our investigator said URV fairly declined Mr Cs claim for medication costs. He didnt 
comment on Mr Cs request that URV pay the other costs.
Mr C disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. He said the airline was responsible for 
his delay in returning home. He also said hed forgotten to claim for his hearing aids that had 
been destroyed when he was staying abroad.
Before I made my decision I asked URV if Mr C had declared, and it had accepted, cover for 
any medical conditions. URV said it had agreed to cover the three conditions Mr C declared, 
which included glaucoma and restless leg syndrome
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision as although I was intending to come to the same conclusion as 
our investigator about the medication costs Mr C claimed I also commented on the other 
costs Mr C wants URV to pay. The provisional decision enabled the parties to respond 
before I made a final decision. I said:
My decision is only about Mr Cs claim for the medical professionals and medication 
expenses in the country where he had his extended stay. From the evidence I have the only 
claim form Mr C has submitted to URV is for those costs and URVs final response letter only 
gives its decision on those costs.
Mr C did email URV telling it what happened to his hearing aids. In URVs final response 
letter to Mr C it said he needed to complete a claim for his personal possession claim and 
I understand that related to his hearing aids. So Mr C needs to complete a claim form for his 
hearing aids to enable URV to consider that claim.
In Mr Cs complaint to us he also asked that URV pay his costs relating to his hospitalisation 
during his outbound trip. But Ive seen no evidence that he made a claim to URV for those 
costs. So Mr C needs to complete a claim form for those costs to enable URV to consider 
that claim.
If Mr C has already submitted claims forms for either of those two matters and URV has 
made a decision URV should tell me in response to this provisional decision. If there is 
dispute between Mr C and URV about payment of the hearing aids and/or hospitalisation 
claims Mr C will need to make a separate complaint to us.
As to Mr Cs claim for his medication and medical professional costs where he had his 
extended stay, the policy says theres cover for:
up to £10,000,000 following necessary emergency expensesprovided you are not 
claiming replenishment of any medication you were using at the start of the trip.
So under the policy terms URV wont cover any claims made to reimburse costs for 
replenishing prescribed medication. Mr C says that on medical advice he opted for a less 
expensive alternative to one of his usual medications but I still think the policy terms applies 
as the medication is for the same condition. The claim isnt covered under the policy terms.
Ive also considered whether URVs decline of the claim is fair and reasonable. I appreciate 
the medication costs are for medical conditions URV agreed to cover. And I understand that 
Mr C ran out of the medication because he had to stay abroad longer than planned due to no 
fault of his own. I dont think he was stockpiling the medication. But as the policy specifically 
says URV wont cover replenishment of any medication Mr C was using at the start of the 
trip I dont think I can reasonably say that URV must cover the medication costs. As Mr C 
only incurred the medical professionals costs because he needed to see them to get the 
medication I dont think those costs are covered either.
Responses to my provisional decision
URV said it had no further information to provide. Mr C didnt accept my provisional decision. 
In summary he said:
The policy URV sent him didnt have the exclusion about medication costs on 
page 13, which is the page of the policy URV referred to in its letter to him. He sent 
us the policy document he had.
Hed taken a contingency supply of his medication to last to the end of April 2020. He 
ran out only because his flight home was cancelled for many weeks. Hed chosen to 
continue with the medication prescribed by his UK doctors to keep his expenses low 
even though the doctors abroad offered alternative more expensive medication. He 
couldnt get his prescribed, free NHS medication due to customs restrictions on 
mailing medicines abroad. He said he wasnt replenishing the medication instead he 
urgently required the medication in an emergency situation.Hes going to make a claim for costs relating to his hospitalisation during his 
outbound trip and wants URV to settle his claim for his hearing aids.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Claim for the medication and medical professional costs incurred when Mr C had his 
extended stay 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr C but his response to my provisional decision hasnt changed my 
mind. I still think URV fairly declined his claim for the medication and medical professional 
costs incurred when he had his extended stay. 
The policy hes provided still contains the exclusion for the costs of:
replenishment of any medication you were using at the start of the trip, or follow up 
treatment for any condition you had at the start of your trip.
That exclusion is on page 14, instead of page 13, on the version of the policy Mr C had. So 
I still think his claim for the medication costs isnt covered under the policy terms.
Ive thought very carefully about whether in these circumstances it would be fair and 
reasonable for URV to pay the claim. I note all Mr C says about why he had to get more 
medication and I understand his situation. He had to get more medication from doctors 
abroad because of circumstances outside of his control. I still think URV could fairly consider 
that Mr C was replenishing his medication. He was filling up his stock of medication that hed 
ran out of although, as Ive said, it wasnt Mr Cs fault he ran out of medication. 
But I still think that as the policy specifically says URV wont cover replenishment of any 
medication Mr C was using at the start of the trip I dont think I can reasonably say URV 
must cover the medication costs. 
The evidence Ive seen is that Mr C only incurred the medical professionals costs because 
he needed to see them to get the medication so I still dont think those costs are covered 
either. 
Costs relating to Mr Cs hospitalisation during his outbound trip and for his damaged hearing 
aids 
URV hasnt said Mr C has already claimed and its decided whether it will pay for costs 
relating to his hospitalisation during his outbound trip and for his damaged hearing aids. So 
Mr C will need to submit claims to URV for those costs for it to consider. If URV decides its 
not going to pay those claims Mr C can make a separate complaint to us. In this decision Ive 
made no findings about whether or not URV should pay those costs. 
My final decisionI dont uphold Mr Cs claim for medication and related medical professional costs in the 
country where he had his extended stay.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman