DRN-2066665
The complaint
Mr S complains that Nationwide Building Society cancelled his credit card without informing 
him and he incurred costs when trying to resolve the matter.  
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a summary of some key events here. Mr S holds a credit card account with Nationwide. In 
December 2019 whilst Mr S was overseas, he tried to use his card to buy some goods 
online. His attempts were declined, and Mr S called Nationwide to find out why. Nationwide 
explained that Mr S card had been replaced a few months earlier in October 2019  due to 
his card details being potentially compromised - and the card he was trying to use was no 
longer active. 
Mr S raised various complaints with Nationwide about this matter between December 2019 
and January 2020. 
Mr S complained that:
Nationwide didnt tell him how long it would take to respond to his complaint.
Nationwide didnt tell him why and when his card was cancelled. 
Nationwide should have called or emailed him when the card was cancelled.
He incurred call costs when he had to contact Nationwide about the issue.
He incurred non-sterling transaction fees when using another card.
Nationwide provided responses to Mr S complaints in January 2020 and said: 
The agent who dealt with his call in December 2019 shouldve made it clearer 
how it would deal with the complaint, and how long it would take. It apologised for 
this and paid Mr S £50 for the inconvenience this caused.
It says it told Mr S in its letter sent in October 2019 why the card had been 
replaced. And explained that its process for replacing a card was to send it by 
post to the address it held. It sent Mr S card to the correct address it held on file 
for him  which had been updated by Mr S in September 2019.  
It considered the letter and card replacement sent by post as secure and stated 
that sending emails or making calls to a consumer could increase the risk of the 
card being intercepted.
It didnt believe it should pay Mr S for the international call he made in December 
2019.
It offered to refund the cost of any non-sterling transaction fees Mr S incurred as 
a result of using alternative payment methods. 
Mr S didnt accept the response from Nationwide and brought his complaints to this service.
Our investigator considered it was reasonable for Nationwide to issue a replacement card. 
And to send the replacement card by post to Mr S address as it didnt know Mr S was 
overseas at the time. Our investigator considered the apology and the remedies already paid 
by Nationwide were fair and reasonable.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman decision on his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the Nationwide credit card say that it will send a replacement 
card and personal identification number (PIN) when it is necessary. It also says that it may 
make periodic searches at credit reference and fraud prevention agencies. And information 
from these searches will inform any changes to the credit limit or the issuing of a 
replacement card. I am satisfied Nationwide could replace the credit card if it had concerns 
regarding security. But, the crux of this complaint is whether Nationwide did enough to 
inform Mr S it was replacing the card.
Mr S says that Nationwide ought to have known he spends most of his time living abroad 
because of his previous history with it. And that it shouldnt have sent the replacement card 
to his UK address. I have seen no direct evidence that Mr S told Nationwide he would be 
overseas at the time, and I note that Mr S and Nationwide accept he had only recently 
moved into the new UK address. Mr S says Nationwide shouldve noticed that the one-time 
password contact number he used for his direct banking account was a foreign number. I 
dont agree that this is enough for Nationwide to have formed the view Mr S would be 
overseas at the time it sent the letter.
Once Nationwide had decided to issue a replacement card, it sent the card to the address it 
held on file for him and I think this was reasonable. I accept that Nationwide couldve 
emailed Mr S or called him to let him know his card would be cancelled and I can see why 
this would have suited Mr S. Nationwide says it has a process for sending replacement 
cards and says communicating using other forms may increase the risk of the card being 
intercepted. I dont think this is unreasonable and I dont find that Nationwide promised a 
specific method of communication with Mr S in relation to matters of security. 
Its unfortunate the replacement card didnt arrive at Mr S address as the letter also 
explained why the card had been replaced. If this letter had arrived, it is more like than not 
Mr S wouldve been made aware of it by his family, who monitored his post. He could then 
have arranged for the replacement card to have been sent to him securely or made 
alternative arrangements. I acknowledge Mr S view that Nationwide failed to inform him the 
card was being replaced. However, I dont agree with this view. I think it was reasonable for 
Nationwide to use the Royal Mail to deliver the letter and it was a reasonable way to inform 
him the card was being replaced. This is a recognised and generally accepted way for a 
business to fulfil its duty to inform a customer of a replacement card, and I think it would be 
unfair to hold Nationwide responsible that the letter didnt arrive.
I appreciate Mr S would have been inconvenienced by calling Nationwide whilst overseas. 
Its expected that customers will experience issues using their banking services from time to 
time and would need to contact their banking provider. Where an error was caused by the 
banking provider that resulted in call costs being incurred, it would be reasonable for these 
costs to be reimbursed. But in Mr S case, I dont think Nationwide could have reasonably 
been aware that his replacement card had been lost in the post. And that Mr S would try to 
use his old card several months later whilst overseas. I dont think this call was avoidable or 
that Nationwide should be responsible to pay the costs Mr S incurred.Mr S initially said that he was concerned his card couldve been intercepted and used. I have 
seen no evidence that this was the case. And Mr S has since told the investigator he accepts 
the card wasnt at risk. So, I make no finding on this point. 
In the call in December 2019, Nationwide told Mr S it would find out what it could do for him 
as he didnt want a replacement card sent by post to his address abroad. It then took a 
further 10 days or so for Nationwide to contact Mr S to tell him it would extend his existing 
card by a further 21 days. I think that Nationwides payment of £50.00 for the distress and 
inconvenience this caused was reasonable and appropriate for the length of delay.
I have seen that Nationwide has refunded the non-sterling transaction fees on Mr S 
alternative card. As I consider this was a reasonable remedy to address the cost of using the 
alternative card, I wont ask Nationwide to do any more in this regard. 
I appreciate Mr S has had to go to some trouble to resolve this matter. But I think that was 
due to his personal circumstances  being overseas at the point of his complaint  rather 
than a mistake on Nationwides part. I do think Nationwide did enough to inform Mr S that his 
card was being replaced but I think Nationwide could have handled things better when he 
complained. Im satisfied what its done to put its failings right is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, so I wont be telling Nationwide to take any further action.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I wont be asking Nationwide Building Society to do anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2020.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman