DRN-4353768
The complaint
Miss S complained about the service provided by Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin 
Money (VM) after she requested an ISA transfer, initially to another business whom Ill call 
G and then to a provider of financial services whom Ill call W. She said VM was 
responsible for mishandling the transfer requests resulting in delays which caused her 
immense anxiety and stress. 
To put things right, Miss S asked for more substantial compensation than VM had offered. 
What happened
The following timeline briefly summarises what happened when Miss S decided to transfer 
her cash ISA to a stocks and shares ISA elsewhere.
9 May 2022  G confirmed to Miss S the details of her completed Cash ISA transfer 
instruction. 
27 June 2022  G posted Miss Ss completed transfer request to VM. This was not 
responded to as it was not received at the VM office location that dealt with Miss Ss ISA.
14 July 2022  G resent Miss Ss completed transfer request to VM by email.
12 August 2022 -VM notified G that Miss S had provided an invalid account number.
17 August 2022  G confirmed to VM that the account number quoted was correct. VM 
emailed Miss S confirming the address that her transfer request needed to go to in order for 
VM to be able to action it.
22 August 2022  Miss S emailed VM to say that G had resent everything for the third time 
and that she was still waiting to hear from VM.
27 August 2022  Miss S emailed VM to say that due to the ongoing delay she wished to 
cancel the ISA transfer to G and she would send VM fresh instructions in due course. 
6 September 2022  W sent VM a correctly addressed signed transfer form. 
14 September 2022 - VM received the transfer request from W. 
22 September 2022 VM contacted W explaining that it could not complete the transfer as it 
was unable to verify Miss Ss signature.
3 October 2022  VM wrote to W advising it would need a new form to be signed and sent.
7 October 2022  VM received a second transfer request from W which it actioned the same 
day, transferring the ISA balance to W, less a penalty charge which Miss S incurred under 
the ISA terms and conditions. 
Miss S complained to VM about the way it had handled her transfer, the poor service shed 
experienced when trying to find out what was happening and VMs failure to deal effectively 
with her complaint about what happened. VM partly upheld Miss Ss complaint. 
In brief summary, VM didnt uphold the following complaints:
that it didnt complete the transfer of Miss Ss Cash ISA to G
about delay transferring her Cash ISA to W
that it hadnt kept her updated during the complaint process
letters to Miss S had been incorrectly addressed. 
VM agreed however that:
it had taken too long to resolve Miss Ss complaint
she had experienced unacceptable call wait times
shed had issues registering for online banking
shed had problems trying to contact VM to find out what was happening with the 
transfers
shed received an email querying the complaint issue when Miss S had previously 
sent VM all the complaint details.
VM offered Miss S £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience shed been 
caused.
Miss S didnt feel this was enough to resolve things and she brought her complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into what happened. She concluded that VM didnt need to 
do anything more than it had offered already to put things right as the transfer had 
completed within government guidelines and we cant award compensation for VMs 
complaint handling. 
Miss S disagreed with the investigator. In brief summary, Miss S mainly said that:
she was disappointed with the brevity of the investigators report and didnt think that 
all the key issues had been identified or properly understood
the investigator had failed to comment on a number of aspects of VMs response to 
her complaint which were contradictory and which Miss S disputed were correct  
including the reason for requesting W to supply a further signed transfer
it had taken VM over a month to decide it couldnt verify her signature when W sent 
the transfer request, even though her signature was verified on the G transfer and 
the second form she signed  and nothing had changed
she was disappointed with what the Financial Ombudsman Service could offer
she was unhappy that the investigator hadnt mentioned or followed up on an offer to 
continue to try and broker an agreed resolution to the complaint between VM and G.  
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
I can appreciate how strongly Miss S feels about this complaint. HMRC guidance says that 
transferring a cash ISA shouldnt take longer than 15 working days. So its completely 
understandable that the length of time taken to complete a transfer that she started in early 
May 2022 caused Miss S so much frustration and stress. Just to clarify one point mentioned by Miss S  when she asked for her complaint to be 
referred for an Ombudsman's decision, the investigator explained that this would involve a 
completely new, separate review of her complaint. This is the reason that the investigator 
was no longer actively involved in pursuing an agreed resolution to the complaint between 
VM and G. 
My role is to consider all the evidence presented by the parties and reach a fair and 
reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. We provide an informal complaints 
handling service and this is reflected in our approach. Ive expressed some of Miss Ss 
concerns in my own words and my focus is on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules 
allow me to do this and it simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. This means I wont necessarily mention everything that Miss S has 
brought to my attention, especially where I have nothing to add to what the investigator has 
said already. But I will comment on everything that makes a difference to the outcome of the 
complaint.  
The industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), says our service can only 
look into complaints about regulated activities, and complaint handling isnt a regulated 
activity. We can however consider the customer service Miss S received and thats what 
I've concentrated on in my decision. 
Miss Ss core complaint concerns the length of time it took to complete her transfer 
request. So I must decide whether there is sufficient evidence to conclude that VM failed to 
process a properly completed transfer within a fair and reasonable timescale. I will take 
into account the relevant law, regulatory requirements and best industry practice. I can tell 
VM to pay compensation or take other steps to put things right if I am satisfied that VM did 
something wrong or acted unfairly or unreasonably and this led to Miss S suffering some 
detriment and/or financial loss. 
Miss S feels that when G sent the transfer request to the wrong VM office, this ought not to 
have held up her transfer and she says VM should have had some internal process enabling 
her transfer form to be redirected to the correct office. VM explained that it has offices over 
100 miles distant from each other which deal with ISA transfers from different parts of its 
business  these are run separately and each office can deal only with the ISAs it is set up 
to handle. VM told us it does have an internal procedure whereby paper requests can be 
redirected but it appears that the documentation G incorrectly sent to the wrong office could 
not be identified by that team. It has since said that: I cant see that this request was ever 
received so I cant comment on why this wasnt passed between departments as we have no 
record of it being received. 
Miss S mentioned that there was ongoing correspondence between G and VM concerning 
the validity of the account number she had supplied. As far as I can see, Miss S had 
correctly quoted the account number shown on her ISA statements although VM continued 
to assert that the account number was incorrect even after G (and Miss S) had checked and 
confirmed this information. I asked VM to explain this further as I didnt feel it had explained 
why it appeared initially not to recognise the number or identify the account as an ISA it was 
responsible for. 
VM said that if G requested the transfer electronically through the VM system, this would 
have been automatically rejected as invalid account details because the ISA Miss S held 
related to an account opened by a predecessor bank that wasnt accessible via VM systems. 
VM said its ISA team had confirmed they didnt receive a transfer request from G and if 
there was a manual decline, it would have been them that sent it and they would have a 
record of this. From the information I've seen and been told, its unclear what happened to the transfer 
requests G sent to VM. But I dont think I need to make any findings about VMs role in this 
transfer because I think it's fair to say that most of the overall delay rested with G and the 
onus was on G as the acquiring business to have been more proactive. I've also taken into 
account that VMs contact details for Miss Ss ISA appear to have been correctly shown 
online and available throughout. And after VM confirmed this information to Miss S on 
17 August 2022, its my understanding that, within the next 10 days, G subsequently sent the 
transfer request to the correct office but Miss S decided in the event, not to go ahead with 
the transfer to G. So, I cant fairly uphold Miss Ss complaint that VM didnt complete the 
transfer of her Cash ISA to G when she discontinued the transfer herself.
But I am planning to uphold her complaint about the delay and poor service on VMs part 
during the process of transferring her Cash ISA to W for the following reasons:
On 14 September 2022, VM received the fresh transfer request Miss S had 
completed with W. It was over a week before VM told W, on 22 September 2022, that 
it could not complete the transfer as it was unable to verify Miss Ss signature. And 
another 10 days or so before VM requested completion of a new transfer form. I think 
these delays were excessive, keeping in mind the 15 working days timescale in 
HMRC guidance for completing this sort of transfer. 
Plus, it was unclear to me why VM hadnt been able to verify Miss Ss signature and 
when I asked VM for more information about this, it said: Its not clear exactly what 
the issue was with the signature or whether that note has been added correctly, 
however the transfer form doesnt specify that Miss S accepts the penalty for early 
closure. Once a new form was received with this specified, the transfer went ahead.
Ive compared the two ISA transfer authority forms that Miss S completed, originally 
on 27 August 2022 and later, at VMs request, on 4 October 2022. The main 
difference seems to be that Miss S has added her signature to the part of the form 
where she had ticked a box to confirm her instructions to transfer the whole balance 
of her Cash ISA together with any interest, dividends, distributions, rights and any 
other cash within my ISA (less any amounts you are entitled to keep under the terms 
of the Plan including exit penalties).
VM has also told me that I am not sure why the signature could not be verified 
however the transfer was also rejected due to the penalty not being specifically 
accepted.
I think its possible that this explains why VM asked for Miss Ss further signature, 
because after she had signed next to the part of the form that mentioned exit 
penalties, VM actioned the transfer promptly. But I dont think this was a reasonable 
requirement on VMs part. The wording of the form already covered her situation and 
Miss S had given valid consent when she signed the form the first time. VM has no 
other explanation for requiring Miss S to provide a further signature. So I find that VM 
was responsible for causing the transfer to be unreasonably delayed when it rejected 
the transfer form it received on 14 September 2022.  
I also find that letters to Miss S had been incorrectly addressed and although VM didnt 
uphold this complaint, I can see this did happen on occasion. VM was also sending Miss S 
correctly addressed correspondence around the same time telling her what she needed to 
know. So I dont think Miss S missed out on any information. And VM wasnt responsible 
for postal delays. But I appreciate nevertheless why this added to Miss Ss overall sense of frustration and lack of confidence in VMs handling of this matter generally, and I've kept 
this in mind when thinking about redress. I can also understand why Miss S felt let down when she wasnt able to reach a contact at 
VM that she thought would continue to help her to sort things out. The contact had already 
provided Miss S with the information she needed to know to be able to progress her 
transfer and this person wasnt involved in the transfer so there was no particular reason 
for her to be involved further. But I dont think this was clearly explained to Miss S who had 
come to depend on that line of communication and its unsurprising that this contributed to 
her feelings of disappointment in VM.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Miss S accepted my provisional decision.
VM disagreed and mainly said that:
it was incorrect to say that there was no difference between the first and second 
transfer request forms, other than an additional signature from Miss S, as the first 
form received states:less any amounts you are entitled to keep under the terms of 
the plan but didnt specifically indicate that Miss S was aware of penalties that would 
be applied. The second form had Miss Ss signature next to wording which was 
edited to include the words: including exit penalties and this is why the second form 
was accepted when the first one was declined.
The request dated 6 September 2023 and sent to VM via post was received on 
13 September 2023 and rejected by VM the next day. VM doesnt agree that it 
caused any delay with the rejected transfer request and once sufficient paperwork 
was received the transfer was completed within the 15 day timescale.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken carefully into account everything thats been said in response to my provisional 
decision. And whilst I have highlighted above what seem to me to be the main points of 
concern raised, Id like to assure VM that I've thought carefully about everything again before 
coming to my final decision. 
My starting point is that Miss S was entitled expect VM to treat her fairly and reasonably. So 
VM needed to ensure that specific requirements that needed to be met in order to process 
her transfer request were brought to Miss Ss attention at the earliest possible opportunity 
once it was aware of her transfer intentions. 
As far as I am aware, this issue hadnt been flagged up during the previous transfer request, 
so Miss S was unaware this would be an obstacle to proceeding with her second transfer 
request. This put an onus firmly on VM to provide clarity as soon as it was apparent the 
second transfer request form didnt match all its requirements. 
VM hasnt provided me with any new information that changes what I think about this case. In particular, given that VM had very specific wording requirements it required to see before 
actioning the transfer request, I think VM could and should have made this clear when it 
rejected the initial transfer on 14 September. I consider its failure to do this was unfair. 
Had VM mentioned the edited wording it wanted to see on the form on 14 September, I think 
its likely this could have been responded to straightaway, or at most, within a few days, 
given that Miss S had been clear all along that the exit penalty she would pay didnt matter to 
her and her priority was to complete the transfer. 
Similarly, VM missed the further opportunity on 22 September to clarify that it specifically 
wanted to see Miss Ss signed confirmation with regard to exit penalties. It rejected that 
transfer for a different reason to do with Miss Ss signature which it cant now explain  and 
has said more recently that the note suggesting the transfer was rejected for this reason 
might not be correct.
Ive also kept in mind that VM said it required the amended wording because the original 
wording didnt specifically indicate that Miss S was aware of penalties that would be applied. 
But, as far as I can see, the edited wording VM subsequently accepted didnt do this either  
it simply added some detail to the general authority she had signed to transfer (effectively) 
the balance of her cash ISA minus any amounts not due to her  which would have already 
included any consequential penalty. 
VM hasnt commented further on anything else I mentioned in my provisional decision and 
I have addressed in my provisional decision all the points which have a bearing on the 
outcome. 
I appreciate that VM takes a different view to me. But I still think its fair to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained more fully in my provisional decision. 
And I am satisfied that the redress I have directed is broadly fair to put Miss S into the 
position she would have been in if VM had acted fairly and reasonably when dealing with her 
transfer. 
To give VM more flexibility, I have included below a further option for the way redress can be 
worked out. This will not result in any detriment to Miss S. Putting things right
Miss S has provided evidence that shows on 14 October 2022 she invested the cash 
transferred to W on 7 October 2022 (£9,649.76) into an investment described as ISA-
Growth- Adventurous. So I think its likely, had VM responded appropriately on receipt of the 
original form on 14 September 2022 making its requirements clearer, Miss S would have 
likely been able to reinvest her transferred cash ISA proceeds within a week. So VM should 
work out redress accordingly. 
VM should take the following actions:-
1. Calculate the number of units Miss S would have purchased with the £9,649.76* had 
she invested on 21 September 2022 in the same way (or as close as reasonably 
possible to the way) she actually did invest on 14 October 2022.
2. The number of units calculated at (1) should then be valued at the date of my 
decision.
3. To the figure calculated at (2) should be added the amount of any dividend that 
Miss S would have received if Miss S had held these units calculated at (1) on 
21 September 2022. This total figure, including any dividend, represents the fair 
value.
4. The number of units that were actually purchased by this £9,649.76 investment 
should also be valued at the date of my decision. This represents the actual value.
If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable. If the fair value 
is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Any compensation due should be paid to Miss S. 
VM should provide details of the calculations to Miss S in a clear, simple format.
If the compensation is not paid within 28 days of VM receiving acceptance of my decision, 
interest at 8% per annum on any loss identified will be payable from the final decision date to 
the date of settlement. Income tax may be payable on this interest, if paid. 
If VM deducts income tax from the interest, it should tell Miss S how much has been taken 
off. VM should give Miss S a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Miss S asks for 
one, so Miss S can reclaim the tax on this interest from HMRC, if appropriate.
In addition to providing redress for the investment loss, fair compensation also needs to 
properly reflect the impact on Miss S of VMs service failings on this occasion. I dont doubt 
that VMs poor handling of matters, as described above, caused Miss S significant distress 
and inconvenience. I am satisfied that £250 is in line with the amount this service would 
award in similar cases and it is fair compensation for Miss S in these particular 
circumstances. *As it doesnt disadvantage Miss S, to make things simpler for VM I have assumed that the 
cash ISA proceeds would have been the same amount on 21 September 2022 as they were 
on 7 October 2022. If VM wishes to substitute here the actual amount of proceeds Miss S 
would have received if the transfer had completed during the week commencing 
14 September and the penalty amount had been different, it should do this by working out 
the average amount she would have received (by looking at the daily figure that would have 
applied on each trading day during that seven day period and dividing this by the number of 
trading days). 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money to take the 
steps set out above to put things right for Miss S.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 October 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman