DRN-3169391
The complaint
Miss L complains that NewDay Ltd irresponsibly increased the credit limit on her account to 
unaffordable levels. She also complains that NewDay suspended the use of her account 
when she brought her complaint.
What happened
Miss L says the NewDay account was opened in 2013 and doesnt complain about that 
decision. She says the credit limit was irresponsibly increased on a number of occasions to 
unaffordable levels. Miss L says she was making minimum payments and used most of the 
available credit. She says she was a student and would like interest and charges refunded 
as well as interest paid on that amount. Miss L also complains that when she brought the 
complaint NewDay suspended her account use. She says that was unfair when NewDay 
said the account was affordable and says it ought to have offered alternatives such a 
payment holiday. She also says she had recently made a large payment towards the debt 
and NewDay cut off her credit causing difficulties. Miss L also complains that the payment 
due date changed.
NewDay says it carried out appropriate checks on the credit limit increases but says it 
doesnt have all of the data it used due to the passage of time. It says there were no signs of 
financial difficulties and that Miss L at the time of the increases managed her account 
appropriately. NewDay says it acted responsibly by closing the account when Miss L brought 
a complaint of unaffordability and says the payment due date is made clear in the 
statements.
Miss L brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought there were a number of credit limit changes between 2014 and 2018 and that 
appropriate checks were carried out. The investigator thought those checks showed no 
adverse information on Miss Ls credit file and that she managed her account on the whole 
appropriately. The investigator thought regular repayments were made often more than 
required amounts and Miss L didnt use the full credit limit. The investigator also thought 
interest and charges were correctly applied in line with account terms and conditions and 
that NewDay was entitled to close the account when told about possible financial difficulties.
Miss L doesnt accept that view and in summary says if NewDay says the account was 
affordable then why close it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate that Miss L will be disappointed by my decision and appreciate how strongly she 
feels about what took place. I make clear that there is no need for me to repeat the amounts 
and dates of the increases as the investigator has provided Miss L with a table which has 
that information.
It may be helpful if I set out in general the rules lenders and credit providers must apply in 
these sorts of circumstances. Reasonable and proportionate checks must be carried out 
before any lending or, as in this case, before increasing a credit limit. Those checks will of 
course vary depending on the type and amount of the lending and if there is an existing 
relationship between the parties as in this case. I would not have expected NewDays 
checks to have been as detailed as for example a large loan or mortgage application, but of 
course appropriate checks must still be carried out.
Due to the passage of time details of some of those checks are no longer available but I can 
see in any event this complaint is not about the initial lending, but the credit limit increases. 
And there is information about the main increases.
I have looked carefully at NewDays records and can see that before each of the credit limit 
increases before 2014 and 2018 it carried out checks. I can see it looked at Miss Ls 
payment record, her use of credit and calculated the affordability of the increases. I can see 
it checked Miss Ls credit file and noted the lack of adverse information that can often 
indicate financial problems such as defaults, arrears on other accounts and excessive 
borrowing. So, Im satisfied that NewDay did carry out reasonable and proportionate checks 
on each of the credit limit increases. It follows that I dont think the increases were 
unaffordable or the decision to increase irresponsible.
Im also satisfied that Miss L didnt use all of the available credit in any event and that she 
appears to have managed her account ,on the whole, appropriately throughout and before 
and after the last increase which suggests the increases were not unaffordable. Im satisfied 
regular payments were made, often more than required and that on occasions full balances 
were cleared.
I appreciate Miss L complains about the payment date changing. I dont think this is the main 
part of the complaint and I have not seen any evidence on NewDays records that she made 
any contact about it before this complaint. Im satisfied that the payment date is clearly 
recorded on each of the account statements and I cant see why that would cause any real 
issues.
Im satisfied that NewDay was entitled to charge interest and fees in line with agreed 
account terms and conditions and was entitled to change the interest rate. It follows that I 
dont think NewDay made a mistake in these circumstances by applying interest or charges 
and so I cant fairly order it to refund them.
I appreciate Miss L also complains about how NewDay reacted to her complaint. And I make 
clear that I appreciate both sides view on it. Miss L made a complaint about affordability but 
that of course doesnt mean the account was presently unaffordable. NewDay when told 
about a complaint of affordability decided to close the account to avoid further financial 
problems. I can in those circumstances understand why Miss L was concerned but equally 
accept that NewDay has a responsibility when told of financial difficulties to try and help to 
avoid them increasing.
So, I have looked carefully at Miss Ls letter of complaint in 2020 and can see that she says 
she would have difficulties repaying the debt within a reasonable time period and has taken 
out other credit card accounts which has resulted in further debt. I dont think that NewDay 
acted unfairly by suspending the account in those circumstances and can see that it 
provided details of its specialist team to allow Miss L to discuss what had taken place. I cant 
see any evidence Miss L spoke to that specialist team or provided evidence of her income 
and expenditure to allow NewDay to carry out affordability checks at the end of 2020 into the 
start of 2021. I can see that it appears Miss L didnt make required payments in early 2021 
which suggests NewDay acted correctly by suspending the account use.Overall, Im satisfied NewDay did carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on the 
credit limit increases and that the lending was not unaffordable or irresponsible. Im also 
satisfied that this now brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this complaint informally 
can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman