DRN-3613239
The complaint
Mr P complains that Succession Wealth Management Ltd trading as Succession Wealth 
(SW) failed to give him suitable advice when advising on his investment portfolio and 
financial affairs generally which resulted in him incurring a Lifetime Tax Allowance (LTA) 
excess charge of £31,802.00. 
To resolve his complaint, Mr P is looking for financial redress from SW.
What happened
In 2002, Mr P started a Stakeholder Personal Pension Plan with a pension provider I will 
refer to as S (and for ease of reference, Ill refer to his S pension). The S pension plan did 
not include LTA protection. 
In 2004, Mr P became a client with a predecessor business which SW acquired in November 
2015. (but for ease of reference I will generally refer just to SW as his financial adviser). 
Mr P had an option of taking up to 25% of his S pension, potentially tax free. In early 2021, 
shortly before his 75th birthday, Mr P took his 25% tax free cash (TFC) allowance out of his S 
pension. This resulted in S applying a Lifetime excess tax charge.
Mr P complained to SW that he wasnt warned about the possibility of exceeding his LTA 
and said he should have been advised to take action to reduce the amount of tax due.
When Mr P contacted SW about this, it mainly said:
in 2015, the adviser had recorded in a letter to Mr P regarding his S pension that we 
have agreed that in the meantime you will stop contributions since as far as tax relief 
is concerned this product has done its jobI would suggest that you inform S that 
you will be discontinuing your contributions forthwith.
Had Mr P acted on that advice, he would have had little or no liability to a higher LTA 
tax charge.  
Against that advice, in an email sent on 2 November 2021, Mr P told SW he had 
continued making contributions to his S pension every year from 2002 - 2020/2021. 
There was no evidence to suggest advice was provided by SW when these 
contributions were made.
Whilst the predecessor business had received fees (trail commission) in relation to 
Mr Ps S pension, those fees had stopped in March 2014 and there was no obligation 
to provide annual reviews or ongoing service. The lifetime allowance at the time 
exceeded the total value of Mr Ps pension benefits  in other words, he wouldnt 
have incurred an LTA excess charge at that time.
SW had received no fees in relation to Mr Ps S pension and the pension was 
recorded as being not under advice by SW. 
In August 2018 there was a change of adviser at SW which resulted in Mr P 
transferring his client business elsewhere. 
In October 2018, SW wrote to Mr P to confirm it had acted on his instructions and 
SW was no longer servicing his plans and investments. 
So SW didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr P wasnt happy with this response. He said that after SW took over managing his 
investments, it should have advised him to obtain 'Fixed Protection' and not contribute 
further to the stakeholder pension so avoiding an LTA charge or, draw down the stakeholder 
pension so that he would be liable to a lower LTA charge. 
Our investigator didnt feel he had seen enough to be able to uphold Mr Ps complaint. In 
brief summary, he said for SW to have been able to advise Mr P on his S pension there 
needed to have been an arrangement in place to do so. As the trail commission was 
cancelled and no other agreement had been put in place, Mr Ps S pension was not under 
SWs management and there was no requirement for SW to provide ongoing advice as it 
was not getting paid to do so. 
Mr P disagreed with our investigator. He mainly said that not having in place charging 
arrangements for a specific product wasnt a reason not to uphold his complaint. Mr P said 
he had taken advice and had support for his complaint.
There has been a further exchange of correspondence between the investigator and Mr P 
but as the complaint hasn't been resolved, it comes to me for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure Mr P that whilst I have sometimes summarised things in my own words, 
Ive considered everything both sides have provided. We provide an informal service as a 
free alternative to the courts and no discourtesy is intended if I do not address every point 
raised. Ive focused on what seem to me to be the core issues in deciding the complaint and 
I will deal with everything that affects the outcome.
Its my understanding that Mr P is mainly unhappy because he believes SW should have 
advised him to stop paying into any kind of stakeholder pension in 2016 and take out a 
higher level of protection at the time of the changes in the LTA.
Mr P became a client of SW in late 2015. I am satisfied that I have jurisdiction to consider 
this complaint about the way it handled his financial advice requirements for the three years 
or so he remained a client before transferring his business to a different financial advice 
provider.
Ive thought carefully about the extent of SWs professional obligations towards Mr P which 
seems to me to be central to deciding Mr Ps complaint. 
SWs letter of engagement refers to the provision of 'comprehensive wealth planning' but 
does not specify which products are part of the review service. SW told me that this is 
determined by ongoing fees received for the products under its review. 
Mr P held investments which generated ongoing adviser fees to SW for its advice service. 
SW received no fees from the S pension and wasnt paid by Mr P to provide advice in 
relation to his S pension. 
So, I think it was fair for SW to take the view that its agreement with Mr P was to provide a 
review service for those investments it advised on, but it was not obliged to provide an advice service for his S pension which wasnt included as part of the portfolio SW reviewed 
and advised on.
SW however needed understand all Mr Ps various investments in order to be able to 
provide suitable advice to Mr P as part of its wealth planning service. This included 
discussing his S pension in order to gain an understanding of Mr Ps overall financial 
circumstances. But it does not automatically follow that Mr P was fairly entitled to expect SW 
to give him advice on his S pension. 
When Mr P became a client of SW, trail commission had been cancelled so SW wasnt 
receiving any fees in relation to the S pension and Mr P hadnt entered into any new 
agreement with SW that included paying SW to provide advice in relation to his S pension. 
So I find SW had no obligation to advise Mr P about his S pension.
I've taken into account a letter dated 1 July 2015 sent to Mr P by SWs predecessor 
business. Whilst this mainly concentrates on other financial products in respect of which 
tailored options were being provided, the adviser also mentioned that it had been agreed 
that Mr P should stop further contributions into his S pension on the understanding that he 
would be drawing an income from the plan at some point which would need thought and 
planning. So its clear there had been some discussion about the S pension. But I dont find 
this amounted to regulated financial advice in relation to the S pension - rather it suggested 
the need for a detailed review in order to be able to plan properly for the future. 
I think it is significant that the adviser had also reminded Mr P to tell S that he would be 
stopping making the contributions  which further confirms my view that both parties 
understood that Mr P had responsibility for managing his S pension. Nothing happened to 
change this after SW acquired the predecessor business. 
I also think it's fair to say that it looks like it was Mr Ps own decision to continue paying 
contributions into his S pension despite what had apparently been discussed with the 
adviser. So I cant see that SW would or should reasonably have been prompted to think 
there was a likelihood of Mr P incurring any LTA excess charge in any event. 
For all these reasons, I havent seen enough overall to hold SW fairly and reasonably 
responsible for the financial detriment Mr P suffered when he incurred a Lifetime excess tax 
charge as a result of taking cash out of his S pension. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint about Succession Wealth Management Ltd trading as 
Succession Wealth.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman