DRN-1866803
Complaint
Mr Fs complained about eight high-cost short-term credit instalment loans he took out with 
Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream). He says the loans were unaffordable.
Background
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr F and Lending Stream said. And she thought that 
Lending Stream hadnt treated Mr F unfairly when providing loans 1 to 5. But she didnt think 
that Lending Stream should have provided loans 6 to 8. So she partially upheld Mr Fs 
complaint and said Lending Stream needed to deduct any interest and charges paid on 
loans 6 and 7 (plus interest) from the unpaid capital amount Mr F owed on loan 8. 
Lending Stream agreed with our adjudicator. But Mr F disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at his complaint. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about short term lending on our website. And Ive used this approach to help me 
decide Mr Fs complaint. 
Mr F was provided with high-interest loans, intended for short-term use. So Lending Stream 
needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
that Lending Stream needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether any lending was sustainable for Mr F before providing it.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, I think that what Lending 
Stream has already agreed to do to put things right for Mr F is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of his complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
 
 
Why I dont think that it was unfair for Lending Stream to have provided loans 1 to 5 to Mr FLending Stream says it agreed to Mr Fs applications after hed provided details of his 
monthly income and expenditure. It says the information Mr F provided on his income and 
expenditure showed that hed be able to comfortably make the repayments he was 
committing to. And in these circumstances it was reasonable to lend. 
Ive carefully thought about what Mr F and Lending Stream have said. The first thing for me 
to say is that these loans were Mr Fs first loans with Lending Stream. And at the start at 
least there wasnt any established pattern in Mr Fs borrowing needs at this stage. The 
information provided does suggest that Mr F was asked to provide details of his income and 
expenditure. Bearing in mind the amount of the monthly repayment, the questions Lending 
Stream asked Mr F and these were Mr Fs first loans, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Lending Stream to rely on the information Mr F was providing.
I accept that Mr Fs actual circumstances may not have been reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the other information Lending Stream obtained. And Im also 
sorry to hear that Mr F was struggling financially and repaying these loans has proved 
difficult. But Lending Stream could only make its decision based on the information it had 
available at the time. And, at this stage of the lending relationship, while a pattern of Mr F 
taking new loans before having repaid previous ones was starting to emerge, I dont think it 
was established to the extent that Lending Stream ought to have realised that any further 
loans were unsustainable.  
In my view, Lending Stream reasonably relied on the information it was provided with and 
given the amount of the repayments involved and the overall circumstances of Mr Fs loan 
history, I dont think it was unreasonable for Lending Stream to lend  especially as there 
wasnt anything obvious, in the information it had or anything else provided, to suggest Mr F 
wouldnt be able to sustainably repay these loans.
So overall I dont think that it was unfair for Lending Stream to have provided loans 1 to 5. 
And as this is the case, Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint about these loans. 
Why I think what Lending Stream has agreed to do to put things right for loans 6 to 8 is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case
Lending Stream has already agreed that it shouldnt have provided loan 6 to 8 to Mr F. It 
says it will remove all the interest and charges applied to loan eight from the outset. It will 
then deduct the refunded interest and charges, plus interest, from the outstanding capital 
amount owing on loan 8. Mr F says that this doesnt go far enough and he shouldnt have to 
pay back what he was lent for loan 8 because the loan was irresponsibly provided. 
Ive thought about what Mr F has said. But we usually expect a borrower to repay the 
amount they were lent and we only usually ask a lender to refund or remove any interest, 
fees and charges. After all, even though Lending Stream shouldnt have agreed to the loan, 
Mr F did apply for it, he received the funds and he used them. So I think its perfectly fair and 
reasonable to expect him to pay them back. 
Ive not seen anything in the circumstances of the case to suggest that it would be fair and 
reasonable to depart from our usual approach to putting things right here. And as what 
Lending Stream has already agreed to do is in line with our usual approach, I think that this 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Fs complaint.
That said, Id remind Lending Stream of its obligation to exercise forbearance should it 
decide to collect the outstanding balance, after all adjustments have been made, and it be 
the case that Mr F is experiencing financial difficulty.My final decision
My final decision is that what Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) has already 
agreed to do to put things right for Mr F is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case. So Im not requiring it to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman