DRN-3140765
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that a technical fault with Santander UK Plcs payment system 
resulted in them making a payment twice to a family member. They also complain that when 
they raised the issue they werent provided with the service they should have been.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S have a bank account with Santander from which they have made numerous 
online payments. They say they wanted to make a payment to a family member and 
completed the online form as usual and received the SMS code. However, when the 
payment was attempted a message appeared saying there was a technical issue and that 
payment couldnt be made. Mr S attempted the payment later and this time the payment was 
successful. They then were contacted by the family member as two payments had been 
received.
Mr S contacted Santander and says they werent helpful. He was told both payments had 
been authorised and that there was no footprint on the system to say there had been a failed 
payment warning. 
Santander didnt accept it had done anything wrong. It said that Mr S used the online service 
on 8 December 2020 to set up a bill payment to a family member and the payment was 
authorised by a one-time passcode and was processed to leave the account the following 
day. A further bill payment was then set up a few minutes later and was authorised but in 
this case it was to leave that day. It said its systems didnt show that there had been any 
issue with bill payments, and it had no records to show Mr S was sent a message about a 
technical error.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said the systems evidence provided by 
Santander showed it didnt have any issues with the bill payments and confirmed both 
transactions were successful. He said based on this and that Santander said it had no 
record to show a technical error message was sent Santander hadnt made any errors.
Mr S didnt accept our investigators view. He said that while evidence hadnt been provided 
to show he had received the message about the failed payment, it also hadnt been proved 
that Mr S didnt receive the message. He reiterated that he had made several online 
payments before and that had he not been told to try again later he wouldnt have made the 
duplicate payment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator has explained, our role is to consider whether the business has made 
any mistakes in its dealings with its customers and whether it has treated a customer fairly.
I can see this issue has been very frustrating for Mr S as he has explained that he wouldnt 
have made a second payment had he not received an error message to say the first 
payment couldnt be made at that time. While I accept Mr S testimony as evidence of his 
experience, I also have to take into account the evidence provided by Santander.
In this case, Santander has shown the audit logs for the transactions and these show both 
transactions as being successful. Having questioned Santander further about the audit logs 
it has confirmed that no warnings were recorded in regard to the first transaction. 
So, while I note Mr S comments about the benefit of the doubt being given to him based on 
his testimony, in this case I do not find, based on the evidence provided that I can be 
satisfied that Santander has done anything wrong. I also note that while this issue has 
caused Mr S some inconvenience as the payment was to a family member he was able to 
mitigate the situation and have the additional transferred funds returned if he wished.
Therefore, while I know this will be a disappointment for Mr S and I appreciate his strength of 
feeling about this issue on balance I do not find I have enough to uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman