DRN-3332159
Complaint
Mr H has complained about a loan AvantCredit of UK, LLC (Avant Credit) provided to him. 
He says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
Avant Credit provided Mr H with a loan for £1,000.00 in April 2015. This loan was due to be 
repaid in 12 monthly instalments of just over £120. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr Hs complaint and she thought Avant Credit shouldnt 
have provided Mr H with this loan. So she thought that Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. 
Avant Credit disagreed so the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Hs complaint. Having 
carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why in a 
little more detail.
Avant Credit needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Avant Credit needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether    
Mr H could afford to repay any credit it provided. Our website sets out what we typically think 
about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its 
reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it 
gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information Avant Credit has provided suggested that Avant Credit carried out a credit 
check. The results of which are more likely than not to have demonstrated that Mr H had a 
significant history of payday type lending. And while Avant Credit says this loan was for debt 
consolidation, the amount didnt correspond to what Mr H owed. So its unclear to me how or 
what was going to be consolidated and more crucially how this was going to improve Mr Hs 
financial position. 
I think further checks would more likely than not have extended into finding out more about 
Mr Hs expenditure. And if Avant Credit had done this here, Im persuaded that it would have 
seen that Mr H was in a difficult financial position at the time and also found out why this was 
the case. Im also satisfied that reasonable and proportion checks would more likely than not 
have shown Avant Credit that Mr Hs existing precarious financial position was because he 
was struggling. 
As this is the case, I do think that Mr Hs existing debts and history of borrowing further to 
repay previous debts meant that he was unlikely to be able to make the payments to this 
loan in a sustainable manner. And as reasonable and proportionate checks should have 
extended into finding out about Mr Hs income and expenditure, Im satisfied that they would 
more like than not have shown Avant Credit that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Mr H. 
As Avant Credit provided Mr H with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to act 
fairly and reasonably towards him. 
Mr H ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a loan he shouldnt have been provided 
with. So Im satisfied that Mr H lost out because of what Avant Credit did wrong and that it 
should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Avant Credit needs to do to put things right for Mr H
Having thought about everything, Avant Credit should put things right for Mr H by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mr H paid on this loan;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded amounts from the date they 
were paid by Mr H to the date of settlement;
removing any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit file as a result of this 
loan.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint. AvantCredit of UK, LLC 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman