DRN-3167113
The complaint
Mr Ms complained that The Claims Guys Limited unfairly invoiced him when his lender 
refunded him a second sum of payment protection insurance (PPI), several years after his 
first refund.
What happened
In 2014, Mr M contacted TCG to assist him in recovering PPI from a lender Ill call L.  
Several months later, L upheld Mr Ms claims and refunded him the PPI hed paid.  Mr M 
settled TCGs fees (calculated at 36% of the value of his refund) in April 2015.
In 2019, L contacted Mr M and TCG, advising them that PPI had also been identified on 
another of Mr Ms account.  L offered to refund Mr M £4,368, net of tax.  Shortly afterwards, 
TCG sent Mr M an invoice for £1,572.48.
Mr M wasnt happy at receiving a further invoice and complained to TCG.  He said his 
contract with them had ceased when he paid their invoice in 2015 and he didnt owe them 
anything else.  
TCG investigated Mr Ms complaint and wrote to him with their findings (though Mr M says 
he didnt receive the letter).  They said Mr M had received the second payment following 
further investigation by L  which had been based on the information TCG had sent them in 
2015.  So they said they were entitled to their fee.  But, as a gesture of goodwill, theyd 
reduce it to 24% from 36% - so they asked Mr M to pay £1,048.32.
Mr M didnt think this resolved his complaint.  So he brought it to our service.  He told us hed 
reviewed the guidance available to claims management companies and didnt think TCG had 
followed it, because theyd never had him sign a new letter of authority in 2019.
Our investigator considered the complaint and concluded TCG didnt need to do any more to 
resolve it.  He noted Mr Ms comments about the need for a new agreement.  But he said 
thered been no new agreement because the payment Mr M had received from L was made 
as a result them reviewing information theyd previously been sent.  And that had been sent 
by TCG  so it was fair for them to receive their fee.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigators view.  So I was asked to make a decision.  Before I 
did so, Mr M offered £524.16 in full and final settlement of TCGs invoice.  TCG accepted.  
But Mr M has said he still wants a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
Ive thought very carefully about this.  I can see our investigator explored how Mr M came to 
receive an additional payment from L before concluding they were entitled to be paid.
The issue here is whether the second refund resulted from a continuation of TCGs work for 
Mr M in 2015 or was a totally separate matter.  Mr M is firmly of the view that TCGs 
involvement in his claims ended when he paid the invoice they sent him in 2015.  And that 
also brought TCGs authority to act for him to an end.
Ive considered that stance.  But it doesnt accord with what I can see happened here  or 
with TCGs terms of engagement, which say:
That by completing and signing the Letter of Authority, You give TCG Your consent and
full authority to deal with a Company on Your behalf and to obtain relevant information
from any source on a continuing basis.
So Im satisfied that, when L contacted TCG and Mr M in 2019, they did so on the basis of 
the continuing authority.  And this is supported by the fact that L didnt ask TCG for any 
further information  rather, their letter offering Mr M £4,368.00 says the offer is made:
after reviewing your application form, the information you provided, the information 
provided by The Claims Guys Limited and our internal system evidence.
That information was provided in 2015, under the initial authority.  So I cant agree with Mr M 
that the payment he received in 2019 was nothing to do with TCG  or was a separate claim 
hed not authorised TCG to make. 
I know Mr Ms unhappy at having to pay any fee.  And Im pleased to see hes been able to 
agree a reduced settlement with TCG.  But Im satisfied their work did lead to the payment 
he received in 2019.  So it wouldnt be fair for me to ask TCG to reduce that any further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint about The Claims Guys 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 January 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman