DRN-3413439
The complaint
Mrs S complained that Zurich Assurance Limited (Zurich) made mistakes in its 
communications with her relating to the withdrawal of a tax-free lump sum from her pension 
policy. This causing her distress and inconvenience and a material financial loss, for which 
she would like to be compensated.
What happened
Mrs S had taken out a pension policy around 1998. On 23 March 2021 Mrs S telephoned 
Zurich to find out her options for withdrawing a lump sum of 25% of the policy value in tax 
free cash, leaving the remainder invested. During this call, she was told that this would be 
possible, and that the process would take around 10 to 11 days to complete once she had 
given her instruction.
Mrs S telephoned Zurich again on 8 April 2021 intending to start the process of withdrawing 
the cash from her pension. During this second call she was told that the information she was 
given on the 23 March was wrong, and that under the terms of her policy she could only take 
the tax free cash from her policy if she also used the remaining balance to take an income 
by buying an annuity.
Also during this call, Mrs S was also told that she could transfer her pension to another 
provider which would allow the option that she wanted, to withdraw 25% of the fund and 
leave the rest invested.
Mrs S subsequently took this option and transferred her policy to an existing pension plan 
she held with another provider on 13 April 2021. She was then able to withdraw a tax free 
cash lump sum and leave the rest of the funds invested.
Mrs S complained to Zurich on 9 April 2021.
In its response to her complaint, Zurich apologised to Mrs S for the incorrect information 
given to her during the initial telephone call and offered her £50 compensation for her trouble 
and upset.
Mrs S was not satisfied by this offer and instead asked for the case to be referred to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. Mrs S felt that she had suffered a material loss of c£2,700 
per month in respect of money she had expected to earn using the tax free lump sum as 
capital to establish a business. 
After reviewing all the relevant information, our Investigator recommended that this 
complaint not be upheld, and that the sum of £50 compensation offered by Zurich was fair in 
the circumstances. Mrs S disagreed, so the case has been passed to me to take a fresh look 
at the evidence and reach a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and considered the view of our investigator, I have reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator and shall not be upholding Mrs Ss complaint. I realise that 
this will be disappointing to Mrs S, so Ill explain why.
Firstly, although Zurich clearly made a mistake during the original telephone call in March 
2021, it corrected this mistake at the first opportunity it had, when Mrs S telephoned again 
on 8 April. During this second call, Zurich was also outlined an option to Mrs S that she could 
transfer her policy to another policy she held with a different provider and achieve her aim of 
taking a tax free lump sum and leaving the rest of the fund invested. 
Turning now to the issue of whether Zurich should have offered Mrs S the option to take a 
tax free lump sum and leave the rest invested, it is important to recognise that this option 
was not available when Mrs S took out her pension policy, and only became legally possible 
in 2014. Zurich does not have to offer this option retrospectively and has decided that it will 
not offer this option. That is Zurichs decision to make and I cannot see that it has done 
anything wrong here.
Zurich apologised to Mrs S and offered her compensation of £50 in June 2021in recognition 
of the mistake it made during the initial call in March 2021.
As Mrs S was able to act on Zurichs suggestion that she could transfer her policy to another 
provider five days after she was given the correct information, I consider this level of 
payment to be fair and reasonable. I consider it to be in line with payments made to 
customers when the level of service from their provider has fallen short of what they can 
reasonably expect.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Zurich Assurance Limited should fulfil its offer to pay Mrs S the sum of £50 compensation, if 
it has not already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2022. 
Bill Catchpole
Ombudsman