DRN-2198011
The complaint
Mr W and Mrs W complain that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) didnt provide the free 
replacement boiler cover included in their home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr W and Mrs W had home emergency cover with Aviva. The policy was in joint names but, 
for ease, Ill refer only to Mr W throughout my decision.
Aviva attended to Mr Ws boiler breakdown and reported that it was beyond economical 
repair (BER). His policy included a free boiler if his was over seven years old and deemed 
BER. Aviva gave him a quote for the boiler installation, but Mr W thought it was too much at 
over £2100 if the boiler was free.
Mr W got quotes from other suppliers which all came to around £2000, but they included the 
cost of the boiler too. He complained to Aviva that its quote also seemed to include the cost 
of the boiler.
Aviva explained that the boiler was free and that it had provided a fair installation quote. 
However, it offered to cover the cost of two parts of the installation, reducing the overall cost 
to just over £1500. Aviva offered an alternative option, which was to pay Mr W a little under 
£400 towards the cost of the boiler and installation if he chose to use one of his local 
suppliers. This is what it wouldve cost Aviva to provide him with a free boiler. 
Mr W remained unhappy because he thought Aviva hadnt been transparent in its claim to 
provide a free boiler when its cost was significantly less than the cost to a consumer.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought that Aviva had made a fair offer to 
reduce its installation price or provide Mr W with a payment equivalent to what it wouldve 
cost it to provide the free boiler.
Mr W reluctantly accepted that Aviva had followed its policy term, but he wanted a further 
review about the fairness and transparency of it. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint for broadly the same reasons as our 
investigator. Ill explain.
As I understand it, the issue here is that Mr W doesnt think Aviva was really providing a free 
boiler as stated in his policy. Thats because it wouldve cost Aviva around £400 to provide 
but, if he bought one privately, it wouldve cost twice as much. So he wasnt benefitting from 
the true value of a boiler retailing at £800. 
In the summary of whats included under the policy, Aviva states:
If your boiler is BER, we'll replace it. You'll just need to pay us for installation if it's over 7 
years old.
The terms of the policy state:
If the boiler is deemed beyond economical repair and is 7 years or older, we will source, 
replace and install a new boiler but you will be required to pay the installation costs. We will 
provide for you, a quote for this work.
I think both parts of the policy are clear  Aviva will provide the boiler and Mr W would need 
to pay it for the installation. I dont think Mr W disputes that. So I can understand why he was 
unhappy with the installation cost Aviva quoted when other suppliers would charge less, 
even with the cost of the boiler included. Its possible Mr W may think Aviva is covering the 
cost of the boiler by inflating the installation quote, but theres no evidence to support that. 
And nowhere in the policy does it say that Aviva will offer the cheapest installation quote. So 
I cant see that its done anything wrong here. Aviva provided another quote, removing the 
cost of the power flush and filter installation as a gesture of goodwill. I think that was 
reasonable.
Mr W didnt accept Avivas original installation quote so he asked it to provide the boiler so 
he could arrange installation separately. Aviva wouldnt provide the boiler, but it did offer to 
contribute towards his new boiler and installation costs. Aviva offered a little under £400 
which was equivalent to its cost to buy. But Mr W thought the offer shouldve been the retail 
price which was double the amount. Again, I can understand why Mr W thinks that. If Aviva 
had done something wrong and I thought it should pay towards the boiler and installation, I 
mightve considered an amount equivalent to the cost to Mr W a fair outcome. But I cant see 
that it has done anything wrong. Aviva offered Mr W exactly what he was entitled to under 
his policy  a free boiler and a quote for Aviva to install it. He rejected its quote so there was 
no obligation on Aviva to provide the free boiler. 
Despite this, conditional on receipt of evidence that Mr W had a new boiler installed, Aviva 
offered to pay what it wouldve cost it to provide the free boiler under his policy. It was under 
no obligation to contribute, so I think its offer was more than reasonable. I see no reason to 
ask Aviva to pay any more.
I can see that Mr W was without heating while this matter was ongoing and Im sorry to hear 
that. I can appreciate that mustve been a frustration. But I cant see that its Avivas fault. Mr 
W rejected its installation quote, so Aviva couldnt do anything further. 
In summary, I understand that Mr W thinks Aviva is not being transparent when offering the 
free boiler under the policy, but Im satisfied that the conditions are made clear within the 
policy documents and no promises are made to install at anything other than a competitive 
price. Aviva offered the service which shouldve been available to Mr W under the policy, 
but he declined. As a gesture of goodwill, Aviva offered to charge a reduced installation fee 
or pay towards the boiler, with installation completed by an alternative supplier. Im satisfied 
that it dealt fairly with Mr Ws claim and I wont be requiring any further action.
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman