DRN-2333893
The complaint
Mr O complains that Think Money Limited wont remove a CIFAS marker recorded against 
him and that it declined his account application. CIFAS is one of the UKs fraud alert 
services.
What happened
Mr O says that when his application for an account with Think Money was declined, he 
discovered two CIFAS markers had been recorded against his name. He says this has 
prevented him from obtaining a mortgage. He says he didnt make account applications in 
2016 or in February 2020 and cant understand why his application in July 2020 was 
declined.
Think Money said theres no evidence to support that applications in 2016 and February 
2020 were made by a third party and that it is within its rights to refuse an account 
application without providing a reason.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought it was 
most likely that Mr O had made all three applications and that, because of the 
inconsistencies in the documentation provided, Think Money hadnt acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in recording the CIFAS markers.
Mr O didnt agree. He stressed that he knew nothing about the first two applications and that 
he shouldnt be blacklisted for something he was completely unaware of. He feels strongly 
that a third party has obtained his details and made the applications and he wants this 
thoroughly investigated.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not this services role to investigate and uncover exactly what happened when each of 
these applications was made  that is the role of the police and the banks fraud prevention 
department. Our role is to investigate the circumstances surrounding the complaint and 
decide if the bank has acted fairly and reasonably. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive, or contradictory, as some of it is here, I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I want to firstly acknowledge that I understand the impact the CIFAS markers are having on 
Mr O and I know he has found this very upsetting. But, having considered everything, I am 
unable to uphold his complaint. Ill explain the reasons why.
The account applications in 2016 and February 2020 used Mr Os correct personal details. 
I think its unlikely a fraudster would open an account using Mr Os correct contact details as 
that wouldnt provide the fraudster with any benefit. After careful consideration, and on 
balance, I think its more likely than not that the applications were made by Mr O, or that he 
authorised someone to do so on his behalf. 
Ive seen copies of the documents that were provided with these applications and can see 
why the bank concluded the documentation was inconsistent. In the circumstances, I find 
Think Money had enough evidence to reasonably record the CIFAS markers against Mr Os 
name.
When Mr O applied for an account in July 2020, there were no inconsistencies with the 
documentation he submitted. But, because of the previous applications, Think Money 
declined this application. I dont find this was unreasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman