DRN-3781782
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) provided her loans which she couldnt
afford to repay.
What happened
Mrs S was advanced 7 home collected loans between June 2019 and July 2021. Ive
included some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £300.00 25/06/2019 03/12/2019 33 £15.00
2 £300.00 03/12/2019 14/08/2020 34 £15.00
3 £200.00 14/02/2020 14/08/2020 34 £10.00
4 £300.00 21/07/2020 26/03/2021 34 £15.00
5 £300.00 14/08/2020 19/03/2021 34 £15.00
6 £200.00 27/11/2020 21/07/2021 34 £10.00
7 £200.00 21/07/2021 outstanding 35 £10.00
Mrs S had some problems repaying loan 7 and based on the statement of account as of
January 2022 a balance remains due of £70.
The weekly repayment column in the table above is the cost per week per loan. Where
loans overlapped the cost per week was increased, for example when loans 2 and 3 were
running at the same time Mrs Ss weekly commitment to Morses was £25.
Following Mrs Ss complaint Morses wrote to her to explain why it wasnt going to uphold the
complaint. Mrs S then referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Morses then agreed to put thing right for Mrs S in relation to loans 6 and 7. After deducting
the outstanding balance due for loan 7, with tax and the 8% included this would lead to a
refund of £241.98 to Mrs S. This offer was put to Mrs S, but she declined it.
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint. She concluded that a reasonable decision to provide
loans 1  5 was made by Morses so she didnt uphold Mrs Ss complaint about those loans.
But she did think, Morses offer to put things right for loans 6 and 7 was fair and reasonable.
Morses didnt acknowledge or provide any further comments about the proposed outcome.
Mrs S didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment, and Ive summarised her response
below  which is based on her emails to the Financial Ombudsman:
Mrs S didnt know why other loans (1- 5) werent upheld when her financial
circumstances were the same throughout the entire lending relationship.
Mrs S could see, by the dates of the loan that she was advanced more money while
other loans were outstanding.
In 2019, Mrs S had started to fall behind with rent payments.
Morses did a credit search so ought to have seen that she was behind with her rent
and had a debt management plan.
Loans were taken up to a month apart, and Mrs S doesnt believe that to be
responsible.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me to resolve. I issued a 
provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to uphold Mrs S complaint 
in full. A copy of the provisional findings follows this in italics and in smaller font and forms 
part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mrs S could afford to pay back the amounts
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks couldve taken into account a number of
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mrs Ss
income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs S. These factors include:
Mrs S having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mrs S having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mrs S coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mrs S.
Morses was required to establish whether Mrs S could sustainably repay the loans  not just
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mrs S was able to repay her
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mrs Ss complaint.
For Mrs Ss first loan, Morses asked Mrs S to declare her weekly income and her weeklyexpenditure. For loan 1, she declared her weekly income was £254 and her weekly
expenditure was declared as being £148. This expenditure has been recorded for rent,
council tax, childcare costs, utilities, travel and food.
Based solely on the information Mrs S declared to Morses, it was reasonable for Morses to
have concluded Mrs S would be in a position to afford her weekly repayment of £15.
Morses has also said for the first loan only, it carried out a credit search and it has provided
the Financial Ombudsman Service with the results. It is worth saying here that although
Morses carried out a credit search there isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone
one to a specific standard. But what Morses cant do is carry out a credit search and then not
react to the to the information it received  if necessary.
Looking at the credit file data provided by Morses Im satisfied it was aware of some
concerning adverse information. It knew that Mrs S had two defaults on her credit file, but
the most recent of these defaults was entered into just two months before loan one was
approved. This is important, as it shows that close to this loan being granted Mrs S had had
a period where she couldnt afford to service a particular line of credit.
In addition, Morses knew that two accounts were marked as being delinquent  this would
be a situation where Mrs S had missed contractual payments but not a sufficient number to
yet have the accounts defaulted. It also knew that in total Mrs S had nearly £8,000 worth of
credit debt and she was (and had been) for around a year using more than her credit limit on
one or more of her accounts.
These results are, in my mind concerning enough that it ought to have prompted Morses to
carry out further checks not just before loan one, but before all the loans were approved. So,
I dont think proportionate checks were carried out before it provided Mrs S with any of her
loans.
Instead, I think it needed to gain a full understanding of Mrs Ss actual financial position to
ensure this loan (and future loans) were affordable. This couldve been done in several
ways, such as asking for evidence of her outgoings, or looking at her bank statements.
The further checks mightve helped verify what Mrs S had declared and provided and
revealed whether there was any other information that Morses mightve needed to consider
about Mrs Ss general financial position given the results of the credit check.
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold this loan (and future
loans), I have to be satisfied that had Morses carried out a proportionate check it wouldve
likely discovered that Mrs S couldnt afford them.
Copies of Mrs Ss bank statements havent been provided, and I only have a partial credit file
that doesnt really shed any light on the various loan accounts Mrs S may have had
outstanding at the time.
Neither, has anything been provided to show that Mrs Ss was in significant rent arrears  as
she said. But I dont think I need that information to come to a fair outcome on the complaint.
But Mrs S may, if she wishes supply this in response to this provisional decision.
However, a month after loan one was entered into Mrs S has provided a statement of
account for a formal debt management plan (DMP) with a third party, and I do have details of
that. Based on the information Mrs S has provided the plan covered payments towards two
credit cards, two high cost short-term credit loans as well as what I believe is a catalogue
shopping account.
This was a formal plan, that wouldve only been entered into as a result of Mrs S have
difficulties serving her creditors. Therefore, given the close proximity of this DMP - as in as
much as it was active when loan one was approved, I think had Morses carried out
proportionate checks it wouldve likely discovered the precarious financial position Mrs Swas likely in, and knowing this it ought to have concluded she already had money
management problems and therefore not provided this loan  or any future loans.
Moving forward, Mrs S declared broadly similar income and expenditure information for the
other loans apart for loan 4  at this loan Mrs S declared an income of over £1,200 per
week. This is far in excess of anything that she declared for any other loans. And there is, no
way in my mind that this was an accurate figure and ought to have been a further indicator
that further checks were needed.
Mrs S also either had more than one loan running at the same time or took new loans with
Morses on the same day that a previous loan was repaid. This, together with the concerning
credit check results and the DMP ought to have led Morses to conclude that loans 2  5
shouldnt have been provided either.
Given everything Ive said above, Im intending to uphold Mrs Ss complaint about loans 1 5.
Loans 6  7
Morses has already accepted these loans ought to not have been provided, so I dont need
to make a finding about these loans as there is no ongoing dispute. So, I say no more about
them.
Response to the provisional decision
Both Mrs S and Morses were asked to provide any further comments or evidence as soon as 
possible but no later than 28 October 2022. 
Mrs S confirmed she was happy with the proposed outcome and had nothing further to add. 
Morses also emailed to confirm it accepted the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted the findings which I outlined in the provisional decision, I see 
no reason to depart from what I previously said. So, I still think Morses ought to not have 
approved any of the loans for Mrs S. 
Ive outlined below what Morses needs to do in order to put things right for Mrs S. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened had it not lent to Mrs S, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly there are a
great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs S may have simply left matters there,
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. Or, they may have looked to borrow the
funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dontthink I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Mrs S in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Mrs S would more likely than not have taken up any one of
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses has already accepted that loans 6 and 7 shouldnt have been provided to Mrs S. But
for completeness and in line with what it has already offered, Ive outlined below what it has
agreed to do. However, I also think loans 1  5 shouldnt have been provided either.
If Morses have sold the outstanding debts Morses should buy it back if Morses is able to do
so and then take the following steps. If Morses isnt able to buy the debt back then Morses
should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A. Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs S towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything Morses have already refunded.
B. Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mrs S which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs S originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Morses should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mrs S as though they had 
been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mrs S 
having made overpayments then Morses should refund these overpayments with 8% 
simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Morses should then refund 
the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on any outstanding loans. If this 
results in a surplus, then the surplus should be paid to Mrs S. However, if there is still 
an outstanding balance then Morses should try to agree an affordable repayment 
plan with Mrs S.
E. Morses should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Mrs Ss credit file 
in relation to loans 1 - 5. The overall pattern of Mrs Ss borrowing for loans 6 and 7 
means any information recorded about them is adverse, so Morses should remove 
these loans entirely from Mrs Ss credit file. Morses do not have to remove loan 7 
from Mrs Ss credit file until it has been repaid, but Morses should still remove any 
adverse information recorded about these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should
give Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Mrs S 
complaint in full.
Morses Club PLC should put things right for Mrs S as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 Robert Walker
Ombudsman