DRN-2844340
The complaint
 Mrs G complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) cancelled her credit card. 
What happened
February 2020, she contacted Lloyds to see if it could be reduced. She was transferred to 
their Customer Priority Team (CPT who deal with customers in financial difficulty). In June 
2020, Mrs G had reduced her balance to £43 debit. Lloyds then cancelled her card account. 
It couldnt be reopened.
Mrs G complained that she only wanted to ask for her interest rate to be reduced, but she 
found herself being managed by Lloyds CPT. They froze interest for three months and then 
closed her account. She had no calls or letters saying this would be done  just a message 
Account Closed on her statement. Lloyds couldnt re-open her account  due to systems 
limitations. So  she lost access to her limit of £6,000. She twice applied for a new credit 
card (at our suggestion) but that was declined.
Lloyds apologised. Because Mrs G had asked for a reduction in interest rate, this was taken 
as a sign she was in financial difficulty  so she was passed to CPT and they put her on an 
interest freeze for three months. And  due to an error, the account was closed after that. 
They couldnt reopen Mrs Gs account because of systems limitations. When Mrs G applied 
for another card, their auto-approval system rejected her for a new card. They paid 
compensation of £200.
Mrs G brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said Lloyds told him that theyd used an 
incorrect code on Mrs Gs account  which led to it being closed. Lloyds hadnt given Mrs G 
any notice of closing her account. At his suggestion, Mrs G made two applications for a new 
credit card, but they were declined by Lloyds  because her circumstances had changed. He 
recommended that Lloyds pay a further amount of compensation of £150  so, £350 in total. 
He asked Lloyds to remove the credit search markers relating to Mrs Gs two unsuccessful 
applications and remove any adverse information on her credit file as a result of what had 
happened.
Lloyds accepted this outcome, but Mrs G didnt, and she asked that an ombudsman review
her complaint.
I reached a provisional decision, where I said:
This provisional decision deals with what I think is the right amount of compensation to be 
paid to Mrs G. Lloyds have already agreed to pay £350 (of which £200 had been paid).
Lloyds admitted that they made a mistake in closing Mrs Gs account, so thats not in dispute 
here  and I wont repeat what happened. If they couldve reopened it with its original limit of
£6,000, Im sure that wouldve resolved matters. But they told us they cant do that  due to 
their systems. Our investigator suggested Mrs G apply for a new card  she applied twice. 
But she was turned down  as her circumstances had changed. We cant contest Lloyds 
decision here  whether they choose to agree a credit card for anyone is their commercial 
judgement and not one we can interfere with.
So, I will think about the impact on Mrs G of what happened in order to decide on an 
appropriate amount of compensation.
I think the affect on Mrs G has been pretty significant. All she wanted to do was discuss with 
Lloyds whether she could get a better interest rate. But due to an error, Lloyds closed her 
account  and therefore she lost her credit limit of £6,000  without any notice to her by way 
of letters or calls. She took the time to apply twice for a new card but was declined. So  she 
now needs to apply for other cards, possibly at a higher interest rate than she had with 
Lloyds. She told us she is a single parent with a son going to university this year  so she 
was looking to use the credit limit to help fund him. She is receiving cancer treatment.
The amount of compensation is subjective. The guidance that this service sets out on our 
website is moderate impact  up to £500  and I think Mrs Gs case is in the upper end of 
that range. My judgement is therefore that Lloyds should pay Mrs G a total of £500  so, an 
additional £300 for what happened. Lloyds should also remove any credit searches in 
relation to any adverse credit information from her credit file.
Lloyds said they thought that the amount of compensation was high for what happened. Mrs 
G said she thought it wouldnt go far  given her upcoming expenses but accepted the 
outcome. She said her limit was £6,550 (not £6,000). And she asked that her credit files in 
both her maiden and married names are amended  and for the events that took place 
between the transfer of her account to CPT (February 2020) and to the date of this final 
decision.  
So  I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I still consider that the amount of compensation is right for what happened for the reasons I 
gave in my provisional decision. I note Mrs G said her limit was £6,550  this doesnt change 
the amount of compensation to be awarded. I also note that she has asked that her credit file 
be amended for her maiden and married names, and for the sequence of events from 
February 2020 to the present time  this is a reasonable request and ensures that matters 
are brought to a proper conclusion. We will advise Lloyds of the details of this separately.
Putting things right
So  Lloyds Bank PLC should pay an additional amount of compensation of £300 to Mrs G. 
And remove any adverse information from her credit file from February 2020 to the date of 
this decision. And remove the credit search information for her two unsuccessful card 
applications. These entries should be removed for both her maiden and married names.   
(continued)
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC must:Pay £300 compensation to Mrs G for distress and inconvenience. This is in addition 
to the £200 Lloyds have already paid. Mrs G should advise Lloyds where this should 
be paid.
Remove any adverse information from the credit file of Mrs G  for both her married 
and maiden names. This to be for the period from February 2020 to the date of this 
decision.
Delete the credit searches undertaken for her two unsuccessful card applications - 
for both her married and maiden names.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman