DRN-1762172
The complaint
Mr O complains that Santander UK Plc declined some of his debit card transactions when he 
had the funds available. Hes said hes lost out as a result and is unhappy with the 
explanation hes been given.
What happened
Mr O often used his debit card to make quite large payments. But, while he had the funds 
available in his account, these were sometimes unsuccessful. He contacted Santander in 
September 2019 to query why this was happening. He was told that the limits were imposed 
by the card scheme, rather than Santander. 
Mr O doesn't think Santander has sufficiently explained why the transactions sometimes 
decline. And he said its caused him inconvenience as he hasn't been able to make 
investments when he wanted to. 
Santander has said that the transactions are likely to have declined because of fraud 
prevention measures. It said there are limits in place on transactions but it wouldn't disclose 
these to Mr O. System notes say that Mr O was advised to use faster payments as an 
alternative as this would be less likely to be blocked. Or, alternatively, he could pay by 
cheque or bankers draft. 
Our investigator considered this complaint. She didn't think Santander had done anything 
wrong because the failed transactions were said to be linked to security measures and it has 
a right to protect itself and its customers with fraud prevention measures.
Mr O disagreed. He wants further answers as he says hes been lied to and inconvenienced. 
So the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I know it will come as a disappointment to Mr O, I dont uphold his complaint. 
My role is to consider whether Santander has done anything wrong here and, if so, whether 
Mr O has lost out as a result. 
I appreciate that it wouldve been frustrating for Mr O when his transactions were declined. 
And I acknowledge that it may have led to him not being able to place investments precisely 
when he wanted to. But businesses have a right and a duty to protect themselves and their 
customers from fraud.
I note that the terms and conditions of the account, which both parties wouldve agreed to, 
state that Santander can refuse payment instructions if it reasonably suspects it relates to 
fraud, or if it exceeds any transactional limits it applies. So, while I dont know why the payments were stopped, I think it's likely that Santander has a system in place to identify 
payments that could fall under these terms and conditions. 
There are likely to be various flags that trigger a transaction to decline, not necessarily just 
the amount of the transaction. And that would explain why transactions for the same amount 
of money might go through on one day and fail on another day. I understand why this may 
have been confusing and I can appreciate why Mr O wanted further information. But Ive 
thought about whether Santander shouldve given Mr O further explanation around why the 
transactions were declined. 
Ultimately, giving out further information about why the transactions declined could 
compromise Santanders fraud prevention measures. So I dont think it acted unreasonably 
in not sharing any more information than it did.
I note that Mr O was made aware of alternative payment methods which he was told were 
less likely to decline. So he wasn't prevented from making his investments. 
Overall, while I do appreciate Mr Os frustrations, fraud prevention is extremely important. I 
dont think it would be fair to ask Santander to provide any further explanation in this case. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2020.
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman