DRN-3145197
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society wont honour the balance showing as 
outstanding in an old account passbook dating from the mid-1970s that he recently found.
What happened
Mr G found an old building society account passbook dating from the mid-1970s which 
showed an outstanding balance on the account. The building society in question had been 
merged into Nationwide many years previously, such that all accounts had been migrated to 
become Nationwide accounts. Mr G therefore approached Nationwide and asked to 
withdraw the balance as showing in the old passbook. However, Nationwide declined Mr Gs 
request as they couldnt find any record of that account or the outstanding balance still 
existing. Mr G wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Nationwide looked at Mr Gs complaint. They explained that theyd conducted a search of 
their records but could find nothing to confirm that this account still existed. Because of this, 
Nationwide felt that it was possible that the account had been closed at some point in the 
past, and they didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Mr G wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response, so he referred his complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that given that 
Nationwide hadnt been able to locate any record of this account that it was more likely than 
not that the account had been closed.
Mr G remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how Mr G might feel that his finding an old account passbook with an 
outstanding balance demonstrates that the balance showing on that old passbook remains 
outstanding and that therefore Nationwide should honour his request to withdraw that 
balance. And I note Mr Gs position that Nationwide havent been able to provide any proof 
that the account has been closed at any point, and that this also means that Nationwide 
should honour the balance showing as outstanding in the recently found old passbook.
I feel its important to note here, in consideration of Mr Gs arguments, that this service isnt a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as one. Instead, as an informal dispute resolution service, 
our remit is to impartially assess whether a fair outcome can be considered to have occurred 
or not. And considering Mr Gs complaint from this standpoint, I dont feel that it can be 
stated with any reasonable conviction that an unfair outcome has occurred here.  
The reason I say this is largely down to the passing of time. Approximately forty-five years 
have gone by since the mid-1970s when the passbook was last maintained. And while it may 
have been the case that at that time the only way to withdraw funds from the account 
included that a record of any withdrawal would be maintained in the passbook, I dont feel 
that the possibility can be discounted that the nature of how that account was maintained 
could have changed in the intervening years to date. 
Indeed, given the mass digitisation of the financial sector that has taken place since the mid-
1970s, it seems plausible and reasonable to me that at some point the maintenance of this 
account may have been digitised, such that it was no longer necessary for the a passbook to 
be physically updated to withdraw balances or to close or amalgamate the account. 
Furthermore, accepting that possibility, and given the decades that have passed since the 
time of the passbook, if the account balance had been withdrawn or amalgamated into other 
existing accounts some time ago, for instance more than ten years ago, then it wouldnt be 
expected that Nationwide would continue to retain any record of those transactions.
In essence, while I can appreciate Mr Gs conviction here, I feel that Nationwide are 
essentially prejudiced against by the passing of time in this instance, as any record that they 
may have had which might confirm the above may no longer be retained by them, given the 
years that could have elapsed.
Mr G may contend that my position here is based purely on conjecture. But as stated, the 
remit of this service isnt to determine whether the balance showing in the old passbook 
remains legally valid but is to assess whether a fair or unfair outcome can be considered to 
have occurred. 
And, in this instance, I feel that theres simply too much that potentially might have occurred 
in the years since the mid-1970s  which Nationwide would no longer be reasonably 
expected to maintain a record of  to be able to state fairly that the balance showing in the 
old passbook remains valid and that Nationwide should honour Mr Gs request to withdraw 
that balance.
I realise that this wont be the outcome Mr G was wanting, but for the reasons outlined above 
it follows that I dont feel that Nationwides declining to honour Mr Gs withdrawal request 
constitutes an unfair outcome in these circumstances, and as such I wont be upholding this 
complaint or instructing Nationwide to take any further action at this time. I hope that Mr G 
will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman