DRN-4113911
The complaint
Miss G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund two payments made from her 
account, which she says she didnt make.
What happened
In June 2022, two payments for £600 and then £100 were made out of Miss Gs HSBC 
account. The payments were made using HSBCs telephone banking service, but Miss G 
says it wasnt her who made the payments. Miss G says she only found out about the 
payments when she received a notification in her mobile banking app about them. She then 
reported the payments to HSBC as fraud and asked it to refund the money she had lost.
HSBC investigated but said the voice of the person who made the payments over the phone 
matched Miss Gs voice when she reported the payments as fraud. It also said the person 
making the payments knew Miss Gs telephone banking security number. So it thought she 
had either made the payments herself or allowed someone else to do so, and so it didnt 
agree to refund the payments. Miss G wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response, so referred a 
complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They couldnt see how anyone else apart 
from Miss G could have made the payments, as shed said no-one else knew her telephone 
banking security number. So they didnt think it would be fair to ask HSBC to refund the 
payments. Miss G disagreed with our investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally, a business can hold a customer liable for disputed transactions on their account if 
the evidence suggests its more likely than not that the customer made the payments 
themselves, or told someone else they could make them.
The payments were made through HSBCs telephone banking system, using Miss Gs 
telephone banking details. But this, on its own, isnt enough to allow HSBC to hold Miss G 
responsible. So I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests its more likely 
than not that Miss G consented to the payments.
Ive thought very carefully about this and I think its a finely balanced matter in this case. But 
where the evidence available is unclear or inconclusive, I must make my decision on what I 
think is likely to have happened, based on the evidence I do have.
HSBCs evidence shows that the person who called its telephone banking system and made 
the payments successfully went through its identity verification process. And its said this 
process wouldve included being asked to enter Miss Gs sort code and account number, her 
date of birth, and specific digits from her telephone banking security number.
Miss G has said shes never told anyone else her telephone banking security number, and 
knows it off by heart so has never written it down anywhere. But, if this is the case, I cant 
see how anyone other than Miss G would have bene able to make the payments. In order for 
someone else to have made the payments, they would have needed to correctly guess the 
specific digits from her telephone banking security number  which I think is unlikely.
The nature of these payments is also not the sort of think Id typically expect an opportunistic 
thief to do after gaining access to someones account. Generally, the way fraudsters operate 
is to get as much money as quickly as possible in order to avoid the source of the money 
being cut-off or them being detected. But here, only two payments are attempted. So I dont 
think its likely these payments were done by an opportunistic thief.
I appreciate how Miss G feels about this case, but Im afraid the evidence isnt in her favour. 
I dont think the evidence suggests these payments were made by an unknown third-party. 
And, based on the evidence I have and in the absence of any other likely explanation, I think 
its likely she either made the payments herself or allowed someone else to do so.
So I dont think HSBC needs to refund the payments to her.
My final decision
I dont uphold Miss Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman