DRN-3365756
The complaint
Miss E and Mr T complain about the decision of Shawbrook Bank Limited in relation to a 
claim they made under sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The claim was 
in relation to a number of measures provided as part of a Green Deal Plan.
What happened
In 2015, Miss E and Mr T were sold a number of energy related measure that would be 
installed at their home. These measures included a solar panel system, a new replacement 
boiler, and LED lighting. The purchase price of these measures was just over £16,000. The 
purchase was to be funded by two loans; a fixed sum agreement financed by Shawbrook for 
just over £12,000 and a Green Deal loan for just over £4,000 financed by a company Ill call 
S. 
Since the sale, S stopped trading and has dissolved. I understand the Green Deal loan has 
been taken over by another company Ill call G. 
Green Deal loans were provided as part of Green Deal Plans, and there are specific rules 
that relate to such plans. Largely speaking, it is not necessary for me to go into the details of 
this in this decision. However, as part of the sale documents for the measures and the Green 
Deal loan, Miss E and Mr T were provided with details of what was being purchased. These 
show that the Green Deal loan was to finance £700 for the lighting, £550 for the boiler, and 
£2,700 for the solar panels. Fees and charges would be added to this, taking the loan to just 
over £4,000. 
Documents provided by the supplier at the time of the sale show that purchase price of the 
solar renewables was just over £11,000. It isnt clear what the breakdown of the costs for 
the other measures was. 
In 2020, Miss E and Mr T contacted Shawbrook to claim under s.56 and 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act. They alleged that they were mis-sold the solar panel system due to a 
misrepresentation of the supplier. They said the supplier had told them the system would be 
self-funding. They say they agreed to purchase the system at a cash price of just over 
£16,000. They also said that neither the Shawbrook loan nor Green Deal loan were fully 
explained. They complained that the system was not self-funding and so there was a 
misrepresentation. And that on this basis they wanted to rescind both loans, have all 
payments theyd made refunded, and have the system removed from their property. 
Shawbrook accepted that there may have been a misrepresentation of the benefits of the 
solar panels. However, it said that the Green Deal loan was only funding the boiler. So, it 
offered to amend its own loan so that the solar panels were self-funding under this finance 
agreement. Miss E and Mr T would keep the solar panels, but receive any amount theyd 
overpaid with interest. Shawbrook offered a number of options for how this would be 
achieved. Shawbrook also made this offer as a final response to a complaint.
Miss E and Mr T brought their complaint about this to our service. Ultimately, our Investigator 
thought the measures sold to Miss E and Mr T were sold as a package, including both the 
solar panels and the other measures. And that Shawbrook was jointly and severally liable for 
any misrepresentations of the supplier in relation to the whole package. So, whilst she 
considered restructuring rather than rescinding the lending to be reasonable, she thought 
Shawbrook needed to restructure the full lending to ensure that loan repayments under both 
agreements are no greater than the benefits Miss E and Mr T would receive.
Shawbrook did not agree. As such, this complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The basic facts of this complaint are not in dispute. Shawbrook has accepted that there may 
have been a misrepresentation of the benefits Miss E and Mr T would receive as a result of 
the purchase they made. And so, has accepted they were induced into the arrangement. 
As such, all that is necessary for me to consider is what the appropriate redress should be 
for this situation. 
Miss E and Mr T had initially sought to have the solar panels removed from their property. 
They also said that the full lending should be rescinded. But the full lending involved the 
installation of not only the solar panels but also the boiler and lighting. To unwind the entire 
arrangement, would involve the removal of all of these measures. As I understand it, all of 
the measures are functioning properly  the issue is that the benefits they would achieve 
were likely exaggerated at the time of the sale. The removal of properly functioning, energy 
saving measures at a cost to Shawbrook and likely involving significant inconvenience to 
Miss E and Mr T does not seem to be appropriate in the circumstances. 
So, whilst it is different to the redress a court might propose in the case of a 
misrepresentation, I consider a fair and reasonable outcome would be to, effectively, make 
the misrepresentation true. Miss E and Mr T were apparently told the measures would be 
self-funding. It is not possible to increase the performance of these measures. So, what is 
required is to appropriately rework the finance arrangements that pay for them. 
Largely speaking, it does not seem that either party disagree with this in principle.
The key issue is whether this financial restructuring should be limited to Shawbrooks own 
loan, or should also take into account the lending through the Green Deal scheme.
I note Shawbrook has said it only funded the solar panels, rather than any of the other 
measures. And that the Green Deal loan was to solely fund the other measures not the solar 
panels. Shawbrook has not provided a copy of its loan agreement, so I dont know what it 
described as being funded. But I do note that the paperwork from the supplier refers to the 
loan of just over £12,000 as being through our solar funding package with Shawbrook. 
However, I am not persuaded Shawbrooks loan only funded the solar panels. 
The paperwork provided by the supplier makes it clear that the purchase price of the solar 
panels was more than £760 less than the amount lent by Shawbrook. So, unless Shawbrook 
added fees of over £760 to this loan, which I do not find credible, it was clearly lending for 
something more than the solar panels. And the Green Deal loan paperwork make it clear 
that the lending initially provided by S included £2,700 toward the solar panels. 
Taken together this means the Shawbrook loan was for around £8,500 of the cost of the solar panels and around £3,500 toward the cost of the other measures. As such, both loans 
partly funded a number of the measures. 
It is also clear that the sale was for a package of measures rather than individual items. The 
documents provided by the supplier show that Miss E and Mr Ts objectives were to reduce 
their bills and carbon footprint, and to provide additional income. And the supplier 
recommended installation of a number of measures to achieve this. The Green Deal 
paperwork also demonstrates that a package of improvements was being installed. 
This paperwork does indicate that the lending for the boiler would be repayable over 12 
years, whereas the other measures were repayable under this loan over a 22 year term. This 
reflects the estimated longevity of the measures being introduced  a boiler may need 
replacing again after 12 years. My understanding is that the Shawbrook loan is likely 
repayable over a period of 15 years. However, whilst the Green Deal scheme requires that 
such repayment and longevity issues are taken into account, there is no requirement that 
Shawbrook lent only over a period which matched the expected lifetime of the product.
Taking everything into account, I consider the sale was of a package of measures, partly 
financed by a Green Deal loan and partly financed by the Shawbrook loan. 
In a case such as this, the creditors of both loans and the supplier will all be jointly and 
severally liable for the entire transaction involved. Largely speaking, it is up to Miss E and 
Mr T to determine who they wish to pursue for a resolution. Theyve also said that they have 
not received any redress from G. As Miss E and Mr T have made their claim against 
Shawbrook, I consider it is Shawbrooks responsibility to resolve the entire situation. This 
means, I think Shawbrook should restructure its own loan in a manner that means the entire 
package of measures sold to Miss E and Mr T self-funding. It would then be for Shawbrook 
to seek any contribution from G if it wanted to.
Putting things right
In this case, I think fair compensation should try to make sure that Miss E and Mr T dont 
suffer a financial loss, which in my view would mean that the package of measures should 
be cost neutral over the terms of the relevant loans. 
In summary, my aim is to make sure that total outgoings (including the monthly loan 
repayments) are equal to any income that the solar panels generate, and any savings made 
by having the panels and other measures. 
Unless Shawbrook seeks to purchase the Green Deal loan from G, it is only able to make 
changes to its own loan. But it should take into account the Green Deal loan, including the 
durations of repayment relevant to that loan and the payments due under that loan when 
doing so.
So, I think to put things right Shawbrook should recalculate its loan based on the known and 
assumed savings and income to Miss E and Mr T from the measures over the terms of the 
loans, so they pay no more than that, and they keep the measures. This will put Miss E and 
Mr T in a cost neutral position over the loan terms. 
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Miss E and Mr Ts monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they will have paid more each month than they should have, resulting 
in an overpayment balance. And as they would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect Shawbrook to add 8% simple interest per year to each 
repayment, from the date of that overpayment to the date of settlement. And I think the fairest resolution would be to let Miss E and Mr T have the following options 
as to how they would like the overpayments to be used:
1. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loans and 
Miss E and Mr T continue to make the current monthly payments resulting in the 
loans finishing early, 
2. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and Miss E 
and Mr T pay a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term/repayment of the 
loan, 
3. the overpayments are returned to Miss E and Mr T and they continue to make their 
current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early, or 
4. the overpayments are returned to Miss E and Mr T and they pay a new monthly 
payment until the end of the loan term/repayment of the loan.
My final decision
My final decision that I uphold this complaint. Shawbrook Bank Limited should put things 
right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman