DRN-2884818
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are represented by a Claims Management Company (CMC). The CMC 
complain that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) provided unsuitable advice to Mr and Mrs P in 2002 
who were advised to invest too much of their assets.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P met with Lloyds in 2002 for investment advice. Following a fact find exercise, 
Lloyds recommended that they invest £145,000 into a Flexible Investment Bond. 
Mr and Mrs P surrendered the bond in 2007 and received £139,250.58. During the time that 
they held the bond, Mr and Mrs P received £27,549.81 in income.
The CMC complained to Lloyds on 24 March 2020 saying that Mr and Mrs P had been 
advised to invest too much money in the Flexible Investment Bond and they should have 
been advised to retain a larger percentage of free cash. The CMC also say that as Mr and 
Mrs P immediately requested to take income from the bond, this should have alerted Lloyds 
that the amount invested was excessive.
Lloyds investigated the complaint and replied on 20 April 2020. Lloyds partially upheld the 
complaint and agreed that the amount originally invested was too high a portion of their 
available savings.
Lloyds said that they should only have been advised to invest half the amount and offered 
compensation of £7,297.27 which reflected a return had the amount remained uninvested. 
Lloyds used a Bank of England Bond rate to calculate the compensation due.
The CMC did not agree with the compensation amount and said that it should be £105,000. 
Lloyds replied on 1 May 2020 and said that they were unwilling to change their initial 
decision.
Unhappy with Lloyds decision, the CMC referred the complaint to the service and one of our 
investigators investigated the complaint. The investigator thought that Lloyds had acted fairly 
in trying to resolve the complaint and didnt uphold it.
Unhappy with the investigators view, the CMC have asked for an ombudsman to look at the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs P but I agree with the outcome reached by the 
investigator for much the same reasons and wont be upholding the complaint.
From my reading of the complaint documentation, I think the complaint is split into 3 parts:
Too much of Mr and Mrs Ps assets were invested into the Flexible Investment Bond
Mr Ps personal and health circumstances were not fully taken into consideration 
Lloyds should have known that an immediate request for income should have alerted 
them that the advice was unsuitable
When Lloyds investigated the complaint, they agreed that too much had been invested. They 
thought that half the amount would have been a more appropriate amount and they offered 
Mr and Mrs P £7,297.27 as compensation for what they may have received had this been 
invested differently.
The calculation used by Lloyds is what the service would suggest and is in line with what we 
would expect a business to do in these circumstances.
In their submission to the service, the CMC have said that they dont believe that the 
£72,500 (half the amount originally invested) was an appropriate sum for Mr and Mrs P to 
invest. They say that this would have increased Mr and Mrs Ps investments by over 50% 
and investments totalling over £160,000 would be in just two products.
I have looked at the fact find that was completed by Lloyds and it records that the investment 
objective of Mr and Mrs P was to invest a large amount of capital to provide a monthly 
income as he feels this is his priority area.
The advice recommended by Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs P the opportunity to receive monthly 
income and this can be seen by the total income of £27,549.81 that they received over the 
term they held the bond. I cant agree that the advice to invest into a bond generating 
income was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs Ps needs.
The CMC have said that as Mr and Mrs P had asked for withdrawals in the first year this 
should have provided a warning to Lloyds that too much was invested. I have looked at the 
Suitability Report that was prepared following the fact find meeting and I can see that the 
advisor wrote the following:
I have recommended that you do not take withdrawals from the bond in the first 12 months 
but keep the amount required for this period, in an account with instant access. You wish to 
take withdrawals earlier and are aware that, by taking withdrawals in the first 12 months, that 
this can cause an even greater reduction in the value of your investment.
The CMC have argued that this information was in a section of text along with other facts 
and warnings about taxation. I have considered what the CMC have said but I dont agree 
that it was hidden. Mr and Mrs P signed the declaration within the Suitability Report that the 
advice was provided on the information given by Lloyds, so I think that it is a reasonable 
assumption that they read the information within the Suitability Report.
In their submission to the service, the CMC have said that the changing circumstances of Mr 
Ps health wasnt considered sufficiently. They say that as Mr P had recently undergone 
heart surgery, the decision to invest was unsuitable given the bond had charges for early 
surrender and could be impacted by future market value reductions.
As I was not present at the meeting, I am unable to say what was discussed in meetings that 
Mr and Mrs P had with Lloyds, but I do note that the fact find information does not make any 
mention of Mr Ps health, so I dont know if the advisor was aware of this information. In summary, I think that Lloyds have acted fairly in trying to resolve the complaint and have 
made an offer of compensation that is in line with what the service would do. Im not going to 
ask Lloyds to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman