DRN-4423015
The complaint
Mr G complains that CB Payments Ltd trading as Coinbase hasnt protected him from losing 
money to a scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
here. In brief summary, Mr G has explained that in 2018 he was tricked by scammers into 
sending cryptocurrency through his Coinbase account for what he thought was a legitimate 
investment. 
Mr G subsequently got in touch with CB Payments but they couldnt reach agreement about 
things, so Mr G referred his complaint about CB Payments to us. Our Investigators view was 
that we could look into certain parts of Mr Gs complaint, but not others; but that even on the 
parts of Mr Gs complaint we could look into, he couldnt recommend that they should be 
upheld. Mr G disagreed, so the case has been passed to me for a decision.
I recently sent Mr G and CB Payments my decision on which parts of Mr Gs complaint we 
can and cannot consider. Having done so, I am now ready to explain my final decision on 
the parts of Mr Gs complaint we can consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached materially the same conclusions and for the same reasons as 
our Investigator. That is, Ive decided to not uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
First of all, let me say, I have no reason to doubt Mr G has been the victim of a scam. He 
has my sympathy. Ultimately, however, Mr G has suffered loss because of fraudsters, and 
this doesnt automatically entitle him to a refund from CB Payments. Ive already explained in 
my decision on which parts of Mr Gs complaint we can and cannot consider why we dont 
have the power to look into Mr Gs complaint about Coinbase Europe allowing him to send 
cryptocurrency to scammers  but only CB Payments actions in providing Mr G with 
electronic money services.
I havent seen any account opening evidence that makes me think CB Payments had any 
reason to think this was anything other than a legitimate application from Mr G to open a CB 
Payments account. Further I cant see any reason why I could reasonably say CB Payments 
ought not to have accepted the deposits at face value. 
Still, in keeping with good industry practice, CB Payments should monitor its customers 
accounts for activity that might suggest they are at risk of financial harm, including surveying 
account movements for transactions that are notably unusual or out of character. That being 
so, in some circumstances it should take additional steps, or carry out further checks, before 
processing a payment to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from 
fraud. However, theres no expectation on CB Payments to intervene in each and every 
payment a customer makes. So, the key question in this case is whether the activity which 
did take place was so unusual and out of character that CB Payments ought to have been 
alarmed.
Since the account was opened, Mr G deposited funds which were then converted to 
cryptocurrency. This happened across various dates, with the only real pattern being a 
succession of deposits. This, in itself, is commonplace in the industry, given that trading is 
largely dependent on the market which often fluctuates. In other words, purchasing crypto in 
this fashion isnt irregular for an account of this nature, nor is the intermittent movement of 
funds into (and out) of the account. Indeed, a CB Payments account can only really be used 
for one purpose  to purchase cryptocurrency. Therefore, I must consider it would have been 
difficult for CB Payments to identify the activity here as being atypical or concerning.
Whats more, I am satisfied that there wasnt any compelling reason for CB Payments to 
have been disconcerted about the opening of the account or the deposit of funds that 
ensued. It follows that, in the absence of any other cause for concern, activity of this nature 
is unlikely to stand out as being particularly unusual to CB Payments. It is also important to 
note that the purchase of cryptocurrency was, in effect, a transfer between two accounts in 
Mr Gs name and, therefore, much less likely to be considered a real risk by CB Payments.
So, overall, I cant see sufficient reason why CB Payments should have been wary about the 
transactions carried out and Im not satisfied it made a mistake by allowing them to proceed. 
Finally, there was no prospect of CB Payments recovering the funds for Mr G, as they were 
sent to anonymous blockchain addresses through the Coinbase Europe platform.
I know this will be disappointing for Mr G as he has lost a significant amount of money. But in 
fairness, I dont think CB Payments has acted unjustly by declining to reimburse him.   
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman