DRN-3649290
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as P, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc is unfairly 
holding it liable for repayment of a Bounce Back Loan (BBL).
What happened
P had a business bank account with NatWest. In May 2020 there was an application for a 
£49,500 BBL, which NatWest accepted, and the funds were paid into the P bank account. 
BBLs were designed to help businesses get finance more quickly if they were adversely 
affected by the coronavirus outbreak. Under a government-backed scheme, lenders could 
provide a loan with a six-year term for up to 25% of the customers turnover, subject to a 
maximum of £50,000.
The loan funds were quickly transferred out of Ps account to a personal account.
P complained to NatWest. Ps director said the BBL application and transfers had been 
carried out by a person (Mrs H) who had previously been removed as a director by 
resolution of the shareholders and was therefore not authorised to give instructions for the 
company. 
NatWest said that the companys request to remove Mrs H from the account wasnt received 
before the BBL application or the transfers, and therefore there had been no error by the 
bank. Unhappy with the banks response, P referred the matter to this service.
Our investigator looked at all the evidence provided. He concluded that NatWest hadnt done 
anything wrong. In summary, he gave the following reasons:
Mrs H had been removed as a director of P, but the bank mandate shows that at the 
time of the BBL application, she was still an authorised signatory for the company. 
NatWest did receive a request to remove her as a signatory on 8 June 2020, but by 
then the BBL had already been arranged and the funds had been transferred out.
P didnt agree with the investigators findings. Its director said that hed tried multiple times to 
remove Mrs H from the mandate before she took out the loan, and even if the bank couldnt 
immediately remove her, it should have flagged the account to stop further withdrawals and 
the loan. Furthermore, on the BBL application form, Mrs H had said she had appropriate 
authority to make the application. This was either a false claim, or a bank failure for not 
making sufficient checks, and therefore the loan shouldnt be the companys responsibility.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im sorry to tell Ps directors that Ive come to the same conclusions as the 
investigator and for largely the same reasons.
I can see from information registered at Companies House that Mrs H ceased to be a 
director on 30 April 2020. But in this complaint I need to consider the agreement between 
the company and the bank regarding the P bank account. Mrs Hs authorisation in respect of 
that agreement remained in place until the company amended the mandate. I cant 
reasonably say the bank was wrong to follow any instructions given by Mrs H before the 
mandate was amended. The mandate change form was first submitted on 8 June 2020, 
though it was incomplete. After a number of exchanges between the company and the bank, 
Mrs H was removed from the account on 12 August 2020.
Ps director has said that the company alerted the bank and tried to remove Mrs H from the 
account before she took out the loan. But having looked carefully at Ps submissions and the 
records available from the bank, I can see no evidence from the time of the events that 
suggests P contacted the bank about Mrs H before 8 June 2020. There is evidence of email 
and phone exchanges, and of Ps director visiting a branch, but these were later. From the 
evidence, I cant say that the bank was aware before 8 June 2020 of Mrs Hs removal as a 
director.
I dont agree that the bank should have checked with Companies House or with Ps other 
directors to confirm Mrs Hs directorship before accepting her instructions. In my view, it was 
up to the company to request a change of mandate and until that happened it was 
reasonable for the bank to observe the existing mandate. 
Ive looked at the signature mandate for the P bank account. Im satisfied that Mrs H was 
authorised to give instructions for spending and to apply for lending on behalf of the 
company. Given that Mrs H was still an authorised signatory at the time of both the BBL 
application and the transfers of the loan funds out of the P account, I dont think it was unfair 
or unreasonable of NatWest to accept the BBL application, to carry out the transfer 
instructions and later to hold P liable for the BBL debt.
Ps director has said that as Mrs H was no longer a director, her statement that she was 
authorised to act for the company wasnt valid when she submitted the BBL application, and 
therefore the company shouldnt be held liable for the loan. But, as Ive said above, the 
mandate was still in place and, as regards the companys agreement with NatWest, she was 
still authorised to act for the company, irrespective of whether she was still a director. The 
funds were paid to the company account and spent from that account in accordance with the 
mandate. For those reasons, I cant reasonably require the bank to set aside the companys 
liability for the loan.
I realise that my decision will come as a disappointment to Ps directors, but I dont find that 
NatWest has acted unfairly or unreasonably.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman