DRN-3248105
The complaint
Mr C2 says Santander UK Plc mis-sold the late Ms C and Mr C1 a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy alongside their mortgage.
I am sorry to see the late Ms C and the late Mr C1 have passed away. In the hope that Mr 
C2 wont mind, I will refer to them as Ms C and Mr C1 in my decision.
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken in 2002 alongside Ms C and Mr 
C1s mortgage. The policy cost £38.59 a month and was set up to cover Ms C and Mr C1 
equally. It wouldve provided them with a benefit of £319.50 each if either of them couldnt 
work due to accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy wouldve paid this benefit for up 
to 12 months.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. They said Santander shouldnt have 
recommended the policy to Ms C and Mr C1 due to the exclusions relating to pre-existing 
medical conditions. This was because Ms C suffered with a medical condition at the time of 
sale. 
Santander disagreed with the adjudicator. It said that the necessary suitability checks 
wouldve been carried out at the point of sale. It explained that any pre-existing medical 
conditions would have been discussed at the time the policy was applied for, alongside its 
exclusions. It also explained the policy document wouldve reiterated the exclusions. 
Santander maintained that the recommendation made to Ms C and Mr C1 was suitable.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me  an ombudsman  for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr C2 and the estate of Ms C and Mr C1s complaint. 
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Santander advised Ms C and Mr C1 to take out the policy. This means it had to take steps to 
check the PPI was right for them both, by taking into account their individual circumstances. 
Santander has provided some paperwork from the time of sale, including the mortgage 
application form. The paperwork contains information about Ms C and Mr C1s 
circumstances at the time, but it doesnt capture details about their health. So, Ive 
considered this paperwork alongside the information we have about Ms Cs medical history 
and whether the recommendation was suitable for Ms C and Mr C1.
The policy states: We will not pay for the monthly benefit if your disability arises from any of 
the following: any condition you had at the start date; any condition for which you had 
received treatment or advice during the 12 months before the start date. Ive considered this 
term in light of the details Mr C2 has provided about Ms Cs health at the time. Mr C2 has 
explained that Ms C had a serious medical condition in 1990 which was treated with surgery. 
However, hereafter she had regular check-ups and then annual appointments with a 
neurologist consultant. Based on the information Mr C2 has provided about Ms Cs 
condition, including its severity and the long-term medical reviews she required it seems Ms 
C would not have been able to claim under this aspect of the policy had she been off work 
due to her pre-existing health condition.  
As Santander advised Ms C and Mr C1 to purchase this policy, it had a duty to consider their 
circumstances in full before making a recommendation for the PPI. I think if due 
consideration had been given to Ms Cs medical history it wouldve been noted that the 
policy was not entirely suitable for her. The policy benefits would have been significantly 
limited for Ms C, reducing the protection afforded by the cover.
I dont think the advice given to Ms C and Mr C1 to purchase the policy fully considered Ms 
Cs individual circumstances. So, Santander should put things right.
Putting things right
Santander UK Plc should put Mr C2 and the estates of Ms C and Mr C1 back in the position 
they would be in if they hadnt taken out PPI. Santander UK Plc should:
Pay Mr C2 and the estates of Ms C and Mr C1 the amount she paid each month for the 
PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
If the late Ms C and Mr C1 made a successful claim under the policy, Santander UK Plc 
can take off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander UK Plc to take off tax from this interest. 
Santander UK Plc must give Mr C2 and the estates of the late Ms C and Mr C1 a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr C2 and the estates of Ms C and Mr C1s 
complaint. Santander UK Plc should put things right for Mr C2 and the estates of Ms C and 
Mr C1 as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C2 and the 
estates of Ms C and Mr C1 to accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman