DRN-2607026
The complaint
Mr M complains that Creation Financial Services Limited declined his application for finance.
What happened
Mr M applied online for a buy now pay later credit agreement to purchase a new hoover from 
a retailer. He completed the credit application online and received an email to say his 
application had been approved and he could collect his item.
When Mr M went to the store, the retailer entered the transaction on the system and told Mr 
M his application had been declined. Mr M wasnt able to collect his item and says he was 
left embarrassed in front of other customers.
Mr M complained to Creation. In response, Creation said that although Mr M was initially 
informed hed been accepted for finance, when further checks were carried out when he 
provide his details in store, the application was declined.
Mr M wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. He feels that the 
further credit checks were carried out in store without his permission.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think Creation had acted unfairly in 
carrying out additional checks before completing the lending process because it had a 
discretion to decide  whether to lend or not.
Mr M didnt agree. He said he wasnt told there would be further credit checks and said this 
shouldve been made clear to him when he applied online. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at everything to decide whether Creation did anything wrong. Having done so, I 
dont think it did. Ill explain why.
I understand that Mr M was initially told that his application had been accepted. Creation has 
explained that after further checks were carried out in store, the application was declined. 
Whilst I dont think the reason for the decline is a particular issue in this complaint, I would, 
say that generally, finance provides are obliged to provide the main reasons for the decline. 
In this case, Creation has said that its internal lending criteria wasnt met.
I understand that Mr M feels that he shouldve been told that further checks would be carried 
out in store. Creation has provided this service with some screen shots from the application 
proves. These show what would appear in store at the point of application and say that 
further checks will be carried out as part of the identification process. Its not clear from the 
screenshots whether Mr M was told that his application would be subject to further checks 
and/or that he could be declined in store even if his application had been accepted online. 
However, whether Mr M was told this or not, ultimately its up to Creation to decide whether 
or not to approve or decline an application for credit, based on its internal risk model.
Creation has provided information to show that it looked at a  range of factors when it carried 
out its additional checks. Im unable to say (for reasons of confidentiality) the specific reason 
for the decline. But I havent seen anything to suggest that Creation treated Mr M unfairly 
when it conducted its checks.
I appreciate that part of Mr Ms complaint relates to the staff at the retailer and how they 
handled things. Im only able to look at the aspects of the complaint which relate to the 
finance provider here, so I cant comment on the customer service Mr M received in store.
Taking everything into account, and whilst I appreciate that this has been a frustrating 
experience for Mr M, Im unable to say that Creation has done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint,
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman