DRN-1534418
The complaint
Mr O has complained that MCE Insurance Company Limited (MCE) avoided (treated it as if it 
never existed) his motorbike insurance policy and refused to pay his claim following the theft 
of his motorbike. He wants it to cover his claim. 
What happened
Mr O took out a motorbike insurance policy with MCE through an online price comparison 
site. When his motorbike was stolen, he tried to claim on his policy. 
MCE declined his claim, avoided his policy and kept the premiums hed already paid. When 
Mr O complained it said hed answered the question hed been asked about where his 
motorbike was stored incorrectly. And it considered this to be a deliberate or reckless 
qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid his policy and refuse his claim. 
Mr O brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought it shouldnt be upheld. She 
agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation and she thought this was deliberate or 
reckless. 
Mr O replied that he agreed that hed made a qualifying misrepresentation. But he said it 
wasnt deliberate or reckless. He said he hadnt corrected the incorrect information after the 
theft because hed panicked. He said if hed provided the correct information, then MCE 
would have provided cover on the same terms. He said his mistake was human error.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to 
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it. 
MCE thinks Mr O failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
stated in his application via a comparison site that the overnight storage location of his bike 
was a garage located at his home address. 
Ive looked at the question he was asked when he completed the application and I agree he 
failed to take reasonable care. This is because he was asked for details of where the bike 
was kept when not in use and the postcode. I think this was a clear question asked by MCE 
through the comparison site Mr O used.
Mr O chose Garaged (brick) at his home address. But this was incorrect as Mr O stored his 
bike in the garage at his father-in-laws address. This information was included on the policy 
details sent to Mr O when he took out the policy. He was then asked to check these to 
ensure they were accurate. But Mr O didnt correct this. 
After Mr O made his claim, he told MCE that the bike was kept in a garage at the back of his 
home address. But MCE found there wasnt a garage at this address. 
I think Mr O had enough information to tell MCE that his bike would be garaged at a different 
address. And I think this means Mr O failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when he said the overnight storage location would be a garage at his 
home address. 
MCE has provided evidence which shows that if Mr O had not made this misrepresentation 
this would have increased his premium. This means I am satisfied Mr Os misrepresentation 
was a qualifying one under CIDRA.
I also think Mr Os misrepresentation was a reckless or deliberate misrepresentation. This is 
because I think Mr O must have realised that his motorbike would be not kept at his home 
address in a garage as he suggested. I think he had opportunity to correct this, but he didnt 
do so. And he persisted with the error when MCE asked him about the storage after he 
made his claim. 
Therefore, Im satisfied MCE was entitled to avoid Mr Os policy in accordance with CIDRA. 
And, as this means that  in effect  his policy never existed, MCE does not have to deal 
with his claim following the theft of his motorbike. 
And  as CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think 
allowing MCE to rely on it to avoid Mr Os policy produces the fair and reasonable outcome 
in this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Os complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman