DRN-3452906
The complaint
Miss G has complained that HSBC Bank UK Plc reported inaccurate information about her 
account to the credit reference agencies, and that there were significant delays in correcting 
this information.
What happened
Miss G held a current account with HSBC that had an overdrawn balance, in 2018 she 
went over her arranged limit and when she didnt repay the outstanding balance her 
account was defaulted in September 2018. In October 2018 Miss G repaid the full 
outstanding balance of her account.
In June 2021 Miss G was in the process of applying for a mortgage when she realised 
that her credit file was still showing an outstanding balance on her HSBC account, so 
she contacted HSBC to ask that this be corrected. HSBC agreed that the information 
recorded on her credit file needed to be changed to show that the debt had been settled 
in October 2018, and paid Miss G £60 to recognise the impact of this error, but it then 
took until September 2021 for HSBC to arrange for this to be updated.
Since Miss G referred her complaint to us HSBC has made an offer to pay her a further 
£150 to recognise that there was a delay in updating her credit file with the correct 
information. Miss G does not feel this is enough to recognise the impact of what has 
happened on her. She says that the incorrect information caused serious issues for her 
mortgage application and house purchase, resulting in her being essentially homeless 
for a period of time and having to pay to store her possessions.
One of our adjudicators looked at what had happened, and ultimately felt that what 
HSBC has now offered to do is fair in the circumstances, but Miss G didnt agree, so her 
complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to tell HSBC to do anything further to resolve the 
matter and Ive explained why below.
It isnt disputed that HSBC made an error in reporting that a debt was still 
outstanding on Miss Gs account, or that there was a delay in correcting this 
information once Miss G advised HSBC of the issue. So, I dont need to consider 
what went wrong here. I need to determine if the total compensation awarded to 
Miss G is sufficient when considering the impact this issue has caused.
I acknowledge that the initial error, and the delay in correcting it, will have caused 
Miss G some inconvenience and distress. But while I appreciate that Miss G 
believes it is this issue alone that caused the problems with her mortgage 
application and house purchase, Ive not seen any evidence to support that this is 
the case. And any number of things, including not just Miss Gs circumstances but 
also the circumstances of anyone else she may have been applying for the 
mortgage with, details of the particular property she was buying, or the overall 
financial markets at the time, could all have impacted her mortgage application and 
house purchase. So without any evidence to show how the information about this 
account on her credit file specifically affected things, its difficult for me to make a 
finding that HSBC is solely responsible for any issues she had.
I appreciate that compensation can be subjective and what may be enough for one 
person might not feel right for another. But having carefully considered everything 
available to me, I think the £210 already offered (£60 of which has already been 
paid) is reasonable in the circumstances and I dont think HSBC should award 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I am upholding Miss Gs complaint against HSBC Bank UK Plc 
but I dont think it needs to do more than it has already offered to do.
HSBC Bank UK Plc should now pay Miss G the additional £150 it has offered to her, if it 
has not done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman