DRN-1506350
The complaint
Mr L and Mrs L complain about how Hiscox Insurance Company Limited has handled a 
claim made on their motor insurance policy. Mr L is a named driver on Mrs Ls policy. He 
wants an increase in compensation, a refund of his policy excess, provision of information 
hes requested, and liability defended in court if needed.
What happened
Mr L drove over some protective barriers that fell in front of his car. He made a claim for 
damage to his car and Hiscox tried to get the road contractor which placed the barriers to 
admit liability, but without success. Mr L was unhappy that Hiscox hasnt shared information 
from the contractor, hasnt pursued the matter in court, hasnt pursued the matter 
enthusiastically and has communicated with him poorly. Hiscox offered him £75 
compensation for delays in providing requested information. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Hiscox 
had tried to get the contractors insurer to admit liability, but without success. It had taken 
legal advice that its chances in court werent good, so he didnt think it needed to take this 
further. He thought it had delayed providing Mr L with the requested information it was able 
to. But he thought its offer of £75 compensation was reasonable. He thought Mr L was 
required to pay the policy excess as hed made a claim. 
Mr L replied that he wanted a statement from Hiscox that he was innocent and to be 
provided with all relevant information from the other insurer and the contractor. Mr L asked 
for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L said the road contractors barriers fell into the road in front of his car. He wasnt able to 
stop in time and so drove over them, damaging his car. He said he wasnt speeding at the 
time.
The investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision about the claim. Did it act 
fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it 
treated Mr L the same as someone else in his position. 
Hiscox is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mrs L to take over, defend, 
or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mrs L has to follow its advice in connection with the settlement 
of her claim, whether she agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in motor 
insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial 
decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to 
compromise.
That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
available before making a decision on how to deal with a claim. 
Hiscox had to consider Mr Ls version of events, photographs hed taken of the accident site, 
and the other insurers stated version of events. Mr L said hed reported the matter to the 
police. Hiscox applied for this report but as the police didnt witness the incident, I cant say 
that it would add further information for it to consider. 
I can see that Hiscox tried to get the other insurer to accept liability. In cases like this, I think 
its for the claimant to show that the contractor has been negligent. The contractor said the 
barriers had blown over into the path of Mr Ls speeding car and he didnt stop in time to 
avoid them or drive around them. 
Hiscox asked for evidence that Mr L was speeding or that he could have avoided the 
barriers. It asked for evidence that the barriers had been secured. But I cant see that this 
was provided. Nevertheless, the other insurer still denied liability. 
Hiscox then sought legal advice about the chances of success if the matter went to court. 
The advice was that the prospects werent good as there was limited evidence available. 
So I think Hiscox reasonably investigated the claim, as far as it was able to. It cant be held 
responsible for the refusal of the other insurer to accept liability. I think it tried to pursue this 
reasonably. So I think Hiscox has handled Mrs Ls claim fairly and reasonably, and in 
keeping with the policy terms and conditions. 
Hiscox did agree that it had delayed providing Mr L with documents hed requested. I think it 
explained why these documents had been redacted. And I think its offer of £75 
compensation for the inconvenience was fair and reasonable as its in keeping with what Id 
require in similar situations. 
I can appreciate Mr Ls frustration, but I think Hiscox otherwise communicated with and 
responded to him reasonably. So I dont require Hiscox to increase this offer. I expect Hiscox 
to honour its offer if Mr L wises to accept it. From the information provided, I cant see that 
its withheld any requested documents from Mr L. 
Mr L had to pay his £250 policy excess. Our investigator has already explained that this is 
required by the policy terms and conditions in the case of a claim. If a claim is settled as 
non-fault, then this can be recovered from the other insurer. I can see that Hiscox asked the 
other insurer to reimburse this along with its own costs. But it declined to do this as it hasnt 
accepted liability. So I dont require Hiscox to refund this. 
Mr L wanted a statement from Hiscox that he was the innocent party in this matter. I think it 
would be unusual for an insurer to state this. And, as Ive said above, its not our role to 
make this decision about liability. What it can state is that the other insurer hasnt accepted 
liability. The investigator has already offered to request a statement from Hiscox to this 
effect.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
 Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman