DRN-2207298
The complaint
Mr W complains that a car acquired with finance from FCA Automotive Services UK Ltd 
wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In November 2018 Mr W was supplied with a car and entered into a fixed sum loan 
agreement with FCA. At the point of supply the car was approximately 3 years old with 
recorded mileage of 35,000.
Mr W says that within around a month of owning the car, it broke down and the catalytic 
converter had to be replaced. The repair was carried out under warranty.
Around two months later, Mr W experienced an issue with the turbo. The car was returned to 
the supplying dealer for inspection and although no repairs were carried out, Mr W says he 
was told that there was a hole in the turbo unit.
In August 2019 the car went into the garage for a recall relating to the EGR valve.
Mr W says he then had repairs carried out to the tensioner, the belt and the water pump in 
October 2019 and November 2019, which he paid for. Two weeks later, the car broke down 
and the bottom crank pulley had to be replaced. Mr W had this last repair carried out at a 
different garage because hed lost faith in the supplying dealer.
Mr W raised a complaint with FCA in February 2020. He said that since owning the car, hed 
had to return it for repairs on several occasions which had cost him in excess of £900. He 
said hed recently been quoted over £2000 for a replacement turbo unit and wanted the 
costs of repair met.
In response, FCA said that because the car was almost 5 years old and because Mr W had 
covered around 24,000 miles since the point of supply, it wasnt unreasonable that faults 
might occur. It said Mr W was liable for the costs of repair but offered a contribution of £420 
(one monthly payment) in recognition of the inconvenience caused.
Mr W wasnt happy with the response and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think there was evidence to show 
that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Mr W didnt agree. He said that in the first year of owning the car hed had to return it to the 
supplying dealer on ten occasions, as well as two occasions to a different garage. He said 
hed had to pay recovery charges when the car broke down and had missed work/had to pay 
for alternative transport.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because FCA supplied the car under a fixed sum loan agreement, it is equally responsible 
with the supplying dealer if theres been a breach of contract. Theres a legal requirement 
that the car is of satisfactory quality. If it isnt, this is a breach of contract. Cars are of 
satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a reasonable person would expect, taking 
into account all of the relevant circumstances such as, amongst other things, the age and 
mileage of the car and the price paid. Id expect a second-hand car, such as that supplied to 
Mr W, to have a degree of wear and tear and to require repair more often than a brand-new 
car. So, in order to uphold this complaint, I would need to be satisfied that there was an 
inherent fault with the car, as opposed to faults due to general wear and tear.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, theres a 
presumption that the fault was present at the point of supply unless the business can show 
otherwise. The business is allowed one opportunity to repair the fault. If the repair isnt 
successful, the consumer can reject the car. After 6 months, the burden of proof is reversed 
and its up to the consumer to show that there was a fault with the car at the point of supply.
I can see that Mr W experienced a number of issues with the car during the first few months. 
For instance, I can see that the catalytic converter required replacement. Because this is 
something which occurred in the first 6 months, Id expect the business to put things right. I 
can see that the catalytic converter was replaced at no cost to Mr W.
Most of the issues experienced by Mr W arose outside of the first 6 months. So, as Ive 
already explained, its up to Mr W to show that these issues were present or developing at 
the point of supply. I can see that repairs were carried out to the tensioner, belt and water 
pump in or around October 2019. But I havent seen any evidence to suggest that these 
were issues which were present or developing at the point of supply. Ive taken into account 
that Mr W had been driving the car from around 12 months by the time these issues arose, 
and that the car had covered around 17,000 miles since the point of supply. If any of these 
issues had been present at the point of supply, I would have expected them to present 
themselves much sooner, given the mileage covered. So, I think its more likely that these 
issues were due to general wear and tear.
I can see that the crankshaft pulley and fan belt were replaced in January 2020. Again, I 
havent seen any evidence to suggest that these issues were present or developing at the 
point of supply and given the time and mileage elapsed since the point of supply I think its 
more likely that these issues were due to wear and tear.
I appreciate that Mr W has had to return the car to the garage for repairs on several 
occasions and I m aware that hes had to pay a significant amount for these repairs. 
However, in relation to the issues which arose in the first 6 months, the cost of repairs has 
been met by the supplying dealer, which is what Id expect to happen. Of the issues which 
arose outside of the first 6 months, Im not satisfied that Mr W has provided enough 
evidence to show that these faults were present or developing at the point of supply, so Im 
not persuaded that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Taking all of the available information into account, and whilst I understand that this has 
been a frustrating experience for Mr W, Im not persuaded that the car was of unsatisfactory 
quality and I wont be asking FCA to do anything further.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman