DRN-3778496
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with how Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) dealt with 
his request for help as a result of the Coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic.
What happened
In March 2019, Mr W was supplied with a new car through a hire agreement with MBFS. The 
agreement was for a period of 36 months; with an initial rental payment of £1,098 followed 
by 35 monthly repayments of £366.
In April 2020 Mr W contacted MBFS to ask for help as he said he was having difficulty 
making his payments due to the Covid-19 pandemic.  He said they agreed a payment 
holiday for March 2020 to May 2020, and this was extended from June 2020 to August 2020. 
He said MBFS told him in June 2020 that a payment holiday had not been set up, and that 
the amount of his monthly repayment would need to increase as hed missed payments. He 
said that they also reported negative information on his credit report, and were sending him 
letters threatening to repossess the car. 
He was unhappy that the information hed received about the amount outstanding wasnt 
clear. He also said theyd told him he would receive a refund but he didnt receive one. He 
said that in April 2021 they credited his bank account with £1,830, but ten minutes later they 
took out £1,980. He said he didnt know why this happened as he said he hadnt authorised 
these payments.
MBFS acknowledged that they hadnt correctly processed the payment deferral for the 
period April 2020 to June 2020, or the second payment deferral quotation. They said this 
had led to them contacting him as it appeared he was six months in arrears. 
They said they had contacted him in December 2020 to discuss the payment deferrals and 
how these would work. They said that Mr W told them he didnt want to go ahead with the 
payment deferral for the second period as it would lead to an increase in his monthly 
payments.
They said Mr W had outstanding arrears for the period April 2020 to September 2020. They 
said Mr Ws monthly payments would increase to £420 to cover the initial payment deferral. 
They said he would need to contact them to arrange a plan to deal with the outstanding 
arrears for July 2020 to September 2020, and the arrears arising from the payment shortfall 
in October 2020 to January 2021.
They said he could still go ahead with the payment deferral for July 2020 to September 2020 
but they would need to consider if this was affordable for Mr W  and this was likely to 
require a credit check.
They also explained his options if he wanted to end the agreement and return the car. They 
said he could return the car if he paid 95% of the outstanding rentals. Or they said he could 
voluntary surrender: this would mean they would sell the car at auction and he would be 
liable for any shortfall.
MBFS offered £100 as compensation for their errors, and later increased this to £200. 
Unhappy with their response Mr W brought his complaint to this service. He told our 
investigator MBFS had increased his monthly payments from £325 to £585 to catch up on 
the arrears. 
Our investigator said that MBFS had acknowledged the mistakes theyd made but she said 
the correspondence theyd sent to Mr W about the payment deferral was confusing and 
contradictory. She said that MBFS shouldve explained to Mr W why it was taking £1,980 
from his account when it did, and they shouldve done more to contact him before taking the 
payment. She also found the information provided by MBFS about the amounts they were 
taking to be confusing. So she said they should increase their offer of payment in recognition 
of the distress caused to Mr W by £150, bringing the amount to £350. And she said they 
should remove any adverse information related to the payment deferral should be removed 
from his payment file. 
Mr W disagreed. He said he felt that £350 was an insult and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr W was supplied with a car under a hire 
agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look 
into complaints about it. 
Payment deferral requests
The industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued temporary guidance, 
that came into effect on 27 April 2020, for customers who were faced with payment 
difficulties as a result of Covid-19. The purpose of the guidance was to provide exceptional 
and immediate support to customers facing payment difficulties due to circumstances arising 
out of coronavirus.
Mr W contacted MBFS about the impact the Covid 19 pandemic had on his financial 
situation on 28 April 2020  the day after the FCA issued its guidance. MBFS accepts that 
they didnt process his request for a payment deferral promptly. They said there was a delay 
caused by the vast amount of requests for payment deferrals theyd received. So they failed 
to provide the immediate support expected by the regulator.
It appears that they didnt respond to Mr Ws request until 9 June 2020 when they offered the 
first payment holiday for the period April 2020 to June 2020. In this letter they informed Mr W 
that after the holiday his monthly payments would increase by £55  they said he would 
need to make monthly payments of £427.It appears that Mr W responded on 1 September 2020 confirming he wanted them to go 
ahead with the payment holiday. And on 29 September 2020 they asked Mr W for 
information about how he was impacted by the Covid 19 pandemic. 
I have seen from the statements that Mr W made no payments for the period April 2020 to 
September 2020. So even though he didnt respond to the payment holiday offer from 
MBFS until September 2020, his account was in the same place it wouldve been had he 
replied to the offers, and if theyd implemented the payment deferrals as they shouldve 
done.
There appears to have been a continued delay in putting the payment deferral into place. I 
can see that Mr W contacted MBFS in December 2020. At this point he told them he didnt 
want the second payment deferral to be implemented because he didnt want to pay the 
higher monthly payment required to clear the arrears. 
Arrears
Mr W accrued arrears for the period April 2020 to September 2020 as he didnt make 
payments during this time. These arrears are due. The guidance from the FCA states that:
where a customer can resume full repayments after a payment deferral, but is 
unable to pay the deferred amounts immediately and in full, the firm should allow 
them to repay the deferred amounts over the remaining term of the agreement or 
allow a longer period for repayment.
MBFS told Mr W in June 2020 that his payments would increase. So Im satisfied that he 
shouldve been aware that this was a consequence of not paying. But MBFS shouldve 
treated the arrears as if they were due to the payment deferral he was entitled to under the 
FCA guidance.
I wouldve expected them to discuss with Mr W the most suitable option for him to pay the 
arrears. But his agreement was for a fixed term and the guidance expects that the deferred 
amounts should be paid over the remaining term of the agreement. So Mr Ws monthly 
payment would have to be increase to a higher amount to keep the agreement to its fixed 
length of 36 months.  I understand that the agreement was settled in March 2022 with no 
arrears outstanding. Ive received no correspondence from either party about how the 
agreement was settled so I can reasonably assume that MBFS agreed with Mr W how he 
would clear the arrears.
But that doesnt mean this wasnt an unsettling time for Mr W. He asked for help from MBFS 
and thats what he shouldve received. Instead he received default notices in June 2020, 
January 2021, February 2021, and April 2021. 
Their communication wasnt clear, and Ive seen examples from MBFS contact notes of 
different figures quoted at different times. Im concerned by the lack of explanation and 
communication around the withdrawal of £1,980 from Mr Ws account. MBFS said they had 
to do this to get the account up to date. They said they had to refund the repayments hed 
made at the original monthly payment of £366, and then take the higher amount for the 
same period. But Ive seen communication where they said they would bill the missing 
payment  I take this to mean they would send an invoice before withdrawing the amount. I 
havent seen anything to show that communication was sent.
And the amount they quoted was different to the amounts taken. So I can see why Mr W was 
frustrated.And his credit report should not have shown missed payments. And there should be no 
negative reporting of the period he was in arrears following the deferral. The FCA guidance 
states that negative reporting should not be reported to the credit file when the accrued 
amounts arising from the deferral period are being repaid.
Im satisfied that MBFS failed to treat Mr W in line with expectations set out in the FCA 
guidance. But they have admitted their errors and the poor handling of Mr Ws request.
Sending correspondence that was unclear and confusing, the delays and poor handling of 
his simple request for a payment deferral, and the negative impact on his credit file has 
caused Mr W distress and inconvenience. I dont underestimate the stress this has caused 
him, and his family. This took several months to resolve, and that was avoidable.  And for 
that level of inconvenience and frustration I think that a total award of £350 is reasonable. I 
know Mr W will be disappointed by this award. But my role is to ensure things are put right  
not to punish or fine a business.
Putting things right
MBFS shouldve treated his request for financial assistance in line with the guidance issued 
by the industry regulator. If they had done so, Mr W wouldnt have been treated as if he was 
in arrears, and wouldnt have received default notices and correspondence that was 
contradictory and confusing.
To put things right, MBFS should put Mr W back in the position he wouldve been in had they 
treated him fairly and promptly in line with the FCA guidance. I understand most of these 
steps may have already been taken but for the purposes of this decision, to put things right 
MBFS must:
Remove any adverse credit relating to the agreement from Mr Ws credit file. This 
includes the missed payments for the payment deferral period April 2020 to 
September 2020, and any negative reporting related to any shortfall from September 
2020 to the date the agreement ended.
Pay Mr W £350 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience they caused 
him
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Ws complaint. Mercedes-Benz Financial Services 
UK Limited must follow my directions above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman