DRN-3975651
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs M complain about Legal and Generals decision to decline a critical illness 
claim. 
What happened
Mr M and Mrs M held joint term assurance with Legal and General which has now expired. 
The policy included critical illness cover, and in February 2022 Mr M had made a claim 
under that provision having being diagnosed with Cerebella Ataxia.
At the time Mr M and Mrs M told Legal and General that Cerebella Ataxia was a rare 
condition. They said it was classified under Parkinsons Disease and Multiple Sclerosis (MS) 
given it had similar symptoms too, and both of those conditions were covered by their policy.
Legal and General explained Cerebella Ataxia wasnt one of the policys listed critical 
conditions and declined the claim. It also said it couldnt consider a claim under Parkinsons 
or MS either; because both required a definite diagnosis from a Consultant Neurologist 
which Mr M didnt have.
Mr M and Mrs M complained but Legal and General maintained its overall position. In doing 
so it acknowledged Cerebella Ataxia had similar symptoms to Parkinsons and MS, but 
reiterated it was a separate condition and not one covered under their policy. It also checked 
to see if it could consider a claim for Mr M against the policys permanent and total disability 
or waiver of premium benefit, but explained Mr M was still working and his health hadnt 
deteriorated to such an extent to qualify for either.  
Unhappy that the critical illness claim was still being declined Mr M and Mrs M brought their 
complaint to this service and one of our investigators looked at what had happened. 
Our investigator thought Legal and General had acted fairly. They said the claim hadnt met 
the required policy terms and although they appreciated Mrs M and Mr Ms strength of 
feeling about matters, they didnt recommend their complaint be upheld.   
Mr M and Mrs M disagreed with our investigators opinion and said Cerebella Ataxia was a 
rare illness that had only recently come to light. They said that meant some Neurologists had 
not heard of it, and given its rarity it was understandable that it wouldnt be listed in all 
insurance policies. Mr M and Mrs M said that was unfair however, as it was similar to other 
conditions that would have been covered and Mr M could have a shorter life expectancy due 
to it. So the matter was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I set out my findings I want to acknowledge the impact Mr M and Mrs M have 
explained Cerebella Ataxia has had on them. Although Ive reached the same outcome as 
the investigator before me and will explain why below, I do recognise that my findings will 
further disappoint. They are in no way intended to detract from the impact of Mr Ms 
diagnosis. 
Legal and General has a responsibility to consider claims both promptly and fairly and to not 
reject them unreasonably. As has rightly been explained, insurance policies arent designed 
to cover every eventuality. Rather, they are intended to cover a set of specific risks or 
insured events and the terms and conditions of each policy will detail what those are. 
Here, the terms and conditions of Mrs M and Mr Ms cover explained that Legal and General 
would only pay critical illness benefit for a specific list of illness: 
Entitlement to the Guaranteed Sum Assured set out in the Individual Policy Details 
contained in the schedule also arises on proof of contraction and diagnosis of one of the 
following illnesses or disabilities. 
As has already been established, Cerebella Ataxia wasnt on that list so Legal and General 
was acting in line with the policy terms when it confirmed there was no coverage for it. 
Mr M and Mrs M are correct in that both Parkinsons and MS featured on that list. But the 
terms and conditions of their policy also stipulated that both of those conditions would 
require a definite diagnosis by a Consultant Neurologist. 
As far as I understand matters Mr M did not have such a diagnosis. So Legal and General 
was acting in line with the policy terms when it explained it couldnt consider the claim under 
Parkinsons or MS too.
I fully appreciate the opinions Mr M and Mrs M have put forward regarding the rarity of 
Cerebella Ataxia, the lack of Neurologist knowledge, and the absence of the condition in 
policies. But Im not persuaded it would be fair of me to direct Legal and General to accept 
this claim because of those. As I noted above, insurance policies arent intended to cover 
every eventuality and unfortunately for Mr M and Mrs M the condition being claimed for just 
wasnt covered. 
I do empathise with the position Mr M and Mrs M have explained they may go on to face. But 
in all the circumstances Im unable to find that Legal and General declined this claim 
unreasonably and as a result will not be interfering with its position. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman