DRN-2921273
The complaint
Miss H complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) closed her accounts.
What happened
Nationwide wrote to Miss H on 25 March 2021 and gave her 60 days notice to close her 
account. On 31 March 2021, following a conversation with Miss H, they agreed to stop the 
closure process.
Miss H complained that Nationwide could close her account  just because she complained. 
She didnt agree with their policy on closing accounts in these circumstances. And when she 
contacted Nationwides complaint department, they didnt make contact with her as 
promised.
Nationwide said theyd taken the decision to close Miss Hs accounts because they felt the 
relationship had broken down  due to the number of complaints she made. Shed raised ten 
complaints in the previous two years  and so they considered she had a significant level of 
dissatisfaction with their services. In their last four final response letters, theyd raised this 
issue with Miss H. Nationwides terms and conditions gave them the right to close accounts 
if they wished. They apologised for the problems Miss H had in contacting their complaints 
department and paid £15 compensation for that. Theyd reviewed their decision to close 
Miss Hs accounts and stopped the closure process  but said theyd monitor the 
relationship, so that if there was a further deterioration, the closure notice would be 
reinstated.
Miss H brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said Nationwide could close accounts if 
they wished  it was in their terms and conditions. And theyd done this because of the 
number of complaints made by Miss H. Theyd reversed their closure decision in this 
instance. And because of the problems Miss H experience with communication with them, 
paid £15 compensation. Its not for this service to tell Nationwide what their polices are as 
we dont regulate them  thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority.
Miss H asked that her complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see where Miss H is coming from  Nationwide gave her 60 days notice to close her 
account, because of the number of complaints shed made. So  she questions whether 
thats correct, as surely she should have the right to make complaints if she wishes. And  
when she tried to contact the complaints department to discuss this, she couldnt get through 
and they didnt leave a message for her when they called back.
Ive considered what Miss H and Nationwide have said. Looking at Nationwides terms and 
conditions, they do have the right to close an account if they wish  and without giving a 
reason. They say You or we can close your account by ending this current account 
agreement. If we end this agreement, we will give you not less than 2 months written notice. 
And I can see that they did give Miss H 60 days notice of closure  so they acted in line with 
their terms.
I can also see that Miss H raised ten complaints in the previous two years. In all honesty  
this does suggest that Miss H hasnt been satisfied with Nationwide during that time, and I 
agree that Nationwide were justified in suggesting that  possibly  they were not the right 
bank for Miss H to be using. Sometimes, all businesses and their customers must decide 
whether their relationship is working in the best interests of both parties  and where thats 
not the case, then it seems quite right that one of the sides can decide to end it.
Miss H has questioned whether Nationwide can have such a policy. I agree with our 
investigator that this service cant tell Nationwide what its policies can or cant be  we are 
not their regulator  thats the financial Conduct Authority (FCA). This service ensures that 
such polices are executed fairly and reasonably  which I think they were in this case.
I can see that theyve agreed to stop the closure process and so Miss H can continue to use 
Nationwide  but theyve made the point that they will keep this under review, and I agree 
with that. Thats not meant to say that Miss H cant complaint to Nationwide  if she feels she 
has a justified complaint of course. 
I can see there was a problem with the communications between Miss H and Nationwides 
complaint department about what happened. But  theyve apologised for this and paid 
compensation of £15. And I think thats right for what happened.
And so  I wont be asking Nationwide to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman