DRN-2186923
The complaint
Mr P complains that UK Insurance Limited trading as Privilege Insurance (Privilege) acted 
unfairly and unreasonably when dealing with his claim under a legal expenses insurance 
policy. He wants matters put right.
What happened
Mr P had a legal expenses insurance policy with Privilege through his household insurance. 
Mr P said that his neighbour notified Mr P that he intended to develop his own property and 
place foundations on Mr Ps land after getting planning permission. Mr P was concerned 
about the failure to follow the party wall procedure, damage, and the loss of light, and made 
a claim for legal assistance under the policy. 
Privilege declined the claim. It said that the terms and conditions of the policy only protected 
Mr Ps property if there was a legal nuisance, trespass or physical damage. Privilege also 
pointed out that there was an exclusion that meant claims arising from or relating to planning 
permission werent covered. It said it could consider a claim if the neighbour did damage, 
cause nuisance or trespassed onto Mr Ps property though, but the policy didnt cover taking 
preventive action.
Mr P complained to us and said if his objections werent enough to stop the planning 
permission being given, then Privilege was wrong to argue that the exclusion applied. He 
also said that the policy gave the impression his property would be protected so Privilege 
should pay for an injunction to stop any future damage or loss of light. Mr P also commented 
that he didnt think his neighbour would stop, even if he didnt have planning permission. He 
was also unhappy about the time taken to decline his claim.
The investigators view was that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. He said the policy didnt 
cover action to stop damage or loss of light before they happened, and noted the exclusion 
for planning issues. The investigator said Privilege had acted fairly and reasonably in 
declining the claim, and also in responding promptly to tell him so within six days of the claim 
being made.
Mr P disagreed. He said that he had dealt with the situation himself and the plans had been 
abandoned as a result. But Mr P felt it was appalling that hed been left to deal with the 
situation himself and that this service said it was fair and reasonable. He wanted an 
ombudsmans view and said that the fact his actions stopped his neighbour showed that 
Privilege had been in the wrong and in order to protect his property, it shouldve helped him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When I refer to Privilege, Im also referring to its agents. The relevant rules and industry 
guidelines say that Privilege has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And it 
shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
While Mr Ps issue has been described as a problem about planning permission, I think 
thats a very basic summary. What Mr P was really worried about was the potential damage 
and loss of light to his property resulting from his neighbour relying on the planning 
permission. As such concerns dont stop permission being given, its right that strictly Mr Ps 
concerns arent about the permission itself, but the consequences.
But the consequences do arise from the permission itself, so they are related and arise 
from that. The terms and conditions of the policy says:
 We will pay costs for the following claims arising out of owning or living in your home:
 legal nuisance
 trespass to your home
 physical damage to your home.
X We dont cover claims arising from or relating to:
 planning (e.g. town and country planning)
 advice, specification, design, construction, conversion, extension, renovation or demolition
on any land or relating to any buildings
Insurers are entitled to say what is and isnt covered by the policy, provided that it is set out 
clearly. Mr Ps policy not only excludes issues relating to or arising from planning or building 
works, it only covers him for three issues relating to his property  nuisance, trespass and 
physical damage.
Mr P says that if the neighbour had gone ahead, his property wouldve been damaged and 
Privilege shouldve paid for preventative action. Mr Ps arguments relate to the issue of 
damages to be paid from similar claims, but this complaint is about a different issue  
whether preventive claims are insured under this policy. The policy is clear about what 
insured event is covered  the policy says it will pay the costs arising out of physical 
damage for example; it doesnt say potential or possible future damage. A natural 
interpretation of the wording is that the damage mustve happened for the insured event to 
exist. Loss of light isnt physical damage but it can in certain circumstances be a legal 
nuisance; again though, it must have happened to be covered by the policy.
Under the legal terms of the policy, Privilege is entitled to decline the claim. I thought about 
what would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case, including Mr Ps 
health issues and concerns. While Mr P may take a dim view of his neighbour and his 
conduct, it isnt fair or reasonable to expect Privilege to take action in case the neighbour 
breaks the law. And the information within the policy about what is and isnt covered is very 
clear and doesnt cover these circumstances; the premium paid was to cover what was 
offered, not every possible legal claim. I think Privilege acted fairly and reasonably in 
declining the claim.
I note Mr P resolved matters himself with expert assistance. But its important to understand 
that Privilege was not saying Mr P wasnt entitled to take action (as he did); what Privilege 
was saying that it wasnt willing to pay for it as the policy didnt cover these circumstances. It 
doesnt mean that Privilege was in the wrong, though Im glad to hear Mr P did resolve the 
issues he faced.
I note Mr P was unhappy that the first letter declining his claim didnt reach him and it wasnt 
until 11 days after the claim was made that he received the written confirmation. But he had 
been told on the phone six days after making the claim that it had been declined, and looking 
at the evidence Im satisfied that its more likely than not that the first letter was sent and correctly addressed. The time taken to decline the claim was well within reasonable 
timescales in my view.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 
12 November 2020.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman