DRN-2817083
The complaint
Mr F complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do more to limit the gambling transactions he 
made from his basic account. 
What happened
In 2019 Mr F contacted HSBC to say he didnt recognise a number of gambling transactions 
on his account. HSBC looked into the matter but declined Mr Fs request for a refund as it 
thought hed authorised them. Mr F later accepted hed authorised the transactions but felt 
HSBC was wrong to allow gambling related payments. 
HSBC explained gambling is legal and it wouldnt refuse to pay a merchant if it received a 
valid instruction from an account holder. HSBC did, however, agree to call Mr F to discuss 
ways to control his spending, such as reducing cash machine withdrawal limits, withdrawing 
his debit card or allowing a third party to manage his account. 
In 2020 Mr F gambled again which placed him in a very difficult situation. He complained to 
HSBC saying it had said it would restrict gambling on his account when the agreed call took 
place. HSBC declined his request for a refund. But it did apply a new feature  a gambling 
restrictor  to his account. Mr F didnt think hed been treated fairly so he asked our service 
for an independent review.
The investigator thought HSBC had acted fairly. She said that whilst she couldnt see a call 
had been made, she didnt feel there was anything more that HSBC could have done at that 
time that would have helped control these later transactions. 
Mr F didnt accept this. He didnt think he had been treated fairly or HSBC had done what 
they said they would. He felt that HSBC should have contacted him when the restriction 
feature was available, so he could put it in place. As he remains unhappy, its now been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr F that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. So, I dont uphold his complaint in this matter. Ill explain why. 
I think it is important to start with the responsibilities of the bank. Whilst Mr F banks with 
HSBC, they are required to make payments on receipt of authorised transactions. Mr F 
made a number of these to various websites for the purposes of gambling. He thinks HSBC 
should have done more to restrict these transactions and has asked for a refund of these 
amounts. However, I wouldnt expect HSBC to monitor individual spending and/or place 
restrictions, unless there had been an agreement to or there was a trigger, such as 
suspicious activity. Which wasnt the case here.
I have looked at what both parties agreed in 2019. Mr F is said to have acknowledged that 
HSBC couldnt monitor individual spending but both parties agreed that HSBC should have 
done more to have limited the gambling transactions after the complaint had been brought. It 
was also agreed that HSBC would contact Mr F in July 2019 to see what more they could do 
to help him control this going forward. I am satisfied that nothing further to this was 
guaranteed.  
However, I cant be sure as so whether this call went ahead. Mr F says it did and that he was 
told a gambling restriction would be put in place. HSBC has said that they dont have a 
record of this call and that the restriction feature couldnt have been offered, as it wasnt 
available until November 2019. 
When the evidence is inconclusive, as it is here, I reach my decision on the
balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than not to have happened, in
light of the evidence that is available. As the feature wasnt yet available, I think it is more 
likely than not, that HSBC didnt commit to putting it in place. 
I have gone on to consider what might have been put in place at the time the call did or 
should have taken place. All HSBC say they could have offered Mr F during a call in July 
2019, was to reduce cash machine withdrawal limits, withdraw his debit card or allow a third 
party to manage his account. I am not satisfied that these options would have been 
acceptable for Mr F. Withdrawal of his card in particular, would have made day-to day use of 
the account difficult and is unlikely to have been accepted. So, on balance, I dont think 
these measures would have been agreed and wouldnt have stopped the further gambling 
transactions that were made. 
Mr F has said that HSBC should have contacted him in November 2019, when the gambling 
restriction feature became available. Whilst ideally this would have happened and may have 
made a difference, I dont agree that it is reasonable to expect HSBC to have done this. 
They hadnt agreed to do it and I dont believe it is feasible that they contact every customer 
individually that they think might have benefitted from this. 
In summary, I think its more likely than not that HSBC didnt commit to putting the gambling 
restriction in place in July 2019, as it wasnt available yet. I am not satisfied that there is 
anything that HSBC could have done at that time that would have prevented the later 
gambling transactions. I also dont think it is fair to expect HSBC to have contacted Mr F 
personally in November 2019 to make him aware of the gambling restriction feature that had 
been launched. 
I accept my decision will come to disappoint Mr F. But, for the reasons set out above, I dont 
require HSBC to do anything to resolve this complaint. My decision ends what we  in 
attempting to resolve Mr Fs dispute with HSBC  can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman