DRN-3608751
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Monument Life Insurance Dac hasnt paid out for the full period of 
a disability claim.
What happened
Mr R contacted Monument in October 2020 to register a disability claim. He said that he had 
started a new job on 5 October 2020 but was unable to continue after a few hours due to 
illness. Monument accepted the claim and it paid out until 7 November 2021. Monument 
discontinued the claim at that time on the basis that Mr R was not in work at the start date of 
the claim and in that scenario the policy limits the claim period to 360 days rather than the 
main headline benefit of 720 days.
Our adjudicator thought that Monument had correctly applied the policy terms and therefore 
did not uphold Mr Rs complaint. Mr R disagrees with the adjudicators opinion and so the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As already mentioned, the policy would generally pay out for a maximum of 720 days for a 
disability claim. However, the policy terms state that:
If you are not working at the start of your disability, after we have paid benefit for 360 days 
the benefit payment will be limited to the amount of any additional ongoing costs you incur, 
as a result of your disability for the remaining duration of the claim, subject to the maximum 
monthly benefit not being exceeded.
Mr R initially provided Monument with a sick note for the period 14 September  6 November 
2020. When Mr R started a new job on 5 October 2020, it was therefore during the period 
that he was signed off as unfit for work. I understand that Mr R was testing himself to see if 
he could manage to work. However, Im unable to conclude that, because he worked for part 
of that date, he was in work at the start of the claim.
Monument accepted the claim from 14 September 2020, so thats the start date. I consider 
this to be reasonable as that is the date that Mr R had been medically assessed as being 
unable to work because of his condition. And it is not in dispute that Mr R had been 
unemployed since May 2020 and was not working on 14 September 2020. Mr R has said 
that his doctor back-dated the sick note to 14 September 2020 because that was when he 
was struggling physically with his condition. This further confirms that he was genuinely unfit 
to work on that date and that Monument was therefore correct to use this as the start date of 
the claim.
Mr R has also said that he tried a few days of agency work to see if he could manage it. 
However, Im not persuaded that would make a difference to the claim as a few days of 
temporary work would not meet the definition of work or working under the policy terms 
and Mr R would have needed to have been working (as defined by the policy) on 14 
September 2020.
Mr R has said that he understood that if he became disabled during his period of sickness, 
then the policy would pay out for the full 720 days. I think some confusion has been caused 
here by the use of the word disability in the policy. Disability in this context simply means 
an illness or accidental injury and the claim that Mr R was making was a disability claim. I 
cant see anything in the policy that would extend the claim beyond 360 days, for someone 
who was not working, on the basis that they had subsequently become permanently 
disabled or registered disabled. 
Overall, based on the available evidence, Im satisfied that Mr R was not working at the start 
of the claim. It was therefore fair and reasonable of Monument to limit the claim to 360 days, 
in accordance with the policy terms and conditions.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman