DRN-3842306
The complaint
Miss O is unhappy Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund a payment she didnt make. 
What happened
Miss O was contacted by someone who pretended to be from someone she banks with. 
They convinced her to move her money into her Monzo account to keep it safe. That day, a 
payment was made using Apple Pay for £680. 
Miss O raised this with Monzo who declined to refund her. It said she didnt do enough to 
keep her details safe. Unhappy, Miss O brought her complaint to our service to investigate. 
During our investigation, it came to light there had been another call between Miss O and 
someone pretending to be from Monzo a few days before the payment. This coincided with 
when Apple Pay was set up on the fraudsters device, which was later used to make the 
disputed payment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator for these reasons: 
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Miss O isnt liable for 
payments she didnt authorise, unless she failed with gross negligence or intent to 
comply with the terms of the account or keep her personalised security details safe.
Ive firstly considered whether Miss O authorised the payment. The PSRs explain a 
payment is to be regarded as authorised if she consented to it  and that consent 
must have been given in the form, and in accordance with the procedure, agreed 
between Monzo and Miss O.
Monzo submit that Miss O must have approved the request to set up Apple Pay  
and when she did this, she consented to any payment from the fraudsters device. 
But looking at the relevant terms and conditions, they suggest Miss O consents to 
making a card payment in person (which I understand this was) by tapping her 
device. Im not persuaded she did this  she provided evidence to show she was in a 
different location. It follows that Im not persuaded Miss O consented to this payment 
in accordance with the agreed form or procedure, meaning its unauthorised.
As well as suggesting Miss O authorised this payment, Monzo has submitted she 
failed with gross negligence to comply with the terms of the account and to keep her 
personalised security details safe. Having considered the circumstances carefully, I 
dont think Monzo have shown thats the case. Ill explain why. 
Miss O remembered she was called by someone who said they from Monzo  this 
was before the disputed payment and around the time Apple Pay was set up. Monzo 
has questioned why this conversation only came to light when our service became 
involved. Ive noted its investigation focused on what happened during the later call 
with the fraudster posing as another bank. And given Miss O believed this call was 
genuine, I can see why it didnt come up sooner. I dont believe itd be fair to hold this 
against her. 
Given the time thats passed, Miss Os recollection of the call isnt detailed. It seems 
she was led to believe there was fraud on her account  and she recalled being 
asked to do something in the app, although she couldnt remember a conversation 
about Apple Pay. 
From our experience of dealing with scams like this, its common the fraudster has 
their victims card details already. So the purpose of the call is to convince them to 
approve Apple Pay through the Monzo app. Weve seen several ways theyll trick 
someone into doing this. For example, by saying a fraudster used their card to set up 
Apple Pay and they need to add it to their own device to stop it; or that theyll need to 
add Apple Pay to their device while they send out a new card given the fraud.
Taking this all into account, I think its likely the caller wouldve used personal 
information about Miss O  like knowledge of who she banked with and her card 
details  to convince her they were genuinely from Monzo. And Im persuaded theyd 
have used a similar reason to what Ive described above to convince Miss O to 
approve Apple Pay.  
And given the steps to approve Apple Pay in Monzos app, Im satisfied Miss O 
wouldnt have recognised she was in fact setting up Apple Pay on someone elses 
device. Theres nothing to clearly warn her and the steps are very quick to go through 
 she only needed to click Add Card followed by her biometrics on a separate 
screen. 
Taking this all into account, Im not persuaded Miss O acted with very significant 
carelessness  in order for me to conclude that she failed with gross negligence. 
Instead, I think this was a sophisticated scam that lots of people would, and indeed 
have, fallen victim too. 
Monzo also highlights that Miss O was grossly negligent during a later call with the 
fraudster posing as another bank  for believing shed need to transfer money to her 
Monzo account to keep it safe. I dont think she seriously disregarded an obvious risk 
by moving money between her own accounts. But either way, the test Im considering 
is whether Miss O failed with gross negligence to keep her personalised security 
details safe or comply with the terms of the account. And Ive not been persuaded 
that transferring money between her own accounts meant she didnt keep her 
personalised security details safe or was in breach of Monzos terms. Instead, it 
seems this was merely a ruse so shed funds available. 
It follows that I dont think Monzo has shown that Miss O failed with gross negligence. 
So I conclude she isnt liable for the transaction and Monzo needs to put things right 
 by refunding her losses from this unauthorised transaction alongside interest to 
compensate her for the time shes been out of pocket. 
Monzo shouldve have refunded this much sooner. Because they didnt, Miss O 
struggled to meet her and childrens needs. So I agree with our investigators award 
of £100 to reflect her distress and inconvenience. This is in addition to the £30 Monzo paid for its unclear communication. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Os complaint. Monzo Bank Ltd must:
Pay Miss O the total of the unauthorised transaction, less any amount recovered or 
already refunded  I understand this to be £680.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
transactions to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Pay a further £100 for Miss Os distress and inconvenience, in addition to the £30 
that I understand has already been paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman