DRN-2915556
The complaint
Mr R complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) unfairly declined a claim he 
made under his home buyers insurance.
For the purposes of this decision, reference to Great Lakes includes that of any agents or 
representatives unless specified.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
In April 2019 Mr R was in the process of purchasing a property through Company A 
(an estate agent). As part of its service, it offered home buyers insurance at no cost.
Mr R paid for a survey for the property, as well as property related legal fees. Overall, 
he says he incurred around £1,000 of costs on the potential purchase.
In May 2019 the seller pulled out of the sale and sold it to someone else. Mr R says 
this was so they could sell the property privately and avoid any estate agent fees.
Mr R contacted Great Lakes to claim on the home buyers insurance. It considered 
the claim and said it would determine whether the claim was successful after the sale 
price became public knowledge. Once this became available it said the property had 
sold for £15,000 less than Mr Rs offer.
Great Lakes declined the claim, saying the policy covered specific situations, and this 
situation was simply not covered.
Mr R disagreed, saying the insurers definition of gazumping didnt meet what a 
reasonable person would consider. And he said in light of cutting out estate agent 
fees, the seller wouldve received more personally than if theyd proceeded with his 
original offer.
One of our investigators considered the complaint. He said the policy was clear about 
what situations it would cover  specifically an offer that was at least £1,000 higher 
than the offer the policyholder had made. And in this case, these requirements 
werent met.
Mr R disagreed, saying the outcome reached by Great Lakes was unfair. And he said 
the only way he couldve avoided this situation was to decline the free cover and 
seek cover elsewhere  although he wasnt aware this method of gazumping 
existed prior to these events.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Under the heading What is covered? the policy says:
We will indemnify you for costs and expenses relating to an insured event that you are 
legally liable for or have incurred during the period of insurance subject to the following 
maximum limits:
£75 in respect of local authority search fees
£500 in respect of mortgage arrangement fees
£500 in respect of survey fees and valuation fees
So, Ive looked at the policy definition of insured event. This lists various specific scenarios 
that lead to the purchase of the property failing. The relevant section is (b) which says:
Where the property is not a repossession and the vendor receives and accepts an 
offer from a third party, which is a minimum of £1,000 (£10,000 for properties bought 
for reasons other than use as your principle home) greater than the offer from you 
previously accepted by them
Great Lakes hasnt disputed Mr R has incurred fees, nor that the seller accepted an offer 
from a third party. Its also not in dispute that the sale was for £15,000 less than Mr Rs own 
offer. On this basis Im satisfied that the claim doesnt meet the clear requirements that are 
outlined within the policy.
So, Ive gone on to consider whether Great Lakes application of the term is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case. 
The point of contention here for Mr R is the interpretation of the minimum sum. Mr R has told 
our service he believes it is likely the seller sold the property privately to avoid fees so 
Great Lakes should fairly interpret the terms in line with the profit the seller made (deducting 
estate agent fees). But this is just his speculation. And in this case to extend cover to the 
circumstances of this particular case I think would unfairly widen the scope of the policy to 
cover events it simply wasnt intended to cover. I would also note that during property sales 
a number of different factors could lead to a seller accepting a sale elsewhere. 
Mr R has also used the informal phrase gazumped throughout his communications with our 
service and referred to Great Lakes definition of the term. However, within the policy it 
doesnt use this term within the section hes seeking cover under. So, I dont agree the policy 
wording is mis-leading as hes described.
Overall, Im sympathetic to Mr Rs situation and I can understand why hes disappointed. But 
this insurance provides cover for specific events, and the scenario that has happened to him 
simply isnt one of these insured events. 
My final decision
For these reasons Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman