DRN-4371848
The complaint
Mr H and Mr H complain that Society of Lloyds (SOL) has unfairly declined a claim under a 
civil liability professional indemnity policy.
Any reference to Mr H and Mr H, and SOL includes respective agents and representatives. 
And for ease of reading, I will refer to the joint complaints as a singular Mr H throughout.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known between parties and has been detailed at 
length elsewhere. So, Ive summarised events.
Company F managed a number of properties for Mr H. 
Following a dispute regarding a breach of contract, the matter went to a tribunal. The 
tribunal ordered Company F to pay sums in relation to linen costs and fees charged 
relating to online bookings made on third party websites.
Company F went into liquidation before any payment was made to Mr H.
So, Mr H sought to claim on Company Fs professional indemnity policy, which is 
underwritten by SOL.
SOL declined the claim on a number of grounds, including a particular exclusion 
(5.12 in the policy) that stated it would:
...not be liable in respect of any Professional Services, Claim, liability, 
compensation, Investigation and Enquiry Costs, Claimants costs and 
expenses or insured costs arising directly or indirectly from or in respect of 
the return, refund or disgorgement or any professional fees, charges, 
commissions or other remuneration or whatsoever in nature received by, paid 
or payable to the Insured in connection with the Professional Services.
Mr H brought the complaint to this Service. Amongst their arguments they responded 
specifically to the 5.12 exclusion, stating the claim in question was not for 
reimbursement of professional fees and instead was for an amount of damages, 
awarded by reason of a breach of law  which the policy does respond to. 
One of our Investigators looked into what happened and didnt uphold the complaint. 
She was satisfied the amounts awarded from the tribunal judgement (that were being 
sought) were excluded under 5.12. She said claimed for were the return or refund of 
professional fees or charges related directly or indirectly from amounts payable to Mr 
H in the capacity in which hes claiming given Company Fs liquidation  in 
connection with the property management  as described in the exclusion. 
Mr H disagreed, providing a detailed response. In summary he argued:
oThe tribunals judgement was for breach of statute, and reiterated the claim 
was a civil claim for damages/compensation arising from breach of a statute 
to which the relevant SOL policy responds.
oIn putting his argument forward, Mr H refers to various documents within his 
submission. And he details the history of the claim related to booking fees, 
and the tribunals determination and calculations in awarding redress. Mr H 
argues the amount awarded in no way reflects fees or charges and therefore 
the exclusion should not apply.
oMr H states the policy indemnifies the insured against civil liability for 
compensation and Claimants costs and expenses in respect of any Claim 
first made against the Insured and notified to the Insurer during the Period of 
Insurance resulting from the conduct of the Professional Services by the 
Insured in respect of any act, error or omission occurring after the Retroactive 
Date and specifies civil liability is defined as legal liability arising from any 
civil cause of action including but not limited to: .(3): Breach of Statute".
oMr H says the exclusion in question cannot apply to this claim as it is not 
directly or indirectly from or in respect of the return, refund, or disgorgement 
of any professional fees, charges, commissions or other remuneration.
The Investigator looked again but remained of the opinion that it was fair for SOL to 
conclude the amounts awarded by the tribunal had arisen directly or indirectly from 
professional fees and or charges, and therefore the claims were excluded. 
Mr H reiterated his position, highlighting again he believed the tribunal had not 
decided on a matter related to fees charged on online booking sites, that the decision 
provided by the tribunal did not return or refund any professional fees.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why. 
My role as an Ombudsman at this Service requires me to say how I think a complaint 
should be resolved quickly and with minimal formality. That means Ill focus on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint. Mr Hs submissions to this Service span 
many pages. Within this decision I wont be responding in similar detail. This is not 
intended as a discourtesy, but a reflection of the informal nature of this Service.
Where I dont comment on every point made by the parties, thats not to say I havent 
seen or considered them. I have carefully considered all points raised by both 
parties, but I do not consider it necessary to specifically reference them in reaching 
my decision. And when considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances, 
I have taken into account the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, 
guidance and standards and codes of practice.
Given the history of this complaint  I will begin by considering the 5.12 exclusion as 
this seems to be the main point in issue. Simply, if Im satisfied the claim has been 
fairly and reasonably excluded by SOL using this exclusion, the remaining points that 
have been discussed elsewhere will fall away. So, I will begin by looking at the policy 
terms and this particular exclusion which state:
The Insurer shall not be liable in respect of any Professional Services, Claim, 
liability, compensation, Investigation and Enquiry Costs, Claimants costs and 
expenses or Insured Costs:
5.12 Professional Feesarising directly or indirectly from or in respect of the return, refund or 
disgorgement or any professional fees, charges, commissions or other 
remuneration or whatsoever nature received by, paid or payable to the Insured in 
connection with the Professional Services.
Professional Services is defined in the policy to mean the Professional Services of 
the Insured specified in the Schedule which here is Property Management.
The key dispute here stems from a disagreement between parties on whether the 
tribunal judgement order to make payments meets this above exclusion. 
SOL states the tribunal orders clearly relate to a refund of fees or commissions 
unduly obtained by the Insured and is contrary to Mr Hs assertion the tribunal 
decision did not make any findings in relation to professional fees. 
Mr H puts forward the tribunals judgement was for breach of statute, and the claim in 
question is a civil one for damages/compensation arising from breach of a statute to 
which the relevant SOL policy responds.
So, Ive carefully read the tribunal judgement. There were two claims that were 
successful within the judgement, these fall under claims five and nine respectively 
within the judgement. 
Under claim five the judgement begins This was a claim for a refund of prepaid linen 
fees for each unit. I find this compelling evidence to support SOLs position that the 
subject matter of claim five was about professional fees related to linen.
Under claim nine the judgement begins This claim related to fees charged in relation 
to bookings obtained via platforms such as[lists online platforms]. Again, I think 
the judgement is clear on the subject matter of the claim  that is professional fees in 
relation to bookings.
In both of these instances the judgement goes on to discuss events and sums 
ordered that relates to these causes. 
Mr H has argued the matter is entirely separate to any professional fees as the claim 
is about the judgements order, not the professional fees in question. But simply put, 
the exclusion says this could be either direct or indirect. And Im satisfied the tribunal 
order to pay the funds in question stems from the respective claims described in the 
tribunals decision and arose directly or indirectly to those professional fees.
So for these reasons Im satisfied both claims five and nine are excluded by this 
policy and Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable to direct SOL to depart 
from these terms.
Mr H has made reference to the definition of loss in the policy and said it should 
indemnify him against a breach of statue. But in either instance, the exclusion applies 
here as the subject matter in question, either directly or indirectly, concerns 
professional fees. Mr H has also said the tribunals redress should persuade me the 
claim does not relate to professional fees  but I disagree. I read the tribunal decision 
as clear in what the respective claims were about  professional fees  and the 
redress it ordered will either fall into the direct or indirect return, refund or 
disgorgement of any professional fees, or the broader other remuneration or 
whatsoever nature received by, paid or payable to the Insured in connection with the 
Professional Services.
As Im satisfied SOL has fairly applied this exclusion, and so fair of SOL to reject the 
claim, making a determination on the other exclusions relied upon by SOL is 
unnecessary.My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman