DRN-3125395
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about a buy-to-let mortgage he holds with The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc 
(TMW). He is unhappy with the interest rate products he was offered when the existing 
product on his further advance was due to expire in early 2021.  
What happened
At the beginning of 2021 Mr M held an interest-only BTL mortgage with TMW, which was 
made up of two parts  the main mortgage advance from 2012 and a further advance taken 
in 2016. Each part of the mortgage had a fixed interest rate product attached to it when it 
was first advanced and these products were replaced when they expired. The rate on the 
main mortgage was due to expire at the end of January 2021 and that on the further 
advance at the end of April 2021. 
In December 2021 Mr M looked into attaching a new fixed interest rate product for the main 
mortgage via TMWs website. In order to establish which interest rate products he qualified 
for the loan-to-value (LTV) needed to be established. As such, an estimate of the value of 
his home was completed. It was based on the value of the property last time it was 
physically valued and a current figure was extrapolated using the changes in the House 
Price Index since that valuation. This showed that the property was likely to be worth just 
under £332,000. This meant that the LTV was just under 65%.
Mr M selected an interest rate product from those on offer and it was attached to the main 
mortgage on 1 February 2021 until the end of February 2023.
In March 2021 Mr M again looked into the interest rate products available to him for when 
the one linked to the further advance expired. Again, the online system estimated a value for 
the property. However, the estimated value for the property had dropped, which meant that 
the LTV was calculated as being slightly above 65%. This meant that Mr M was offered a 
choice of rates from the 75% LTV options, which had slightly higher interest rates attached 
to them. 
This was discussed with TMW and an alternative remote valuation system was used to see if 
it produced a lower LTV. Unfortunately, the estimated value was lower than the previous 
one, which didnt assist Mr M. TMW offered to arrange a physical valuation of his property, 
which he would have to pay for.
Mr M complained to TMW as he was not happy that the online valuation meant that the LTV 
was above 65% and so the fixed interest rate products he was eligible for were higher than 
those he would have qualified for the LTV was 65% or lower. 
TMW considered the complaint, but it didnt uphold it. It explained what the two valuation 
models took into account and confirmed that it had no influence over the figures they 
produced. TMW went on to remind Mr M that a physical valuation could be arranged, but he 
would have to pay the associated cost. Alternatively, it said that he could reduce the 
mortgage balance by £2,400, which would reduce the LTV to 65% and allow him access to 
the interest rate products he wanted access to. If he didnt wish to pursue either of these 
options, he would have to select a rate from those available for a 75% LTV.
Mr M wasnt happy with TMWs response to his complaint and asked this service to consider 
it. He also confirmed that he had attached a fixed interest rate product from the 75% LTV 
options to the further advance at the end of April 2021, as the alternative options were more 
expensive. Mr M said that he didnt accept that the value of his property had dropped 
between the dates of the two valuations. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. He was satisfied that it was reasonable for digitally estimated values to be used in 
the application process for new interest rates, as it often saved time and money for the 
applicant. He confirmed that the information the estimates were modelled on was updated 
on a quarterly basis. This was the reason the valuations had differed for Mr Ms property, as 
they were produced in different quarters. As TMW had offered Mr M the option to have a 
physical valuation done, the investigator was satisfied that it had acted fairly and reasonably. 
Mr M didnt accept the investigators opinion. He said that all the estimated valuations had 
been low, but that hadnt adversely affected him when he applied for the new rate on the 
main mortgage. However, that was not the case when the second estimate was produced. 
He said that whilst TMW had explained why the valuation was lower, it hadnt proven that 
was the case. 
In addition, Mr M said that hed had another, earlier dispute regarding the rebuild cost 
associated with the BTL property and a physical survey had confirmed that the rebuild cost 
was higher than the estimate TMW had produced. Mr M said that he knew the same applied 
in relation to the sale value of the property. Mr M said that his property was too unique for 
online valuations and that there are no comparables. Subsequently, he provided information 
he considered showed the estimated valuation was wrong. 
Our investigator consider what Mr M had to say, but he wasnt persuaded to change his view 
of the complaint. He highlighted that TMW had offered to arrange a physical valuation at 
Mr Ms cost. While Mr M didnt consider that he should have to pay for such a valuation 
because he was a long-time customer and it was just for a rate change, the investigator 
didnt agree. He didnt consider there was evidence to show the estimated valuations had 
been wrong and so, as it was Mr M that was disputing the value, it was not unreasonable 
that he pay the cost any physical valuation. 
In relation to Mr Ms comment that he wouldnt have taken the interest rate product on the 
main mortgage if hed know the property would be down-valued, the investigator said that 
while that might be the case, no-one could have known this situation would arise. As Mr M 
remained unhappy with the investigators conclusions, he asked that the complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman for consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly set out some background and explain that when a customer of a lender wants 
something, be that a mortgage, further borrowing or an interest rate product, the lender will 
assess whether to provide the requested facility. A key factor of the decision-making process 
for a lender is the value of the property being, or already, mortgaged. The lower the LTV, the 
lower risk a mortgage represents to the lender. This lower risk will often then result in lower and potentially more advantageous interest rates being available to be attached to the 
borrowing.
The most reliable way of valuing a property is a physical valuation, although even that is not 
always perfect, as a property is only worth what someone is willing to pay for it. However, a 
physical valuation has a cost associated with it. The borrower will traditionally pay valuation 
costs, as it is the borrower who wants the facility that requires the valuation and, therefore, 
has the obligation to prove it is worth the lender taking the risk of the transaction. That said, 
when it comes to an application for a new fixed rate, the cost of a physical valuation can be 
prohibitive, especially for smaller mortgages, as the amount the interest rate product could 
save the borrower could be significantly eroded, or negated completely, by the cost of a 
physical valuation.
In addition, physical valuations can take weeks to be completed, which could cause delays 
in interest rate products being attached to mortgages. As such, lenders will usually offer a 
new rate based on some sort of desk-top valuation, which is typically produced by a 
computer programme/system using data about property prices, at no cost to the borrower. 
These systems produce estimated values and usually rely on a previous physical valuation 
as a starting point. We dont consider that it is unreasonable for a lender to rely on valuations 
produced in this way, as long as it has an appeal process if a consumer is unhappy with the 
estimated value. In TMWs case, it not only used a different valuation product when Mr M 
said he thought the first estimate was wrong, but it also gave Mr M the option to have a 
physical valuation completed. I consider that it treated him fairly in doing so.
Mr M has said that he is aware from previous experience that online valuations dont work 
for his property because it is unique and there are no comparable properties. If that is the 
case, that means that a physical valuation would always need to be done for an accurate 
value to be established. TMW offered to arrange for that to be done, so I am satisfied that it 
fulfilled its obligation to treat Mr M fairly. While Mr M thinks that TMW should pay for the 
valuation because it is only for a rate change and he has been a customer for a long time, I 
cant agree. If Mr M believed that the two estimated valuations were wrong, it was for him to 
evidence that.
Although I know that Mr M will not be happy with my conclusions, I am satisfied that TMW 
acted reasonably in relation to the valuation of his property for the purposes of him obtaining 
a new interest rate product. I also consider that its reliance on the higher of the estimated 
values for the property was fair in the circumstances and that it offered Mr M the same 
options as its other customers in the same position. As such, I cant find that it treated him 
unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 
11 April 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman