DRN-2737170
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about the way Santander UK Plc, trading as Alliance and Leicester, has 
offered to compensate him for its mis-sale of payment protection insurance (PPI) policies 
attached to two loans.
What happened
Mr M complained to Santander that hed been mis-sold PPI policies with two loans hed 
taken out ending 1130 and 0630. In November 2020, Santander responded to Mr Ms 
complaint accepting that the PPI policies had been mis-sold. It offered to pay him 
compensation for these mis-sales of £994.26. 
Mr M wasnt satisfied that Santander had offered enough to fully compensate him for these 
mis-sales, so he complained to this service. Following our involvement in the complaint, 
Santander accepted that its initial offer hadnt been calculated correctly. This was because, 
in undertaking this calculation, it had used the wrong number of repayments made on the 
first loan Mr M had taken out and the wrong interest rate charged on his second loan. So 
Santander made a revised offer to Mr M which corrected these errors and also adjusted the 
compensatory interest payable to bring it up to date.
Our adjudicator thought that the revised offer made by Santander was fair. So she didnt 
think Santander needed to do anything more. 
Mr M didnt agree with the adjudicators view. He still wasnt satisfied that hed been offered 
enough by Santander, so the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Santander has already agreed to uphold Mr Ms complaint about the PPI policies being 
mis-sold, in this decision Im not looking at how these policies came to be sold. I am only 
looking at whether the revised offer Santander has made is fair.
When a complaint about the mis-sale of a PPI policy is upheld we expect the business, as 
far as is possible, to put the consumer in the position they would have been in if the policy 
had never been sold to them. 
In the case of the sale of single premium policies which has been added to a loan (like these 
ones), this would normally involve the business refunding that proportion of any loan 
payments which the consumer has made that relates to the PPI element of the loan. This 
will, therefore, include the interest that has been charged on the PPI element of the loan. We 
would also expect the business to pay 15% per annum simple interest for the time before 
1 April 1993 that the consumer has been out of pocket because of payments made relating 
to the PPI policy, and 8% per annum simple interest for the time after 1 April 1993 that this 
has been the case.
Where, as happened with Mr Ms first loan, the loan is settled early and refinanced by a 
second loan, we would also expect the business to refund any amounts relating to PPI which 
were carried forward into the second loan (taking due account of any rebate received), 
together with any additional interest charged on these amounts because of this. Again, we 
would also expect the business to pay compensatory interest at the relevant rate for the time 
that the consumer has been out of pocket because of the additional amounts relating to PPI 
theyve paid through refinancing their loan.
Having calculated the amount of compensation due to the consumer as detailed above, the 
business is then required to deduct tax from that element of its offer which constitutes simple 
interest at either 15% or 8%.
Santander has provided a breakdown of the revised offer which it made to Mr M in March 
2021 for the mis-sales of these two single premium PPI policies. And having carefully 
reviewed this, Im satisfied from what Ive seen that the offer has been calculated in the way 
in which I would have expected and that it is fair.
Loan 1
The loan and PPI policy started in January 1990 and ended in October 1990. The amount 
borrowed was £1,000.00 and the cost of the policy was £81.44. The monthly
payment relating to the PPI policy (including interest) was £4.25.
Mr M made 8 monthly payments on this loan and received a rebate of £40.80 on his PPI 
policy when the loan was refinanced before reaching its full term. I can see from the 
compensation calculation which Santander has provided that it has offered to refund the PPI 
payments Mr M made on this loan. Santander has also calculated compensatory interest on 
all these payments.
I can understand why Mr M has found it difficult to understand how compensatory interest is 
calculated. And it may be helpful if I illustrate how this calculation works using one of the 
£4.25 payments Mr M made for his PPI policy on this loan. 
For this purpose, Ive taken the payment Mr M made in June 1990 and used the date the 
revised Santander calculation was done in March 2021. There are 33 months before 1 April 
1993 when compensatory interest should have been applied at a rate of 15% simple per 
annum to this payment and 336 months after 1 April 1993 when compensatory interest at 
8% simple per annum should have been applied. So the calculation is (33x£4.25x0.15/12) + 
(336x£4.25x0.08/12).
As added assurance to Mr M that Santander has calculated this element of compensatory 
interest on the above basis, I have independently calculated the total compensatory interest 
figure using all the payments Mr M made. And, to the nearest pound, I have come to the 
same compensatory interest figure as Santander. So I hope that this will satisfy Mr M that 
Santander has applied the methodology that this service would expect it to use in calculating 
this compensatory interest.
I can also see from Santanders calculation sheet that they have compensated Mr M for the 
additional cost he incurred because some of the PPI on his first loan was carried forward into 
the second loan. In doing so, I can see that Santander has applied an APR for the second 
loan of 25.10%. Mr M says that the correct APR for this loan is 25.90%. But even if this is the 
case, the effect on this element of the compensation payable to Mr M will be very small. And I have noted that, for simplicity, Santander have assumed that all Mr Ms monthly 
repayments for his second loan were made on time. But it appears from the loan statement 
Ive seen that this was not always the case. So Im satisfied that any potential, very small, 
understatement in compensation caused by Santander using a rate of 25.10% is likely to be 
more than outweighed by this simplifying assumption  used by Santander in calculating 
compensatory interest on his second loan - which will have been beneficial to him.
In responding to our adjudicators view, Mr M expressed surprise that Santander revising the 
interest rate on the second loan from 6.94% to 25.10% hadnt made a bigger difference to 
the overall figure of compensation he was being offered. I hope that it will now be clear to 
Mr M that the reason for this is that this rate has only been used to determine the additional 
interest he has suffered on the relatively small element of the PPI attached to the first loan 
which was carried forward into the second loan. This interest rate has not been needed by 
Santander to calculate the compensation hes due for the mis-sale of PPI on his second 
loan.
Once again, Santander has applied compensatory interest in the way I would have expected 
to the additional cost Mr M has borne as a result of some of the PPI attached to his first loan 
being re-financed by the second loan.
So Im satisfied from what Ive seen that the compensation which Mr M has now been 
offered in relation to the PPI on his first loan is fair. 
 
Loan 2
The loan and PPI policy started in November 1990 and ended in October 1994, having 
reached their full terms. The amount borrowed was £1,278.87 and the cost of the policy was 
£181.93. The monthly payment relating to the PPI policy (including interest) was £5.86.
I can see from the detailed compensation calculations Santander has provided that it has 
refunded all the PPI payments Mr M made on this loan. Santander has also calculated 
compensatory interest on all these payments. Once again, I have independently calculated 
this compensatory interest and, as a result, am satisfied that Santander undertook this 
calculation in the way this service would have expected.
So, having carefully considered all the concerns and issues Mr M has raised in responding 
to our adjudicators view, Im satisfied from what Ive seen that the compensation which Mr M 
has now been offered in relation to the PPI on both his loans is fair. 
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Unless Santander UK Plc has already paid its revised offer of compensation to Mr M, it 
should bring this offer up to date, to reflect the additional time which has now elapsed since 
March 2021, and pay this to Mr M.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Simon Furse
Ombudsman