DRN-2888242
The complaint
Mr D complains about Santander UK Plcs (Santanders) decision not to uphold a claim he 
made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75). The claim 
was about the quality of a car he purchased using a credit card they supplied.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr D, but I agree with the investigators view. Please let me explain.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr D made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
Mr D says that the car was misrepresented to him and that it wasnt of satisfactory quality 
when supplied. 
misrepresentation
The relevant legislation says that if Mr D was told something that was false, and if that led 
him to enter into an agreement he would not have otherwise entered into, then the goods 
would have been misrepresented to him and, in those circumstances, Id ask Santander to 
take some action.
Mr D has explained that the car was sold to him as having had only one previous owner. 
Hes provided evidence there were two, so it seems he wasnt given the correct facts about 
the car. I can understand that Mr D would have been disappointed to find that there were 
more owners of the car, but I dont think I have sufficient evidence to suggest he would not 
have entered into the deal if hed known that. Thats because I havent seen evidence that 
the additional ownership would necessarily have reduced the value of the car. The 
investigator has explained that the guides dont ask for that detail when estimating resale 
values. Whilst Mr D has argued that a car with eight owners would surely be likely to be 
worth less than a car with only one, thats not the case here. And as any loss in value, if any, 
wouldnt have been easy for Mr D to establish when he struck the deal for the car I dont 
think the ownership issue would have been likely to impact on his decision to buy it.
The car was advertised as a perfect example but Ive seen that Mr D did note some 
scratches and scuffs during the video walk around. So, I think it was evident that the car 
wasnt a perfect example but one with some wear and tear commensurate with its age and 
mileage. I think Mr D therefore had the opportunity to assess the damage before he entered 
into the deal for the car and I dont think it would be fair to suggest that the misleading 
statement about its condition induced him to enter into the agreement.
the quality of the car
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they 
meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account 
any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr D. The car here was about 
five years old and had already completed about 80,000 miles. So, I think a reasonable 
person would expect it to have some signs of wear and tear.
I think reasonable wear and tear here would extend to the bumper respray, the damaged 
wing mirror casing, the tyre wear and the dents to the roof of the car.
Mr D has complained of exhaust gasses in the cabin of the car. Hes not provided any 
evidence this was to do with a fault with the vehicle and, as the car has now been sold, it 
isnt possible to establish that. I dont think it would be fair to ask Santander to compensate 
Mr D for a fault that hasnt been corroborated.
So, overall, Im not persuaded that Santander were unreasonable when rejecting Mr Ds 
section 75 claim and Im not asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman