DRN-3119294
The complaint
Mr S complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc have unfairly declined his claim for 
loss of rent. 
RSA use intermediaries to administer their insurance policy and manage claims on their 
behalf. So any reference to the insurer within this decision should be read as including the 
acts or omissions of such intermediaries. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I dont intend to repeat 
everything again here.  
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 5 October 2021. I said I was minded to 
reach a different outcome to the investigator as I intended to uphold it for the following 
reasons:
Mr S submits that loss of rent is something that appears to be covered as a result of 
malicious damage, which RSA accept was present as they covered his malicious 
damage claim. However, the insurer said they would not cover the loss of rent 
because it was clear the tenants had vacated the property and stopped paying rent of 
their own volition after causing significant damage. RSA said this was to be 
distinguished from the scenario where tenants stop paying rent because they have to 
move due to a fire or flood, for example, or where tenants who were due to move in 
could not as a result of malicious damage. The insurer said that in these scenarios, 
the policy would then cover the loss of rent. 
Ive considered the policy terms and conditions, which set out:
If the property is damaged by any cause under Section 1A and, as a result, it 
cannot be lived in, We will pay:
a) For Your loss of rent; and
b) Any reasonable extra accommodation expenses; until the property is 
ready to be lived in
RSA have argued that the loss of rent was not caused by an insured peril (such as 
malicious damage or theft) and was instead caused by the tenants decision to move 
out early and stop paying rent. Its not clear what the tenants motives were for 
moving out or whether this was due to the malicious damage they had caused. But in 
any event, the distinction that RSA have drawn here is not supported by the policy 
terms and conditions, as the insurance contract does not require the malicious 
damage to be the cause of the loss of rent.
The policy clearly states that if the property is damaged by any cause under Section 
1A, which then means it cannot be lived in, RSA will pay for the policyholders loss of 
rent. This therefore sets out some clear requirements for a loss of rent claim to be 
covered.
First, the property must have been damaged by a cause listed under Section 1A. 
Section 1A includes loss of or damage to buildings caused by malicious acts and 
theft. And RSA have accepted the property was maliciously damaged, and that there 
were also various items stolen such as radiators and pipes. So the first requirement 
for cover has been satisfied: that being the property having been damaged by an 
insured peril listed under Section 1A.
The second requirement, according to the terms and conditions, is that the property 
cannot be lived in as a result of the damage caused. 
RSA submit that for a property to be uninhabitable there has to be no washing or 
bathing facilities available. However, it isnt clear where they have got this definition 
from, as it isnt set out in the policy document. And I dont think its reasonable to 
suggest that a lack of washing or bathing facilities is the only factor that would render 
a property uninhabitable. There are several reasons that could also mean that a 
property cannot be lived in, such as a lack of heating or cooking facilities for 
example, or simply if it is just not safe to do so. The policy also does not use the 
terminology of uninhabitable, and instead uses the phrase cannot be lived in.
In Mr Ss case, there was water damage to the ceilings that had caused significant 
parts of the ceiling to fall in. The radiators, pipework and floorboards had also been 
removed, and the ground floor was flooded which had damaged the laminate 
flooring. The report from the loss adjuster also stated:
The damage within the property was extensive and work was required in every room 
of the house.
Based on this, Im satisfied that the malicious damage caused by the tenants meant 
that the property could not be lived in. It would clearly not be safe to live in a property 
where there were parts of the ceiling falling through, and where pipework and 
radiators had been removed, which Mr S says meant that there wouldnt have been 
any washing or bathing facilities in any event. Therefore I consider the circumstances 
of Mr Ss claim to satisfy the requirements set out in the policy conditions for a loss of 
rent claim to be made. Indeed, an internal email from one of RSAs senior 
underwriters sent on 11 November 2019 also states:
From the information the broker was providing, and the claims notes that I could 
see, I would expect loss of rent to be included in the claim as the damage from the 
tenant prior to leaving has made the property unable to be let again. 
The evidence Ive seen also suggests that the tenant had further rent payments 
outstanding (according to Mr Ss broker). So its not correct for RSA to say there is no 
lost rent to cover if the tenants moved out early in breach of their tenancy agreement. 
Therefore, I consider there is a prima facie loss of rent claim to be covered here, 
although Mr S will need to provide further details to enable RSA to properly asses it, 
such as the tenancy agreement showing how much longer the tenants were due to 
pay rent for and the amount he was charging etc.
In summary, Im not satisfied that RSA has dealt with this claim fairly, as the way they 
have sought to decline the claim is not supported by the policy terms and conditions. 
Therefore, I currently intend to uphold this complaint, and will be directing the insurer to reconsider Mr Ss claim in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions.
I invited further comments from both parties. Mr S accepted my provisional findings, but RSA 
didnt respond.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given than neither party has put forward any further arguments or evidence for 
consideration, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional 
decision. 
It follows that I uphold Mr Ss complaint as Im not persuaded that RSA have declined it 
fairly.    
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc to reconsider Mr Ss claim in line with the remaining policy terms and 
conditions.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman