DRN-3960731
The complaint
Mr M complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) failed to send a standing order on its due 
date causing him stress and inconvenience. 
What happened
Mr M says he has a regular monthly standing order from his bank account with Barclays on 
the thirtieth of each month. Mr M says in October 2022 this standing order didnt arrive at the 
destination bank as it should have, meaning he was unable to make a return payment back 
to his Barclays account the same day. 
Mr M says he experienced poor customer service by way of webchat and a telephone call he 
made and also was concerned to have received a notification his Barclays bank account was 
overdrawn. All of this has caused Mr M a great deal of stress and anxiety and he feels 
Barclays offer of £50 by way of compensation doesnt go far enough. 
Barclays says it did have some technical issues that day and this may have been the reason 
why there was a delay in the receipt of Mr Ms standing order to the beneficiary bank 
account. Barclays have apologised for that, and the fact Mr M didnt receive the level of 
service he should have when he raised the complaint and offered him £50 by way of apology 
and cleared any accrued overdraft interest. 
Mr M wasnt happy with Barclays response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. While 
the investigator accepted Mr M had been inconvenienced when his standing order was 
delayed, she felt Barclays offer of compensation of £50 and the waiving of interest was a fair 
outcome here. 
Mr M didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been frustrating for Mr M for his regular monthly standing 
order not to have been received into the destination bank account when he expected. When 
looking at this complaint I will consider if Barclays adequately compensated Mr M for the 
inconvenience he faced as a result of this. 
Mr Ms complaint centres around the fact his regular monthly standing order on the thirtieth 
of each month, in October 2022 didnt arrive at his bank account with another provider, 
which prevented him returning the monies the same day as he would usually, causing his 
account to overdraw with Barclays. Mr M also makes the point when he raised this issue 
over the telephone and webchat with Barclays, he received poor service and received a 
worrying notification his account was overdrawn causing him stress and upset.
I understand the points Mr M makes here but its worth mentioning that his standing order 
due on 30 October 2022, was a non-working day, Sunday, so it was only ever going to be 
made on the Monday 31 October 2022, so its worth bearing this in mind for the future. 
Barclays have explained it did have some technical issues around that time and its possible 
this is why the payment left his bank account on 31 October 2022 at 1.10am and didnt credit 
his destination account until 5.28 pm that day. I can see this caused an overdraft position on 
Mr Ms account overnight as he wasnt able to transfer the funds back until the following day. 
Barclays says it has apologised for this and additionally provided feedback to its chat team 
who didnt provide the service it would expect. Barclays says it has offered Mr M £50 for the 
inconvenience caused and waived any overdraft interest.   
So here without trying to minimise the frustration this issue caused Mr M here, my role isnt 
to penalise banks when mistakes are made, but to see an apology is given when those 
mistakes occur and that it offers a proportionate amount of redress in those situations. From 
the information I have seen Mr M hasnt suffered any financial loss and Barclays have 
provided feedback to the relevant staff and on balance Im satisfied this is a fair and 
reasonable outcome here. 
While Mr M will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Barclays, 
and I will leave it with Mr M to contact Barclays if he now wishes to take up its offer of 
compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman