DRN-2558582
The complaint
Mr W has complained to Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard regarding issues 
with his credit card and poor customer service.
What happened
Mr W said when he tried to pay for his supermarket shopping using his Barclaycard, the 
payment declined using chip and PIN. He tried other methods to pay for his shopping such 
as a contactless payment and attempting the payment at a different terminal but experienced 
the same outcome. 
Mr W contacted Barclaycard but said there was a long wait before speaking to an agent. By 
that time he had returned all of his shopping and went home. On the same day he tried to 
use his Barclaycard with a gaming service but said this declined twice. 
Mr W was unhappy with the call waiting times and expressed his dissatisfaction to the call 
handler when he managed to get to talk to one. He said the call handler disputed how long 
he had been on hold, which Mr W thought they was inferring he was lying, so he asked to 
speak to a manager.
Mr W says the call handler tried to transfer the call but he kept hearing a message which 
said the customer service team would be with him shortly. He said this message played for 
nearly two hours until the telephone line went silent for ten minutes. Mr W then disconnected 
the call and tried to ring Barclaycard back but he got a pre-recorded message to say the line 
was closed.
Mr W tried to access emergency cash through the Barclaycard mobile app. The telephone 
number rang through to a school so he contacted Barclaycard again to get a new card which 
he could link to his phone which enabled him to buy his groceries.
Mr W complained to Barclaycard for the issues listed above. Barclaycard said they searched 
their systems and his card wasnt blocked, there were no referrals on their fraud detection 
system and no declined payments. Barclaycard said there were two card verification checks 
from the gaming service which were successful for £0.00. They said that the checks wouldnt 
have been authorised if the card was blocked. 
Barclaycard reviewed the call he had with the agent who Mr W thought was inferring he was 
lying. Barclaycard said that they didnt feel the call handler was saying this, though they 
acknowledged that the experience he had wasnt up to the standard they expect. To 
recognise the impact of this Barclaycard credited £100 to his current account. Mr W wanted 
more compensation than this so brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as he concluded from the information 
Barclaycard sent that there was no block on the card so Barclaycard werent responsible for 
the issue with the supermarket. The investigator concluded that £100 was reasonable for the 
customer service issues. Mr W wanted his complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman and 
did not offer any further comments to be considered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly Ive considered what happened at the supermarket when Mr W has said his payment 
was declined. Ive looked at the information Barclaycard has sent us and can see there were 
no declined payments when he tried to pay for his shopping. This does not mean that the 
payment wasnt declined, just that this didnt happen due to his card being blocked by 
Barclaycard.
As Barclaycard authorised two card verification checks with the gaming service then Im 
satisfied there was no block on the card. I say this as Barclaycard said the verification 
checks wouldnt have been authorised had there been a block on the card. While I can 
understand how frustrating and embarrassing the supermarket incident wouldve been for Mr 
W, I cant say Barclaycard were responsible for this. I say this as a declined payment would 
have shown on the information they sent us showing card transactions attempted on the day 
in question. But as it didnt show on the transactions, Im satisfied that the issue wasnt to do 
with a blocked card.
Ive thought about Mr Ws experience of contacting Barclaycard. He says he was on hold 
waiting to speak to someone for some time, which all parties accept. He says he felt the call 
handler disputed the length of time he had been on the phone. He was also transferred to a 
different department but didnt get to speak to another person. When Mr W needed 
emergency cash, the mobile app directed him to a school as opposed to the relevant 
department. These things would have had an impact on Mr W.
Barclaycard do not dispute the customer service issues here, so I have to consider whether 
the level of compensation paid is fair and reasonable with all things considered. Barclaycard 
have said all of their telephone numbers are freephone numbers, so there has been no 
financial loss here. As there was no issue with the card being blocked Mr W did not need to 
order a new one, although I can understand why he did what he did here. Mr W did have to 
wait a long time while on the phone, which I think would have been frustrating and he 
thought a call handler was disputing how long he was on hold for and was transferred to a 
line where nobody answered his call. 
So, the right thing to do here would have been for Barclaycard to apologise, recognise the 
impact this had and explain what the actual situation was.
Thats what Barclaycard did. They apologised for their delay and to recognise the impact on 
Mr W they credited £100 to his account. Barclaycard have said they didnt think the call 
handler was inferring Mr W was lying, just making conversation about waiting times 
generally. Barclaycard have passed feedback to the call handlers manager that Mr W wasnt 
happy with the comments the call handler made which I think is a reasonable step to take. 
Barclaycard have also amended the telephone number for emergency cash on the app. By 
doing so, it prevents this happening again.
This is what Id expect to see here. I know that Mr W feels that the customer service 
Barclaycard provided was poor and that he shouldnt have to keep ringing them back as he 
did. But I think that what Barclaycard has done is fair to put things right. I realise that Mr W 
may feel like the compensation amount is too low here  but Im satisfied that it reflects a fair 
amount for the impact the events had on Mr W for the reasons Ive already given. So it 
follows that I wont be asking Barclaycard to do anymore.My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman