DRN-3018313
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc continue to hold him liable for debts incurred by a 
business that he used to be a partner in.
What happened
Mr C was in a business partnership with his brother and was a named account holder, along 
with his brother, on the HSBC business account. Several years ago, Mr C ended the 
business partnership and his brother continued the business as a sole trader. However, Mr 
C was later contacted by HSBC as they considered him to still be jointly and severally liable 
for the debts of the business with HSBC, which currently stand at approximately £29,000. Mr 
C wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
HSBC looked at Mr Cs complaint, but they confirmed that they had never been notified that 
Mr C was no longer involved with the business and that Mr C had never been removed as a 
joint account holder from the business account. Because of this, HSBC confirmed that they 
still considered that Mr C was jointly and severally liable for the balance outstanding on the 
business account.
Mr C wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that because Mr C had 
never been formally removed from the business account that he remained liable for the 
balance owing on that account. Mr C remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to 
an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must be upsetting for Mr C to be being pursued for the money owing 
on the business account given that he ceased being a partner in the business several years 
ago. But its important here to confirm the remit of this service. Specifically, given that Mr C 
has raised this complaint against Mr C, my remit here is to assess whether I feel that HSBC 
has acted unfairly or unreasonably in continuing to pursue Mr C for the outstanding balance.
Its clear that Mr C took steps to remove himself from being a partner in the business, but it 
doesnt follow that by taking those steps Mr C was also removing himself from being an 
account holder on the HSBC business account. Mr Cs removal from the HSBC account 
would have needed to have been arranged with HSBC separately.
It looks like Mr C may have relied on his brother to have removed him from the HSBC bank 
account, and Mr C has confirmed that the only forms he signed on the account were when 
the account was initially applied for and set up. 
But whatever happened here between Mr C and his brother, I cant see that Mr C or his 
brother ever took the steps necessary to remove Mr C from the HSBC business account. 
Because of this, Mr C remained an active account holder and has continued to maintain a 
liability for any outstanding balance accrued on the account.
I hope that Mr C can understand, given that he was never removed from the business 
account, why I dont feel that I can reasonably say that HSBC have acted unfairly for 
pursuing him for the balance outstanding on the account. And this is because the steps 
required to remove Mr C from the account, and to dissolve any joint and several liability for 
the balance of the account, were never undertaken.
I sympathise with Mr Cs position here, and I dont doubt the sincerity of his testimony. But it 
isnt within the remit of this service here to undertake any assessment other than whether 
HSBC can be considered as having acted fairly and reasonably in pursuing Mr C for the 
account balance  which, as explained above, Im satisfied that they have. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr C was wanting here, but it follows that I wont 
be upholding this complaint or instructing HSBC to take any further action at this time.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman