DRN-3803081
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy Great Lakes Insurance SE didnt pay everything he claimed for under a
rent deposit guarantee policy.
What happened
Mr M is a landlord. His tenant took out a rent deposit guarantee policy. Great Lakes is the
underwriter of the policy and Mr M is the beneficiary. After his tenant left the property without
notice last year he made a claim for rent arrears, damage, cleaning, and clearing of the
property. Great Lakes referred the matter to a dispute resolution service who made an award
for unpaid rent but didnt award anything for the other elements. It said that was because no
check out report had been carried out. And while Mr M had supplied some photographs it
was unable to say when these were taken.
In response to the complaint Mr M made Great Lakes reviewed matters. It didnt think there
had been any error of fact or law by the dispute resolution service. It thought the correct
process had been followed and so it didnt amend the outcome that had been reached.
Our investigator thought Great Lakes was entitled to rely on the decision the dispute
resolution service had reached and didnt think it had done anything wrong. Mr M didnt
agree. And he provided photographs of his property which did include the date they were
taken. He said it hadnt been possible to supply these in support of his claim because the
online submission service wouldnt accept them in that format. The complaint was referred to
me for a decision.
I thought that, given the difficulties Mr M outlined when submitting photographs, it would be
fair to ask the dispute resolution service to review its decision on the basis of the dated
photographs hed now provided. Great Lakes agreed to ask whether, if this information had
been supplied earlier, it would have changed the outcome and what award would have been
made.
The dispute resolution service said although there were only a limited number of
photographs they did evidence the need for the removal of some items and cleaning to
areas shown. It said it would have awarded £150 for this. Great Lakes agreed to pay that
amount to Mr M.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint earlier this month. In summary I said:
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer has a responsibility to handle
claims promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I think its reasonable to
take these rules into consideration here.
But Im not looking at the outcome reached by the dispute resolution service. That
organisation isnt within our jurisdiction and so that isnt something I can look at. What I can
consider is whether Great Lakes got anything wrong when dealing with the claim Mr M
made.
Where a claim is made the policy says:
We will ask You to provide Us with evidence required to support Your claim and to provide
such evidence within 21 days of Our request. We will contact the Tenant to discuss
settlement of the claim. The Tenant is required either to accept the claim and pay You, or
dispute the claim.
If the Tenant disputes Your claim. We will refer it to Our Expert Evaluation Partner to
adjudicate. The Tenant will be required to provide evidence to Our Expert Evaluation Partner
to support the Tenant's reasons for disputing the claim. Should the Tenant fail to provide
evidence within 21 days of Our request. Our Expert Evaluation Partner will adjudicate based
on the information provided by You.
The policy goes on to explain:
If Our Expert Evaluation Partner adjudicates in Your favour, and the Tenant is found liable
for Financial loss/Damage, We will pay You the amount determined to be due to You by Our
Expert Evaluation Partner on behalf of the Tenant and We will seek to recover this payment
from the Tenant and/or any Guarantor.
In this case after Mr M made his claim it doesnt appear the tenant responded to the inquiries
Great Lakes made. I think its arguable whether that lack of response should have been
regarded as the tenant not accepting liability meaning there was a dispute to be adjudicated.
But I dont think it was unreasonable in any event that Great Lakes referred the matter to the
dispute resolution service. That enabled it to obtain an expert opinion on the amount that
was due to Mr M. That service agreed a payment for rent arrears but not for the other
elements of the claim. And under the terms of the policy Great Lakes is entitled to rely on the
decision reached by that service.
However, as Ive explained, Mr M then outlined the difficulties he had in providing dated
photographs as part of his claim submission. So I thought it would be fair of Great Lakes to
ask the dispute resolution service to consider whether these would have made a difference
to its original decision if they had been available at the time. The dispute resolution service
has done that and concluded that a further award of £150 would have been made which
Great Lakes has agreed to pay.
I appreciate that still falls short of the full value of the claim Mr M made. But the dispute
resolution service has given its reasons for not awarding the full amount Mr M was seeking.
And its decision is now based on the dated photographs he provided. I can see those are
more limited in number and less detailed than the ones provided as part of the property
check in report.
So I think its likely the same outcome would have been reached if Mr M had submitted these
as part of his original claim. And, as Ive said, under the terms of the policy Great Lakes is
entitled to rely on the decision of the dispute resolution service. I think its a fair resolution to
this complaint that Great Lakes pays the amount it has now recommended.
Responses to my provisional decision. 
Great Lakes agreed with my provisional decision. Mr M accepted the outcome although 
expressed wider concerns about the operation of the rent deposit guarantee policy. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr M remains unhappy about the rent deposit guarantee policy more generally. 
But in relation to this complaint both parties have accepted the outcome I reached and so 
theres no reason for me to change what I said in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Great Lakes Insurance SE will need to put things right 
by paying Mr M £150. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
James Park
Ombudsman