DRN-2028325
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on their behalf by a claims management 
company.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1996. The policy was taken out to cover 
their mortgage and was in Mr Ws name only. It provided him with cover for accident, 
sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs W didnt 
agree, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Bradford & Bingley didn't recommend the PPI so it didnt need to ensure that it was suitable 
for Mr and Mrs W.
So the key question I need to consider is did Bradford & Bingley give Mr and Mrs W 
information that was clear, fair and not misleading in order to put them in a position where 
they could make an informed choice about the insurance they were buying?
And, if there was a problem with the way the policy was sold, then I need to consider 
whether Mr and Mrs W are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something 
different  such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the 
sale?
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for the following reasons:
The mortgage application included a separate section about payment protection insurance. I 
think it was made reasonably clear, from the need to answer Yes or No to whether they 
wanted to take PPI, that it was an optional product. And some discussion about PPI must 
have taken place for this section of the form to be completed and for Mr and Mrs W to decide 
that the policy should be taken in Mr Ws name only. Overall, I think Bradford & Bingley 
made Mr and Mrs W aware that PPI was optional and they chose to take it out. Im not 
surprised they cant remember this now, as it took place so long ago.
Its possible the information Bradford & Bingley gave Mr and Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it should have been. But I dont think they would have been put off taking out the 
policy if they had received better information. I say this because:
The policy was taken out in Mr W's name only and he was eligible for the policy given 
his circumstances and the terms and conditions.
Mr W wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits such 
as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical 
conditions. As he could have benefited from the full extent of the cover, I think it 
unlikely he needed better information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
Bradford & Bingley sought information from Mr Ws employer as part of the mortgage 
application process. It told Bradford & Bingley that Mr W would receive 75% of his 
salary for three weeks if he couldn't work due to sickness or an accident. Mr W told 
us he didnt have any savings or any other means of meeting the mortgage 
repayments. The mortgage was a major long term financial commitment and Mr and 
Mrs W's home was at risk if they couldnt meet the repayments. They chose to take 
out cover for Mr W so I think they probably wanted to make sure their mortgage 
payments would be covered if he couldnt work. The policy would have covered him 
for up to 12 months, so could have been a useful benefit. It also covered him if hed 
become unemployed.
The policy cost £13 each month after the first six months. This was set out in the 
mortgage offer. But I can see this was on page four of the mortgage offer and within 
quite a lot of text so might have been overlooked by Mr and Mrs W. So I've 
considered whether, if they'd been given clearer information about the cost, they 
would have still taken the policy. They'd chosen to take the policy, knowing they 
would have to pay something for it after the first six months. The policy was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely they would have 
made a different decision if better information about the cost had been provided.
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Mr and Mrs W would have made a different 
decision about taking out the policy if better information had been provided to them  overall 
I think they would have still taken out the policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman