DRN-2286487
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) rejected his claim under his home 
emergency policy for a repair to his front door when he couldnt open it.
Ive previously issued a provisional decision in relation to this case. Having received further 
information from Aviva, my decision remains the same for the reasons given below
What happened
Mr L has had a Homeserve home emergency policy with Aviva for many years. In December 
2019 he contacted it when he couldnt open the main door to his house. The house has 
another external door, but as Mr L has mobility difficulties, the only door he usually uses is 
the one that he couldnt open.
Avivas call handler told Mr L that his policy only provided cover if he was locked out of his 
house or had lost the keys, and as he had access to another door, he wasnt covered. 
Mr L then employed an independent locksmith to repair the door lock. This cost Mr L £234.
When Mr L challenged Avivas rejection of his claim, Aviva accepted that hed been wrongly 
advised, and said that the policy did cover him. It offered him £30 compensation, but it didnt 
offer to reimburse him the £234 hed had to pay locksmiths.
Aviva then changed its view. It said that when Mr L initially made his claim, he did in fact 
receive the correct advice. It says that the policy only provides cover if you are locked
out of the property, have lost the keys or the lock is broken. Mr L hadnt told its agent during 
the claims call that any of these situations were present. Mr L had simply said that he 
couldnt open the door. Aviva says the claim was therefore correctly rejected.
Mr L brought his complaint to this service. Our investigators view was that £30 was fair 
compensation for the mixed messages that Mr L had been given by Aviva, and that it had 
acted fairly and reasonably in rejecting Mr Ls claim.
Mr L didnt accept our investigators view and asked that his complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman. It was passed to me to make a final decision. As I didnt agree with our 
investigators view, I issued a provisional decision which was to uphold Mr Ls complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Ls complaint and Ill explain why.
Whether Aviva acted fairly in rejecting Mr Ls claim depends on what Mr Ls policy says. But 
Aviva and Mr L have provided different versions of the policy, which might have contributed 
to confusion. In response to my provisional decision, Aviva provided a version of the policy 
that covers the period 29 June 2020 to 28 June 2021. This version is not relevant to this 
matter as Mr Ls claim arose from an incident in December 2019. However in all material 
respects, the relevant wording is the same as wording previously referred to by Aviva.
Ill quote what I consider to be the relevant sections from Mr Ls copy of the policy (with 
my emphasis underlined):
Summary of cover
Security, Roofing and Pest
Replacing lost keys and repairing broken locks for doors which secure your home.
What Is Covered?
You are covered for security and roofing incidents to the main house of your property 
(including an attached garage/outbuilding) and pest infestations. In the event of a 
roofing or security incident, we will protect your property from further damage and/or 
make sure the property is secure. In the event of a pest infestation, we will remove and 
control the pest infestation.
Examples of claims covered
Repair of broken locks for external windows and doors if your property is unsecure.
With cover in place, you dont need to worry about 
New! Broken external doors, even if there's another lockable external-door - we'll sort it.
Avivas version of the policy is similar in most respects, but Ill quote those parts that 
are relevant (with my emphasis underlined):
Security incidents: damage to roofing, external windows, external doors, locks or 
lost keys, affecting the main home within your property.
 What is Covered?
We will help you gain access if you are locked out of the main home within your property 
or if you lose your keys. We will provide a repair or replacement of
broken locks for external windows or doors, board up broken windows and doors and 
provide a temporary repair to roofing. We will remove or treat a pest(s) problem.
Examples of claims covered: 
 Repair/replacement of locks and keys where the key is snapped in the
lock or you have lost the keys needed to secure the property (and you do
not have another set)
What isn't Covered?
f)  replacing locks or lost keys if you have access to another set of keys;
The wording in the current version of the policy which Aviva provided in response to my 
provisional decision is the same.
I think its clear from the above that the policy covers more than just being locked out or 
losing keys. Mr Ls lock was broken, as confirmed by the invoices he received for its repair. I 
consider that Mr Ls claim for a repair to his door lock is clearly covered by the policy 
whether or not keys are involved and whether or not theres another external door available. 
Putting things rightI think that Avivas rejection of his claim necessitated Mr L paying £234 for locksmiths to 
repair his lock, and I think Aviva should reimburse Mr L for this. I also think that it would be 
reasonable for Aviva to increase the compensation it paid to Mr L to reflect the additional 
stress and upset caused by its unreasonable rejection of his claim and necessitating his 
having to bring a complaint to this service. I think an additional £50 would be fair and 
reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Mr Ls complaint and I require Aviva 
Insurance Limited:
(i)  to reimburse to Mr L the £234 he had to pay to have his lock repaired; and
(ii)  to pay him an additional £50 compensation.
I also require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay interest on the sum of £234 at the simple rate 
of 8% a year from the date Mr L made his request for reimbursement of this sum to the date 
payment is made to him.
If Aviva Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr L how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr L a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2020.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman