DRN-2443240
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs A complain that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, wrongly advised them
to invest £100,000 in an unsuitably risky investment in 2006.
What happened
The background and circumstances of this complaint were laid out in my earlier Provisional 
Decision. In brief, these were the key points.
Mr and Mrs As representative, a Claims Management Company CMC), said the fund was 
wrongly presented as a low-risk investment whereas its large exposure to equities meant it 
posed a much greater risk to Mr and Mrs As money  and was therefore unsuitable for them
circumstances and objectives. It said Mr and Mrs A were both 62, semi-retired and needed 
this money for their retirement. It represented the entire sum they had recently received as 
an inheritance and they could not afford to take such a risk with this one-off windfall.
BoS rejected their complaint, saying the fund was rightly described as cautious/medium and
that this reflected Mr and Mrs As declared appetite for risk.
In my Provisional Decision I said:
I note that Mr and Mrs A had some existing, modest investments but I dont think they could 
fairly be described as knowledgeable or experienced investors. In my view, the advisor 
should have treated them as inexperienced investors and this should have formed part of his 
thinking when it came to recommending how much risk they should take with this very large, 
one-off inheritance.
Ive seen no evidence to suggest Mr and Mrs A were looking to take a substantial risk with
this money and given their circumstances I dont think they should have been advised to do
so. Instead, I think the advisor should have recommended a low or cautious risk investment
and I do not accept that the recommended fund met that criterion. In essence, I think it
posed too much risk to their money.
By investing 50% in equities and 20% in property, this fund was putting 70% of investors
money at risk, and of substantial falls. In my view, this is stretching the accepted meaning of
the phrase cautious-medium. More importantly I am satisfied that it put Mr and Mrs As
money at a greater risk than they would have wanted  or should have been advised  to
take.
I therefore thought BoS should compare the amount Mr and Mrs A received when they
surrendered their investment with what they might have received via a more suitable low-risk
investment, and to do so by using this services recommended low -risk returns formula.
BoS disagreed with my view, and said:
There is no mention of the customers decision to cancel the investment after six 
months and reinvest the proceeds after further advice; this would have been the 
time to make a complaint
My view about its managed fund is subjective; another ombudsman concluded this 
fund was (in effect) fairly described as cautious/medium)
It is not for this service to risk-rate funds
It has carried out the calculation I proposed and this shows no loss; therefore Mr and 
Mrs As CMC should withdraw the complaint
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, BoS gave this service permission to consider the merits of this complaint at the 
outset. So whether Mr and Mrs A ought reasonably to have complained when they 
surrendered this investment is not an issue I needed to consider.
Secondly, when someone brings their complaint to this service it is our responsibility to 
investigate it. Where either party does not agree with an Investigators view, they are entitled 
to ask for an ombudsman to make a final decision as to whether the business did something 
wrong.
In this case I was satisfied  and am still satisfied  that BoS advice was unsuitable for Mr 
and Mrs As circumstances. It is therefore right to make a decision to that effect, even though 
BoSs calculations indicated that Mr and Mrs A did not suffer financially as a result of this 
poor advice. It is not for me to persuade Mr and Mrs As CMC to ask them to withdraw their 
complaint.
As I explained in my earlier decision, I do not believe a product which exposed 70% of their 
money to risk was suitable for their circumstances and objectives; given their ages, income, 
the fact that this was a one-off inheritance etc. meant they should have only been advised to 
take a cautious risk with this money. This product did not pose such a low risk.
I note that BoS refers to another ombudsman deciding this fund was suitable for a different 
complainant. As I know nothing about their circumstances, and each decision is made on its 
own merits, I find nothing surprising or contradictory about this.
I also not that it says it is not for this service to risk-rate funds and, in general, I agree with 
this. However, in this case I still believe it is stretching the generally-accepted meaning of the 
phrase cautious/medium risk (i.e. low/medium) to apply it to a product with at least 70% in 
equities and property, thus exposing investors capital to the risk of significant falls.
I note, for example, that BoS describes its current Managed Growth Fund 4 as medium risk 
and yet this fund only contains a total of 57.5% in equities and property, with 36.5% of 
investors money in (very low risk) gilts and bonds. 
So, I am satisfied that this complaint should be upheld, and that BoS needed to compare Mr 
and Mrs As returns with what they might have earned if their money had been invested in an 
appropriately low risk investment instead.
Based on the information BoS has provided, I am also satisfied that it carried out this 
calculation fairly and that this demonstrates that Mr and Mrs A did not lose out as a result of 
this unsuitable advice.Putting things right
BoS must provide Mr and Mrs A with its calculations of the following formula: a comparison 
between the amount they received when they surrendered their investment with the returns 
this money would have generated via this services recommended low-risk returns formula 
i.e. an equal combination of the returns on Bank of Englands bonds of 12 to 17 months 
maturity and those shown by the FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior 
to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index).
If this comparison had shown a loss, I would have instructed BoS pay this and add 8% 
simple interest to this figure from the date of surrender to the date of settlement of this 
complaint.
 
My final decision
I uphold this decision and instruct Bank of Scotland plc to provide its calculations showing 
that my proposed compensation formula did not result in a loss to Mr and Mrs A.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman