DRN-1650310
 
The complaint
Mr C complains Lloyds Bank Plc will not refund some disputed transactions. 
What happened
Mr C complains a number of ATM transactions carried out over the course of three days 
were not made by him.  He says he should not be held liable for the total sum  just over 
£400. He thinks he knows who may be responsible for the withdrawals and feels he was 
taken advantage of by this person or persons as he was not well at the time and was at 
home recuperating.
Lloyds did not uphold his complaint. It commented on a credit into Mr Cs account shortly 
before the disputed transactions had started  and the fact they would not have been 
possible had this money not credited the account.  It educated Mr C on how to keep his PIN 
and card safe in the future.
So Mr C brought his complaint to this service where our investigator looked into matters for 
him.  He (the investigator) did not think he could ask Lloyds to do anymore  so Mr C asked 
for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 In order for Mr C to be held liable for these transactions, Lloyds needs to show that they 
were authenticated and that Mr C consented to the transactions.  If it cant show both 
elements, this money needs to be refunded.
The evidence of authentication  in this case  is evidence of the original chip being read 
and the correct PIN being used. Im satisfied on what I have seen that Lloyds can satisfy this 
part of the test.
The issue of consent is something I then need to decide on, taking into account the 
circumstances of the complaint.
I think Mr C consented to these transactions for the following reasons:
In between the disputed transactions, there are transactions which Mr C does not 
dispute making.  So he cant have been at home not using his card as he says;
One of the disputed withdrawals appears to have happened minutes before the card 
is used for a genuine point of sale transaction in the same store.  I dont find it 
plausible that the fraudster was able to use Mr Cs card and return it to him within 
minutes without him realising;Mr C was logging onto his online banking during the period of the disputed 
transactions.  On balance, I think he would have seen the transactions leaving his 
account  or at the very least, his diminishing balance.
If he wasnt able to pick up on these whilst online, he would most likely have noticed 
when he carried out balance enquiries at the ATMs;
If, as Mr C suggests, a third party (known to him) was making these transactions, 
they would have to take Mr Cs card, use it and replace it in between, without Mr C 
realising.  I dont consider that to be a plausible scenario.  It also doesnt explain how 
the third party would have known Mr Cs PIN as he has told us he has never shared 
this with anyone.
I think there is some weight to Lloyds argument that whoever made the withdrawals 
did so with knowledge of the credit into Mr Cs account. 
 
So, in those circumstances, I am satisfied these payments were authorised  and I wont be 
asking Lloyds to refund them.
My final decision
My final decision is that i do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman