DRN-2098086
The complaint
Miss S complains that a loan given to her by TFS Loans Limited was unaffordable for her.
What happened
In June 2016, Miss S applied to TFS for a loan of £15,000. £3,000 was to pay for flights and 
accommodation with the remainder for debt consolidation. During the application process, 
TFS said it wasnt prepared to lend her £15,000, but would lend £7,500. She accepted this 
offer with £4,500 for debt consolidation and the £3,000 as per her original application.
The loan of £7,500 was to be repaid by 48 monthly payments of around £304. The total 
amount repayable was £14,622.24. The loan was agreed, but Miss S says TFS didnt carry 
out enough checks to ensure it was affordable for her. Had it done so she says, the loan 
shouldnt have been approved as it was unaffordable for her.
TFS says it carried out reasonable and proportionate checks in line with its usual process 
based on the information Miss S provided, and it had no concerns about her ability to afford 
the loan. Miss S disagreed and referred her complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He felt TFS didnt carry out reasonable 
and proportionate checks and it didnt do enough to ensure the loan was affordable and 
sustainable for Miss S. He asked TFS to put matters right.
Miss S accepted our investigators opinion but TFS didnt. As there was no agreement, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about high cost credit on our website  
including the key relevant rules, guidance good industry practice and law. Ive considered 
this approach when deciding this complaint.
TFS needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend to Miss S irresponsibly 
by carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks. I think there are key questions I 
need to consider in order to decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint:
Did TFS carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss S 
was in a position to sustainably repay the loan?
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Did TFS make a fair lending decision?
Did TFS act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss S in some other way?
TFS was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment. This assessment is 
sometimes referred to as an affordability check or affordability assessment. The purpose 
of the checks is for TFS to think about whether repaying the loan sustainably would cause 
difficulties or adverse consequences for Miss S. In other words, it wasnt about TFS 
assessing the likelihood of it being repaid, but it had to consider the impact of the loan 
repayments on Miss S. The fact that the loan was guaranteed by a third party and the 
potential of TFS to pursue the guarantor instead of Miss S doesnt alter the obligation.
TFS had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss S would 
be able to repay the loan sustainably. There was no set list of checks that it had to do, but it 
could take into account several different things such as the amount and length of the loan, 
the amount of the monthly repayments and the overall circumstances of the borrower.
Taking all that into account, I think a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough where: 
a customer as a low income (because it may make it more difficult to make loan 
payments of a set amount from a low level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (because it may be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment for a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (because the total cost of the credit is likely to be 
higher, and the customer is obliged to make payments for a longer period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (because of the risk of repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing has become or was becoming 
unsustainable).
Did TFS carry out reasonable and proportionate checks?
When it assessed Miss Ss application for a £15,000 loan, TFS asked for details of her 
income and expenditure, what she wanted the money for and obtained her consent for it to 
review her credit file. Having done so, TFS told her that it had carried out a credit search for 
both her and the guarantor and she was eligible (subject to allocation) for a loan between 
£1,000 and £7,500. It acknowledged that shed applied for £15,000 but the maximum it was 
prepared to lend was £7,500. It asked if shed be interested in that. Miss S accepted that and 
the application proceeded on that basis.
Miss S had requested £12,000 of the £15,000 applied for to repay outstanding debts. They 
were at the time costing her in the region of £695 per month for loans and a further £158 for 
credit cards and mail order accounts. But her credit file at the time showed repayments were 
actually higher than that; she was obliged to pay in excess of £950 per month on loans, with 
credit card and mail order accounts on top of that. It showed she had £11,313 of debt 
outstanding which appears to be why she applied for the loan she did. Refinancing a small 
proportion of the debt was unlikely to meet her aim of simplifying her finances, reducing her 
expenditure and providing the extra capital she needed for the flights. 
Miss Ss main aim for the loan appeared to be to pay for the flights, as her particular 
circumstances at the time meant they were very important to her. So, faced with a take it or 
leave it type of situation, Im not surprised she went along with the lower amount. But I do 
think TFS should have sought to understand if a reduced loan amount would actually help 
Miss S do what she needed and be sustainable in the longer term alongside her remaining 
debts. Miss S was earning approximately £1,500 per month and had £830 income from other 
sources. She was living at home with parents and had one dependent child. TFS calculated 
she had a monthly disposable income of around £630 (based on loan repayments of £695), 
and yet her credit file showed she had regularly used short-term loans. Shed  taken two 
short term loans within a month of this application and had missed payments on some credit 
agreements and a communications account. 
The rules lenders must follow are set out by the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority, in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). At the time TFS agreed this loan, 
CONC 5.3.1 4(b) said it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment 
of the customers income and expenditure, on a statement of those matters made by the 
customer. 
So it seems that despite TFS calculating that Miss S had a fairly healthy monthly disposable 
income, she was showing signs of financial difficulty. I say this because shed missed 
payments to credit card, mail order and communications agreements in recent months and 
had taken a number of short-term loans recently. Her payments to her credit commitments 
totalled in excess of £1,100 per month on credit  almost half her total monthly income.
Given the financial pressure evident on Miss Ss credit file despite the disposable income, Id 
have expected TFS to look more closely at her situation to satisfy itself that shed be able to 
sustainably repay the loan before agreeing to lend  especially as it was only consolidating a 
portion of that debt and lending new money. Ive seen no evidence that it did, so it follows 
that I dont think TFSs checks were reasonable and proportionate.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Ive outlined above some of the circumstances which I think ought to have led TFS to carry
out further checks on Miss Ss finances. I think it would have been reasonable for it to get a
detailed understanding of Miss Ss expenditure, for example by asking to see several 
months of her bank statements in light of those circumstances. 
Miss S has provided copies of her bank statements from February 2016 until six weeks after 
this loan was drawn. It is evident that in the relatively short period leading up to the loan, she 
took almost £9,500 in small loans spread across each month. It seems clear she was using 
these loans to manage her finances to enable her to meet her day to day living expenses. 
I think if TFS had made further enquiries and thought more about the information it had to 
hand, it might well have decided that Miss S was showing the signs of financial difficulties.
Did TFS make a fair lending decision?
TFS has argued that the loan it gave Miss S improved her financial situation as, according to 
her statements, she didnt take a further short-term loan in the following six weeks. While 
thats not directly relevant to the decision to lend, I note that Miss S began to take short term 
loans again as early as August 2016. But in any event, I dont agree with TFSs analysis  it 
had after all, given her £3,000 of new money and some with which to settle part of her 
outstanding credit which will have relieved the pressure in the short term.
If TFS had lent Miss S sufficient to clear all her outstanding borrowing as shed initially 
requested, I can see that this might have been useful for her as would have reduced her 
outgoings both in number and amount. But instead, TFS gave her a small proportion of what 
she was looking for and left her with outstanding debts and increased her indebtedness by 
lending new money.For the reasons Ive set out, I dont think TFS carried out sufficient checks, and if it had, it 
may well have refused to lend to Miss S. I dont think TFS made a fair lending decision.  
Did TFS act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss S in some other way?
Ive carefully read, listened to and thought about all the evidence provided by each party to 
this complaint. Having done so, I dont think TFS has acted unfairly or unreasonably towards 
Miss S in some other way. But I do think TFS should have refused to lend to Miss S, so I am 
upholding her complaint about the loan.
Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct that business to 
put the complainant in the position they would be in now if the mistake it made hadnt 
happened, as far as is reasonably practical. 
In this case, that would mean putting Miss S in the position she would be in now if she hadnt 
been given the loan. But Miss S was given the loan and used the money. So, I think TFS 
should:
Calculate the total amount Miss S received from TFS and deduct from that figure the 
repayments shes made to the loan. 
oIf this results in Miss S having repaid more than she received, any 
overpayments should be refunded to her. Interest at a rate of 8% simple per 
year should be added to any overpayments from the date they were made 
until the date of settlement. If TFS considers that its required by HM Revenue 
& Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss S how 
much its taken off. It should also give Miss S a tax deduction certificate if she 
asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
oIf the calculation means theres still a balance for Miss S to pay, TFS should 
let Miss S know how much is outstanding and reach a suitable, affordable 
payment plan with her. I remind TFS of its obligation to treat customers fairly. 
Remove any negative information recorded on Miss Ss credit file regarding the loan. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. TFS Loans Limited should put things right as 
Ive set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Miss S to accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman