DRN-4161958
The complaint
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain about the settlement offered by Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Company Limited (LV) for a claim they made on their home insurance policy after they 
suffered water damage in their home. 
The policy is in joint names but Mr E has brought this complaint so, for ease, Ill refer to him 
throughout my decision. 
Any reference to LV includes its agents.
What happened
Mr E had home insurance with LV. The policy insures Mr Es property against loss or 
damage caused by fire, storm, flood, and theft, amongst other things. 
In November 2021 Mr E reported that water was leaking through the ceiling. On investigation 
it was discovered there was a crack in the shower tray of the en suite. 
LV instructed a surveyor to assess the damage. The surveyor said some of the elements of 
damage wouldnt be covered under the policy. LV made a cash settlement offer for the 
repairs which were covered of £947.32 less any excess.  
Mr E obtained an invoice for the repairs which totalled £2,196.54. So he says the offer made 
by LV doesnt cover the cost of replastering the lounge ceiling or a contribution towards the 
cost of the undamaged tiles. 
LV didnt agree. It said Mr E didnt have matching sets cover so it wasnt liable for the cost of 
the undamaged tiles or the cost of the repair to the whole ceiling. It said a patch repair would 
be sufficient. Mr E didnt agree so he complained to LV.
LV acknowledged the complaint but was unable to provide a full response within the 
timescale so Mr E referred his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into things for him. She said she thought it was fair for LV to carry 
out a patch repair on the ceiling. She said LV had agreed to pay Mr E a further £789.22 in 
settlement of the claim plus £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr E. So for 
the repairs Mr E would receive £1,636.54 in total (£847.32 already agreed plus £789.22). LV 
would also pay him £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr E didnt accept the offer. He said LV should pay 50% towards the cost of replacing any 
undamaged tiles. He also said LV should pay for the replacement of the ceiling rather than a 
patch repair since the advice hes been given is that a patch repair wouldnt be sufficient.
Because Mr E didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr E has strong views about whats happened and I can empathise with the 
situation. I have read and considered everything I have received carefully. My role is to 
consider the evidence to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision. 
Patch repair to ceiling
The policy says LV will pay for, Loss or damage caused by escape of water.  The policy 
goes on to say, we will pay the cost to us of any necessary replacement or repair work 
carried out.
Mr E wants his whole ceiling repaired but the damage from the escape of water is only 
limited to the small section cut out during the course of the repairs. And since the policy only 
covers loss or damage caused by the escape of water, and the remainder of the ceiling 
wasnt damaged in the incident, I cant say LV acted unreasonably in declining this part of 
the claim. 
The surveyor has agreed a patch repair is a necessary repair and is covered under the 
terms of the policy. The report says, Wet ceiling plasterboard has been cut. Ceiling will need 
a patch repair to plasterboard, then to be skimmed and redecorated. 
Since repair to undamaged parts of the ceiling arent covered by the policy Im unable to 
compel LV to pay for work to the entire ceiling. 
Contribution towards undamaged tiles
Mr E wants LV to contribute 50% towards the cost of the undamaged tiles in the bathroom. I 
have checked the policy and Im satisfied matching items are specifically excluded, or not 
covered, under the terms of the policy. It is set out in the what is not covered section of the 
policy, and specifically excluded in the policy schedule. And so I dont think LV acted 
unreasonably in declining this aspect of the claim. 
Settlement of the claim 
LV originally offered Mr E £947.32 in settlement of the claim. Our investigator looked into 
things and recommended LV pay a further £789.22 towards the cost of repairs. And I think 
this is reasonable in the circumstances. 
Since work to the whole ceiling and undamaged tiles arent covered under the policy they 
arent included as part of the settlement. The replacement of the shower tray and the excess 
are also not covered by the policy and deducted from the final settlement. The remaining 
works are covered under the terms of the policy and therefore Im satisfied LV are liable for 
those costs. 
Our investigator recommended a settlement of £500 to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience caused. Having carefully considered the impact of the matter I agree this 
level of settlement is reasonable in all circumstances of the complaint. 
There is no dispute there has been a leak and damage as a consequence of that leak. 
However I havent seen anything which persuades me repairs to the entire ceiling was damaged by the water, or that the undamaged tiles are covered under the terms of the 
policy. 
I know Mr E will be disappointed with my decision. LV has accepted the service fell below 
what would be expected and has agreed to pay Mr E £500 to reflect this. LV has also agreed 
to increase the settlement offer in line with this services recommendations. I think this is 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Putting things right
I direct LV to;
Pay Mr E a further £789.22 in settlement of his claim
Add 8% simple interest from the date the settlement was originally paid to the date 
LV pays the settlement
Pay Mr E £500 to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above Im upholding this complaint and direct Liverpool Victoria 
Insurance Company Limited to put things right by doing what Ive said above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman