DRN-3881280
The complaint
Ms V complains about delays, poor service and being mis-informed when she took out a 
new mortgage product with The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc. She says there was a long wait 
for an appointment with a mortgage adviser and asks that RBS honours the lower rates 
available when she booked the appointment.  
What happened
Ms Vs product was due to expire at the end of August 2022. She contacted RBS in mid-May 
2022 to book an appointment. She met with a mortgage adviser at the end of July 2022. 
Ms V says she wasnt comfortable choosing a new product on-line.
By the time of the appointment, the interest rate products available to Ms V had changed. 
Ms V says she wasnt told that she wouldnt be able to choose from the rates available in 
mid-May 2022, when she booked the appointment. She had to take out a product with a 
higher interest rate.
Our investigator said RBS acknowledged there were long wait times due to the level of 
demand for appointments. Our investigator said RBS was entitled to change its products, 
and Ms V didnt secure a product rate until a product offer was issued and accepted. 
Ms V didnt agree. She said she looked at products online but needed help choosing. She 
said she didnt have a financial background and RBS should offer assistance. Ms V said 
RBS should honour one of the products available in May 2022. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms V contacted RBS in mid-May 2022. RBS provided recordings of these calls. RBS offered 
Ms V appointments in June 2022, which she couldnt attend. It appears from the recording of 
the first call and RBSs notes that an appointment was booked for 27 June 2022. However, 
in the second call Ms V said shed agreed to an appointment on 2 July 2022. This disparity 
doesnt affect the outcome of the complaint.
Ms V called RBS a few days after the appointment was booked. She wanted to make a lump 
sum payment into her mortgage account before meeting with the mortgage adviser (this 
payment had to be made after mid-July 2022). RBS told Ms V she could have the meeting to 
choose a new product before making the payment. Ms V said she preferred to re-schedule, 
and an appointment was booked on 30 July 2022. Ms V didnt tell RBS shed have difficulty 
choosing a product on-line. She said meeting with an adviser was her preference.
RBS changed its range of mortgage products on offer in mid-July 2022. When Ms V met with 
the mortgage adviser she had to choose from the product rates available at the end of July 
2022. The interest rates were higher than those on offer in May 2022.
Im sorry that Ms V didnt secure a lower interest rate product, and I can understand her 
frustration. But I dont think RBS treated Ms V unfairly, or made an error that would make it 
fair and reasonable to require it to offer her a lower interest rate.
RBS is entitled to change the range of products it offers. Ms V didnt take out a product in 
mid-May 2022. RBS offered Ms V appointments in June and early July 2022  before the 
products Ms V wanted were withdrawn. It was Ms V that asked to re-schedule the 
appointment to after 13 July 2022, so she could first make a lump sum payment into her 
mortgage account.
In the circumstances, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require RBS to apply a lower 
interest rate to Ms Vs mortgage or pay her compensation. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman