DRN-3371832
The complaint
Mr F complains about a default recorded on his credit file by Hoist UK Limited. 
What happened
In 2019 Mr F complained to Hoist about a debt it had purchased in his name. Hoist was 
unable to provide copies of the credit agreement and supporting documents and agreed to 
write off the outstanding balance. Mr F later complained that Hoist was reporting a default on 
his credit file and referred the matter to this service. 
An investigator upheld Mr Fs complaint and said Hoist had taken too long to remove the 
default entry from his credit file. The investigator recommended that Hoist pay Mr F £150 for 
the trouble and upset caused. 
Hoist raised an objection to the Financial Ombudsman Service considering Mr Fs complaint 
about his default. I recently issued a decision that confirmed we can look into Mr Fs 
complaint about the default recorded on his credit file. Mr Fs case has now been passed 
back to me to make a decision concerning how to resolve his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been brief in setting out the background as all parties broadly agree concerning the 
circumstances of Mr Fs complaint. Hoist provided information to us that indicated the default 
would be removed around May 2021. But Mr F later provided evidence from his credit file 
that the default was still being reported. It appears the action required to remove the default 
wasnt completed with all of the credit reference agencies. Hoist has confirmed this process 
should now be complete. 
Our investigator asked Hoist to pay Mr F £150 to reflect the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the delay. Ive considered how the issues raised have impacted Mr F and Im 
satisfied that £150 is fair in all the circumstances. In my view, that figure fairly recognises the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr F, so Im going to uphold his complaint on that 
basis. 
Hoist says the default has been manually removed from Mr Fs credit file. Hoist should 
ensure the default isnt reported going forward. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Fs complaint and direct Hoist UK Limited to pay Mr F £150 
for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman