DRN-2335191
The complaint
Mrs W complains that she was given incorrect information by National Westminster Bank Plc 
about a debt she owed that was charged to their property. NatWest indicated that the debt 
was smaller than it was and this induced them to sell the property at a lower price than they 
should have. Mrs W wants NatWest to refund the money they had to pay to vacate the 
charging order.
What happened
Mrs W owed a debt to NatWest and the bank got a county court order In May 2005 for 
£16,751.29 and then a charging order on their property in 2006. Mrs W says that they put 
the house on the market for £230,000 and enquired as to how much was owed and were 
told it was £8,000 in 2018. This sale fell through. When they enquired again, they were told 
that the debt was written off and so they sold the house for £200,000. But then NatWest 
required payment of over £14,000 to release the charging order. Our investigator accepted 
that NatWest had given Mrs W and her husband incorrect information and that it should pay 
Mrs W £500 compensation but that it wasnt required to refund the money it charged.  Mrs W 
disagreed saying in summary that they wouldnt have sold their house at the price that they 
did but for the wrong information, and that it deprived them of the chance of negotiating a 
further figure and a repayment schedule.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest obtained a charging order back in 2006 which stayed on the property until it was 
sold and when it was sold NatWest got back the amount it was owed on foot of the county 
court judgement. But when they were selling the property Mrs Ws husband phoned on a 
number of occasions to find out the outstanding balance. On the two calls I listened to, Mr W 
was given incorrect information. On the first call he was told the balance was about £8,000 
and on the second call he was told it was about £10,000. 
Mrs Ws point is that this incorrect information led them to sell a house below what they 
should have done. The first call was related to the possible sale of the house which fell 
through so the incorrect information didnt cause them to lose out. But after the second call, 
Mr and Mrs W did sell at, they say, a lower price than they would have done had they known 
the correct balance owed to NatWest.
Like Mr and Mrs W I cant understand why they were given incorrect information. On the 
second call I gathered that not all the information was at hand with the NatWest adviser. He 
said that the balance was about £10,000. Mr W said that he thought the balance was written 
off and the adviser didnt disagree with that but on the other hand he didnt agree either.  I 
expect that there might have been an internal write off of the account within the bank given 
how old the debt was. But in any case, that didnt mean that the debt was not owed. 
Certainly, I accept that the calls would have led Mr and Mrs W to be a bit more optimistic 
about how much they would have to pay NatWest than turned out to be the case. But from 
listening to that call, a lot of which is based on assumptions, I cant fairly say that NatWest 
agreed that it wouldnt require Mr and Mrs W to pay off the charge when the property was 
sold. 
Given the differing information from NatWest in the phone calls, I would have thought a 
reasonable action by Mrs W would have been to ask for a written statement from the bank to 
see the composition of their debt. I dont believe from these conversations that Mr and Mrs 
W could reasonably assume that nothing was owed. They had obviously plans after the sale 
of the property and I would have thought they should have been asking for an accurate 
written figure from NatWest on which they could make their plans.
So, I agree with our investigator that NatWest dealt with Mr Ws request for information 
poorly, giving them a misplaced sense of optimism about what was owed, and that there 
were other issues with its administration including the confusion in the response letters. I 
believe that an award of £500 compensation to them for the trouble and upset they suffered 
is fair. But I cant agree that they could reasonably assume that if they sold their property 
that NatWest had agreed that it wouldnt charge the outstanding balance on the account. As 
I say I believe that given the different information Mrs W was getting it would have been 
reasonable for her to get a written statement from NatWest of how much that outstanding 
balance was before making important decisions which depended on it.  So, I dont believe 
that I can fairly require NatWest to refund the money it charged. As I am awarding 
compensation in excess of that offered by NatWest, I will be upholding this complaint.
Putting things right
National Westminster Bank Plc should pay Mrs W £500 as compensation for their trouble 
and upset. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman