DRN-2217009
The complaint
Mr J, represented by a claims management company (CMC), complains that he was mis-
sold a Money Programme by a predecessor of Sanlam Life & Pensions UK Limited (the 
business).
What happened
In early 1990 Mr J was initially advised to start an Investment Programme by the business. 
This was a 10-year savings plan to which he was committing £200 per month. Later in the 
year this was changed to the longer-term Money Programme in question. This was because 
Mr J was living and working abroad and so would be unlikely to obtain any tax benefit from 
the qualifying status of the Investment Programme. 
Mr J continued with the Money Programme for the next few years, taking a large withdrawal 
in 1996 but then surrendering it in 1999. 
In 2019, Mr Js CMC made a complaint to the business. It noted the long-term nature of the 
Money Programme and said that there was no evidence that a more suitable shorter-term 
product had been considered. The business clarified that Mr J had in fact initially started the 
shorter-term product and explained why it felt that the replacement Money Programme had 
been suitable for Mr J, as his non-UK residential status meant that he was unable to pay into 
a UK pension, so the Money Programme provided an effective longer-term alternative.    
The CMC didnt accept this and referred the matter to this service, where our investigator 
reached a different conclusion to that reached by the business. He noted the reasons for not 
continuing with the Investment Programme but felt that the Money Programme was too 
inflexible as an alternative given Mr Js circumstances. 
The Money Programme was written to age 65 and its brochure explained that its full benefit 
and worth would be realised after about 20 years. The investigator felt that Mr J, who was 
aged 28 at the time, had no definitive medium to long-term plans and although he was living 
abroad at the time, he retained a house in the UK. He noted that subsequent fact finds 
indicated that Mr J, who was married by that point, had plans to move back to the UK for the 
education of his children. 
The investigator recommended that Mr J be compensated by way of a comparison of the 
recommended product with a cautious risk investment benchmark.
The business didnt agree. It didnt feel that Mr J had been particularly young at the time of 
the advice and was actually financially very secure, earning a good salary with ample 
disposable income to deal with changes in circumstances. It reiterated that Mr J had been 
unable to contribute to a pension and therefore a longer-term savings vehicle was 
appropriate and that the documents from the time supported Mr J having a need for this type 
of product.
As the investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, the matters been referred to me 
to review. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
Although the documentation relating to the initial sale of the Investment Programme in 
February 1990 is not very clear, it was documented that Mr J wanted to save money while 
having a high disposable income. There doesnt appear to have been a particular objective 
at that point for the savings to be long-term. And that may be why a 10-year Investment 
Programme was initially recommended. 
Later notes from 1990 do introduce a suggestion that Mr J was looking to save for the long-
term. But the documentation relating to the change from the Investment Programme to the 
Money Programme concentrated on the issue of Mr J not expecting to be a UK taxpayer  
hence not needing a qualifying policy  rather than wanting to increase the term of the 
savings vehicle. 
The subsequent fact finds from the end of 1991 indicate a change in circumstances for Mr J. 
By that point he was married, and it appears was contemplating a move back to the UK for 
the education of his children, where  as noted  he maintained a property. Its at this point 
that the pension situation seems to have become more of a focus, and it appears that some 
further recommendations were made to Mr J and his wife in that context. 
But looking at the change from the Investment Programme to the Money Programme in 
1990, while I accept there may have been reason for not continuing with the former, I dont 
think theres sufficient evidence to support there having been a full consideration of whether 
the Money Programme was a suitable alternative.  
The business has said that because it didnt offer a non-qualifying version of the
Investment Programme, it was deemed to be more beneficial to transfer the money Mr J had 
invested up to that point to a non-qualifying alternative product. But the replacement non-
qualifying product still needed to be suitable and, on balance, I dont think the Money 
Programme was. 
I accept that Mr J was in a comfortable financial position and that the £200 monthly 
commitment was affordable for him. But in my view his circumstances at the time strongly 
suggested that things would change for him, potentially quite significantly over the next few 
years. So, a product designed to achieve maximum efficiency only if held for at least 20 
years doesnt strike me as suitable.   
I think Mr J was clearly in a position to be able to save money while having a high income, 
as the initial factfind suggested was his objective. But I dont feel that he was in a position to 
achieve that objective by way of a such an inflexible contract. As such, I consider he should 
be compensated, as the investigator suggested, using a comparison with our risk-based 
benchmark for sales made at the time in question.   
Putting things right
I direct the business to pay Mr J compensation of D + E, where:
A = the premiums invested up to the date of surrender;B = a return on each premium at Bank of England base rate + 1% compounded
yearly, from the date it was paid to the date of surrender;
C = the surrender value received;
D = (A + B)  C, representing the investment loss at the date of surrender; and
E = simple interest at 8% per year on D, from the date of surrender to the date
compensation is paid.
This calculation should also take account of the 1996 withdrawal from the policy as 
appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Sanlam Life 
& Pensions UK Limited to pay compensation to Mr J as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2020.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman