DRN-4008815
The complaint
Ms H is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc reduced the credit limit on her credit account.
What happened
Ms H noticed her credit limit had been reduced from £1,000 to £500 on her HSBC credit 
account. Ms H contacted HSBC and asked why the credit limit had been reduced and why 
she hadnt been notified about it. HSBC explained that theyd reduced the credit limit 
following a review of the account and that theyd sent a letter to Ms H advising her as such 
some weeks before. Ms H wasnt happy about this, especially as she hadnt received any 
such letter from HSBC. So, she raised a complaint.
HSBC responded to Ms H and confirmed theyd taken the decision to reduce the credit limit 
available to Ms H following a review of the account, which included a consideration of 
several factors, including information about Ms H obtained from the credit reference 
agencies. And HSBC also confirmed that theyd sent a letter to Ms H about the reduction of 
her credit limit in advance of the fact, although they acknowledged that this letter might not 
have been received. Ms H wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response, so she referred her 
complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that HSBC had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation and so didnt uphold the complaint. Ms H 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how Ms H would be upset that HSBC decided to reduce the credit limit 
available to her. However, it must be recognised that a credit limit isnt a right that an 
account holder has, but rather is provided solely at the discretion of the credit provider. 
As such, if HSBC as the credit provider have made the decision to reduce the amount of 
credit available to Ms H  as they have in this instance  then Im satisfied that this is a 
commercial decision that HSBC are entitled to make. 
However, it would be expected that HSBC would act within the terms of their account when 
doing so. And in this instance these terms include that HSBC should provide written notice to 
Ms H of their intention to reduce the credit limit on her account before doing so.
Ms H feels that HSBC havent done this here, because she hasnt received any letter from 
them in advance of the credit limit reduction advising her that it would be taking place. 
But HSBC have been able to demonstrate to my satisfaction that they did send a letter in line 
with their terms to Ms H  although it appears that letter wasnt received by her. I can 
appreciate how this would be frustrating for Ms H. 
But, given that Im satisfied HSBC did send the letter to Ms Hs correct address  the 
address which Ms H has provided to this service  I wouldnt hold HSBC accountable for the 
non-delivery of that correctly address letter. And this is because the delivery of correctly 
addressed letters is undertaken by a postal service over which HSBC have no control. 
As such, while I accept its unfortunate that Ms H didnt receive the letter HSBC sent to her, I 
dont feel that her non-receipt of that letter constitutes an unfair act on the part of HSBC. 
I can also appreciate that Ms H would want a detailed explanation of why HSBC have made 
the decision to reduce the credit limit on her account. And Im aware that Ms H doesnt feel 
that theres any reason why HSBC should have chosen to reduce the credit limit as they did.
But, as alluded to above, its for HSBC to set their own criteria as to what constitutes 
acceptable lending for HSBC. These criteria are commercially sensitive, and because of this 
it wouldnt be expected that HSBC would provide the detailed explanation to Ms H as she 
would like here. And one reason for this is because if HSBC were to make public the criteria 
they use when assessing lending, it would increase the risk that future applicants might seek 
use that information to circumnavigate HSBCs controls, thus reducing their effectiveness.
Ultimately, as explained, the credit limit that HSBC provide to their customers is at the 
discretion of HSBC. And if HSBC conclude that theyre no longer willing to provide a certain 
level of credit to a customer  as was the case in this instance  then thats a decision that 
HSBC, like all credit providers, are entitled to make. 
All of which means that I dont feel HSBC have acted unfairly towards Ms H by choosing to 
reduce her credit limit. And Im also satisfied that HSBC have acted within their terms when 
reducing Ms Hs credit limit by sending a letter to her in advance of the impending change  
regardless of whether that correctly addressed sent letter was received by Ms H or not.
I realise this wont be the outcome Ms H was wanting, but it follows that I wont be upholding 
this complaint or instructing HSBC to take any further action here. I hope Ms H will 
understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2023. 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman