DRN-3661494
The complaint
Mr I complains about the advice PrisWM Limited (PL) gave to transfer the benefits from his 
defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. He says the 
advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
Professional representatives have helped Mr I to bring this complaint. But, for ease of 
reading, I will refer to the representatives comments as being Mr Is.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Is employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)1, or 
a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that, if risk-related qualifying 
conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme sponsored 
by Mr Is employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In July 2017 Mr I emailed PL. He said hed like to transfer out of the BSPS and had 
requested the cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) from the scheme administrators. He 
asked to make an appointment to seek advice about transferring.
PL met with Mr I in July and August 2017. It gathered information about Mr Is entitlement 
under his current DB scheme and obtained a transfer value analysis (TVAS) report. It 
completed a fact-find with Mr I and an assessment of his risk appetite. Amongst other things, 
it noted that:
Mr I was 47 years old and in good health.
He was divorced with two dependent children. 
He earned around £35,000 a year.
He owed around £35,000 on an interest only mortgage on his home, which was 
worth £200,000.
He had investments in a stocks and shares ISA of £30,000, an endowment maturing 
in April 2018 of £20,000 and other savings of £3,000. 
He was paying £400 a month into a group money purchase pension scheme which 
had a current value of about £4,000.
He had regular outgoings of around £930 a month.
He had a medium  high attitude to risk with a score of eight out of ten. 
1 The PPF acts as a lifeboat for insolvent DB pension schemes. It pays compensation to members of 
eligible schemes for their lifetime. The compensation levels are, generally, around 90% of the level of 
the original schemes benefits for deferred pensions. But the PPFs rules and benefits may differ from 
the original scheme.
His BSPS pension had a CETV of £421,680.
At age 65 the BSPS scheme would pay him a yearly pension of £26,172 if he didnt 
take TFC, or a pension of £17,345 together with TFC of £115,634.
The critical yields (the growth rates required) to match the benefits from the BSPS 
were 6.8% and 5.4% respectively.
If Mr I were to retire at age 55 then the BSPS would pay him a full yearly pension of 
£13,086 or a reduced pension of £9,254 and TFC of £61,654.
The critical yield to match the benefits from the BSPS at age 55 were 9.6% and 6.4% 
respectively.
Mr I said he would need an income of around £25,000 a year in retirement.
On 22 August 2017 PL sent Mr I its Financial Summary & Recommendation report. Such 
reports are commonly referred to as suitability reports, so I have used that term in the rest of 
this decision. It recommended Mr I transfer his DB benefits to a named personal pension. It 
said Mr Is three main priorities were:
1. Control of his pension funds.
2. Flexible access to benefits and to vary the amounts of income taken to suit his needs and 
circumstances.
3. Provide for his children if he should die without depleting the fund.
Amongst other things this suitability report also said:
After applying charges PL didnt think the critical yields could be met by transferring 
out of the DB scheme.
Mr I was aware of the guarantees he would be giving up but felt a transfer was best 
for him because of the control it would give him.
Mr I wanted the maximum TFC lump sum available at age 55.
Concerning early retirement it said:
Should you take early retirement, your pension would be greatly reduced, and this is 
not an advisable course of action. Your occupational scheme would offer much better 
benefits if you did retire at this earlier age.
Its cashflow models showed that if Mr I took early retirement at age 57 and an 
income of £25,000, reducing when his state pension became payable at age 67, his 
fund could last him until age 106.
By transferring out of the DB scheme Mr I could benefit from increased death 
benefits for his children and have a higher income in early retirement 
He wanted to avoid his benefits transferring to the PPF or the BSPS2 as the 
revaluation benefits weren't as attractive
He didnt think he could afford to take early retirement from the DB scheme. 
After discussion Mr I had agreed to reduce his risk score to six out of ten.
After receiving the report Mr I emailed PL. Amongst other things he said hed heard that his 
employer had paid £550 million into the DB scheme and that this would affect the transfer 
values. He asked if he should defer signing the papers to go ahead with the transfer until 
more was known. PL replied; it said it had tried to contact the DB scheme administrators 
without success.
Subsequently the DB administrators paid a revalued CETV sum of £435,431 into Mr Is 
newly set up named personal pension.
In January 2018 Mr I told PL that he no longer needed its ongoing advice service. In 2021 Mr I complained to PL, In brief he said the advice to transfer out of his final salary 
scheme wasnt suitable for him and not in his best interests.
PL replied, it didnt up hold Mr Is complaint. Amongst other things it said that transferring 
allowed Mr I to achieve his objectives of flexible access to his funds allowing early retirement 
and increases to the death benefits available for his children.
Mr I referred his complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint and required 
PL to pay compensation, including redress of £250 for the distress and inconvenience Mr I 
experienced. In brief our investigator didnt think that the transfer was suitable for Mr I and 
thought instead that PL should have recommended he moved his benefits into the BSPS2. 
PL didnt reply to our investigators assessment of the complaint, so it was referred to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the regulators Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is 
more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of PL's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as those given by the investigator.
The regulator, the FCA, states in COBS 19.1.6G that the starting assumption for a transfer 
from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, PL should have only considered a transfer if it 
could clearly demonstrate that it was in Mr Is best interests. And having looked at all the 
evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best interests.
Distrust and uncertainty Im aware that many BSPS members like Mr I had serious concerns about the security of 
their pension pots. The situation was evolving after the BSPS closed in March 2017. There 
was also some widespread trepidation about what moving pensions to the PPF meant for 
members. Its also well known that this was a period of uncertainty for people like Mr I. But 
this only serves to emphasise the need at that time for a balanced assessment of the options 
available and ultimately the need for suitable advice.
I understand that there will be instances where a client seeks financial advice with 
preconceived notions or concerns about the financial health of an employer or pension 
scheme. And Ive noted that, in his first contact with PL Mr I said that he wanted to transfer 
out of the BSPS. So he was clearly leaning towards transferring when he sought advice. But 
PL was tasked with rationally addressing Mr Is concerns and providing an appropriately 
balanced view of all the available options. And in order to recommend that Mr I should 
transfer out of his DB scheme PL needed to be able to clearly demonstrate that doing so 
was in his best interests.
When Mr I approached PL there was still the possibility that his pension could move to the 
PPF. And the BSPS2 had still not been confirmed. But, some months earlier, in May 2017, 
the PPF announced that the terms of the RAA had been agreed. Under the announced 
plans, Mr Is employer agreed to set up and sponsor the BSPS2, subject to certain 
conditions relating to funding and size being satisfied. The Pensions Regulator approved the 
RAA on 11 August 2017.
Subsequently, on 28 August 2017  around a week after PL provided its advice  the BSPS 
administrators provided scheme members, including Mr I, with an important update in 
respect of BSPS transfer values. The update said an expected payment into the BSPS of 
£550 million by Mr Is employer, as part of its agreement with The Pension Regulator, was 
likely to result in an improvement to transfer values. And for those with unexpired transfer 
values, like Mr I, administrators would issue updated valuations in October 2017, which 
would be guaranteed until at least December 2017. The confirmation that Mr Is employer 
had made the payment referred to was announced on 11 September 2017. 
In the meantime Mr I had contacted PL as hed heard about the pending payment by his 
employers and asked PL if he should defer making a decision. Initially at least, seemingly 
through no fault of its own, PL wasnt able to verify things with the DB scheme 
administrators. The administrators did revalue Mr Is CETV before arranging the transfer. 
But, PL didnt provide any further advice or guidance in terms of what the BSPS2 might be 
worth for Mr I. And in order to ensure that Mr I had all the information he needed in order to 
make an informed decision before transferring I think it should have done that.
Further, even if Mr I remained concerned about the possibility, even if it was a slim one, of 
the BSPS2 not happening or itself moving into the PPF at a later date, I think PL should 
have addressed that concern. A move to the PPF would mean, on a general basis, a 
reduction of around 10% in retirement income and less generous yearly indexed pension 
increases. But the 10% reduction didnt necessarily mean Mr I would be worse off as for 
those taking early retirement the PPF could have been more beneficial to them. But, PL 
didnt give Mr I all the information he needed in order to see if that was something that might 
be suitable for him.
Its notable that the TVAS said that if Mr Is benefits were to transfer to the PPF then in order 
to match those the personal pension would need critical yields of 4.4% if Mr I took a full 
pension without TFC at age 65 and 4.1% if he took TFC. Similarly it said the critical yields to 
match the PPF benefits if Mr I chose to retire at age 55 were 9.3% without TFC and 8.7% 
after taking it. But neither the TVAS nor the suitability report explain what the actual amount of yearly pension, or the TFC sum payable from the PPF was. So, Mr I didnt have a clear 
reference to what the PPF would have paid him in retirement had his DB benefits moved into 
that. And while I dont know what the actual PPF figures would have been its likely that the 
reduction in benefits wasn't as significant as many BSPS scheme members believed it would 
be.
Also its possible that Mr I could have met his needs in retirement and retained guaranteed 
benefits if the BSPS2 hadnt gone ahead and hed had to move his pension to the PPF. 
Although, given the lack of information on PLs file, I can't say to what extent thats the case. 
But, I'm not persuaded that the uncertainty that Mr I experienced when he entered into the 
advice process was sufficient reason to recommend that he should transfer his safeguarded 
benefits from a DB scheme, even with the possibility of that going into the PPF. Thats 
because, to do so would expose those funds to the volatilities and risks of the investment 
markets. So, I dont think those concerns should have led to PL recommending Mr I transfer 
out of the DB scheme altogether.
PLs advice process
PL carried out a TVAS (as the regulator required) showing how much Mr Is pension fund 
would need to grow by each year (the critical yield) in order to provide the same benefits as 
his DB scheme. But, this was based on his existing scheme benefits and Mr I didnt have the 
option to remain in the BSPS  he either needed to opt into the BSPS2 or move with the 
scheme to the PPF.
The timing of PLs advice was somewhat unfortunate. At the time it drafted its suitability 
report the details from BSPS2 werent known. So there was little it could do by way of an 
analysis of those likely BSPS2 benefits at that time. But, shortly after it issued its suitability 
report it became clear that the BSPS2 would very likely go ahead, And, in order to give Mr I 
enough information to make a fully informed decision about what was in his best interests, I 
think PL should have told Mr I to defer making a decision on the transfer until further details 
of the BSPS2 were known. And that would have given PL the opportunity to provide an 
analysis of the comparison between the BSPS2 benefits, the PPF and the named personal 
pension. But PL didnt provide any advice or guidance about what the likely benefits from the 
BSPS2 were. In fact its analysis of that scheme was limited to saying that it would have 
lower revaluation and pension increases than the BSPS. But without any reference to actual 
figures, this was somewhat meaningless to Mr I.
The BSPS2 was thought to be of greater benefit than the funds going into the PPF for the 
schemes normal retirement age of 65. So, in reality, the growth rates required to match the 
BSPS2 benefits were likely to be somewhere between those required for the PPF and those 
for the BSPS. And PL should have updated its advice to include, in one place, a comparison 
of the relevant benefits of moving to the PPF, moving to the BSPS2 or transferring to the 
named personal pension. Had it done so Mr I would have been in a better place to make an 
informed decision.
As I've said above, I understand that the timing was unfortunate for PL. It thought it had 
completed its evidence gathering and advice process only to, almost immediately, learn that 
the BSPS2 was all but confirmed. But transferring out of a DB scheme is a one-off event. 
Once transferred there's no going back, the benefits of the DB scheme are usually lost 
forever. So, regardless that PL might have felt that its advice process was at an end, it 
should have ensured that Mr I had sight of all the information he needed in order to make an 
informed choice before making that decision. And that included the information about the 
likely benefits of the BSPS2, even though this information didnt become available until after 
it had drafted its suitability report. But PL didnt do that.Further, there are other gaps in Pls evidence gathering and advice process. For example it 
said that Mr I wanted £25,000 a year income in retirement. But it didnt challenge him as to 
how hed arrived at that sum, especially as it recorded that his outgoings were less than 
£1,000 a month. Also, it recorded that Mr I was overpaying into a money purchase pension 
scheme at £400 a month. As this scheme was sponsored by his employer, its likely his 
employer was also paying into that scheme. But PL didn't find out how much the employer 
was contributing or make any estimate of what these funds were likely to be worth when Mr I 
retired. Nor did it provide any analysis of whether those funds could have supported Mr I in 
early retirement while taking his guaranteed income from the DB scheme. So I don't think it 
gave Mr I all the information he needed in order to make a fully informed decision.
Financial viability 
Looking at the information PL did provide shows the relevant critical yields at age 65 for Mr I 
taking a full pension from the BSPS without TFC was 6.8% and 5.4% with TFC. The critical 
yields required to match the benefits provided through the PPF at age 65 were 4.4% and 
4.1%, TFC dependent. While PL didnt know at that time what the BSPS2 figures would be 
we can assume the lower annual increases under the BSPS2 would have likely decreased 
the critical yields compared to the BSPS. But, I think those would have been higher than the 
critical yield matching the PPF benefits at age 65 (which Ive already set out above).
PL gave its advice during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to 
refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, they provide a useful indication 
of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable for a typical 
investor.
The discount rate to the time of the transfer was 4.4% a year for 17 years to retirement. For 
further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle 
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% a year. And its notable that the discount 
rate would drop to 3.7% when adjusted for Mr I retiring at age 57, and 3.4% at age 55.
I've taken these figures into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount 
rate, Mr Is medium attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. I note that a discount rate 
of 4.4%, for retirement at age 65, is higher than the critical yield of 4.1% required to match 
the PPF benefits if Mr I took TFC. But as I've already said, its likely that the BSPS2 benefits 
would have been higher than the PPF at age 65. So I think the critical yield would likely have 
been nearer to the BSPS than the PPF figure. And in those circumstances its unlikely that 
the discount rate or the regulators middle growth rate would have met or exceeded the 
critical yield required to match the benefits from the BSPS2. So it seems unlikely that 
investing in the named personal pension could match the benefits from the DB scheme.
Further, there would be little point in Mr I giving up the guarantees available to him through a 
DB scheme only to achieve, at best, similar levels of benefits outside the scheme. The 
critical yield to match the BSPS at age 65 was 5.4% after taking TFC. So it would likely have 
been slightly lower to match the BSPS2 benefits. But that still would almost certainly have 
been above the discount rate of 4.4%. It was also above the regulators mid-level projection 
of 5%, which is the level of growth Mr I could reasonably expect with his attitude to risk. So, I 
think Mr I was most likely to receive benefits of a lower overall value than those provided by 
the BSPS2 if he transferred to a personal pension and took benefits at age 65, as a result of 
investing in line with his attitude to risk. And if retiring earlier than this, I think the benefits 
wouldve been substantially lower than the DB scheme.In addition, if there was a sustained period of poor performance then there was a very real 
chance that Mr Is fund would grow at a much slower rate or could suffer losses. And while 
PL did point out some of these risks to Mr I, as I've said above, I believe it should have 
deferred providing its advice until more was known about the BSPS2. And then it should 
have advised Mr I that opting into the BSPS2 (the benefits under which would be guaranteed 
and escalated) rather than relying on investment growth in a personal pension would have 
been better suited to his needs. 
Also, its notable that PL has itself identified that the critical yields were unlikely to be met by 
transferring. And given Mr I was likely to receive lower overall retirement benefits by 
transferring to a personal pension, for this reason alone I dont think a transfer out of the DB 
scheme was in his best interests. 
Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. And PL 
has argued that, as a result of its recommendation, Mr I could achieve his other objectives. 
So I've gone on to consider whether PL has clearly demonstrated that the advice to transfer 
was in Mr Is best interests. When doing so I've been mindful that PLs role was to find out 
what Mr Is wants and needs were and why. Its role wasnt simply to do what Mr I wanted 
without appropriate analysis and challenge of his motives for doing so, in order to ensure its 
recommendation was in his best interests.
Flexibility, early retirement and income requirement 
It seems a key reason PL recommended Mr I transfer was for the flexibility it offered him. 
Having considered the evidence, I dont think Mr I had a genuine need to access his pension 
funds earlier than the normal scheme retirement age.
Mr I told PL that his preference was to retire at 55 but he was happy to continue to work for a 
few more years if needed. I understand Mr Is wish to retire early. In fact I think most people 
would say that they would like to retire early if given the chance. I also think most people 
would understand that having the opportunity to retire early isn't worth compromising their 
income security for the remainder of their retirement for. It seems to me that this is 
something Mr I was likely to reassess once he reached age 55. And as such, I think early 
retirement was something that was  most likely  nice to have rather than a genuine need 
for Mr I.
Its notable that PL itself identified that early retirement wasnt in Mr Is best interests when it 
said:
Should you take early retirement, your pension would be greatly reduced, and this is not an 
advisable course of action. Your occupational scheme would offer much better benefits if 
you did retire at this earlier age.
But. despite this clear warning that it wasnt in Mr Is best interests to transfer out of the 
scheme and retire early, it went on to provide a recommendation is said allowed Mr I do 
exactly that. To support its advice it said that it had produced a cashflow model which said 
that if Mr I retired at age 57, and took an income of £25,000 a year, then his transferred 
pension fund could last him until he was 106 years old. But I dont think that model stands up 
to close scrutiny. In the first place, the model assumes early retirement at age 57, rather 
than 55 which is the retirement age it refers to in its TVAS and suitability report. Also it 
assumes that Mr Is personal pension fund would grow by 6.5% gross year-on-year. And that 
compares to a discount rate, for Mr I retiring at age 57 of 3.7%. So that level of consistent 
growth seems unlikely. Further the model isn't stress tested to allow for periods of poor 
performance or a market crash, which could show the funds being depleted much sooner. In addition, although the suitability report says that Mr I wanted to take the maximum TFC at 
age 55, the model doesnt make any allowance for Mr I taking TFC at all. And, if it had, then 
that would have reduced his fund by 25%. So, using the same figures from PLs model, 
allowing for TFC from age 57 would equate to a reduction in the fund of £155,055 overnight. 
And, once those funds are removed and the subsequent reduction in growth is factored in  
to account for the smaller remaining investment pot  then that would have a fairly dramatic 
impact on the model. As a result I dont think the model is reliable. I note that PL said in its 
suitability report that it urged caution about relying too heavily on the figures. So I think it 
recognised that they were most likely unrealistic, yet PL still referred to those figures to 
support its decision to justify a recommendation to transfer from the DB scheme. 
Further, if Mr I did have a genuine need for early retirement then he might have been better 
off by opting for a transfer to the PPF. It was well-known that the manner in which PPF 
calculates its early retirement factors, including TFC sums, are more generous than in many 
DB schemes, including the BSPS. In this case PL hasnt presented the information needed 
in order to see what Mr I might have been entitled to from the PPF at any age. But its TVAS 
shows that critical yields required to match the PPF benefits at age 55 are 9.3% and 8.7% 
depending on whether or not Mr I took TFC. Those critical yields are extremely high and not 
something that transferring to a personal pension was likely to match. And given that the 
PPFs early retirement reduction factors were more generous than the BSPS, its likely the 
PPF would have paid Mr I a handsome TFC amount at age 55. But theres little evidence 
that PL made this clear to him.
In any event I dont think Mr I had a concrete need to take early retirement. As I've said 
above I can understand why Mr I would want to retire at age 55. But, for most people, early 
retirement means a significant drop in income. And that would dramatically reduce most 
individuals spending power and lifestyle choices. So, when faced with that prospect at an 
early retirement age, most people choose not to retire. Instead they opt to continue working 
to support their current and future lifestyle options. And thats seems to be a more likely 
prospect for Mr I. But theres no evidence that PL seriously challenged Mr Is objective of 
early retirement at age 55. So I dont think it met its obligations to challenge his objectives in 
light of what he would be giving up.
Mr I was still over seven years away from 55 and nine from 57. So he had no need to make 
an urgent decision to transfer out of his DB scheme, as  if PL had deferred completing its 
advice process  he could have opted to move into the BSPS2. And, if he still felt that he 
wanted to retire when he reached 55, and thought that the income from the BSPS2 wasnt 
enough for his needs at that time, he could have considered transferring his DB benefits to 
another scheme at that point. But that wasnt a decision he needed to make when he was 
still only 47 years old. But it doesn't appear that PL put that option to him.
That said, its true to say that Mr I couldnt have had the same level of flexible access to his 
DB funds. While he could have chosen to take those early, if hed wanted to take TFC, then 
he would have had to take that at the same time as drawing a regular income from his 
pension. Whereas the personal pension would allow him to draw down funds as he saw fit. 
But while I can see why that might have been an attractive prospect to him, Im not 
persuaded that Mr I had any concrete need to take TFC at all or to vary his income 
throughout retirement. So while the option of drawing his income flexibly might seem like 
something that would be nice to have, I can't see that Mr I had any genuine need for that 
flexibility that would be worth giving up guaranteed benefits for at the time that PL gave 
its advice. So I dont think it was in his best interests to transfer.
Death benefits Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr I. Thats because whatever 
was left within Mr Is personal pension at the date of his death would be passed on to his 
children. But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr I might 
have thought it was a good idea to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of 
this, the priority here was to advise Mr I about what was best for his retirement provisions. A 
pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement  not a lump sum to family 
after death. But in transferring out of his DB scheme Mr I was essentially giving up a 
guaranteed, index linked, increasing income in retirement, for the potential for a lump sum 
for children that they may not need for many years to come. And by that time, the fund could 
have been depleted by Mr Is withdrawals from it in the meantime.
PL said Mr Is pension fund would be depleted by age 106 if he retired at 57. So Mr I might 
have thought that guaranteed a significant lump sum for family on his death. But, as I've said 
above, that model was based on assumptions that dont stand up to close inspection. And if 
the fund grew by less than PL expected, or suffered losses, then there would be less 
available as a death benefit.
Further, the fund would reduce as Mr I drew down money from it. And if Mr I drew down 
heavily from it in the early years of his retirement, then those deductions would reduce the 
lump sum benefit available in the event of his death. In fact every time Mr I took a withdrawal 
he would be reducing the amount available as a legacy for his children.
If Mr I genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his family, which didnt depend on investment 
returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, then life insurance might 
have been a better solution for him. Mr I already had a significant death in service benefit 
through his employer. Its also notable that he had significant equity in his home with only a 
relatively small mortgage outstanding and an endowment plan that would cover the majority 
of that sum. So his home would in itself provide a legacy for his children. But if he wanted an 
extra sum to cover his retirement years, that wasnt tied into his property then he could have 
taken extra cover out on a whole of life basis. PL did raise this prospect with Mr I. Its 
suitability report says he discounted this as it didnt make sense to pay for additional life 
cover when this could be achieved by transferring his pension. But that ignores the fact that 
the fund would be depleted as Mr I took sums from it. So, by the time of his death, there 
could be very little, if in fact anything, left for his children. But it doesn't appear that PL made 
this clear to him. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr I.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility and potential for higher death benefits on offer through a 
personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr I. But PL wasnt there to 
just transact what Mr I might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really 
understand what Mr I needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
PL was in a good position to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Mr I about what 
was in his best interests for retirement planning. It knows valuable pension pots like Mr Is 
DB scheme were paid into with the intention of providing for retirement. And ultimately, I 
dont think the advice PL gave to Mr I was suitable. He was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free 
and increasing income within BSPS2 (or the PPF). By transferring to a personal pension Mr I 
was, in my view, likely to obtain lower retirement benefits. And I dont think there were any 
other particular reasons which would justify the transfer and outweigh this. So, I dont think it was in Mr Is best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension when he 
had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
I appreciate that the BSPS2 hadnt been confirmed when PL gave its advice, but it became 
clear to all parties that it was likely to be going ahead. Mr I had at least seven years to his 
preferred retirement age and 17 years to the schemes normal retirement age. So his needs 
in retirement could have changed in the meantime. And by opting into the BSPS2 Mr I would 
have kept the ability to transfer out of the scheme nearer to his retirement age if he needed 
to. So, I think PL should have advised Mr I to opt into the BSPS2.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr I would have gone ahead with the transfer anyway 
if it wasnt for PLs advice. And while I've noted that Mr I was most likely leaning towards a 
transfer when he started the advice process, after thinking about this carefully, I'm not 
persuaded he would have done so but for PLs advice.
Thats because, Mr Is BSPS pension accounted for a significant portion of his retirement 
provision at the time. So, if PL had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of 
the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests and that he would likely be 
worse off as a result of doing so, I think he would have accepted that advice. Im also not 
persuaded Mr Is concerns about the future of the DB scheme was so great that he would 
have gone against PLs advice. Thats because PL had the opportunity to clearly explain that 
the scheme trustees and his employer were not one and the same. And that the future of the 
pensions scheme was in the process of being taken out of the employers hands. So PL 
could have allayed Mr Is concerns about the uncertainty of the scheme. So I don't think 
those would have been sufficient reason for Mr I to insist on a transfer. 
It follows that I don't think PLs advice to Mr I to transfer out of his DB scheme was suitable 
for him. And I think it should have advised Mr I to opt into the BSPS2 instead. So, I think PL 
should compensate Mr I for the unsuitable advice, using the regulator's defined benefits 
pension transfer redress methodology. And, as this matter has been a source of distress and 
inconvenience for Mr I, I think PL should also pay him £250 to address that.
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.Weve previously asked Mr I whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance/rules to come into effect.
Mr I would like his complaint to be settled in line with new guidance/rules. So, I consider its 
fair that PL calculates Mr Is redress in line with new guidance and rules when they come 
into effect. 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr I, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
opted to move his benefits to the BSPS2. 
The basic objective of the amendments to the redress methodology still remains to put a 
consumer, as far as possible, into the position they would be in if the business had advised 
them to remain in the DB scheme. Having reviewed the FCAs consultation and policy 
statement, Im satisfied that the changes still reflect a fair way to compensate Mr I.
PL must undertake a redress calculation in line with the updated methodology as soon as 
any new rules and/or guidance come into effect (rather than to calculate and pay any due 
compensation now in line with FG17/9). 
For clarity, while PL recorded that Mr I wanted to retire at age 55 hes told us that he has no 
concrete plans to take early retirement. So, compensation should be based on his normal 
retirement age of 65.
In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to 
an appropriate provider promptly once any new guidance/rules come into effect.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Is pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr I as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
Mr Is representatives said that a 15% deduction from any redress payable is unfair as it 
doesn't account for the charges that would've been deducted from the fund value over that 
time. While I appreciate the representatives feel this may unfairly reduce the redress 
payable, I'm mindful that its not possible to provide exact compensation in these 
circumstances, as the only way to achieve this would be to put Mr I into the BSPS2 as if the 
transfer to the personal pension hadn't happened. So, overall, I remain of the view that the 
redress proposed fairly compensates Mr I for the impact of the unsuitable advice PL gave. 
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr I within 90 days of the date 
any changes to DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect and PL has 
received notification of Mr Is acceptance of my decision. Further interest must be added to 
the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date any changes to 
DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect to the date of settlement for any 
time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes PL to pay Mr I.Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If PL deducts income tax from the interest, 
it should tell Mr I how much has been taken off. PL should give Mr I a tax deduction 
certificate in respect of interest if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on interest from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. PL should also pay Mr I £250 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience he experienced because of PLs unsuitable advice.
PL should provide details of its calculations to Mr I and his representative in a clear, simple 
format.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require PrisWM Limited to pay 
Mr I the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
PrisWM Limited to pay Mr I any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require 
PrisWM Limited to pay Mr I any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
PrisWM Limited pays Mr I the balance. I would additionally recommend PL pay Mr I any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance.If Mr I accepts this decision, the money 
award becomes binding on PrisWM Limited .My recommendation would not be binding. 
Further, its unlikely that Mr I can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. 
Mr I may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to 
accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman