DRN-3829218
The complaint
Mr S complains that the kitchen he financed through a fixed sum loan agreement with 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance (BPF) wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr S entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with BPF in March 2020 to part finance the 
cost of a kitchen. Mr S paid a deposit of around £2,679 and was provided with a zero-
interest rate loan for £2,920 repayable over 36 months.
Mr S has explained that there were delays in the kitchen being installed, due to the Covid 
pandemic and an issue in the supplier not confirming the dates with the installer. The kitchen 
was installed in August 2020. Mr S says the installation wasnt completed with reasonable 
care and raised a number of issues. He says the kitchen supplier acknowledged that the 
work was done with a poor finish. Mr S also says that he paid more for the installation than 
was paid to the installers and that the goods he received werent as he ordered as he 
received white-edged units rather than cream-edged. He wants remedial works to be 
undertaken as well as refunds for the breach of contract and compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience he had been caused.
BPF says that Mr S raised a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act and was 
provided with an outcome in November 2020. After receipt of the issues Mr S raised with the 
Financial Ombudsman Service and the independent inspection report Mr S had carried out 
in December 2020 (but had not previously provided to BPF or the supplier), BPF contacted 
the supplier.  
Our investigator said the inspection report from 4 December 2020 showed issues with the 
kitchen installation. Given this he didnt think the kitchen was of satisfactory quality and said 
there had been a breach of contract by the supplier. He recommended specific remedial 
work to be undertaken. He noted Mr S concerns about moving the boiler housing damaging 
the surrounding tiles and said if this did happen then BPF should reimburse Mr S for the 
costs of putting this right. He said that BPF should refund Mr S the cost of having the 
independent inspection carried out out along with 8% simple interest from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
Following the initial view, our investigator also recommended that the units be replaced with 
cream-edged carcasses if available or, if not available, CCF should refund Mr S 10% of the 
cost of these units along with 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.
Following receipt of the December 2020 inspection and our investigators views, BPF 
responded to say the supplier had confirmed that the cream-edged units had been 
discontinued and while it agreed to the 10% refund it had previously offered a refund of £300 
that was more beneficial to Mr S and that remained available to him. The supplier agreed for 
the installer to rectify the issues set out in the view. As an alternative it said it would offer 
Mr S £1,000 in full and final settlement. BPF thought the suppliers offers were reasonable 
but in addition offered the following choice to Mr S:
to pay the reasonable costs identified in the independent inspection carried out in 
December 2020 (subject to a receipt or invoice showing how much had been paid) 
and to cover the cost of this inspection report.
Our investigator put BPFs offers to Mr S, but he didnt accept these. He asked for a 50% 
refund of the bill paid to the supplier (£2,804.34) while retaining the warranties on products 
and installation until they expire. 
BPF didnt agree to Mr S request and this case has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S complaint is about the quality of the kitchen installed by a supplier and paid for in part 
through a fixed sum loan agreement with BPF. In assessing Mr S complaint I have 
considered the relevant law and regulations. Specifically, relevant in this case are section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75) and the Consumer Rights Act 2015. While I 
take all relevant regulations into account, my decision is based on what I consider to be fair 
and reasonable given the unique circumstances of the complaint.
Under Section 75, a consumer has, in certain circumstances, an equal right to claim against 
the credit provider (BPF) if there is a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier 
of goods or services. Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 there is an implied term that the 
quality of the goods is satisfactory.
In this case, Mr S kitchen was installed in August 2020. He raised several issues around 
that time, some of which were resolved, but many of which remain outstanding. I have 
looked at the timeline of the issues raised, and the responses Mr S received. 
Mr S noted in week the kitchen was being installed that the colour of the edge of the 
carcases was white not cream as agreed. I have looked at Mr S order and this clearly states 
cream-edged. While the supplier has said this was due to the cream edging being 
discontinued between Mr S order and installation, it isnt clear that Mr S was made aware of 
this and I can understand that he was upset that he didnt get what he had ordered. 
The supplier offered a refund of £300 because of this issue and it says Mr S accepted this 
during a telephone call with its installation department. As the cream-edging is no longer 
available I cannot require BPF to replace this. So, in this case, I think that it is reasonable 
that Mr S receives a partial refund to address the issue that he didnt receive the items as 
ordered. I think the offer of £300 is reasonable.
Following the full installation of the kitchen, Mr S contacted the supplier in September 2020 
about some snagging issues. It was confirmed that the supplier would arrange for an 
installer to visit to rectify these free of charge. Following this Mr S raised further issues. The 
supplier did try to work with Mr S but he wasnt happy with the approach. That said, a report 
was produced following a visit in November 2020 with further works outlined. Mr S then had 
an independent inspection carried out but didnt provide this to BPF or the supplier at the 
time.Having looked at the inspections that took place, I can understand why Mr S was dissatisfied 
with the quality of his kitchen. There were several items listed as needing remedial work and 
based on this I do not think the kitchen was of satisfactory quality or installed with 
reasonable care. Therefore, I uphold tis complaint and have considered what is a reasonable 
remedy.
As noted above, I think the offer of £300 for the issue with change in edging colour is 
reasonable. In regard to the other issues, I have considered what would have happened had 
Mr S kitchen been installed in a satisfactory manner. I note the inspections carried out by 
the supplier but in this case, I have placed most weight on the independent inspection 
carried out in December 2020. This is post installation and lists a number of issues that need 
to be addressed. In order to deliver the kitchen Mr S should have received I think this work 
should be undertaken at no cost to Mr S.
Mr S has raised concerns that the required work to the boiler casing my damage the 
surrounding tiles. In the event the remedial works do result in damage to Mr S tiles I would 
expect the cost of rectifying this to be covered by BPF.
Mr S paid for the independent inspection. I note the suppliers comments about this, and that 
Mr S had refused to allow it to inspect the kitchen as requested. However, I can also see that 
Mr S had lost trust in the supplier given the issues both in regard to the kitchen and the 
related service issues and so I can understand why he felt it necessary to have an 
independent inspection carried out. Had there not been issues with the kitchen this wouldnt 
have been necessary and as it identified a number of concerns, I think it fair that Mr S is 
refunded the cost of this report, and I note BPF has agreed to this. I understand that Mr S 
didnt provide a copy of the report to the supplier or BPF until after his complaint had been 
investigated by the Financial Ombudsman Service but as he did pay for this due to the 
issues with his kitchen I think it fair that this cost is refunded along with 8% simple interest 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement. 
I understand why Mr S is upset by how long this issue has been ongoing. However, I also 
note that in end of 2020 he no longer wished to work with the supplier and he didnt provide 
a copy of his independent inspection report. Had this happened this issue may have been 
resolved sooner. I also note Mr S comment about the cost of the installation and the amount 
paid to the installer however I can see the supplier contract clearly sets out the costs and 
Mr S agreed to this.
So, while, I understand that Mr S feels a higher level of refund should be provided, in this 
case I think that the supplier agreeing to undertake the remedial works is reasonable. 
Additional to this in the event there is damage to the tiles around the boiler then the cost of 
putting this right should also be covered. The supplier has offered a £300 refund for the 
change to the colour of the edging which I find reasonable and I also find that BPF should 
cover the cost of the independent inspection report (as it has offered) and that this should be 
subject to interest. I find this resolution would be a fair outcome to this complaint.
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint, I think BPF should remedy the issues identified in the December 
2020 report (as set out below):
Arrange for the following remedial works to be carried out:
oMove the boiler housing to accommodate a full clad on panel to the left-hand 
side,oRefit the cornice on the left-hand cabinets. Clad on panel on the left of 
extractor needs replacing and scribing correctly,
oFit the back panel in the bin cabinet,
oReplace the sink and apply silicone correctly,
oReplace tap washer and tighten cold level,
oReplace end panel next to the fridge freezer,
oReplace the cornice on the top left of the fridge freezer,
oReplace missing plinth clips,
oReplace both base corner posts with clean cut and even panels,
oIf the wall cabinet lower corner fixings have been fitted to the cabinets then to 
also add the bottom fixings,
oReplace plinths and apply a square cut,
oReplace the 500 door.
If the tiles are damaged, by the work to the boiler this should either be rectified by 
BPF or reimburse Mr S for any additional works he needs to do on them subject to 
proof of costs being provided. 
Refund Mr S for the cost of the independent inspection he had carried out (subject to 
proof of payment) along with 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement. 
Pay Mr S £300 due to the change in the colour of the unit edging.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Clydesdale Financial Services Limited 
trading as Barclays Partner Finance should take the actions set out above in resolution of 
this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman