DRN-3492706
The complaint
Ms W complains that Monzo Bank Ltd has failed to comply with her reasonable adjustments.
What happened
In September 2021, Ms W contacted Monzo regarding two issues she had with her account, 
as follows:
Shed been notified by her telecommunications service provider  who Ill refer to as 
O  that her direct debit had been cancelled. 
Shed booked and cancelled a taxi, but the payment was still pending on her account.
Ms W complains that Monzo:
failed to comply with her reasonable adjustments, by contacting her in the wrong way 
and at the wrong time.
passed her from one department to another, making it difficult for her to know who 
was dealing with what and the progress being made.
delayed in arranging contact from the specialist support team to discuss how they 
could accommodate her needs and disabilities. 
treated her like an imbecile and made fun of her.
insisted that she provide a selfie which she wasnt comfortable with doing.
Monzo acknowledged that it gave Ms W incorrect information regarding the cancelled direct 
debit. And it said that whilst it hadnt treated Ms W inappropriately or made fun of her, it 
apologised if this is how shed felt. Monzo also apologised for contacting her outside of the 
agreed times. It offered £60 compensation to put these things right. In addition, it offered £25 
for failing to log her complaint straight away, resulting in its final response being sent later 
than it shouldve been. 
But Monzo didnt uphold the remaining complaint points. It said it had acted correctly and in 
line with its internal procedures with regards to both the pending transactions and requiring a 
selfie for ID purposes. It said different departments were dealing with different issues raised 
by Ms W which is why shed been contacted separately. 
Ms W remained dissatisfied, so she brought her complaint to our service. And our 
investigator upheld it in part. She said Monzo didnt do enough to proactively support Ms W 
and find out how it could accommodate her additional needs. And on occasion, it failed to 
comply with the reasonable adjustments in place, causing Ms W distress and inconvenience. 
She asked Monzo to increase the compensation to a total of £250.
Ms W didnt accept this outcome. She said that £250 doesnt adequately compensate her for 
what Monzo had put her through. 
Monzo didnt respond to our investigator. 
As our investigator hasnt been able to resolve things, the complaint has been passed to me 
for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms W is an autistic person. Shes asked to only be contacted at certain times and by certain 
methods because of her disabilities. 
I dont intend to go into the full reasons why Ms W has made this request and the impact it 
has on her when its not complied with. This is because Im satisfied that all parties to this 
complaint are aware of the details and I want to ensure Ms Ws personal circumstances are 
kept confidential. Whilst I will need to touch on certain aspects in order to address the 
complaint, I will limit this only to the comments I need to explain my decision. 
For clarity, as a service, its not our role to say whether a business has breached the 
Equality Act 2010 or discriminated against its customer  thats for the courts to do. Were an 
informal alternative to the courts and decide complaints on a fair and reasonable basis. But I 
want to assure Ms W that as the Equality Act 2010 is the relevant law in this particular case, 
Ive taken that legislation and what it says about how businesses should treat consumers 
into account when considering her complaint.
Cancelled direct debit
Ms W contacted Monzo as shed been told by O that her direct debit had been cancelled. 
Monzo responded to say that it was showing as being cancelled by the customer. But Ms W 
insisted that she hadnt cancelled it, either on purpose or accidently. 
On reviewing further, Monzo found that two direct debits were set up to O, one of which 
appeared to be a duplicate and was cancelled. It apologised for the incorrect information it 
gave and offered compensation. 
As Monzo accepts its error, I dont need to make a finding on whether or not it did something 
wrong here  it did. What I need to decide is whether its done enough to put things right  
which Ill come on to later in my decision. 
Pending transactions
Ms W booked a taxi, but they didnt have any drivers available. So she booked a taxi with 
another company. When checking her account, she found that the payments to the original 
company were still pending. She contacted Monzo and asked that it return the funds. She 
explained that it was clear she couldnt use two taxis as the same time.
Monzo said the funds will be held for 30 days in order to see whether the taxi company claim 
the payment. The money is shown as pending, which prevents the customer from being able 
to spend it until Monzo are satisfied it wont be claimed, and then its automatically returned. 
It explained that this is the correct procedure and the timescale of 30 days is set by the 
merchant, not Monzo.Ms W told Monzo that this was too long, and she felt it should do more. Monzo explained 
that for it to intervene, Ms W would need to raise a dispute by completing a form. Ms W did 
this, but she raised it against the wrong transaction which caused some confusion for both 
parties. 
After 30 days, the funds were automatically returned to Ms W. 
I appreciate Ms W feels Monzo shouldve done more to help her. Shes told us she finds 
forms difficult to complete. But I cant see that she told Monzo this or asked for help doing 
so. Im satisfied Monzo acted in line with the correct procedures and in a fair and reasonable 
manner. As the funds have now been returned, I dont think Monzo needs to do anything 
more here. 
Reasonable adjustments
In 2020, Ms W let Monzo know that she only wanted to be contacted during UK general 
working hours  and for Ms W thats Monday to Friday, between the hours of 9am and 5pm. 
She also explained that she could not accept phone calls, and her preferred method of 
contact was email, or text message in an emergency. 
Ms W has referred to her disabilities in several conversations with Monzo. Shes explained 
shes house-bound and that she uses her account differently to other customers. She also 
let it know about a recent bereavement. 
Monzo said it would arrange for its specialist support team to contact Ms W. But this took a 
week to happen, and by this point Ms W had been contacted by other departments leading 
to confusion about who each advisor was and what they were dealing with.
Its disappointing to see that Monzo has missed several opportunities to explore with Ms W 
what her needs are and what support it can offer. And in addition, it has on occasion 
contacted Ms W outside the agreed hours or offered a phone call (for example, on 18, 21 
and 27 March 2021). From the messages Ms W sent Monzo in response, I can see that this 
has caused her a great deal of distress  at an already very upsetting time for her. Shes told 
us she doesnt feel supported by her bank or listened to and understood. And I can 
understand why.
Monzo says that as Ms W has raised different queries which are handled by different 
departments, she will be contacted by different advisors. But I think the advisors couldve 
done more in their correspondence to Ms W to explain exactly what they were contacting her 
about. And I dont think they acted fairly or reasonably in the circumstances by contacting 
her outside of agreed times or offering a call. 
Monzo has told us that if Ms W sends a message or opens a new app chat then she will 
receive an automated response. And this isnt something Monzo can prevent happening. So 
if Ms W makes contact outside of the agreed hours, she will receive the automated message 
out of hours. Monzo says it is exploring whether it can stop this happening.
Whilst I appreciate Monzos situation here, I think it couldve done more to explain this to Ms 
W. I would suggest that, if it isnt able to put a stop to these messages on Ms Ws account, 
that it has a discussion with her  by email  about how best to tackle this. 
It may be that Ms W will need to limit her own contact with Monzo to the agreed hours, 
where possible. Or that she prepares herself for receiving the automated response so that its not unexpected, but that she can ignore it until further contact is made by Monzo within 
the agreed hours. 
Monzo has said its been unable to record much of Ms Ws disabilities as it doesnt have the 
required permission to do so. But I havent seen anything to suggest that Monzo has 
requested permission from Ms W to record this. As such, Id suggest it includes this within 
any further discussion to ensure that it can adequately record Ms Ws needs, which will 
include accurately recording the agreed hours. 
Customer service
Ms W is unhappy with the way Monzo staff have spoken to her in messages. She says 
theyve treated her like an imbecile and made fun of her. Shes currently asked that Monzo 
stop contacting her altogether. 
Ive been through all the app chat messages and emails in relation to this complaint. And 
whilst I sympathise with Ms Ws feelings, I cant agree that Monzo has treated her in the way 
she feels it has. 
I appreciate that the interpretation of a written message can come down to an individuals 
perspective, so I dont wish to take anything away from how Ms W feels here. But Im 
satisfied the context of the messages are in keeping with Monzos brand and tone, which in 
my interpretation comes across as informal, conversational and enthusiastic, with lots of 
emojis and explanation marks. I dont think the intention behind this was meant to come 
across as insincere or disrespectful in any way.
That said, I do think Monzo couldve done more to tailor its responses to Ms W and her 
needs. Taking out references to phone calls, for instance, or being clearer about what the 
message specifically relates to. 
Going forward, if Ms W wants to continue banking with Monzo, she will need to communicate 
with it. I understand shes asked it to stop messaging her in the app chat and via email. But 
Monzo do need to be able to contact her and its important that a conversation takes place  
by email  about what support Ms W needs from Monzo as explained above.
Customer verification 
Monzo has explained that because its an online bank and doesnt have physical branches, it 
relies on a number of different procedures in order to be sure it is speaking to the correct 
person. One of these is asking its customers to take a photo of themselves holding a form of 
ID. 
This isnt always required when communicating through the online app chat. This is because 
the customer has already completed security to log into the app. But it is required when 
communicating through email, which takes place outside of the app and is less secure.
I appreciate Ms W isnt comfortable with this process. But I cant ask Monzo to compromise 
the security measures in place to protect customers accounts. These are requirements set 
by the regulators and GDPR. As this process isnt required as frequently when messaging 
through the online app chat, Ms W may decide this is a more suitable way for her to contact 
Monzo.
Putting things rightAs explained above, Im of the opinion that theres been times when Monzo has got things 
wrong or couldve done more for Ms W. As a result, Ms W has suffered distress and 
inconvenience, which has exacerbated an already difficult time for her and impacted her 
disabilities. 
Our service doesnt award compensation for each individual mistake. Instead, we take a 
holistic view of everything thats happened and make an award based on the overall impact. 
In doing so, Im satisfied that a total of £250 is fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
Im upholding the complaint and directing Monzo bank Ltd to do the following:
pay Ms W further compensation of £165, bringing the total amount to £250.
accurately record Ms Ws reasonable adjustments to reflect that contact should only 
be made Monday to Friday between the hours of 9am and 5pm. 
should Ms W allow it, contact should be made  by email  to discuss her disabilities 
and how best Monzo can further support her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman