DRN-4209856
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs M complain that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited (GE Money) unfairly
turned down claims they made under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) and failed to
carry out proper checks before lending.
Mr M and Mrs M are represented by a claims management company (that Ill call S) but Ill
refer (generally) to everything thats been said on their behalf as if they said it themselves, to
keep things simple.
What happened
In February 2002 Mr M and Mrs M bought a timeshare membership (three hundred points in
a vacation club) from a supplier (that Ill refer to as C). The timeshare cost over £3,000 and
they took out a joint loan with GE Money to fund the purchase, which was repayable over
120 months at about £55 a month. 
S claims that misrepresentations were made at the point of sale and there were breaches of 
the timeshare contract. S considers GE Money may be held equally liable for those under 
section 75 CCA and the circumstances gave rise to an unfair relationship between Mr M and 
Mrs M and GE Money under section 140A CCA. In summary, S says Mr M and Mrs M 
bought the timeshare to have different travel options and then sell it but they found it difficult 
to secure the holidays they wanted when they wanted - they had to book a long way in 
advance, which was unrealistic and wasnt explained at the outset. In addition, theyve been 
unable to sell due to a glut on the market and didnt realise the contract refers to floating 
weeks, not a specified property for a period in the year. S says this sort of agreement has 
been found to be null and void under an EU Directive and Mr M and Mrs M wouldnt have 
purchased the timeshare, and taken out the loan, if theyd known what C said wasnt right. 
They were also unaware that the loan interest rate was 16.4% and they consider GE Money 
failed to carry out proper affordability checks before lending.
In August 2021 Mr M and Mrs M contacted GE Money about their claims and GE Money
rejected the complaint. GE Money said the loan was paid off on 20 April 2009, any relevant
information would have been destroyed around six years later and, given the date of the
transaction, Mr M and Mrs Ms claims were made too late under the Limitation Act 1980
(LA). 
Mr M and Mrs M referred the matter to our service and one of our investigators looked into 
things. He thought the claims were brought too late under the LA and GE Money didnt need 
to do anything else. Unhappy with that outcome Mr M and Mrs M asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. S doesnt think claims are out of time under the LA and made further submissions 
which Ive summarised below:-
Section14A LA applies to extend time as GE Money owed Mr M and Mrs M a 
duty of care to ensure that C complied with the law and it was wrong of GE 
Money to provide a loan for this sort of timeshare; 
The Timeshare Act 1992 applies to this agreement and (among other things)
advance payments made by GE Money (in breach of duty) contravene legislation 
and gives rise to an unfair relationship under section 140A CCA;
Spanish Courts have ruled that points-based and floating weeks timeshares are
null and void - and the UK Courts should reach the same conclusion - if the 
contract does not accurately describe accommodation, including the specified 
time for use;
The timeshare agreement here wasnt compliant with UK and European 
legislation meaning its null and void, the ombudsman should comment 
specifically on this and, if the timeshare agreement is null and void, so is the loan 
- as these are related agreements under the CCA - which also gives rise to an 
unfair relationship under section 140A;
Mr M and Mrs M couldnt have known the agreement was null and void until they 
took advice from S in October 2020 so they had three years from then to claim 
under the date of knowledge rule but the investigator failed to consider this.
Having considered the evidence, I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint but my reasons
were a bit different to the investigators and Id considered additional issues. I thought it was 
fair to let the parties see my provisional findings and make further submissions (if they 
wanted to). I issued two provisional decisions (which form part of my final decision) and Ive 
summarised these below. 
My first provisional decision
I explained that Id considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And, where evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence 
and the wider circumstances. 
In addition I said I have to take account of law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance 
and standards, and codes of practice and good industry practice (where appropriate) when I 
make my decision. And if I dont address every point thats been raised, its not because I 
havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and sent to us but I 
intend to concentrate on what I think is relevant and material to reaching a fair and  
reasonable outcome overall.
I explained in a separate decision why this service doesnt have jurisdiction to consider
the complaint brought under section 75 CCA. I was satisfied the claims raised under 
sections 75 and 140A CCA are separate causes of action however, different considerations 
apply and I would deal with the merits of the remainder of the complaint in this decision. 
Among other things, Mr M and Mrs M say there were various acts and omissions by C and 
GE Money that made the relationship between them and GE Money unfair. I was satisfied 
the relevant regulated activity is the exercise of a lenders rights and duties under a 
regulated credit agreement and this service has jurisdiction to consider such complaints 
since 6 April 2007. I thought the acts and omissions complained about would have occurred 
at the time of sale and throughout the duration of the loan agreement - from February 2002 
until April 2009. I was satisfied that GE Money was regulated during this time and we are 
able to look into the section 140A complaint.
The claim under s.140A CCA
Under this section a court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit
agreement if it decides that the relationship between the lender and the creditor arising out
of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a determination but I
considered this is relevant law and I took it into account. The LA applies to a claim under 
section140A CCA and I was satisfied the relevant limitation period is six years. I thought it looked as if this loan was paid off by 20 April 2009 and Mr M and Mrs M would have needed 
to bring an action by 2015. They didnt and I considered their section 140A was raised too 
late. 
I explained that Im not deciding if any right that Mr M and Mrs M may have to bring these 
claims has expired under the LA - thats a matter for the courts. Im looking at whether GE 
Money has acted fairly and reasonably and I didnt think it was unreasonable of GE Money 
to take limitation into account when it decided to decline Mr M and Mrs Ms claim. I realised 
Mr M and Mrs M may say they didnt know about the time limits referred to but thats not 
generally accepted as grounds for extending the limitation period and I went on to consider 
other arguments below.
Arguments on limitation
S referred to section 14A LA which provides for a second period in which a claim for
negligence can be made. I wasnt persuaded that this provision assists Mr M and Mrs M in 
these particular circumstances. Looking at what happened when they purchased the 
timeshare and took out the finance, I thought there was an obligation to provide sufficient, 
appropriate and timely information to enable them to make an informed choice about 
whether to take out the loan. But I couldnt see that a duty of care arose - or advice was 
provided - that could give rise to a claim to which section14A LA could apply.
I considered section 32 LA which says - in cases of fraud, deliberate concealment or mistake 
- the limitation period only starts to run from when a claimant discovers the fraud, 
concealment or mistake (or could have discovered it using reasonable diligence). Mr M and 
Mrs Ms representatives hadnt set out how this would apply here specifically and, based on 
what Id seen, I didnt think there was any fraud, deliberate concealment or mistake. In a 
statement they provided Mr M and Mrs M say they were involved with C for some years 
before they made this purchase and they booked and took several holidays during this time. 
I thought it more likely than not they used this timeshare product not long after purchase. So, 
even if I were to accept that section 32 applied, they probably would have realised they 
werent receiving the services they expected and/or the benefits they say they were told 
would be provided fairly early on  given the nature of the misrepresentations alleged. And I 
was minded to find they likely had enough information to start the clock running not long 
after they purchased this timeshare.
S also made reference to concerns around commission arrangements - that might have 
been paid by GE Money to C for arranging the loan and the failure to disclose that. I hadnt 
seen any evidence about what, if any, commission was paid. If commission was paid, I 
thought it was likely to have less than 10% - based on what Ive seen across the industry. I 
was satisfied that GE Money didnt breach any duty in making such a payment  nor was it 
under any regulatory duty to disclose the amount of commission paid in the circumstances. 
And I didnt think the levels of commission that are normally paid in this situation were 
sufficiently high to mean that GE Money should have appreciated not disclosing commission 
to Mr M and Mrs M risked the relationship being unfair under section 140A.
I wasnt persuaded that Mr M and Mrs M are able to rely on s.32 LA. And Id seen nothing to 
show that C was acting as agent to them or that its role was to make an impartial or dis-
interested recommendation about taking out the loan. I didnt think C needed to disclose the 
fact that it might have received a commission to Mr M and Mrs M in this situation. I thought 
any commission paid here was unlikely to be more than 10% so, even if I was satisfied that 
Mr M and Mrs M could rely on section 32 LA to assist with this part of their complaint, I 
wasnt persuaded its likely a court would conclude that any commission paid created an 
unfair debtor-creditor relationship.
S mentioned another decision made by this service and the three years from the date of knowledge rule. I thought they were referring to time limits set out under our rules (known 
as the DISP rules) - under which a consumer can make a complaint to a business within 
six years of the event happening or three years of when a consumer realised they had a 
reason to complain. The DISP rules apply Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) governed 
complaint handling. They dont operate to extend the time periods set out in the LA  which 
is the reason GE Money decided to turn down the relevant claims here and thats why Ive 
considered that legislation here.
Is the agreement null and void?
S also argued that the timeshare agreement was null and void which creates an unfair
relationship between Mr M and Mrs M and GE Money under section 140A and renders the
loan, a related agreement, null and void. If the timeshare agreement was voidable as
suggested its possible the loan was voidable - on recission of the agreement it was used to
fund. This is something that could be considered under a section140A claim. I thought that 
claim was brought too late but I accepted this could be a freestanding claim in its own right 
and I went on to consider it separately.
Among other things, I was referred to an EU Directive, some Spanish legislation and a
Spanish court judgment which S considers show that a timeshare which provides for a
floating week (or the ability to use points to book holidays with a provider) was a voidable
agreement. I wasnt persuaded thats right. S seemed to accept the timeshare agreement is 
governed by English (not Spanish) law and I wasnt persuaded that Spanish legislation 
and/or judgments can be applied directly to the question of whether the timeshare contract is 
voidable under English law. I hadnt been asked to consider any specific provision that would 
point to this timeshare being voidable. 
Having considered the relevant legislation, rules and regulations, I couldnt see anything
which would have the impact S suggests. A House of Commons Library Briefing Paper, 
Timeshares: common problems faced by UK owners says a floating week or points 
based timeshare were basic timeshare models - they werent described as being problems in 
and of themselves. I didnt think these types of agreement have been prohibited from sale 
under English law - either at the time of Mr M and Mrs Ms purchase or after. And, based on 
the current evidence, I wasnt persuaded that the relevant agreements here are voidable.
Unaffordable lending
Mr M and Mrs M also say it was irresponsible of GE Money to provide this loan and proper
credit checks were not carried out. This service doesnt have jurisdiction to consider
complaints about the affordability of point of sale loans taken out before the change in
regulation on 6 April 2007. This means I was unable to consider a complaint about the 
decision to lend to Mr M and Mrs M in February 2002 and it wouldnt be appropriate for me 
to comment further on this aspect of the complaint.
In conclusion, I thought GE Money fairly considered the things it needed to when it said the 
relevant claims were brought too late. Its ultimately for the courts to decide whether or not 
any claim that Mr M and Mrs M may have against C or GE Money has expired under the LA. 
But, as far as I could see from the information available, any relevant claim they might have 
has most likely exceeded the time limits set out in the LA, its reasonable to take this into 
account in these circumstances and I wasnt persuaded that GE Money acted unfairly in 
declining this complaint.
Responses to my first provisional decision
GE Money had nothing further to add and Mr M and Mrs M disagreed with my provisional 
conclusions. S supplied additional detailed submissions which are summarised below.S confirmed its not stating that the timeshare agreement is void or points based or floating 
weeks timeshares were prohibited from sale under English law and it accepts this timeshare 
agreement is governed by English law. Referring to my provisional conclusion that the 
section 140A claim was likely time barred under the LA, S clarified that it did not mean to 
refer to the DISP rules when raising the three years from the date of knowledge argument 
but rather the three years allowed under section 14A LA. S referred me to its previous 
submissions about alleged breaches of The Timeshare Act 1992 by C and GE Money. In 
particular, S argued that a failure to provide information required by that legislation in this 
timeshare agreement means C committed an offence, the withdrawal period is extended 
from 14 days to 3 months and 10 days and no advance payment can be made during this 
period - but GE Money made such a payment to C. 
S considers making an advance payment within the extended withdrawal period means GE 
Money acted in breach of timeshare legislation and it also negligently breached a duty of 
care owed to Mr M and Mrs M. S thinks this, not only renders the relationship between Mrs 
M and Mr M and GE Money unfair under section 140A, but also extends the limitation period 
for such a claim under section 14A LA. S argued that the section 140A CCA claim is not time 
barred therefore - because time only started to run (under section 14A LA) three years from 
the date that Mr M and Mrs M became aware of the breach - which was in October 2020, 
when they approached S for advice.
I wasnt persuaded to change my mind but, in light of the new submissions and additional 
arguments S raised, I thought it was fair to explain why in more detail in a second provisional 
decision - and give the parties the chance to consider this and respond (if they wanted to) 
before I made my final decision. Ive summarised the findings set out in my second 
provisional decision (which also forms part of my final decision) below. 
My second provisional decision
In my second provisional decision I said I thought the crux of this matter is whether time for 
bringing the section 140A CCA claim can be extended under section 14A LA. I wasnt 
persuaded it can for the reasons Id given already - and I expanded upon this further.
Relevant UK timeshare legislation
S referred in correspondence to various provisions under UK timeshare legislation - 
including the Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations
2010 (the 2010 Regulations). S acknowledged that Mr M and Mrs M took out this timeshare 
agreement in 2002 and the relevant timeshare legislation is the Timeshare Act 1992 (the 
1992 Act) as amended by The Timeshare Regulations 1997. The 1992 Act was repealed 
and replaced (following EU Directive 2008/122/EC) under the 2010 Regulations which came 
into force in February 2011 so I was satisfied that the 2010 legislation does not apply to Mr 
M and Mrs Ms timeshare agreement.
Section 14A LA
I set out the wording of this provision and explained why I cant see that GE Money owed Mr 
M and Mrs M the sort of duty of care required. I was satisfied that their claim against GE 
Money under section 140A is purely financial  that is, not a loss which is dependent on 
personal injury or direct property damage - and this type of loss is not generally recoverable 
in negligence unless (broadly speaking) theres been an assumption of responsibility by the 
allegedly negligent party (such as in the provision of professional services or advice). I 
thought GE Money had an obligation, in this instance, to supply sufficient information about 
the finance in order to enable Mr M and Mrs M to decide if they wanted to take this out. But 
Id seen nothing to show that GE Money took on a higher obligation (by providing advice, for 
example) and I couldnt see that a duty of care arises to which section 14A would apply. The 
requirement for GE Money to provide information was in connection with the loan agreement - not any associated purchase  and GE Money wasnt required to supply information in 
connection with the timeshare agreement itself.
I thought S may also be suggesting that GE Money had a relevant duty of care because it
was required to protect borrowers from purchasing timeshare products/entering into
timeshare agreements that didnt comply with timeshare legislation. I wasnt satisfied that 
this timeshare agreement was non-compliant but, even if I accepted that, I saw no
grounds to find GE Money was required to ensure that any such agreement complied with
the relevant legislation. I thought an obligation like that would require a level of due diligence
thats not generally required of a lender in this situation. I said Id need some compelling 
evidence to show that GE Money assumed such responsibility. Id seen nothing to suggest 
thats the case and I wasnt persuaded its likely.
Finally, S stated that GE Money itself breached timeshare legislation directly by making an
advance payment within the withdrawal period - which amounts to negligence. By this I think
S is referring to Regulation 10 of the 1997 Regulations. I was satisfied that GE Money wasnt 
the offeror referred to in the relevant legislation so, even if I were to accept the withdrawal 
period was extended as suggested, I wasnt persuaded that GE Money breached the 
relevant legislation by making any advance payment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
S provided a very detailed response to my second provisional decision (over 21 pages with 
several documents annexed) which I have considered carefully. Im not going to repeat all of 
Ss submissions here. I think they include a number of points that have been raised before, 
Im satisfied Ive dealt with those already and nothing that S has said has persuaded me to 
change my mind. 
Im grateful to S for clarifying that it accepts C was the offeror under the 1992 Act (as I said 
in my provisional decision) and responsibility for ensuring compliance with the legislation 
rested directly with C not GE Money. 
I note S disagrees with my interpretation of sections 140A CCA, 14A LA and the 1992 
Timeshare Act in particular - as far as this legislation relates to Mr M and Mrs Ms claim. S 
goes on to address the merits of the section 140A claim but, for the reasons Ive given 
already, I remain satisfied thats out of time under the LA. 
S seeks to persuade me that time should be extended under section 14A LA  it says Mr M 
and Mrs Ms claim is not purely financial  it relates to a timeshare purchase so it is property 
related. And there is an assumption of responsibility by C who was GE Moneys agent 
(under section 56 CCA) and the negligent party that sold the timeshare to Mr M and Mrs M. 
Im not persuaded by these arguments. I think S is confusing the role of section 56 CCA in 
an assessment of unfairness under section 140A with the grounds to extend time under 
section 14A LA. And, for the reasons explained already, I remain of the view section 14A 
does not apply in the circumstances here.  
S has made reference to a decision made by another ombudsman which was considered 
recently by the courts. That wasnt concerned with limitation and it involved a different type 
of timeshare to the one Mr M and Mrs M purchased here and Im not persuaded the outcome 
of that other decision impacts on what I have to consider in this case.  
Ive dealt with Ss arguments (insofar as theyre material and relevant to my reaching a fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint). And, for the reasons set out, I remain of the view 
this claim was brought too late under the LA - nothing thats been said or sent to us has 
persuaded me to change my mind. Im satisfied that section 14A doesnt apply in these 
particular circumstances. I think any section 140A claim is likely to have been made outside 
relevant time limits, I consider its reasonable to take that into account and I cant fairly 
require GE Money to do anything further. 
I realise this decision is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr M and Mrs M and Im sorry 
if they feel let down Theyre not obliged to accept what Ive said however - in which case it 
remains open to them to pursue this matter by any other means available. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is I am unable to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman