DRN-1623444
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that a valuation, carried out when they applied for a mortgage with 
Northern Bank Limited (t/a Danske Bank), missed problems with their new property that 
theyve had to pay to put right. And they would like Danske Bank to cover the cost. 
What happened
In 2019 Mr and Mrs S were looking to move home. They applied for a mortgage with Danske 
Bank that would be secured on their new home. As part of the mortgage application process 
Danske Bank instructed a valuation of the property.
The valuation said a specialist report on timber was required for mortgage purposes. But 
otherwise the property was considered a suitable security.
The application process completed successfully, and Mr and Mrs S moved into their new 
home. After doing so an electrical contractor informed them that the house needed to be 
completely re-wired. Mr and Mrs S paid for this work to be carried out. 
Mr and Mrs S complained to Danske Bank that the problems that meant the electrical work 
was required were not noticed as part of the valuation. And if they had been Mr and Mrs S 
say they couldve negotiated a reduced price. They were also unhappy that Danske Bank 
had spelt their names incorrectly on correspondence.
Danske Bank apologised for the mis-spelling of Mr and Mrs S names and paid them £50 for 
the upset this had caused. In relation to the valuation however it said that it didnt feel it had 
done anything wrong and was not liable for the costs incurred.
Unhappy with the response regarding the survey, Mr and Mrs S asked our service to look 
into this issue - as they felt Danske Bank had acted with a lack of professionalism and 
diligence.
An investigator considered the complaint but didnt think that Danske Bank had done 
anything wrong. He said the valuation was just for Danske Banks purposes and it had 
instructed a suitably qualified valuer and was entitled to rely on their professional guidance  
which was that the property was a suitable security.
Mr and Mrs S did not agree with the investigators opinion. As a result, the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As part of a mortgage application, it is standard practice for lenders to instruct a valuation of 
a property. But the purpose of these lenders valuations is normally just to make sure that 
the property is a suitable security (worth what they are being asked to lend) rather than an 
in-depth survey. These valuations are not expected to assess every potential issue or defect 
within a property  and buyers are often encouraged to commission their own report to do 
that, before purchasing a property. A lenders valuation isnt usually carried out by the lender 
themselves, as they are not experts in property valuation. The lender will instead instruct an 
appropriately qualified independent party. 
The valuation of Mr and Mrs S property said that the report was prepared for Danske Bank 
for mortgage lending purposes and included an explanation that This valuation report has 
been prepared solely to enable the bank to determine whether there is adequate security for 
the mortgage required. If you have not already obtained your own independent survey the 
Bank strongly recommends that you take this course of action. So, I think this made it clear 
that the purpose of the report was solely to establish if the property was a suitable security.
Danske Bank instructed a suitably qualified valuer to carry out the valuation. And it was 
entitled to rely on the opinion of that valuer when deciding if the property was acceptable 
security and if it was willing to lend. Based on the report it received, it decided it was willing 
to accept the application. I havent seen anything to suggest that Danske Bank said its 
valuations had assessed the property further than this. So overall, I dont think it has done 
anything wrong when reaching its decision to lend.
Mr and Mrs S were selling a property when they moved into their new one. And the person 
that bought their old property also took a mortgage through Danske Bank, requiring a 
valuation. That buyer provided Mr and Mrs S a copy of the valuation carried out on their old 
home. And Mr and Mrs S have shared it with us. That valuation said that a specialist 
electrical report was required. So, Mr and Mrs S say that the same shouldve been required 
in respect of their new property. And if it had, the issue wouldve been identified. So, they 
say Danske Bank didnt carry out the valuation with due diligence. 
But again, Danske Bank didnt carry out the valuation here. It instructed an independent 
party. And my remit doesnt extend to questioning the content of the valuation. And I dont 
think Danske Bank could reasonably have been expected to question the survey further 
either. The valuations we carried out by two different independent experts on two different 
properties. Although the properties were part of the same chain, just because a certain type 
of report was required in respect of one property, I dont think that is enough to say that 
Danske Bank shouldve questioned the valuers report in respect of the other property and 
insisted on further expert reports. 
I know Mr and Mrs S feel strongly about this. And I understand that finding out that additional 
work was required when they moved into their new property wouldve been upsetting  
especially as moving house can be a stressful experience. But based on what Ive seen I 
cant see that Danske Bank has made an error or that I can reasonably require it to pay the 
costs incurred for the electrical work. So, it follows that I dont uphold their complaint.
 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above my decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman