DRN-3004189
The complaint
  This complaint is about a mortgage Mr C and Ms R held until recently with Barclays Bank 
UK PLC. Theyre unhappy and being misled about how Barclays handled additional 
payments they made to the account. They also say it gave contradictory information about 
the duration of the mortgage product and the associated early repayment charge (ERC). Mr 
C and Ms R have since repaid the mortgage, and believe the ERC they paid on doing so 
should be refunded.
What happened
By way of a provisional decision issued on 6 August 2021, I set out, with reasons, the basis 
on which I intended to determine the complaint. The following is an extract from that 
provisional decision.
Contradictory information about the duration of the mortgage product and ERC
Barclays addressed this issue in a final response dated 7 May 2020.
Mr C and Ms R took the mortgage out in 2015; it was on a fixed rate until 2025, and subject 
to an ERC if repaid before then. The ERC was calculated on a sliding-scale basis, 
depending on when repayment takes place causing it to fall due. The details are as follows:
6% of the amount repaid up to 31 December 2022;
3% of the amount repaid between 1 January 2023 and 31 December 2025.
Mr C and Ms R received payment change notices that were phrased in a way that suggested 
the ERC would end on 31 December 2022. They took this to mean no ERC was applicable 
after that date but this wasnt the case. It just meant that the 6% ERC would come to an end 
on 31 December 2022. The 3% ERC would then take its place.  
Barclays acknowledged the lack of clarity in its final response of 7 May 2020 and offered 
£150 compensation. I think thats fair and proportionate response. The starting point here is 
the mortgage contract Mr C and Ms R and Barclays entered into in 2015; under that, they 
were liable to pay an ERC if they paid the debt back before 31 December 2025. A contract is 
capable of being varied, but a payment notice containing less than clear information isnt a 
contract variation.
When a business gives misleading information, we dont put the consumer in the position 
theyd be in if the misleading information had been right; we put them in the position theyd 
be in if the right information had been given. Barclays gave Mr C and Ms R information that, 
whilst not incorrect or inaccurate, was incomplete; thats why it was potentially misleading. 
But it didnt put Mr C and Ms R in a different position from the one theyd have been in if the 
information had been clearer. 
The simple and unavoidable fact is that Mr C and Ms R, by virtue of the agreement they 
entered into in 2015, were liable for an ERC if they repaid the mortgage before 
31 December 2025, but the percentage would be lower after 31 December 2022. All the 
misleading information did was temporarily raise their expectations, and the final response of 
7 May 2020 removed any ambiguity entirely.
How Barclays handled the additional payments
Barclays addressed this issue in a final response dated 5 October 2020.
Mr C and Ms R made several additional payments to bring down the mortgage balance more 
quickly than scheduled. All bar the last (a payment of £8,000) were applied as 
over-payments: the £8,000 was applied as a part-redemption. The distinction here is that in 
Barclayss system, both transactions reduce the balance immediately, but part-redemptions 
reduce the monthly payment going forward, which Mr C and Ms R didnt want.
Barclays said in its final response that it wasnt possible to convert the part-redemption to an 
over-payment. During the course of our investigation, Barclays confirmed it would be able to 
do that after all. Our investigator said Barclays should pay £100 compensation for the 
confusion this had created at a time when Mr C and Ms R were trying to move the mortgage 
and were unsure how much they owed. 
Again, I consider that fair and proportionate. Mr C and Ms R didnt lose out financially over 
the way Barclays handled the £8,000 additional payment. But they were put to a lot of time 
and trouble, for which I consider £100 compensation fair redress. Thats not the end of 
things however.
Mr C and Ms R have said that all of the confusion and contradictory information undermined 
their confidence in Barclays ability to administer their mortgage correctly, such that they felt 
compelled to repay it and move to a different lender altogether. That meant paying an ERC, 
and they believe they should have that back. I go there next. 
Incurring an ERC on redeeming the mortgage
Our investigator said she wouldnt be able to consider this as Mr C and Ms R hadnt yet 
raised this with Barclays, so it could issue a final response. Barclays may not have issued a 
formal final response on this issue; however, it has been informed of the issue by our 
investigator, and has responded saying it doesnt consider a refund of the ERC is justified. In 
my view, that is sufficient to allow me to address the matter.
As I explained earlier, an ERC was due under the mortgage contract if it was repaid before 
31 December 2025. If it was repaid before 31 December 2022, the ERC was 6%. Any 
ambiguity about that was removed by the final response of 7 May 2020, so Im satisfied Mr C 
and Ms R redeemed the mortgage knowing theyd pay an ERC. 
I appreciate their sense of grievance but taking a step back and looking at the case 
independently (as Im required to do) I cant find any grounds for saying the ERC should be 
refunded.
Mr C and Ms R didnt have to redeem the Barclays mortgage; they chose to do so. The 
choice was between changing lender and paying the ERC or staying with Barclays and 
giving it a chance to restore their damaged faith in it. 
That may have been a choice between two unwelcome alternatives, but it was still a choice 
and in making it, Mr C and Ms R knew theyd incur the ERC. Mr C and Ms R will have had 
their own reasons for going elsewhere and Im certainly not going to criticise them for making 
the decision they made. It was their right, but it was also their decision, and they must accept 
what flowed from it.The parties were given until 20 August 2021 to make any further comments. Neither has 
said anything further.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Ive considered afresh everything that both parties have said and provided. Having done 
so, there arent any grounds for me to depart from my provisional decision. 
  
My final decision
  My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order Barclays Bank UK PLC to 
pay Mr C and Ms R £250. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Miss R 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 September 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman