DRN-3265204
The complaint
Mr D complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc trading as M&S Bank delayed 
an online payment he made, causing him inconvenience and embarrassment.
What happened
On 18 November 2020 Mr D attempted to make several payments via online banking for the 
purchase of a car. He says that he setup the sellers payment details and made two test 
payments of £10 and £90 to check that the payments were received. There was an error 
with making these payments, which M&S established was due to the system needing to 
update overnight as the payee had only just been set up.
The next day, at around 1.30pm, Mr D transferred the balance of £2200 to the seller using 
online banking.
This payment didnt reach the payee as quickly as the previous two payments. M&S Bank 
says that this was due to the payment needing verification from the banks security team to 
ensure Mr D wasnt falling victim of fraud or a scam. It attempted to call Mr D at 3.17pm that 
day, but he wasnt able to speak. M&S Bank called Mr D again at 4.33pm and was able to 
verify the nature of the payment, so the payment was cleared for release. 
A few hours later the seller of the vehicle told Mr D that the payment was still showing as 
pending is their account. Mr D explains this was embarrassing, as the seller was waiting to 
drop the car off  but was unwilling to do so until they had the cleared funds in their account.  
Mr D contacted M&S Bank at around 7.00pm and was told that the funds have definitely 
been released, and that theyd arrive with the seller at the latest the next morning. The funds 
then arrived at around 8.30pm and the transaction was completed. 
Mr D complained about the ordeal he had to go through to make sure he was able to pay for 
the car on time. Hes explained that the situation caused him a lot of Hes explained that the 
situation caused him a lot of stress, not only because of the service M&S Bank offered, but 
also at the possibility of losing out on the car purchase. 
M&S Bank responded to Mr Ds complaint and accepted that it could have dealt with things 
in a better way. In particular it said that one of the phone calls Mr D made lasted too long  
and it paid him £50 for the inconvenience of that. It didnt agree that it had made a mistake 
when delaying the payment, as it said it was following its security processes. As Mr D was 
unhappy with M&S Banks response, he referred his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked at everything, but he didnt recommend the complaint was upheld. 
Whilst he empathised with the situation Mr D found himself in, he thought the £50 M&S had 
paid was sufficient to apologise for the inconvenience M&S Bank had caused, And he didnt 
think the payment had been unnecessarily delayed, so he didnt recommend that M&S Bank 
should do anything else to put things right. 
As Mr D didnt agree with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know thisll likely come as a disappointment to Mr D but Im afraid Im not upholding his 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
There are two points that Ive considered here  firstly, the service M&S Bank offered to Mr 
D during the process of trying to make the payment. And secondly, whether the delay to the 
payment was fair and reasonable, albeit inconvenient to Mr D. 
M&S Bank has provided recording s of the calls between it and Mr D. From the first call its 
clear that there was an issue with M&S Banks system. Whilst the representative attempted 
to help Mr D, I do think the call couldve been better-handled if Mr D had been told that the 
error was arising as the payee had just been set up, and that hed need to wait until the next 
day. 
Mr D called M&S Bank again the next day and the representative was able to help him to 
use the mobile app, as well as make the second payment for £90 that he wanted to make.
Following this call, Mr made the larger payment of £2200 a few hours later. The payment 
wasnt sent immediately as it was flagged by M&S Banks fraud team, which tried to call Mr 
D to verify the payment. In the first call Mr D explained that he was driving, so the call was 
ended, and it was agreed that M&S would call him back in around an hour. M&S Bank did 
this and called Mr D back when it said it would, and the verification process was successfully 
completed. So I dont think M&S Bank caused any unnecessary delays here as it acted 
quickly to verify the payment when it needed to.  
Turning to the third call that Mr D made to M&S bank on the evening of 19 November, after 
verifying the payment with the fraud team, I do agree that this call was unnecessarily long. 
As the funds still hadnt been received by the beneficiary it was clear that the situation 
worried Mr D and I can certainly understand that he wouldve been anxious about losing the 
car purchase, or indeed, where his money had gone. In the circumstances I think it was right 
for M&S to recognise this inconvenience and the distress it caused Mr D.
Having considered this, I think the £50 M&S Bank has paid to Mr D in recognition of the poor 
service during the hour-long phone call is fair. Whilst Mr D had made a number of phone 
calls overall, M&S Bank helped him fairly efficiently in the other calls. And given that the 
length of this call didnt lead to any other unintended consequences, I think £50 to recognise 
the level of inconvenience is appropriate in the circumstances.
Ive now gone on to think about the reason that the payment was delayed in reaching the 
payee  to see whether M&S Bank made an error in terms of the payment service that it 
provided to Mr D. To do this Ive carefully reviewed the terms and conditions for Mr Ds 
account, as well as thinking about whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances as a 
whole. 
I should start by explaining that its fairly common for banks to perform random security 
verifications on payments made from customers account. This is part of the banks duty to 
protect its customers from fraud and scams and in fact Id be concerned if M&S Bank hadnt 
verified this payment  which was fairly large, and was the third payment to the same payee 
within two days. I do, though, recognise that this doesnt always work to the customers 
advantage in terms of convenience and speed. But I dont think that on the whole this should 
override the banks responsibility in this respect. M&S Banks terms and conditions, under the WHEN PAYMENTS WILL AND WILL NOT BE 
MADE BY US section explain:
13.4. There may be a delay in carrying out your instructions while fraud prevention checks 
take place.
Later in the document, under the section related to electronic funds transfers, they state:
18.2. The maximum execution times for payments to reach the Recipients bank are as 
follows:
 Electronic Fund Transfers  same day.
Having thought about what this means for Mr Ds complaint, I havent concluded that M&S 
Bank acted unfairly, or outside of its own processes. Whilst the payment was delayed, the 
delay was for a legitimate reason of fraud prevention. And the funds were released and 
received by the beneficiary on the same day as the payment was made, although later than 
Mr D wouldve liked, and several hours after they were sent. But I dont think that was 
unreasonable on M&S Banks part, nor outside of what it sets out in its terms and conditions.
Overall, having considered everything, Im satisfied that M&S Bank has appropriately 
recognised the poor service it gave to Mr D during the unnecessarily long phone call on the 
evening of 19 November 2020 by paying him £50 compensation. But I havent found that 
M&S Bank acted unfairly by performing additional security checks on the payment Mr D 
made, as although it delayed the payment slightly, it still reached the payee on the same 
day, and it was done in Mr Ds best interests.
Id like to reassure Mr D that Ive thought very carefully about his complaint. But having done 
so, for the reasons Ive set out above, I havent concluded that M&S Bank has treated him 
unfairly. So I dont require M&S Bank to do anything further to put things right.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint against Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc trading as 
M&S Bank.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Sam Wade
Ombudsman