DRN-3890438
The complaint
Mr K and Mrs K complain about UK Insurance Limited (UKI) who did not reimburse their 
trace and access costs in full, following a claim under their commercial property insurance. 
What happened
Mr K and Mrs K had a leak at their rental property. They contacted an independent 
contractor to carry out a trace and access of the leak. They said that the contractor attended 
the property on three separate occasions and charged them a total cost of £1,840.80. 
Mr K and Mrs K felt that the contractors costs were excessive. Especially as the contractor 
told them that although they had found the leak, it would cost a further £3,000 to repair the 
leak. Mr K and Mrs K had already paid the £1,840.80 and were not prepared to pay anything 
further. They then registered a claim with UKI.  
UKI accepted the claim and carried out repairs to Mr K and Mrs Ks property. Mr K and Mrs 
K asked UKI to reimburse the costs of the trace and access. But UKI would only initially 
reimburse a total of £690 (less the policy excess of £500), which was the cost it said it 
wouldve incurred had it sent a contractor to carry out the trace and access. UKI told Mr K 
and Mrs K that their independent contractors charges were not reasonable.  
Mr K and Mrs K complained to UKI as they said the terms and conditions of the policy 
provided a policy limit of up to £25,000. So, they felt that UKI should reimburse the costs, as 
they believed the costs were within the limit.  And they werent aware that the contractor 
would try to rip them off. 
In its final response, UKI reiterated that it would pay up to the reasonably incurred costs, that 
is, what it would have been charged had its contractor carried out the trace and access. Mr K 
and Mrs K were unhappy with this and referred a complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She 
said that UKI had offered to reimburse what it wouldve cost for its contractor to carry out the 
trace and access, which was fair. Also, during the investigations, UKI offered to increase this 
amount by a further £230.40 plus interest, which it paid to Mr K and Mrs K. Our investigator 
thought this was also fair. 
She also said that while the liability of the trace and access was up to £25,000, this didnt 
mean that policyholders were entitled to reimbursement of any costs. It did mean that the 
costs had to be reasonably incurred. And as UKI (and indeed Mr K and Mrs K) deemed that 
the charges for the trace and access were excessive, it meant that UKI was fair not to cover 
the entire costs. 
UKI accepted the view, Mr K and Mrs K did not. They reiterated that the policy limit for trace 
and access was £25,000. And that what is deemed a reasonable cost is subjective. They 
also said that what insurers considered reasonable was up to them. They considered the 
costs for the trace and access were reasonable at the time. And they pointed out that it was 
only after the insurer refused to pay those costs and deemed them unreasonable, is when 
the trouble started. So, they asked for a decision from an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Mr and Mrs K, but I hope my 
findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Mr K and Mrs Ks commercial property had a leak. They chose to instruct an independent 
contractor to carry out a trace and access. For this service, they were charged and paid a 
total of around £1,840.80. This complaint relates to the reimbursement of these costs from 
UKI. 
UKI said that it would only reimburse what it would have been charged from its contractor, 
had Mr K and Mrs K contacted them to carry out the trace and access. UKI agreed to pay in 
total £920.40, less the policy excess of £500 but plus interest. 
Mr K and Mrs K said that as the limit under the policy for trace and access was £25,000 and 
the costs were less than the limit, UKI ought to reimburse them the full costs. 
I have looked at the policy terms and conditions regarding trace and access and it states: 
Trace and Access. In the event of Damage of Contingencies 10 or 11 the insurance by this 
Section extends to include costs necessarily and reasonably incurred in locating the source 
of the Damage to effect repairs and the costs of making good up to a limit of £25,000 in 
respect of any one claim.
From this, the policy makes it clear that UKI will only pay costs that have been reasonably 
incurred. From what Ive read, both parties agree that the costs were excessive. Whilst I 
accept that there was a policy limit of £25,000, this does not afford Mr K and Mrs K 
reimbursement of any costs. I think it does afford them reimbursement of reasonable costs. 
Our approach is we would only expect an insurer to pay what it wouldve paid for a trace and 
access survey. Here UKI wasnt afforded the opportunity to enlist their own contractors 
because Mr K and Mrs K had already outsourced this to their chosen contractor.  
Consequently, I think UKI was fair and reasonable to offer to reimburse Mr K and Mrs Ks 
reasonable costs, which was based on what it wouldve paid its contractor for a trace and 
access survey. 
Taking everything into account, whilst I understand how disappointed Mr K and Mrs K will be 
and I do sympathise with their experience from their independent contractor, Im satisfied 
that UKI were fair and reasonable to reimburse a total of £920.40 (less excess of £500, but 
plus interest) towards the trace and access costs. Accordingly, I cant fairly ask UKI to do 
anything more to resolve this complaint. My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman