DRN-3688758
The complaint
A company, which I will refer to as H, complains about the decision of The New India 
Assurance Company Limited to decline its business interruption insurance claim, made as a 
result of the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
H operates as a care home and held an industry specific commercial insurance policy, 
underwritten by New India. In May 2020, H contacted New India to claim for loss of income 
as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. New India declined the claim, saying that the policy 
required H to have been, at least partially, closed by order of a public authority  but that this 
had not happened in the circumstances of Hs claim. 
H complained, saying that following an outbreak of COVID-19 at its premises, amongst other 
issues, it had stopped admitting new residents  effectively closing this part of its business. 
When New India did not alter its decision, H brought its complaint to the Ombudsman 
Service. However, our Investigator didnt think New India had made an inappropriate 
decision, so he did not recommend Hs complaint be upheld. 
As H remains unhappy, its complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on H, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy effectively provides cover where there has been an occurrence of COVID-19 
within an area around the premises, and it is accepted that there were most likely 
occurrences. However, the policy also requires that this then leads to a public authority 
ordering the closure of the whole or part of the premises.  
Whilst many businesses in England were closed by the restrictions introduced by the 
Government in March 2020, care homes were not. They were allowed to continue to provide 
care to existing residents and also to admit new residents  including those being 
discharged from hospital who were in some cases still testing positive for COVID-19. 
The Government did issue guidance on the admission of new residents, including 
Admission and care of residents in a care home during COVID-19, originally published in 
April 2020. But it is clear from this publication that care homes were able to continue to admit 
new residents. 
I do note that H suffered an outbreak of COVID-19 at its premises. The guidance above 
included a section referring to the actions to be taken in such circumstances. As well as 
measures around isolation and the use of personal protective equipment, the guidance said:
The HPT may advise that restrictions may need to be implemented for 28 days. 
For example, they may advise closure of home to further admissions, recognising 
this is usually the care home managers decision in discussion with their 
commissioners (and alerting the CCG and local authority).
This does make it clear that in some situations the HPT (Health Protection Team  part of 
Public Health England), may advise closure of the care home to further admissions. 
However, H has said that although Public Health England were consulted, no visit was made 
to its premises. And so, it does not seem that H was actually advised to close or stop 
admitting further residents. 
It seems that H made the assessment of whether it ought to close/stop further admissions 
itself. Whilst the reasons for such a decision are understandable, the question I need to 
determine is whether this was an insured event. In the absence of any order from a 
competent public authority, I am unable to fairly conclude that the requirements of the policy 
have been met. 
I am sympathetic to the situation H found itself in. And I understand that the decision it took 
was made for the protection of its staff and residents. However, as this was a decision taken 
without an order from a public authority, I am satisfied New Indias decline of the claim was 
in line with Hs policy, and in all the circumstances of this case fair and reasonable.
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means New India should have met Hs claim. I know this decision will be 
disappointing for Hs directors, but I hope Ive provided them with a thorough explanation of 
why this policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman