DRN-1534844
 
The complaint
This is a complaint that AXA France IARD (formerly trading as Financial Insurance Company 
Limited) mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to Mrs R. AXA didnt actually sell the 
policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller.  
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out by Mrs R in 1998 to protect her repayments 
on a store card if she was unable to work because of an accident, sickness or 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs R didnt agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
When Mrs R referred her complaint to this service she said that she thought shed taken out 
the PPI in store when she was applying for her card. And she said that she took it out 
because she thought it was compulsory. However, AXA have provided evidence from their 
computer records which show the PPI was sold to her during a telephone call in 
February 1998, some months after her store card account had already been set up. But 
Mrs R still thinks she was pressured into taking out the PPI when she didnt really need the 
cover.
Unfortunately, AXA doesnt have a recording of the call - or a call script - from when the PPI 
policy was sold. And Mrs R doesnt seem to have much memory of the call either. Thats not 
that surprising though given how long ago it took place. But from what we know about AXAs 
sales practices at around this time, I think its more likely than not that the telephone agent 
would have been prompted to make clear to Mrs R that the PPI policy was optional. And as 
the sale took place after shed been successful in applying for her account, I think she would 
have known that she didnt need to agree to take the PPI to get her store card. 
I accept that its possible the salesperson Mrs R spoke to on the phone did use undue 
pressure to get her to take out the policy. But Mrs Rs recall of what happened then doesnt 
appear to be that vivid or detailed, so I dont think it would be fair for me to conclude that the 
salesperson wrongly pressured her in this way, based only on what she now thinks 
happened well over twenty years later.
So, on balance, I think its most likely that Mrs R actively decided to take out the PPI policy 
knowing she could choose not to. But I can understand why she may not recall this now.From what Ive seen, I dont think that AXA recommended the PPI to Mrs R. This means it 
didnt have to ensure that it was suitable for her. But it did still need to give her enough 
information so that she could decide if it met her needs. I think its possible that AXA could 
have given Mrs R better information about the policy than it did. But I dont think better 
information would have changed her mind about buying the policy. I say this because:
 
Mrs R appears to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions and limitations.
 
Mrs R says she was entitled to sick pay from her employer and had some savings 
she could have used for a time to make her repayments if she couldnt work. She 
also says she could have relied on her partner and relations to support her financially 
if needed. But this policy would have paid out in addition to Mrs Rs sick pay and any 
savings she had, and for much longer than these would have lasted. And the policy 
would have been more secure than having to rely on others for support. So I think 
she would still have valued the peace of mind the policy gave her.
 
I cant see any real reason why the policy wouldnt have been affordable for Mrs R. 
And as she paid the policys premiums monthly, she could have cancelled it if it no 
longer met her needs.
 
So I dont think that Mrs R has lost out by anything that AXA may have done wrong when it 
sold her this policy.
Ive thought carefully about what Mrs R has said about why she still thinks the policy was 
mis-sold, but Im afraid this hasnt changed my opinion that her complaint shouldnt be 
upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding Mrs Rs complaint against AXA France IARD. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman