DRN-3294690
The complaint
Ms R and Mr T complain that Society of Lloyds has turned down a cancellation claim they 
made on a corporate travel insurance policy.
What happened
Ms R and Mr T are insured under a corporate annual travel insurance policy. In January 
2020, Ms R and Mr T booked a multi-centre holiday to three countries which Ill call S, F and 
A. They were due to travel on 8 May 2020 and return on 29 May 2020. Theyd booked flights 
with three different airlines. On 9 March 2020, one of the airlines let Ms R and Mr T know 
that itd changed their flight itinerary and offered them a new flight date. This date wasnt 
convenient for Ms R and Mr T though, so they requested a refund for this flight instead.
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic. On 
17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  formerly the 
FCO) advised UK nationals against all but essential travel abroad. As government closed its 
borders to all non-nationals on 20 March 2020. 
A second airline based in A - with which Ms R and Mr T had booked flights - contacted Ms R 
and Mr T on 21 March 2020, to let them know that it had suspended operations until 14 June 
2020. It stated that this was due to the governments travel restrictions and Covid-19.
Subsequently on 23 March 2020, S government imposed restrictions which meant that 
short-term visitors couldnt enter and exit the country. The UK government also announced 
wide-ranging restrictions on movement on 23 March 2020, which were commonly referred to 
as lockdown.
Ms R and Mr T cancelled their trip. They were able to recover the majority of their costs 
through their travel providers and through section 75 claims they made from their credit card 
provider. However, they were unable to recover the costs of the two flights Ive mentioned 
above  a total cost of £684.60. So they made a claim on their travel insurance policy. The 
claim form was dated 27 March 2020.
Lloyds turned down Ms R and Mr Ts claim. It said the cancellation section of the policy 
contained specific exclusions which applied to the circumstances of Ms R and Mr Ts claim. 
Briefly, these were: claims arising from a change in a policyholders plans which was down 
to the service provider; claims caused by the regulation of any government and claims which 
were caused by a pandemic. On this basis, Lloyds said the claim wasnt covered by the 
policy terms. It did acknowledge though that it hadnt handled the claim as well as it couldve 
done and so it paid Ms R and Mr T £150 compensation to reflect this.
Ms R and Mr T were unhappy with Lloyds decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She felt that the cancellation of 
Ms R and Mr Ts flight on 9 March 2020 represented a change of plan by their service 
provider. And she thought it was fair to conclude that the second flight had been cancelled 
because of the Covid-19 pandemic and because of government restrictions. So she 
concluded itd been fair for Lloyds to rely on its policy exclusions to turn down Ms R and Mr 
Ts claim.
Ms R and Mr T partly disagreed. They broadly accepted that the flight cancelled on 21 March 
2020 did fall within the scope of the policy exclusions. But they felt that the changed itinerary 
theyd been offered on 9 March 2020 was a stealth flight cancellation. They considered that 
this was covered by the policy terms.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Ms R and Mr T, I think it was fair for Lloyds to 
turn down their claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms and conditions of Ms R and Mr Ts policy and the circumstances of their claim to 
decide whether Lloyds treated them fairly.
I understand that the situation in which Ms R and Mr T found themselves was completely 
unprecedented and outside of their control. I also understand, that when the holiday was 
booked in January 2020, the circumstances which unfolded surrounding Covid-19 couldnt 
have been foreseen by either policyholders or by insurers. 
However, no insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide 
what level of risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. Therefore, 
Lloyds obligations under its contract with Ms R and Mr T are limited by the terms, conditions 
and exclusions which are set out in the policy. 
The terms of Ms R and Mr Ts contract with Lloyds says that it will cover cancellation 
charges for which a policyholder is legally liable as a result of the necessary and 
unavoidable cancellation of the entirety of a policyholders trip due to specific, sudden, 
unforeseen and verifiable circumstances which are beyond a policyholders control.
However, the cancellation section of the policy also sets a list of specific events which 
Lloyds doesnt cover. These include the following events:
an increase in cost, application of surcharge or other change to YOUR plans by any 
service provider;
any losses arising from the order or regulation, including enactment and/or 
enforcement of such order or regulation, of any Government;
any losses arising from an epidemic or pandemic as categorised as such by any 
Government and/or the World Health Organisation.
In this case, Ms R and Mr T seem to accept that the flight which was cancelled on 21 March 
2020 isnt covered by the policy terms and so I dont think I need to consider this point in 
detail. For completeness though, I too find that it was fair for Lloyds to conclude that the cost 
of this flight was specifically excluded from cover. Thats because the email from the airline says:
(Airline) has announced the temporary suspension of all international services from 30 
March to 14 June 2020 in response to expanded government travel restrictions and the 
rapidly changing COVID-19 situation.
The World Health Organisation had declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic on 11 March 2020 
 10 days before this email was sent. The email makes specific reference to Covid-19 being 
a cause of flight suspensions. And I note the email also refers specifically to the fact that 
services were suspended in response to government travel restrictions. So in my view, it 
was fair for Lloyds to conclude that this claim fell within the scope of both the government 
restrictions and pandemic exclusions Ive outlined above.
Ive next thought about the flight which was changed by Ms R and Mr Ts airline on 9 March 
2020. Ive looked closely at the email they were sent. In summary, this stated that Ms R and 
Mr Ts itinerary had changed and proposed a new itinerary. It apologised for any 
inconvenience the changes mightve caused.
The email doesnt say why the airline changed the flight. Theres no indication that it was 
because of likely government restrictions. And Im mindful that on 9 March 2020, the World 
Health Organisation hadnt yet deemed Covid-19 to be a pandemic. So I dont think either 
the government action or pandemic exclusions could reasonably be applied to this part of 
the claim. 
However, its also clear that this airline didnt cancel Ms R and Mr Ts flight. It specifically 
stated that the itinerary had changed. And as Ive set out above, the cancellation section of 
the policy specifically excludes claims which arise from a change to a policyholders plans 
because of a service providers actions. As such then, I think it was fair for Lloyds to 
conclude that the circumstances of this part of the claim fell squarely within the scope of the 
exclusion clause. This means I think it was fair for Lloyds to turn down this part of the claim.
I sympathise with Ms R and Mr Ts position because I appreciate theyve been left out of 
pocket for reasons beyond their control. But overall, I find that Lloyds was reasonably 
entitled to rely on its policy terms to turn down their claim. 
Lloyds recognised that it hadnt dealt with Ms R and Mr Ts claim as promptly as it could and 
shouldve done. It paid them compensation of £150 to recognise its errors. I think this was 
fair compensation to reflect the likely frustration and inconvenience Lloyds errors caused Ms 
R and Mr T. So Im not directing Lloyds to pay anything more.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint,
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman