DRN-2582070
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain because ERGO Reiseversicherung AG hasnt paid a claim under 
their travel insurance policy.
All references to ERGO include the agents it has appointed to handle claims.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs M held a travel insurance policy, provided by ERGO.
Unfortunately, Mrs M had an accident on holiday and was taken by ambulance to a private
hospital. Mr M contacted ERGO to tell it what had happened and ERGO said if Mrs M was
admitted, shed need to be transferred to the nearest government hospital.
Mrs M was subsequently admitted to the private hospital and ERGO emailed the hospital to
say Mrs M should be moved to a public facility.
Mrs M remained in the private hospital for five nights and then her and Mr M returned to the
UK on an earlier flight, arranged and paid for by Mr M.
Mr and Mrs M made a claim with ERGO for the following costs:
doctors fees and hospital bills;
new return flights;
taxis to and from the hospital abroad, and from the hospital to the airport.
ERGO said cover had only been agreed for the first 24 hours of Mrs Ms stay in the private
hospital, and Mrs M had been made aware of this and agreed to it. So, ERGO paid the
hospital for the costs relating to the first 24 hours of Mrs Ms treatment. Mr and Mrs M had
already paid the hospital the remainder of the bill, and complained to ERGO before bringing
their complaint to our service.
Our investigator asked ERGO whether it had considered Mr and Mrs Ms claim for their 
holiday being cut short. ERGO said it didnt think it was medically necessary for Mr and 
Mrs M to have come home early and they could have waited and travelled on their original 
return flight five days later.
Our investigator didnt think ERGO should pay for the costs Mr and Mrs M were claiming for 
but said ERGO had agreed to pay €450 to Mr and Mrs M as this is what it would have cost it
to transfer Mrs M from a private hospital to a public one.
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so their complaint was passed to 
me to decide. I made my provisional decision about Mr and Mrs Ms complaint earlier this 
month. In it, I said:
Relevant regulatory rules (the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Principles for 
Business) say:
a firm should pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly;
a firm must manage conflicts of interest fairlybetween itself and its customers.
Under the FCAs Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook, an insurer must:
handle claims promptly and fairly;
provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim, and provide
appropriate information on its progress;
not unreasonably reject a claim.
Ive taken these rules into account when making my provisional decision.
Mrs Ms medical treatment
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ms policy say the following is not covered:
treatment in a private hospital or clinic abroad where a suitable public or state facility
is available.
Exclusions of this type are found in many travel insurance policies. Id expect ERGO to have 
made it clear to Mr and Mrs M that a claim for private hospital treatment wasnt covered 
under the terms and conditions of their policy and provide them with help and assistance to
arrange for Mrs M to be moved to a public hospital if it was medically safe to do so.
When Mr M contacted ERGO to notify it of the claim, Mrs M was in the accident and 
emergency department of the private hospital and hadnt yet been admitted. ERGO said, if
Mrs M was admitted, shed need to be transferred to the nearest government hospital. While
I think ERGO did provide Mr M with clear information during this call, Mr M wasnt aware at
that point what the plan for Mrs Ms treatment would be, and ERGO didnt follow this call up
with any further contact, advice or assistance after Mrs M was admitted. Mr M provided
ERGO with his direct contact details during the initial call but there was no attempt by ERGO
to contact Mr and Mrs M again until after Mrs M had already been discharged and was back
in the UK.
ERGO did contact the private hospital directly, explaining that cover would cease once 
Mrs M could be safely moved to a public hospital. But, ERGO didnt also communicate 
directly with Mr and Mrs M about this any further, and I think it should have. Instead, ERGO
relied on the private hospital to provide important information about Mr and Mrs Ms policy
coverage to them. I think it was ERGOs responsibility to do this. Mr and Mrs M were in a
vulnerable situation and were relying on ERGO to provide them with guidance about their
claim, in circumstances where they were unaware if or where there was an alternative public
hospital for Mrs M to be transferred to. ERGO contacted the private hospital again four days
after Mrs M was admitted, so it was aware she was still a patient there, but no attempt was 
made to speak with Mr and Mrs M directly about the limitations of their cover.
ERGO has relied on a call between one of its staff and Mrs M in support of its position that 
Mrs M was aware cover would only be in place for the first 24 hours of private hospital 
treatment. However, this call took place after Mrs M had already been discharged from
hospital.
Ive seen an email from the private hospital to ERGO on the day before Mrs M was 
discharged saying it was Mrs Ms choice to remain there. However, the email also says,
from a medical point of view, Mrs M was not transferrable. Even if ERGO had clearly
explained the limits of Mr and Mrs Ms policy coverage to them directly after Mrs M wasadmitted, the evidence Ive been provided with indicates Mrs M couldnt have been safely
moved to a public facility anyway.
For these reasons, I dont think its fair or reasonable in the circumstances for ERGO to rely 
on the policy exclusion relating to private hospital treatment to decline Mr and Mrs Ms claim.
I intend to recommend that ERGO should pay the remainder of Mrs Ms hospital bills  but
ERGO is entitled to deduct the €450 it has already paid to Mr and Mrs M from the settlement
amount. This is because this payment was intended to reflect the costs ERGO would have
incurred in transferring Mrs M to a public hospital, so Mr and Mrs M arent entitled to this
payment if Mrs Ms medical costs in the private hospital are instead being paid in full.
Mr and Mrs Ms additional flight costs and their early return from their trip
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ms policy say repatriation expenses are covered 
only when recommended by ERGOs medical officer. And, cover for unused travel and
accommodation is only available when its medically necessary to cut short a trip.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs M wished to return home as soon as Mrs M was 
discharged from hospital abroad, and Im sorry to hear Mrs M required further medical
assistance in the UK. But, I havent seen any written medical evidence to say Mrs M needed
to fly home immediately after being discharged from hospital. Mr and Mrs M say the private
hospital verbally advised them to return home and I appreciate why Mr and Mrs M took the
course of action they did, but I dont think I can fairly ask ERGO to pay Mr and Mrs Ms full 
claim for their additional flight costs, or any claim for returning home early.
However, if Mr and Mrs M had remained abroad and returned home on their original flight
five days later, ERGO would have paid for a taxi transfer with wheelchair assistance both
abroad and in the UK, as well as for an extra seat on the aircraft for Mrs Ms comfort. ERGO
has provided evidence this would have cost it €441. I think it would be fair and reasonable
for ERGO to pay this amount to Mr and Mrs M towards their claim for their additional flight
costs and the taxi transfer from the hospital to the airport.
I understand Mr and Mrs M are also claiming for Mr Ms taxis to and from the hospital, but
these are specifically excluded under the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ms policy.
So, my provisional decision was that I intended to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms claim in part. 
Both Mr and Mrs M and ERGO accepted my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my provisional decision, I see no reason to change my 
findings.   
Putting things right
ERGO needs to put things right and do the following; accept Mr and Mrs Ms claim relating to Mrs Ms medical treatment  deducting the 
€450 already paid;
pay Mr and Mrs M €441 towards their additional flight costs and claim for the taxi 
transfer from the hospital to the airport.
ERGO should add interest to the claim payment at 8% simple per annum from the date 
these costs were paid by Mr and Mrs M until the date settlement is paid. 
My final decision
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint against ERGO Reiseversicherung AG in part and I 
direct it to put things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman