DRN-3226115
The complaint
Mr D complains Bamboo Limited incorrectly applied a default on his credit file.
What happened
Mr D has a loan with Bamboo. In September 2020 Bamboo defaulted this loan; and applied 
the associated marker onto Mr Ds credit file.
Mr D complains that Bamboo acted unfairly when doing this. He says Bamboo did not follow 
the correct process, including issuing a sufficient default notice; before taking these actions 
in relation to the loan and his credit file. Mr D says his credit rating has been severely 
impacted by Bamboos actions. He wants Bamboo to remove the negative marker on his 
credit file in relation to the default.
Bamboo upheld Mr Ds complaint in its final response letter. It accepted that it had not 
followed the correct procedure when applying the default to Mr Ds account; and offered      
Mr D £60 compensation to reflect any distress and inconvenience that was caused. 
However, Bamboo maintained that it was correct in defaulting Mr Ds account and applying 
the marker on his credit file.
This is because when Mr D did raise his complaint to Bamboo it gave him a further 14 days 
to settle the outstanding balance of the loan. Bamboo says had Mr D done this it wouldve 
settled the loan and removed the marker.
Mr D did not settle the loan within the additional 14 days given. He says he did not do this 
because he was waiting for confirmation from Bamboo that the associated marker would be 
removed from his credit file before settling the payment. Mr D says as this confirmation was 
not received then he did not make the payment.
There is still an outstanding amount on the default balance. Mr D has provided bank 
statements from the time the default was applied for. He says he wouldve settled the loan at 
that point but Bamboo did not engage with him. Mr D says he is no longer in a position to 
settle the outstanding default balance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so; Im satisfied on balance that Bamboo does not need to do anything further 
in relation to this complaint. I appreciate that this will come as a disappoint to Mr D but I can 
assure him Ive carefully considered his information; and the documentation that he has 
provided to our service.
All parties agree there is a debt which is due; and that Bamboo did not initially give Mr D the 
correct notification or timeframe when the default was applied to the account. However; I 
disagree this means that the default needs to be removed now. 
Im satisfied that although Bamboo did not follow the initial process correctly; it did give Mr D 
a further 14 days to settle the outstanding arrears. At this point the arrears had built up 
considerably and Mr D had made not made significant payments for some time  reasonably 
leading to the assumption the debt was going to default. Wed normally expect a business to 
provide a consumer reasonable notice to settle any outstanding arrears. This is what 
Bamboo did in this instance (albeit after Mr D had complained). But considering Bamboo 
was prepared to take these corrective steps; I consider it wouldve been a reasonable step to 
take that point. Bamboo says had this been done it wouldve resulted in the default being 
removed. And Ive no reason to doubt this wouldve been the case.
However, Mr D says he did not do this (although he says he had capital to do so then) 
because he was waiting for confirmation from Bamboo that the default would be removed. 
Whilst I understand Mr Ds point of view; Im not satisfied that is a sufficient reason for him to 
have not completed the settlement of the debt. 
At that point Mr D was aware there was a debt which needed to be settled. He had not made 
any payments to the arrears for some time; and was aware the initial default had been 
applied. He was also aware that Bamboo had given him a further 14 days to make the 
payment. Im not persuaded that waiting for further confirmation was necessary in order for 
him to make the payment which Im satisfied was sufficiently known to all parties. Im not 
persuaded that Mr Ds decision to not to make the required payment at that point should be 
attributed to a failure on behalf of Bamboo; and led to the default being removed from his 
account. 
At that point in time (after the expiration of the additional 14 days); Im satisfied Bamboo 
acted reasonably in maintaining the default on Mr Ds account. As Ive noted above, the 
arrears had built considerably on this account; and Mr D had not made any significant 
contribution towards reducing this amount. So, Im satisfied Bamboo acted reasonably when 
applying the default.
Id also add, even if only for the sake of completeness, that if I were to ask Bamboo to 
remove all the adverse information it has recorded, this would effectively require it to record 
that Mr D is up to date with his payments with his loan. And, in my view, it would be 
counterproductive and not in Mr Ds interests or that of any prospective lender, were 
Bamboo to record such information in circumstances where Mr D says he doesnt have the 
funds to bring his account up to date.
Bamboo has offered Mr D £60 compensation to reflect the failure to follow the process 
correctly initially. Im satisfied this amount is sufficient in these circumstances as a reflection 
of the distress and inconvenience which was caused. This is because Bamboo made 
reasonable steps in offering Mr D further time to settle the outstanding time thereby 
mitigating any further potential distress and inconvenience. As Ive explained above Im not 
persuaded Bamboo acted unreasonably after this point; and it therefore follows Im not 
persuaded it needs to make a further award to Mr D.
My final decision
Bamboo Limited has already made an offer to pay £60 to settle the complaint and I think this 
offer is fair in all of the circumstances.
So my final decision is that Bamboo Limited should pay £60 if it ahs not already done so.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman