DRN-2898167
The complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) taken out in 2003. 
Ms B says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her this PPI. To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to 
Lloyds throughout this decision.
What happened
One of our adjudicators previously looked into the complaint and told Ms B they didnt think 
we should uphold it. Ms B didnt agree with the adjudicator, so as the complaint couldnt be 
resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Ms Bs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Ms Bs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. 
Im sure Ms B genuinely feels now that she was mis-sold this type of cover. However, the 
evidence Ive seen does strongly point the other way. It seems she took out a mortgage at a 
meeting with an adviser and I can see she also asked for the mortgage protection to be 
added. Ms B filled out and signed a specific application form for the PPI and she also 
completed a direct debit enabling the premium of £16.25 to be transferred from her bank 
account every month. I think these things show she consented to the policy.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Ms B as part of an advised sale, so it had to check that the 
PPI was right for her. The evidence about Ms Bs circumstances at the time, shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. For example, she was eligible for 
the cover and had very limited means to fall back on, so she had a need for the policy in my 
view. There was nothing about Ms Bs health or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for her to claim.
The mortgage was also secured against her home and so the consequences of her not 
being able to keep up the repayments could have been serious. Ms B was insured against 
losing her job or being unable to work and the PPI cost seems to have been affordable for 
her. It could have paid out around £203 per month for up to a year if successfully claimed on. 
So overall, I think the policy was suitable for her and recommending it wasnt therefore 
wrong in my view.
Its certainly possible the information Lloyds gave to Ms B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
might have been. But the paperwork she signed does look quite comprehensive and I think 
she had enough information on which to make an informed decision, having also met with an 
adviser. The cover wasnt too dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying 
from the information she was most likely given at the point of sale. And I dont think the 
limitations of the policy would have mattered much to Ms B, given her circumstances. 
Because of this I dont think Ms B would have declined the cover even if Lloyds could have 
done a better job at explaining certain aspects of the policy.
Ms Bs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
some aspects of which seem to conflict with what she herself told us. Nevertheless, I have 
thought carefully about everything that weve been told and Im sorry to disappoint her - I 
dont think the PPI was mis-sold. Her mortgage also became regulated in 2004 which means 
the rules about unfair commission dont apply. 
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint or make any award in favour of Ms B. Lloyds Bank PLC 
doesnt need to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman