DRN-4406143
The complaint
Miss C complains about how Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance UK Limited (Aioi) dealt with a 
claim she made on a car insurance policy after her car was stolen. 
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known by both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on providing my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator that Aioi has done 
enough to put matters right and the complaint should not be upheld. I do so for the following 
reasons:
Miss Cs car was stolen, this will naturally cause inconvenience while a claim is 
settled. Plans may have to be rearranged and alternative transport sought. Miss C 
did not have enhanced courtesy car cover on her policy so unfortunately, she had to 
source her own alternative transport. 
Aioi has admitted there were instances where it gave poor service. It wasnt clear 
about how the claim was progressing and it gave misleading and confusing 
timescales to Miss C when she called. I understand why this would have caused 
Miss C confusion and frustration. 
Aioi were entitled to conduct normal verification checks before authorising the claim 
and while Miss C did provide information about her change of address in the claim 
notification, she didnt update Aioi about a change in occupation.  Such factors can 
change how a policy is rated and ultimately impact how much is paid out on a claim, 
or in the extreme circumstances where an insurer wouldnt have offered cover at all, 
it may mean a claim is not met at all.  I was pleased to see in this case, once the 
policy details were updated Aioi proceeded to pay the claim. 
Aioi has said it could have identified earlier that the information it held and that which 
Miss C had provided differed. However, simply because it has said this, I dont think 
this means the claim was overly delayed to the extent Aioi should be responsible for 
all the losses Miss C has claimed, some which I have mentioned above are a 
naturally incurred inconvenience when a car is stolen. 
Settlement was made within a month of the car being stolen which is relatively quick. 
So while there may have been a delay, I think this was minimal in the overall 
circumstances. A referral to underwriters was made within seven days of the Miss C 
confirming the vehicle had not been recovered and that she wished to proceed with a 
claim. 
Aioi apologised for its poor service and initially offered Miss C £125 compensation. It 
later increased this to £150.  Having considered all the circumstances of the case, I 
think this is a fair figure which appropriately reflects the impact its errors had. 
Miss C has complained about how Aioi dealt with her complaint and how long it took 
to provide a response. Complaint handling itself is not a regulated activity and 
therefore is not something I can consider in this decision. However, I can appreciate 
why this would have added to the frustration Miss C felt. 
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. I think Aioi has fairly acknowledged its 
service failings and offered a reasonable amount of compensation to put things right. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Cs complaint against Aioi Nissay Dowa 
Insurance UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman