DRN-4379505
Complaint
Mr L complains that 247 Money Group Limited (trading as 247 Money) unfairly entered into 
a hire-purchase agreement with him. Hes said the agreement was unaffordable and so he 
shouldnt have been accepted for it. 
Background
In April 2021, 247 Money provided Mr L with finance for a used car. The cash price of the 
vehicle was £6,000.00. Mr L didnt pay a deposit and entered into a hire purchase 
agreement with 247 Money for the entire £6,000.00. 
The loan had interest, fees and total charges of £4,881.36 and the total amount to be repaid 
of £10,881.36 was due to be repaid in 42 monthly instalments of £259.08. 
Mr Ls complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She didnt think that 247 
Money had done anything wrong or treated Mr L unfairly. So she didnt recommend that      
Mr Ls complaint should be upheld. 
Mr L disagreed with our investigator and the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ls complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding           
Mr Ls complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
247 Money needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is that 247 Money needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr L could make his payments in a sustainable manner before agreeing to lend to 
him. And if the checks 247 Money carried out werent sufficient, I then need to consider what 
reasonable and proportionate checks are likely to have shown.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired 
credit history  suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers 
ability to repay. 
247 Money says it agreed to this application after it completed an income and expenditure 
assessment on Mr L. During this assessment, Mr L provided details of his monthly income 
and payslips to verify what hed declared. 
247 Money says it also carried out credit searches on Mr L which showed some previous 
adverse credit information and outstanding balances. But when the amount Mr L already 
owed plus a reasonable amount for Mr Ls living expenses were deducted from his monthly 
income the monthly payments were still affordable. 
On the other hand, Mr L says he was already struggling at the time and that these payments 
were unaffordable.
Ive thought about what Mr L and 247 Money have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that 247 Money did obtain quite a bit of information from Mr L 
and questioned what he said. So I dont think that it was simply a case of accepting what        
Mr L said at face value. 247 Moneys searches showed that Mr L had had previous 
difficulties with credit. But Mr L provided a reasonable explanation of why this was the case. 
And Im satisfied that the information obtained does appear to indicate that when Mr Ls 
committed regular living expenses and existing credit commitments were deducted from his 
monthly income at the time, he did have the funds, at the time at least, to sustainably make 
the repayments due under this agreement. 
I accept that Mr L appears to be suggesting that his actual circumstances werent fully 
reflected either in the information he provided, or the information 247 Money obtained at the 
time. Im sorry to hear that hes found making his payments difficult. But 247 Money could 
only make a reasonable decision based on the information it had available at the time. And 
Mr L had provided sufficient evidence and explanations regarding his ability to make the 
payments to this agreement. 
Furthermore, even if 247 Money had taken even more steps to validate some of this 
information, as obtaining bank statements wasnt the only way to do this and Mr L says he 
needed the vehicle for work, its difficult for me to agree that it doing more will have led it to 
realise that Mr L wouldnt be able to make these payments.
  
So overall and having carefully considered everything, Im satisfied that 247 Money didnt act 
unfairly towards Mr L when it agreed to provide the funds and Im not upholding Mr Ls 
complaint. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr L. But I hope hell 
understand the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel him concerns have been 
listened to.
Although Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint, I would remind 247 Money of its obligation to 
exercise forbearance and due consideration in the event that it intends to collect the 
remaining payments on the agreement and Mr L is experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman