DRN-1941221
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Vanquis Bank Limited irresponsibly allowed her to open a credit card 
account that was unaffordable and also approved a number of credit limit increases.
What happened
Mrs S says she opened the Vanquis credit card account in 2013 and at the time she was in 
significant debt. She says the credit limit was increased on a number of occasions when it 
ought to have been clear to Vanquis that the lending was not affordable and that proper 
checks were not carried out. Mrs S says she had a number of defaults registered on her 
credit file and took out payday lending. She would like all interest refunded and 8% interest 
paid on that amount.
Vanquis says it doesnt give us permission to look at events more than six years before a 
complaint was made. It says there were credit limit increases in 2013,2014 and 2016 but 
says all were appropriately assessed and credit scored. Vanquis says there were no defaults 
registered within 12 months of any increase and says Mrs S only missed six payments in the 
six-year period. It says Mrs S managed her account well and that she could have rejected 
any increases.
Mrs S brought her complaint to us, but our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Vanquis had carried reasonable and proportionate checks before increasing the 
credit limits and didnt think there was adverse information on Mrs Ss credit file in the 12 
months before those increases. The investigator also thought Mrs S had made regular 
payments and managed her account appropriately.
Mrs S accepts that we cant look at events more than six years before she made her 
complaint. She says there were defaults on her credit file and doesnt accept the 
investigators view. Mrs S has provided some extracts from her credit file following my 
request.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the overall view that Vanquis hasnt made a mistake or 
acted irresponsibly by allowing the credit limit increases. I realise Mrs S will be disappointed 
by my decision.
I make clear that Im only looking at the credit limit increases that took place in the six years 
before Mrs S made her complaint and I can see that Mrs S accepts that we cant look at 
events before that time. I have looked at Vanquiss records and can see that all of the credit 
limit increases were credit scored and checks carried out before those increases were made. 
Im also satisfied that although Mrs S has some adverse information on her credit file, that 
there was a significant time period of at least a year and often longer after that adverse 
information was recorded, before any credit limit increase was made. I also cant see any 
County Court Judgements registered on her credit file. And I have not seen any adverse 
information on the extracts from the credit file that can reasonably lead me to conclude the 
credit limit increases were unaffordable and so irresponsible.
I have also looked at Mrs Ss credit card statements and Im satisfied she managed her 
account appropriately and made regular required payments and regularly made payments 
greater than required amounts.
Overall, Im satisfied Vanquis carried out reasonable and proportionate checks before 
deciding to offer Mrs S the credit limit increases. I have not seen any evidence that the 
increases were unaffordable at the time and I also think that Mrs S could have rejected the 
increases if she wished to do so. I appreciate that Mrs Ss financial position may have 
changed but that doesnt mean I can fairly conclude the lending was unaffordable at the time 
of the credit limit increases and can see that in 2016 Mrs S was able to repay the credit card 
debt.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman