DRN-4153994
The complaint
Mrs Ls complaint is about the purchase of a legal expenses insurance policy from Esure 
Insurance Limited, trading as Sheilas Wheels.
Mrs L says the insurance was mis-sold. 
What happened
Mrs L initially took out a legal expenses insurance policy with Esure in 2013 online. 
Following this, she renewed the policy each year over a number of years. The renewal 
documents for 2021 appear to have been sent by post.
In 2022 Mrs L made a claim on the policy for help to pursue a claim against a builder shed 
engaged to build an extension for her. Mrs L said the builder caused considerable damage 
to her property and left without putting things right. 
The insurer for the policy initially said her claim wasnt covered because Mrs L didnt have a 
contract with the builder in question- hed been engaged through a third-party organisation. 
They then subsequently accepted a contract was in place but again turned down cover in 
reliance of a legal opinion from their panel firm which said the claim didnt have reasonable 
prospects of recovery. They also said the policy wouldnt cover claims like the one Mrs L 
was making if their value exceeded £5000. 
As a result, Mrs L feels the policy she was sold was of no value to her and that she wouldnt 
have taken it out had she known about its limitations. She wants Esure to cover her claim 
against the builder so she can pursue him accordingly.
Our investigator considered Mrs Ls complaint. He didnt think it should be upheld. Mrs L 
doesnt agree so the matter has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint for broadly the same reasons reached by 
the investigator. Ill explain why.
The policy Mrs L took out and that she claimed on, appears to have been renewed by post. 
From the information I can see and based on what Esure has told us, the sale was 
conducted on a non-advised basis.  That means that Esure had to ensure Mrs L was given 
information which was clear, fair and not misleading but they didnt need to ensure the policy 
was suitable for her circumstances and needs. That was something Mrs L needed to do for 
herself, based on the information she was given.
Mrs L is unhappy that her claim was turned down and feels that had she been aware of the 
reasons surrounding this, she wouldnt have taken out the policy at all. The claim was turned 
down initially because the contract wasnt thought to be with the builder directly, but that 
wasnt a position that the insurer maintained. Rather the insurer turned the claim down 
based on advice that the claim had no reasonable prospects of recovery and because there 
was an exclusion in relation to the value of it. Specifically, the policy excludes claims directly 
or indirectly arising from constructing buildings or altering their structure for a policyholders 
use, except in relation to disputes where the amount in dispute is below £5,000. As the value 
of Mrs Ls extension was over £5000, the insurer said the claim wasnt covered.
In this decision, Im not deciding whether the insurer of the policy was correct to decline 
cover in the way that they did. Thats a separate complaint which I understand Mrs L has 
decided she didnt want to pursue beyond referring it to our Service. Given the outcome of 
this complaint, she might want to take that further. If so, she should contact the investigator 
dealing with it directly. In this complaint, Im looking at whether the policy itself was mis-sold 
by Esure who, is the seller of the policy rather than the insurer. In order to do this, I need to 
determine what information Mrs L was presented with about the two terms her claim was 
turned down on.
As part of the renewal process in 2021, Mrs L was sent a renewal letter setting out the policy 
premium for her home insurance policy and making clear it includes legal expenses 
insurance. The letter says:
Please check that the level of cover is still right for you. You have been with us for a number 
of years. You may be able to get the insurance cover you want at a better price if you shop 
around. If you do, make sure you do a like-for-like comparison - your Schedule shows all 
your cover including things like excesses.
The covering letter and policy schedule itself set out that legal expenses insurance is 
included in the insurance package Mrs L was getting. Both documents show the levels of 
cover attached to employment disputes and All other sections, which are expressed as 
monetary limits. Beyond that the policy terms that Mrs L is unhappy with arent contained in 
either the schedule or the covering letter. Rather theyre contained in the policy document 
that was likely to have been enclosed with those documents. 
The policy terms themselves make fairly clear that the terms Mrs L has complained about 
apply. But I appreciate they werent drawn to her attention when she took out the cover. That 
said, Esure only needed to do this where the terms were significant or unusual. I dont think 
the prospects requirement or the limit on constructing or altering buildings were unusual 
terms. But it could be argued that the limit on constructing or altering buildings was 
significant given what Mrs L has said about having in mind she wanted to build an extension 
at some point, so wanted cover for this, should things go wrong. But in order to uphold Mrs 
Ls complaint Id also need to be satisfied she would have done something differently if this 
term had been drawn to her attention.
Mrs L has said that if shed known about these terms, she wouldnt have taken out cover. If I 
made a finding based on this, all she would be entitled to receive is the cost of the premium 
repaid to her  which amounted to £26.00- but not that her claim be paid. So, Ive gone on to 
think about whether Mrs L would have decided not to take the policy but gone on to take 
cover out elsewhere. The prospects term is a common feature of virtually all before the event 
legal expenses insurance policies. So even if shed gone elsewhere for cover, the term that 
the insurers panel firm have quoted would have been the same. The exclusion cited in 
relation to building or altering buildings can however differ depending on the policy. Most 
legal expenses insurance polices tend to exclude this kind of work unless they are specialist 
policies which come at considerable cost. This particular policy allows for claims up to 
£5,000 so its wider than most policies on the market. Given the price Mrs L paid for it and 
the fact that policies that cover the situation she finds herself in arent widely available unless 
taken out on a standalone basis and at considerable cost- I doubt she would have done something differently- beyond potentially not taking out cover at all.  And as the investigator 
has said, this policy was taken out as an optional add on to Mrs Ls home insurance policy. 
So Im not sure it would have been her focus on renewal, even if the terms in question had 
been drawn to her attention.
Mrs L has said she was given misleading information about the policy when she took it out. 
She refers to a phone call with Esure in which she said she asked them what was covered. 
She says she was referred to the terms and conditions of the policy. I dont know when this 
phone call took place- it might have been in earlier policy years- but either way I dont think it 
makes a difference to my findings for the reasons Ive explained above. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint against Esure Insurance Limited trading as Sheilas' Wheels
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman