DRN-3273932
The complaint
Mr K complains that his Northern Bank Limited trading as Danske Bank account card was 
declined when he tried to set up a mobile telephone contract.
What happened
Mr K tried to take out a mobile telephone contract in November 2021. He says his account 
card was declined which caused him humiliation and embarrassment. Mr K says he has 
serious health issues and is worried about other customers experiencing this sort of 
problem. He says he should be awarded more compensation than Danske Bank has offered 
for the stress he was caused.
Danske Bank says there was an issue identified in November 2021 with address checks 
carried out on contracts such as the one Mr K tried to take out. It says the problem was with 
the card provider not it, but a fix was put in place. It says it has apologised to Mr K about 
what took place and has offered £40 as a goodwill gesture for the inconvenience. It also 
says it called Mr K to explain what took place.
Mr K brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought Danske Bank had offered an 
appropriate compensation amount and had acted fairly in dealing with this complaint by 
contacting him.
Mr K doesnt accept that view and maintains he should be awarded more compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Danske Bank has acted fairly by 
offering a fair and reasonable goodwill gesture and by apologising for what took place in 
circumstances where the problem appears to have been caused by the card provider not it.
I appreciate Mr K would have been concerned when the contract couldnt be completed in 
November 2021 and that he would have been caused some inconvenience. I dont think Mr 
K has told us if the contract was taken out either that day or at a later stage and so it is 
difficult to be sure about the exact level of inconvenience here. But Im satisfied that Danske 
Bank has apologised for what took place and offered what I think is a fair and reasonable 
goodwill gesture of £40. I dont think that Mr K suffered any financial loss and whilst I 
appreciate his concern for other bank customers, I can only consider his complaint.
Im also satisfied that Danske Bank told Mr K within days of his complaint what had 
happened and that it had sorted out a fix to the problem. I can see that Danske Bank also 
telephoned Mr K to update him about the complaint. So, I think Danske Bank dealt fairly with 
Mr Ks complaint and replied to it, within a very short space of time.
I appreciate Mr K has health concerns and thinks that the compensation award should be 
greater. But for the reasons I have explained Im satisfied overall the goodwill offer is 
appropriate and this level of mistake or impact doesnt justify an increase in it. If Mr K 
decides that he wishes to accept my decision, then that would be in full and final settlement 
of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Northern Bank Limited trading as Danske Bank has made a fair and 
reasonable goodwill gesture offer. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman