DRN-4427919
The complaint
Ms Y complains about the amount the Equine and Livestock Insurance Company Limited  
(ELICO) trading as the Insurance Emporium paid when she made a claim on her horse 
insurance policy.
What happened
Ms Y bought a horse for £9,000. She obtained a certificate of examination for insurance 
purposes from her vet, who noted the horse as having weak hind limb conformation. She 
took out insurance with ELICO, which includes cover for loss of use.
Ms Y consulted her vet after she noticed signs of possible lameness. Her horse was referred 
to a diagnostic centre. The centre concluded that her horse had a marked forelimb lameness 
that predominantly affected the left forelimb. The recommendation was for a period of 
prolonged rest with a reassessment every three months to see if there was any 
improvement. 
Sadly, her horses condition didnt improve and Ms Y later made the decision to euthanise 
him. She made a claim on her policy for loss of use. 
ELICO instructed a specialist loss adjuster to review the claim and provide a valuation. The 
loss adjuster initially gave a pre-loss value of £4,000 but this was later increased to £4,250. 
The valuation was based on the loss adjusters assessment of her horses condition. 
ELICO paid this amount but Ms Y didnt accept it was a fair value. She obtained her own 
valuation which highlighted the rarity of the breed and provided an estimate of these horses 
within the UK to range in value from £8,500 up to £15,000. 
ELICO didnt change its position and so Ms Y referred her complaint to this service.
Our investigators initial view was that £4,250 was reasonable. But Ms Y provided further 
evidence and after considering that and seeking further comments from ELICO, the 
investigator concluded that a fair value would be £6,750. He asked ELICO to settle the claim 
on this basis, with 8% interest added to the payment from the date of the original settlement 
offer.
ELICO disagreed and provided further comments but the investigator didnt change their 
view, so the complaint has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules and guidance say insurers must deal with claims promptly and 
fairly; provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress; and not unreasonably reject a claim. They should settle claims 
promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
The policy provides cover for loss of use (permanent incapacity). If the horse is unable to 
perform any equestrian activity a payment will be made for 100% of the sum insured, or the 
market value (if less) if destroyed. 
Ms Ys horse was insured for £9,000 and Ms Y said that amount should be paid, but ELICO 
says its market value was £4,250 and so has paid this. So I need to decide if the amount 
ELICO paid is fair. 
As a starting point, it would be reasonable for ELICO to rely on the advice it obtained. That 
advice was based on the horses condition and issues including concerns about weak hind-
limb conformation. I can see why the loss adjusters concerns might lead to the view that the 
value was less than £9,000.
However, it isnt clear how they came to the view that £4,250 was the correct value. And 
Ms Y provided contrary opinions from other experts. So Ive considered whether that 
evidence is enough to conclude that it wasnt fair for ELICO to maintain that the value was 
£4,250. 
Some of the points from the experts are about the breed in general rather than this particular 
horse. Id place less weight on those  the key point being what Ms Ys horse was worth at 
the time  though they do show that it would be difficult to find a horse like this for less than 
£9,000. 
There is some onus on ELICO to show the amount it paid is fair. It was asked to evidence 
how it arrived at the figure of £4,250. Further comments were provided from the loss 
adjuster. I appreciate valuing a horse is not an exact science. But, while the comments say 
theres no justification for an increased offer, they dont explain why £4,250 is the right sum 
and its not clear how that figure was reached.
As Ive said, the evidence shows Ms Ys horses condition was, on balance, likely to have 
reduced its value below £9,000. But Im not satisfied ELICO has shown that it was reduced 
by more than 50% or why £4,250 is a fair amount. 
Weighing up all of this, I think £6,700 is a fair amount; it reflects the fact that the horse was 
likely worth less than £9,000 while the evidence for a value as low as £4,250 is not 
persuasive.
ELICO has paid Ms Y £4,250, so there is a balance of £2,450 to be paid. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct the Equine and Livestock Insurance Company Limited  
trading as the Insurance Emporium to pay £2,450 together with simple interest at 8% per 
year from the date the original settlement offer was made until the date of payment.*If The Equine and Livestock Insurance Company Limited  trading as The Insurance 
Emporium considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Ms Y how much its taken off. It should also give Ms Y a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks/ask for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman