DRN-1147835
 
The complaint
Miss B is unhappy that her co-mortgagor, Mr C, was able to withdraw funds from the joint 
current account that was linked to their Bank of Scotland plc trading as Intelligent Finance 
("IF") offset mortgage. 
What happened
Miss B and Mr C have a joint offset mortgage and linked current account with IF.
They separated and on 8 August 2018 a stop was placed on the current account so neither 
party could withdraw funds from it. IF wrote to both parties confirming the account was 
frozen and gave details of how the stop could be removed. It said "Please note once the 
stop has been removed it can not be replaced."
A further letter was sent to Miss B on 16 August 2018 that explained there were two options 
for withdrawals now the stop marker was on the account. The first was that written authority 
is given by both parties each time funds are wanted to be withdrawn or transferred. The 
second is that both parties write to ask the stop be removed from the account, and it 
reiterated that once the stop was removed it couldn't be put back onto the account.
In June 2019 both parties wrote to IF to say the accounts should be unfrozen. The stop 
marker was removed and transactions were undertaken.
On 1 July 2019 Miss B contacted IF to ask the account be re-frozen as she said Mr C had 
withdrawn more money than had been agreed. In error IF said the marker would be placed 
back on the account.
After Mr C transferred out further funds at the end of July 2019 Miss B complained to IF. It 
told her the transfers that had been undertaken at the end of July were £184,850 to an 
account in Mr C's sole name, and £6,648.23 to Miss B and Mr C's joint account with a 
different provider. IF set up a new savings account for Miss B in her sole name and 
transferred the residual funds of £178,201.77 into that. It also paid her £500 compensation 
for the mis-information it had given on 1 July.
Our investigator thought that was a fair outcome, saying whilst compensation was due for 
the mis-information, the actual withdrawal was a matter between Miss B and Mr C. Miss B 
didn't agree and so it's been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I trust Miss B wont take it as a 
discourtesy that Ive condensed her complaint in the way that I have. Ours is an informal 
dispute resolution service and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the 
complaint. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.Its not in dispute that IF made a mistake on 1 July 2019 when it told Miss B that the stop 
could be placed back on the account. Miss B has said that by being given the wrong 
information then she was prevented from protecting the money herself. But the only way 
Miss B could have 'protected' that money at that time was by transferring it out into an 
account in her sole name elsewhere, which is exactly the thing she's criticising IF for 
allowing Mr C to do.
Miss B has said she's fighting in court to get her fair share back, and that's the right place for 
this matter to be heard. Whilst IF shouldn't have told Miss B the stop was back on the 
account, whatever happened this matter would have ended up in court as either Mr C would 
have taken the funds (as he did) or Miss B would have taken them to stop him. Either way 
Mr C or Miss B would be arguing in court that the other party had more than their fair share.
As part of the divorce Miss B's solicitor would be submitting Form E (the Financial 
Statement for a financial order under the Matrimonial Causes Act 1973) and that's the place 
for full disclosure of this matter to be made. Within that form Miss B's solicitor should 
have noted (or should be noting, if the form has not yet been submitted) the withdrawals 
made by Mr C and asked for them to be taken into consideration. The withdrawals could 
then be considered as part of the wider picture of the matrimonial finances and included in 
any financial order made.
IF made it clear in two separate letters to Miss B in August 2018 that if the stop was 
removed it couldn't be replaced, so she'd been put on notice that was the case. IF made a 
mistake on 1 July 2019 when it said the stop would be placed back on the account but I'm 
satisfied the £500 compensation already paid for that is fair and reasonable. If Miss B feels 
she's incurred any extra costs due to this - such as a larger legal bill or higher mortgage 
payments - again that's a matter she needs to raise in court as part of her divorce settlement 
with Mr C as it's his actions that she's saying caused this.
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint in the sense I'm satisfied that the £500 compensation already 
paid by Bank of Scotland plc is fair and reasonable. I make no further order or award. My 
final decision concludes this services consideration of the complaint, which means well not 
be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 June 2020.
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman