DRN-3096764
The complaint
Mrs M complains about Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.As (Mapfre) settlement of her travel insurance claim and about its offer of 
compensation for her distress and inconvenience.
What happened
Mrs M had an annual travel insurance policy, insured by Mapfre. She was unable to return 
from her trip abroad as she had Covid-19 symptoms and had to self-isolate. While abroad 
Mrs M needed medical treatment. She claimed for the medical costs and the additional cost 
of her accommodation abroad.
Mapfre paid Mrs Ms medical costs. It also agreed to cover her additional accommodation 
costs to 20 May 2020, the date it offered Mrs M a viable flight back to the UK which shed 
refused. When Mrs M complained to Mapfre about the time it had taken to pay her claim it 
offered her £250 compensation for her distress and inconvenience due to its delay.
Mrs M complained to us. She was unhappy Mapfre didnt cover all her additional 
accommodation costs and didnt think £250 compensation was enough, she suggested 
£500.
When our investigator asked Mrs M why she didnt take the flight option Mapfre gave her 
Mrs M said she didnt take the flight as she didnt have any accommodation in the UK at that 
time. 
Our investigator explained why she thought Mapfre had fairly paid Mrs Ms accommodation 
abroad until 20 May 2020 but not after that date. She thought Mapfres offer of £250 
compensation was reasonable.
Mrs M wants an ombudsmans decision. She accepts Mapfre didnt need to pay any more of 
her accommodation costs and said she was no longer complaining about that matter. But 
she wants more compensation as Mapfres delay in paying her claim caused her distress as 
she needed the money. She was also unhappy Mapfre didn't respond to her after its final 
response letter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mrs M is no longer complaining about Mapfres settlement of her accommodation costs 
I havent considered that matter in detail but it appears Mapfres settlement of those costs 
was reasonable.
As to Mapfres service, Mrs M made her claim at the end of March 2020. In May 2020 
Mapfre acknowledged receipt of the claim and asked for evidence it needed to assess the 
claim. Mrs M contacted Mapfre several times to chase a full response to her claim. It wrote 
to Mrs M with its settlement of the claim in October 2020, about seven months after shed 
claim.
Mapfre accepts it took too long to settle Mrs Ms claim. I understand that Covid-19 meant 
unprecedented and unexpected demands on Mapfres service, as its final response letter 
explained to Mrs M. But the delay caused Mrs M distress and inconvenience as she needed 
the money shed claimed so I think some compensation is due to Mrs M.
However, Mapfre has already offered Mrs M £250 compensation for her distress and 
inconvenience caused by its delay and I think thats a reasonable sum given the overall 
circumstances and time she had to wait. Theres no basis for me to say Mapfre should pay 
£500 compensation, as Mrs M has suggested.
Mapfres final response letter said it had paid the £250 to Mrs Ms bank account so 
I understand shes already received the compensation. If she didnt receive that payment 
she should contact Mapfre direct so the amount can be re-issued. 
Mrs M has also raised that Mapfre didnt respond to her after it sent her its final response 
letter and closed her complaint. That letter says if Mrs M wasnt happy with Mapfres 
decision her next step was to complain to us. So I think it was reasonable for Mapfre to not 
respond further to Mrs M and to close her complaint as it had no further steps to take at that 
time.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman