DRN-1361004
 
The complaint
 Mrs Hs complaint is about the problems shes had with a car shes been financing through 
an agreement with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS). 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mrs H acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase 
agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is 
able to look into complaints about it; 
Mrs H didnt complain about the wheel problems until March 2019; about seven 
months after shed taken receipt of the car. Whilst I note she complained about a tyre 
pressure warning light in the first few days, I cant see she complained about wheel 
vibration and I think its likely she would have done if the fault had been there from 
the outset which was the point at which VWFS were responsible for the quality of the 
car; 
VWFS have shown that they fitted two tyres when they supplied the car and have 
explained that they would not have been able to balance them if the car had 
damaged wheels at that point. I think that sounds reasonable;
 whilst Mrs Hs testimony is clear, that she believes the car had been involved in a 
previous accident and the wheels had been damaged at that point, Ive not seen any 
additional evidence to support that;
Mrs H has also mentioned her concerns about a smell of cigarette smoke in the car 
when she took receipt of it. But I can see she asked the dealership to resolve that 
and they appear to have done so as Ive not seen evidence of subsequent 
complaints about the issue. If this is still a problem Mrs H will need to refer it to 
VWFS as Ive not seen that theyve been given an opportunity to investigate that 
issue;
Mrs H has complained about the actions of the staff at the dealership but I dont think 
the actions she complained of can fairly be attributed to VWFS. Theyll therefore 
need to be referred to the dealership. 
 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman