DRN-3826509
The complaint
F, a company, complains that Amazon Payments UK Limited are unfairly holding funds that 
were held in its account. It wants the money returned, and compensation
What happened
This complaint is brought by Mr S on behalf of F. Mr S is the sole director of F.
F held an account with Amazon Payments which it used to receive payments from 
customers. In June 2020 Amazon Payments asked for a copy of Fs bank statement. Mr S 
sent them a statement, which Amazon Payments werent satisfied by. They suspended Fs 
account and later closed it. They refuse to release the funds until Mr S sends them a valid 
bank statement for F, which meets their know your customer requirements.
Our investigator didnt uphold Fs complaint. They concluded Amazon Payments reason for 
not releasing the funds to F was reasonable. F hadnt satisfied their know your customer 
requirements, so they were entitled not to release the funds until such time that F did satisfy 
those requirements.
Mr S disagreed with the outcome our investigator reached. He said F is no longer trading 
and no longer has an account, so he cant provide a further bank statement. He asked 
Amazon Payments to pay money to an account he holds in his name, which he thinks is a 
reasonable way forward.
Mr S asked for a final decision from an ombudsman, so Fs complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Fs complaint. Ill explain why.
Amazon Payments have important legal and regulatory obligations they must meet when 
providing accounts to customers. Those obligations are ongoing and dont only apply when 
an account is opened. They can broadly be summarized as a responsibility to know their 
customer and verify their sources of income, as well as detect and prevent financial crime.
Amazon Payments will review accounts to comply with their responsibilities. And, its 
common industry practice for firms to restrict access to accounts to conduct a review - doing 
so helps prevent potential financial loss or other harm that could otherwise result. I find 
Amazon Payments acted fairly by blocking Mr S account. They are required to carry out 
customer due diligence measures and ask for information such as bank statements to verify 
their customer  which in this case is F, a company. They werent satisfied by the statement 
Mr S provided, and based on what they have said, I understand why.
Mr S said Amazon Payments said they would release funds after a set number of days. He 
may have been told this, although on reviewing communication he had with Amazon 
Payments I see they said:
If you have funds in your account, you can request your them after any amounts for A-to-Z 
claims or chargebacks on your orders have been deducted. This usually takes about 90 
days, but they may be held longer [emphasis added].
So, this information indicates Amazon Payments could hold the funds for longer. And, I find 
Amazon Payments are able to hold the funds in question until such time that that their 
verification requirements are met. Their current position is reasonable and in line with their 
legal and regulatory responsibilities.
Mr S says F no longer holds an account, and he thinks Amazon Payments should pay the 
funds to an account in his name. But I am not persuaded he cannot obtain a statement for 
the account in question from Fs previous bank. The closure of an account doesnt mean F 
cant obtain statements from a bank as a former customer. Banks can and do often provide 
historic information, such as statements, to former customers.
I also understand why Amazon Payments arent willing to pay the funds to an account in Mr 
S name. F is a separate legal person to Mr S, and the funds were held in an account in its 
name and not an account in Mr S name. F was Amazon Payments customer, and Amazon 
Payments need a valid bank statement to fulfil their responsibilities relating to F. And, as far 
as I understand it, the country where F was set up requires a company to have a bank 
account in its name.
Mr S says he has been contacting Amazon Payments for a long time and feels ignored. But I 
find it was clear what Amazon Payments needed from him and he has thus far been unable 
to satisfy their requirements.
For the reasons I have given above, Im not directing Amazon Payments to release the funds 
they are holding to F or to Mr S.
My final decision
I have decided not to uphold Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman