DRN-2855003
The complaint
Mr K says Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as Everyday Loans, lent to him
irresponsibly.  
What happened
Mr K took out loans from ELL in May 2019 and November 2019. A summary of his borrowing 
follows. 
Mr K says ELL didnt carry out sufficient affordability checks. Our adjudicator concluded that
ELL wasnt wrong to lend to Mr K. He said the lenders checks were proportionate and it had
made fair lending decisions.
Mr K disagreed saying the adjudicator hadnt considered all the payday loans he had when
he applied to ELL, and his board payment was higher than the lender recorded.
As agreement could not be reached, the complaint was passed to me for a decision. As I 
reached a different conclusion to the adjudicator I issued a provisional decision to give 
everyone a chance to reply before I made a final decision. An extract from this follows and 
forms part of this final decision.
Extract from my provisional decision
I can see ELL asked for some information from Mr K to understand his disposable income
before it approved the loans. It asked for his monthly income and expenditure. It checked his
income with payslips and asked for copies of his recent bank statements. For both
applications it checked Mr Ks credit file to understand his existing monthly credit
commitments and credit history. It asked about the purpose of the loans (loan 1 was for debt
consolidation and loan 2 was for a car). From these checks combined ELL concluded the
loans were affordable for Mr K.
I agree with the adjudicator that the checks were proportionate for both loans, and I
havent found anything in the information it gathered for loan 1 that I think should have led it
to make a different lending decision. I say this as I think the checks showed the loan was
affordable for Mr K. I note Mr K says his board was £1000 a month, not £100, but I cant see
a debit transaction to match this on his bank statement. There are a number of payments to
the recipient he names, but these vary each month (and there are credits into his account
too) so I cant fairly conclude the lender used the wrong figure.
Mr K was up-to-date with his other credit commitments. He had two other loans at the time
and three credit cards. And the loan was being taken to pay off a significant amount of his
credit card debt and his sole payday loan. Overall, I dont think ELL was wrong to lend to
Mr K at this stage.
However, I dont currently think ELL made a fair lending decision when Mr K applied for a
second loan. From the information it gathered it knew Mr K now had at least five additional
payday loans and despite taking loan 1 to repay some of his credit card debt his total
revolving credit balance had not reduced. I think from this data ELL ought to have realised it
was likely Mr K was having problems managing his money.
Approving loan 2 took Mr Ks monthly credit commitments to £1151.94  significantly over
the 25% of gross income that The Finance and Leasing Associations (FLA) Lending Code
2006 says is one of the factors which may show a high risk of experiencing financial
difficulty. And it knew from the information it gathered on its Customer Review Document
that this loan was for a car, not to consolidate existing debt. So I dont think ELL was right to
give loan 2 to Mr K.
It might argue that it was affordable based on the level of disposable income its checks
showed. But ELL knows, as a responsible lender, it was required to do more than just make
sure Mr K could afford the loan on a pounds and pence basis. It had to make sure the
repayments were sustainable and not likely to cause Mr K to borrow to repay, or to suffer
any adverse financial impact. CONC 5.2A.12(R) sets out:
The firm must consider the customers ability to make repayments under the agreement:
(1) as they fall due over the life of the agreement and, where the agreement is an open-end
agreement, within a reasonable period;
(2) out of, or using, one or more of the following:
(a) the customers income;
(b) income from savings or assets jointly held by the customer with another person, income received
by the customer jointly with another person or income received by another person in so far as
it is reasonable to expect such income to be available to the customer to make repayments under the
agreement; and/or
(c) savings or other assets where the customer has indicated clearly an intention to repay (wholly or
partly) using them;
(3) without the customer having to borrow to meet the repayments;
(4) without failing to make any other payment the customer has a contractual or statutory obligation to
make; and
(5) without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers financial situation.
So given the information it gathered I think ELL ought to have seen there was a high risk
Mr K would be unable to repay loan 2 sustainably. It follows I think ELL was wrong to give
loan 2 to Mr K.
I have not found any evidence that ELL acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr K in some
other way.
I then set out what ELL would need to do if I upheld the complaint.
ELL responded to the provisional decision saying the loan was sustainably affordable and it 
had considered all payments Mr K owed to his creditors. It pointed out that Mr K had made 
additional payments to loan 1 which he could have used to repay other debts. It also 
commented that the provisional decision references the 2006 Lending Code but this was 
rescinded in 2012.
Mr K did not provide any new information or comments.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
I have considered ELLs comments carefully, but they dont change my conclusion. I note it 
said it took into account Mr Ks existing credit commitments. But as I said in my provisional 
decision it needed to do more than check Mr K could afford loan 2 on a pounds and pence 
basis. It knew Mr K had taken out at least five additional payday loans and that approving 
loan 2 would increase Mr Ks monthly credit commitments to a level such that I think it ought 
to have realised he was at a high risk of having financial difficulties. Given there were these 
clear indicators Mr Ks finances were under pressure and he was having problems managing 
his money I remain of the view that ELL, as a responsible lender, should not have given loan 
2.
ELL queried the reference to the 2006 Lending Code. The 2019 code that was in place at 
the time of loan 2 still sets out that when assessing an applicants ability to repay one of the 
things a lender may consider  amongst others - is their existing credit commitments and 
financial situation. As it does not suggest a proportion of salary, I looked to the earlier code 
that provided more specific guidance as to what this might be. 
In this case Mr Ks total credit commitments reached £1151.94  so around 40% of his gross 
income. As this was so high - and significantly in excess of the earlier 25% guideline, I think 
it should have suggested to ELL that there was a high risk the repayments would not be 
sustainably affordable for Mr K  as went on to be the case. 
Putting things right
 I think its fair and reasonable for Mr K to repay the capital that he borrowed on loan 2,
because he had the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan
that shouldnt have been provided to him.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on loan 2 and treat all the payments
Mr K made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Ks loan account results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then ELL should refund these overpayments with
8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments
would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Mr Ks loan account results in there being a capital balance outstanding,
then ELL should work with Mr K to agree a suitable payment plan, keeping in mind its
obligation to treat Mr K positively and sympathetically.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ks credit file in relation to loan 2.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to deduct tax from this interest. ELL should give Mr K a
certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one. 
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ks complaint in relation to loan 2. Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), 
trading as Everyday Loans, must put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman