DRN-3654795
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advice given by Acumen Independent Financial Planning Limited 
(Acumen) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension 
scheme with British Steel (BSPS) to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable 
for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ms employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from 
the company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF), or a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed 
they could transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
Mr M chose to opt into the BSPS2 prior to receiving advice from Acumen.
Nevertheless, Mr M was concerned about what the recent announcements by his employer 
meant for the security of his pension, so he contacted Acumen for advice in early December 
2017 (Mr M had already approached another advice firm, but things didnt proceed.)
On 5 December 2017 Acumen completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ms 
circumstances and objectives. Amongst other things, this recorded that Mr M was 37; he 
was married with one dependent child; he owned his own home which had an outstanding 
mortgage of around £42,000 due to be repaid in eight years; he had a couple of loans and a 
credit card debt; his target retirement date was 58; and he didnt know what his income need 
in retirement would be. Acumen also carried out an assessment of Mr Ms attitude to risk, 
which it initially deemed to be high medium but was revised to medium risk. 
Around 10 January 2018, Acumen advised Mr M to transfer his pension benefits into a 
personal pension and invest the proceeds in two funds, which it deemed matched Mr Ms 
attitude to risk. 
In summary the suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were to provide 
greater freedom and flexibility in how Mr M accessed his pension benefits; to provide a 
broad range of investment opportunities; to provide better lump sum death benefits than 
remaining in the DB scheme; and to provide a sustainable income at Mr Ms desired level 
beyond his life expectancy because of the combined value of his various sources of 
retirement income.
Mr M accepted the recommendation and in May 2018, around £88,000 was transferred to 
his new personal pension.
Mr M complained in 2021 to Acumen about the suitability of the transfer advice. Mr M said 
following receipt of a letter from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) about how some 
instances of unsuitable advice to transfer out of the BSPS had taken place, he was 
concerned that he might also have received unsuitable advice and wanted the matter 
investigating. 
Acumen didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It provided a detailed response, which included 
setting out the background and events leading up to the Time to Choose exercise and 
detailing the fact-finding and advice process. I havent set out everything here because I 
dont think it is necessary  but in summary Acumen said that it believed the advice was 
suitable for Mr M, or at the very least it took reasonable steps to satisfy itself it was suitable, 
given his circumstances at the time. It said Mr M received detailed information about the 
schemes retirement and death benefits and the advantages of remaining in it (transferring to 
the BSPS2 or the PPF.) It said Mr M received explicit risks warnings in relation to the 
transfer. It said its assessment is that a transfer to a personal pension was suitable and 
consistent with Mr Ms stated needs, objectives and preferences  i.e. he was planning to 
retire at 58, he wanted flexibility and he wanted the ability to pass on the value of his pension 
benefits to his family upon his death. It said it was satisfied it had complied fully with its 
regulatory obligations at the time. 
Dissatisfied with its response, Mr M referred his complaint to our service. An investigator 
upheld the complaint and required Acumen to pay compensation. In summary they said the 
advice to transfer was unsuitable. They said Mr M didnt have firm plans to retire early given 
his age and so it wasnt suitable to transfer at this stage  particularly when he didnt know 
what his income need would be and his plans might change. They said he shouldve been 
advised to wait until nearer his retirement date rather than give up his guaranteed benefits 
now. They said in terms of death benefits, by opting into the BSPS2 Mr M would retain the 
50% spouses pension and he already had lump sum death benefits available through his 
Defined Contribution (DC) workplace pension scheme, so this wasnt a suitable reason to 
transfer. They said Mr M already had flexibility in how and when he accessed his retirement 
benefits  his objective was already met by his DC scheme. And they said Mr M was very 
unlikely to match let alone exceed the benefits available to him through his DB scheme by 
transferring given the growth rate required. They concluded by saying that if suitable advice 
had been given, Mr M would have likely moved to the BSPS2.
Acumen didnt reply to the investigators findings. So, because things couldnt be resolved 
informally, the complaint was referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Acumen's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Acumen 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Ms best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was 
in his best interests.
Before I explain why I dont think a transfer was in Mr Ms best interests, I can see that 
Acumen has made much of the fact that it is disappointed Mr M has complained about the 
advice he received. It says Mr M hasnt previously expressed any dissatisfaction with the 
advice he received and he hasnt explained why or given any detail as to why he thinks the 
advice was wrong. It also said it doesnt think Mr M has a valid complaint for this reason.
Just because Mr M now thinks differently, in hindsight, about the advice he received does 
not mean his complaint isnt valid. And it is not necessary for Mr M to know, or to articulate, 
all that has or might have gone wrong with the advice he received  just that something 
might have gone wrong. Mr M has expressed dissatisfaction with the advice he received and 
he thinks something might have gone wrong. Im satisfied Mr Ms complaint is a valid one. 
Financial viability 
Acumen carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing 
how much Mr Ms pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the 
same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). I can see this was based on Mr Ms 
existing scheme benefits. But at the time of the written advice  January 2018  Mr M didnt 
have the option to remain in the BSPS. 
In fact, and as Acumen documented in the advice paperwork, Mr M had already chosen to 
opt into the BSPS2. So basing the analysis on the existing scheme was somewhat 
redundant and not helpful to Mr M.
I can see that in Acumens final response letter to Mr Ms complaint, it said that at the time of 
the advice it was not in a position to recommend a transfer to the BSPS2 because there was 
no certainty it would come into existence. While the Time to Choose exercise had ended 
and the deadline to make a decision had passed at the time of the advice, I accept the 
BSPS2 wasnt guaranteed to go ahead. But details of the scheme had been provided - the BSPS2 wouldve offered the same income benefits but the annual increases wouldve been 
lower. And in my view, the communications sent out by the scheme trustees were very 
optimistic that the scheme operating conditions would be met. So I think the benefits 
available to Mr M through the BSPS2 shouldve been factored into Acumens analysis and 
advice so that Mr M was able to make a properly informed decision.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
 
Mr M was 37 at the time of the advice and the advice paperwork recorded that he was 
looking to retire at 58, although this might change in the future. The TVAS dated 
7 December 2017 set out the critical yields required to match Mr Ms existing scheme 
benefits at age 65: 7.1% assuming, from what I can determine, that Mr M took a full pension. 
The TVAS didnt provide the critical yield assuming Mr M took a reduced pension and a cash 
lump sum. The critical yield required to match the benefits available through the PPF at age 
65 was 5.2% assuming Mr M took a full pension. 
But as Ive said above, Mr M remaining in the BSPS wasnt an option. So, the critical yields 
applicable to the BSPS2 benefits shouldve been provided. The lower annual increases 
under the BSPS2 wouldve likely decreased the critical yields somewhat. But I still think they 
wouldve likely been higher than those reflecting the PPF benefits, particularly at age 65.
Id add here that, given Mr M indicated his preferred retirement age was 58  
notwithstanding my view that this was far from a concrete plan as I will explain later on - I 
find it surprising Acumen didnt produce critical yield figures based on a retirement age of 58. 
I think this wouldve been more meaningful given this was what Acumens advice was based 
on. I think this is further evidence that Acumens analysis wasnt helpful to Mr M.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 4.6% per year for 27 years to retirement (age 65.) It was 4.5% for 20 years to retirement 
(age 58.) Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection rates had also remained unchanged 
since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection 
rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ms 
medium attitude to risk (which Im satisfied was not unreasonable in the circumstances) and 
also the term to retirement. In my view, there would be little point in Mr M giving up the 
guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level 
of benefits outside the scheme. 
Here, the lowest critical yield was 5.2%, which was based on Mr M taking a full pension 
through the PPF at 65. It was 7.1% if Mr M took benefits at 65 through the existing BSPS. 
So, based on taking the same benefits at age 65 through the BSPS2, I think the critical yield 
wouldve been somewhere between those figures, and likely closer to 7.1%. 
So, given this, the fact that based on a retirement age of 58 the critical yields would most 
likely be higher, together with the discount rate of around 4.5% and the regulators middle 
projection rate, I think Mr M would most likely receive benefits of a lower overall value in 
retirement than those provided by either the BSPS2 or the PPF if he transferred to a 
personal pension, as a result of investing in line with a medium attitude to risk.Acumens recommendation letter referred to cashflow analysis it had carried out, which was 
included in the appendix at the end of the recommendation. This doesnt appear to have 
been included in the business file submission. But in any event, Im not persuaded this 
wouldve been very meaningful for Mr M, or indeed important evidence to support the 
viability of the transfer, because as Acumen documented, Mr M didnt know what income he 
would require from his pension at age 58. Acumens analysis might have shown what fund 
value Mr M could expect at age 58 based on certain assumptions - but without an income 
figure to work on, Im not persuaded this wouldve been meaningful for Mr M or that it 
demonstrated how his needs in retirement  could be met by transferring. 
On the basis of financial viability alone, I dont think a transfer out of the DB scheme was in 
Mr Ms best interests. But I accept that financial viability isnt the only consideration when 
giving transfer advice, as Acumen has argued in this case. There might be other 
considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. 
Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income needs
A key reason for Acumens recommendation to transfer was because it would allow Mr M to 
benefit from much greater freedom and flexibility in how he accessed his pension benefits.
But Im not persuaded that Mr M needed flexibility or that in any event he needed to transfer 
his DB scheme to a personal pension in order to have flexibility in retirement.
Crucially here, Mr M was only 37 at the time of the advice. And while he indicated he wanted 
to retire early, which I think most people of working age, if asked, would say, Mr M had 
nothing that could reasonably be described as a concrete retirement plan. Indeed Acumen 
recorded that although Mr M indicated he wanted to retire at 58, this could change in the 
future. So Im not persuaded Mr M couldve reasonably known that he had a need or wanted 
flexibility in retirement. Theres nothing to indicate that Mr M needed variable income 
throughout retirement for example  as I said above, he had no idea of his income need  
and nothing to suggest that he needed access to a cash lump sum in the future and defer 
taking his income. I accept Mr M might have liked the idea of retiring early, but he already 
had this option available to him  he didnt have to transfer out to achieve this.
So it strikes me that flexibility was simply a feature or a consequence of transferring to a 
personal pension arrangement rather than a genuine objective of Mr Ms. And so I dont think 
it was a suitable recommendation for Mr M to give up his guaranteed benefits now when he 
didnt reasonably know what his needs in retirement would be.
Despite Mr M not having an apparent need for flexibility, importantly he was contributing to 
his workplace DC pension scheme, something Im not persuaded Acumen properly 
considered in terms of the role this could play in Mr Ms future income generation. Acumen 
recorded that a total of 18% of Mr Ms salary was being invested here. 
So given Mr M had the potential for at least another 21 years contributions, without 
accounting for growth, salary increases, or increases to Mr Ms contribution rate, this had the 
potential to be worth in excess of £100,000.
The nature of a DC scheme means this already provided Mr M with flexibility  he wasnt 
committed to take these benefits in a set way. Mr M couldve taken lump sums as and when 
required and adjusted the income he took from it according to his needs. So, I think if Mr M 
retained his DB pension, this combined with his new workplace pension, wouldve likely 
given him the flexibility to retire early - if thats what he ultimately decided.So in any event, Mr M didnt need to transfer his DB scheme benefits at this stage to a 
personal pension arrangement in order to achieve flexibility in retirement. But if Mr M did in 
fact have a greater need for flexibility beyond that which he already had, I think this couldve 
been explored closer to his intended retirement age. Mr M had already chosen to opt into the 
BSPS2, so he wouldve retained the ability to transfer out nearer to retirement, if indeed it 
was required. I think Acumen couldve explained this more clearly to Mr M.
Turning to Mr Ms income need  Ive already said that Mr M indicated he didnt know what 
level of income he needed in retirement because it was too far in the future. But based on 
Mr Ms circumstances, as I also said above, Ive seen nothing to indicate he needed variable 
income. And nothing to indicate that the income from the BSPS2 or the PPF (if the new 
scheme didnt go ahead) wouldnt have provided Mr M with at the very least a solid income 
foundation upon which his other provision could supplement, to likely meet his overall 
income need.
Acumens analysis showed that at age 65, under the existing scheme Mr M would receive an 
annual income of a little under £8,500. Because of the reduced revaluation factors, under the 
BSPS2 this figure would be lower, but in my view still close to it. Although this alone wouldnt 
likely meet Mr Ms income need  and perhaps less so at age 58 - as I said above, it 
wouldve provided a useful, solid and guaranteed income foundation. And importantly in my 
view, a solid foundation upon which Mr M could use his workplace DC pension along with 
any provision his wife had, to likely meet his overall household income need  at least until 
his state pension became payable. Mr Ms DC pension wouldve likely had a not insignificant 
amount that he could draw on flexibly, as and when needed, to either top up his income or 
take a lump sum. I still think Mr M had a better chance of achieving his future retirement 
income needs by opting into the BSPS2 (the benefits under which were guaranteed and 
escalated) rather than relying on investment growth in a personal pension.
If the BSPS2 hadnt gone ahead, Mr M wouldve moved with the scheme to the PPF. And 
while the income Mr M would receive was likely lower than the pension hed be entitled to 
under the BSPS2, I dont think it was substantially lower such that it shouldve made a 
difference to the recommendation at this time. As Ive said above, Mr Ms retirement plans 
and needs werent known and he wouldve had his DC scheme to draw on flexibly until his 
state pension became payable.
Overall, I think Mr M couldve likely met his income needs in retirement through the BSPS2 
or the PPF. So, I dont think it was in Mr Ms best interests for him to transfer his pension just 
to have flexibility, that Im not persuaded he really needed.
Death benefits
Acumen also recommended the transfer to provide better lump sum death benefits for 
Mr Ms beneficiaries than the DB scheme offered.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr M. 
But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr M might have 
thought it was a good idea to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, 
the priority here was to advise Mr M about what was best for his retirement provisions. A 
pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement  it is not primarily a legacy 
planning tool. And I dont think Acumen explored to what extent Mr M was prepared to 
accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death benefits.I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr M 
was married and so the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful 
to his spouse if Mr M predeceased her. I dont think Acumen made the value of this benefit 
clear enough to Mr M. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on 
investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. 
For example, if Mr M lived a long life and or investment returns were lower than expected,  
may not have been a large sum left to pass on anyway. In any event, Acumen should not 
have encouraged Mr M to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a personal 
pension over his security in retirement.
Im mindful too that Mr M already had lump sum death benefits available  Acumen knew 
that Mr M had generous death-in-service cover through his employer if he died before 
retirement. And it also knew that Mr M was paying into his DC scheme and he wouldve 
been able to nominate his spouse as beneficiary if he hadnt already done so.
Furthermore, if Mr M genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his family which didnt depend 
on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think 
Acumen shouldve instead explored life insurance. The starting point here neednt have been 
to base the cover on the full transfer value, but ought to have been considered in terms of 
how much Mr M wanted to leave his family, after taking into account the above existing 
means. And this couldve been explored on a whole of life or term assurance basis, which 
was likely to be cheaper to provide particularly given Mr Ms relatively young age.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr M. And I dont think that 
insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the BSPS
I imagine that Mr M, like many of his colleagues, was concerned about his pension. His 
employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and so he 
was likely worried his pension would end up in the PPF. There were lots of negative things 
circulating about the PPF. So its quite possible that Mr M was leaning towards the decision 
to transfer because of the concerns he had about his employer and his negative perception 
of the PPF. However, it was Acumens obligation to give Mr M an objective picture and 
recommend what was in his best interests.
As Ive explained, by this point details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely it was 
going ahead. So, the advice shouldve properly taken the benefits available to Mr M through 
the BSPS2 into account, particularly as hed already chosen to opt into it. I think this 
shouldve alleviated Mr Ms concerns about the scheme moving to the PPF.
But even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that Acumen shouldve 
reassured Mr M that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought or 
he'd been led to believe. Importantly Mr M still had the option of taking early retirement 
through the PPF. Mr M didnt have any real retirement plans at this stage - but I think the 
income available to Mr M through the PPF wouldve still provided a solid base, which his 
other means could supplement to likely meet his overall income need at retirement. Crucially 
he was also unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out. And although the increases 
in payment in the PPF were lower, the income was still guaranteed and was not subject to 
any investment risk. Mr M might not have been able to later transfer out of the PPF  but for 
the reasons I set out earlier, I dont think there was an apparent need for him to do so. So I dont think that Mr Ms concerns about his DB scheme was a compelling reason to 
recommend a transfer out of the DB scheme altogether.
Summary
I accept that Mr M was likely motivated to transfer out of the BSPS and that his concerns
about his employer and the scheme were real. And I dont doubt that the flexibility, control 
and potential for higher death benefits on offer through a personal pension would have 
sounded like attractive features to Mr M. But Acumen wasnt there to just transact what Mr M 
might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr M 
needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr M was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr M was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mr M had no firm retirement plans, so he shouldnt have 
been advised to transfer out of the scheme just to have flexibility that Im not persuaded he 
really needed, and the potential for higher death benefits wasnt worth giving up the 
guarantees associated with his DB scheme. I dont think it was in Mr Ms best interests for 
him to transfer his BSPS benefits to a personal pension at this time.
So, I think Acumen shouldve advised Mr M to remain in his DB scheme and that his 
decision to opt into the BSPS2 was the right one in the circumstances.
I understand Acumen believes it couldnt advise on the BSPS2 because there was no 
certainty it would come into existence. I appreciate that the BSPS2 wasnt guaranteed to go 
ahead at this time. But as Ive already said, I think everything pointed to it going ahead, so 
this ought to have been the position Acumen adopted. 
 
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr M would've gone ahead anyway, against Acumen's 
advice. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr M wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the BSPS against Acumens advice. I say this because, while as Ive 
already said Mr M was likely motivated to transfer when he approached Acumen, I still think 
Mr M wouldve listened to and followed its advice if things had happened as they should 
have and it recommended he not transfer out of the scheme. Mr M was not an experienced 
investor, so he neither possessed the requisite skill, knowledge nor confidence to against the 
advice he was given, particularly in complex pension matters. Mr Ms pension accounted for 
the majority of his private retirement provision at the time  so, if Acumen had provided him 
with clear advice against transferring out of the BSPS, explaining why it wasnt in his best 
interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Ms concerns about his employer or the scheme were so great 
that he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose 
expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his 
best interests. If Acumen had explained that Mr M could likely meet all of his objectives 
without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I 
dont think Mr M wouldve insisted on transferring out of the BSPS against Acumens advice.
In light of the above, I think Acumen should compensate Mr M for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr M, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider that, if suitable 
advice had been given, Mr M would most likely have moved to the BSPS2 as hed already 
chosen to do. 
Acumen must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Acumen should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr M and our Service upon completion 
of the calculation.
For clarity, Mr M has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of 
Mr Ms acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Acumen should:
calculate and offer Mr M redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr M before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr M receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr M accepts Acumens offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr M for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ms end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr M as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Acumen may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to 
Mr Ms likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus anyinterest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Acumen Independent 
Financial Planning Limited to pay Mr M the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Acumen Independent Financial Planning Limited pays Mr M the balance.
If Mr M accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Acumen Independent 
Financial Planning Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr M can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman