DRN-1270006
 
The complaint
Mrs C says Barclays Bank UK Plc trading as Barclaycard mis-sold her payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mrs C applied for a Barclaycard by post in 2003 and bought a PPI policy at the same time.
She says she didnt need the PPI because she had good sick pay and some savings.
The adjudicator who looked at Mrs Cs complaint didnt uphold it. Mrs C disagrees and so 
her complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Although Mrs C says the PPI was sold online, Ive seen a copy of her credit card application 
form, which shes filled in by hand. At the top of the form it says Simply complete and 
return. So I think this was a postal sale.
Barclays needed to make it clear to Mrs C she had a choice about PPI and get her 
agreement to it. Under a heading that says Optional benefits, Mrs C has ticked yes to 
apply for PPI. If she hadnt wanted it, I think she couldve left this option blank  as she did 
other options in this section of the form  and PPI wouldnt have been added to her account. 
So I think Mrs C decided to buy the PPI knowing she didnt have to.
Because Mrs C applied for the card and the PPI by post, I dont think Barclays gave her a 
tailored recommendation to buy the cover. So it didnt need to check if it was right for her in 
her circumstances  this was something Mrs C needed to do herself. But it did need to give 
Mrs C enough clear information about the PPI for her to be able to make that decision in an 
informed way. 
I think its quite possible Barclays didnt do this  from what Ive seen, I dont think it made 
the true cost of the PPI clear to her or tell her about the things the policy didnt cover. But 
that doesnt mean I should automatically uphold Mrs Cs complaint. Instead, I need to think 
about whether, if shed had all the clear information she shouldve, shed have made a 
different decision and not gone ahead with the cover. From what Mrs C says of her 
circumstances at the time and the policy details Ive got, I dont think it wouldve changed her 
decision. I say this because: Mrs C was eligible for the PPI. And she wasnt affected by any of the main things it 
wouldnt have covered  like known health issues or unusual employment 
arrangements. So there was nothing to stop her claiming the full policy benefit, if 
shed needed to.
 
I think the PPI couldve been of some use to Mrs C if things got difficult. She says 
she had good sick pay  six months full pay, then six months half pay. And she says 
she had savings of around £1,000. But for each successful accident, sickness or 
unemployment claim Mrs C made, the PPI wouldve paid out a benefit on top of this  
and it couldve lasted for longer than Mrs Cs full sick pay (up to 12 months for each 
claim). It would also have meant she didnt need to use her savings  which she may 
have needed for other things  to pay her credit card bill.
I havent seen anything to make me think Mrs C couldnt afford the cover.
 
So I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. 
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it shouldve told Mrs C about that. 
Because Barclays didnt tell Mrs C, that was unfair. To put that right, Barclays has paid back 
the amount of commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I 
think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK 
Plc trading as Barclaycard doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C.
But Barclays Bank UK Plc trading as Barclaycard does have to pay back to Mrs C any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2020.
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman