DRN-3390833
The complaint
Mr D complained that PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender acted irresponsibly when it 
gave him unaffordable loans.
What happened
Mr D took out six loans with Mr Lender as follows:
loan date taken date repaidamount 
borrowedmonthly 
termhighest 
repayment
1 18/03/2015 27/03/2015 £200 1 £238.40
2 28/03/2015 24/04/2015 £100 1 £122.40
3 24/04/2015 27/04/2015 £300 1 £369.60
4 07/10/2020 05/05/2021 £400 9 £123.64
5 11/05/2021 12/05/2021 £990 12 £207.10
6 24/06/2021 outstanding £1,050 12 £233.82
In brief summary, Mr D mainly said:
he was given many loans without being asked for any proof of income or bank 
statements and thorough checks werent done
he had to pay a large amount of interest on these loans when he already had many 
other loans and debts plus gambling problems which wouldve been picked up by 
proper checks
each new loan caused his debt to spiral and made his financial situation worse 
causing stress.
When Mr D complained to Mr Lender it said that its checks for loans 1-5 had been 
proportionate  and it didnt uphold his complaint about those loans. But it now believed that 
it could have done more checks before lending loan 6, such as looking at his bank 
statements. Mr Lender didnt know what those checks mightve shown at the time but 
recognised that, potentially, it might not have approved this loan. So it offered to partially 
uphold Mr Ds complaint and require him to repay only the capital amount he had borrowed 
in respect of loan 6. It also offered to remove all these loans from his credit file once loan 6 
was paid.
Mr D didnt feel this offer went far enough and he brought his complaint to us. Our 
adjudicator thought that Mr Lender hadnt done anything wrong when it provided loans 1-5 
and that its offer in respect of loan 6 was fair. So she didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Initially Mr D asked if Mr Lender would accept repayment of the balance of loan 6 at £100 
per month  and Mr Lender agreed. But he has since confirmed that he disagrees with our 
adjudicators overall view. He mainly still feels that Mr Lender should have checked his 
financial situation more thoroughly and that none of these loans shouldve been provided. So 
his complaint comes to me to decide
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website and Ive used this 
approach to help me decide this complaint. Having carefully thought about everything Ive 
seen and been told Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint. Heres why I say this.
Mr Lender provided Mr D with high-interest loans intended for short-term use. So Mr Lender 
needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. Mr Lender was required to 
carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any lending was 
sustainable for Mr D before providing it. Our website sets out what we typically think about 
when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early 
stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a 
borrowers income was low or the amount lent was high. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make 
repayments for an extended period).
And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming 
unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Keeping all this in mind, Ive thought carefully about what it means for Mr Ds complaint.
Mr Lender says that, as well as relying on information Mr D provided about his monthly 
income and expenditure, it also looked at details held by credit reference agencies before it 
agreed to lend to Mr D. And it believed that the information it had recorded for Mr D showed 
the loans shouldve been affordable for him.
Ive looked at each loan in turn.
loan 1
As this was his first loan with Mr Lender, at this early stage, Mr D didn't have any track 
record with the lender that shouldve alerted Mr Lender to any underlying money problems. 
Theres only limited information now available, but I think its fair to say that the information 
Mr Lender gathered about Mr Ds finances wouldve suggested that he shouldve been able 
to afford to make the monthly repayments on this loan out of his disposable income 
according to the information Mr Lender had gathered. I cant see that there was anything in the information Mr D provided or the other information 
Mr Lender had recorded, which meant that Mr Lender shouldve taken more steps to check 
the information Mr D had declared. Mr Lenders credit checks didnt reveal any adverse 
information that wouldve suggested the loan wasnt likely to be affordable for Mr D.
It was early in the lending relationship and I think the checks were enough for Mr Lender to 
agree to lend. So I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint about loan 1.
loan 2
Due to the age of the loan and Mr Lenders data retention policy it cant provide details of 
Mr Ds monthly expenditure. But I've no reason to think Mr Lender wouldnt have followed its 
usual loan application process. Mr D wouldve had to supply details of his income and 
expenditure at the time in order to qualify for the loan. And Mr Lender wouldve had to satisfy 
itself that the loan looked affordable before agreeing to provide it. 
I can see that Mr D took out loan 2 just a day after he paid loan 1 early. I've kept in mind that 
this was his second loan from Mr Lender in just ten days. But I've also taken into account 
that he borrowed less this time so I dont think Mr Lender had any reason to think that Mr D 
was becoming increasingly indebted or struggling with being over stretched financially. He 
hadnt shown Mr Lender any signs that he had found it hard to pay for his borrowing when 
he had loan 1 and his repayment for this loan was approximately half the amount hed paid 
for loan 1.
Mr Lenders credit checks didnt flag up any adverse credit information such as defaults, 
bankruptcy or county court judgements. It didnt appear that Mr D had any other payday 
loans when he applied for this loan. 
And I think it was too soon for Mr Lender reasonably to be able to identify any particular 
pattern of lending that wouldve suggested Mr D was over-reliant on this type of borrowing or 
not using the money it lent for its intended purpose of providing short-term financial help.
So I cant fairly say that I've seen enough to be able to uphold loan 2.
loan 3
Mr D repaid loan 2 on the due date and straightaway took out loan 3  which was his biggest 
single loan so far. But Im mindful that £300 was still a relatively modest loan amount overall 
compared to Mr Ds income  which Mr Lender recorded as £1,859. And the expenditure 
figures Mr D had declared and the information Mr Lender had gathered all seem to me to 
support its lending decision. As far as I can see, the loan shouldve been sustainably 
affordable on these figures. 
Mr Lenders credit checks showed that Mr D was now paying around £100 per month 
towards his other credit commitments, including short-term lending. But that, on its own, isnt 
enough of a reason for me to say that Mr Lender shouldnt have provided this loan. It isnt 
unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a credit history showing other 
borrowing or even sometimes an impaired credit record  and these things wouldnt 
necessarily be reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application that 
otherwise looked affordable. 
 
I cant fairly say that Mr Lender had any reason to think that the loan wouldnt be sustainably 
affordable for Mr D or that his pattern of lending was a cause for concern at this stage. So 
Im not upholding his complaint about loan 3.loan 4
Mr D didnt ask Mr Lender for any more loans during the period April 2015  October 2020. 
That gap in lending of more than five years seems long enough to me for Mr Lender 
reasonably to think that Mr D mightve put his finances in order during this period. This 
meant that when his borrowing started again, and Mr D applied for loan 4, he was effectively 
starting over. So it was fair for Mr Lender to treat this as a new chain of borrowing and 
assess his lending requests accordingly.
Mr Ds declared income was now £2,701  and I dont think Mr Lender had any reason to 
think that it couldnt rely on this figure. After allowing for his declared monthly outgoings, 
including an amount of £469 to service his other existing debt, Mr Lender worked out that 
Mr D should still have more than £1,000 disposable income. The credit checks Mr Lender 
obtained didnt highlight any adverse credit information that mightve suggested it didnt have 
a proper understanding of Mr Ds actual financial situation. So I dont think Mr Lender had 
any reason not to lend loan 4  all the indications were that it should be sustainably 
affordable for Mr D and there was no contradictory information to suggest otherwise. 
I dont think proportionate checks wouldve required Mr Lender to ask Mr D to prove what he 
was declaring or check other information sources to verify what he had told them (or omitted 
to say) about his financial circumstances. I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr Lender to 
lend without making any more detailed enquiries into his circumstances as there wasnt 
anything obvious, in the information it had, to suggest Mr D wouldnt be able sustainably to 
repay the loan. This means that I wouldnt have expected Mr Lender to have asked to see 
the bank statements that Mr D has sent us before making its lending decision. 
Im very sorry that Mr D has a problem with debt and that making the loan repayments hed 
signed up to was difficult for him. I accept that Mr Ds financial situation possibly wasnt fully 
reflected either in the information he provided or the other information Mr Lender obtained. 
But in order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in some way. And, in this case, I dont think that Mr Lender did anything wrong 
in deciding to lend loans 1-4 to Mr D. So I cant fairly say that Mr Lender shouldnt have 
provided these loans . 
loan 5
Mr D withdrew from this loan the day after he took it out. The amount hed borrowed was 
returned to Mr Lender and he incurred no interest or charges. He hasnt lost out financially 
as a result of taking out this loan. So I dont need to look at this further as theres nothing 
Mr Lender would need to do to put things right.
loan 6
Mr Lender has already agreed to refund all interest in relation to loan 6 so Mr D will be 
required to repay only the capital amount he borrowed. That seems fair to me as he had the 
use of that money. And this is in line with what Id expect a lender to do if I were to 
investigate and uphold this part of Mr Ds complaint. Mr Lender will also amend Mr Ds credit 
file by removing all these loans from his credit record once he has settled the outstanding 
balance owing on loan 6  which goes beyond our normal redress in these circumstances. 
Given that Id normally expect loans to remain on his credit record for six years, this is likely 
to help Mr D improve his credit record more quickly than would otherwise happen. 
If Mr D hasnt yet done so and he would like to take up this offer then he should contact 
Mr Lender direct to make the arrangements. 
Ive thought about what Mr D has said about the high cost of the loans. I think there was a 
large amount of interest payable and I can appreciate that Mr D might now feel this was 
unfair. But the loan documents set out the terms and the amount of interest payable. Mr D had to actively engage in the loan application process. The loans were arranged online and 
I think Mr D wouldve understood that it was up to him to choose whether or not he wanted to 
go ahead with the loan offered each time  and of course, Im aware that he cancelled loan 5 
when it seems he changed his mind soon after taking it out.    
Taking everything into account, I think Mr D was aware he was taking high cost loans on 
terms he seemed happy to agree to at the time. So I cant fairly say that the high cost of this 
credit is a reason for me to uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
If Mr D would like help to manage his finances theres more information about how to get 
free debt advice and other help on our website  or we can provide him with useful contact 
details if he gives us a call. 
I hope that setting out my reasons as I've done helps explain why Ive reached these 
conclusions. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman