DRN-1890423
The complaint
Mrs L has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold her a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mrs L took out the PPI in 1996. Neither party can confirm the sales channel. Therefore, in 
order to treat Mrs L fairly, BoS has assumed it was a branch sale.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs L disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
I wrote a provisional decision in April 2020 in which I explained why I was not thinking of 
upholding the complaint. I invited the parties to provide any further submissions they may 
wish to make before I reached a final decision. Neither party submitted anything further for 
consideration.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Im not upholding Mrs Ls complaint and Ill explain why.
BoS doesnt have any documentation for the sale of the PPI, which isnt surprising given how 
long ago it took place. But this does make the complaint more difficult to decide. So in 
reaching my decision I have considered the evidence that we do have, as well as what I 
consider is most likely to have happened.
Mrs L doesnt have any recollection of the sale, which is also not surprising. However, she 
says she wouldnt have taken out PPI if she had been given the choice and therefore 
believes she must have been led to believe that the PPI was a condition of the mortgage 
lending.
From what we know of BoSs sales processes at the time for mortgage PPI (for all sales 
channels), the PPI was usually presented as optional. I havent seen any evidence to 
persuade me that something different happened in this case.
Mrs L says she never took out PPI again on any other financial products. This was Mrs Ls 
first mortgage, which was a significant financial commitment. So it wouldnt be surprising if 
she had an interest in protecting her repayments at that time. Ive thought very carefully 
about what Mrs L has said. However, on balance, I am unable to conclude that decisions 
Mrs L took subsequently in relation to PPI, means that the BoS mis-sold her PPI in this 
instance. Overall, considering all the evidence, I consider it is more likely than not that Mrs L 
decided to buy the PPI, knowing that she didnt have to, even if she no longer remembers 
doing so.As Ive said, BoS doesnt know how it sold the PPI to Mrs L. The policy went live at the same 
time as the mortgage and so it is likely that the PPI was sold to her during the mortgage 
interview process. In order to treat Mrs L fairly, BoS has assumed that it was an advised 
branch sale, because this holds BoS to a higher duty than if it was a non-advised 
(information only) sale.
As BoS says it advised Mrs L to buy the PPI, it needed to ensure that it met her needs. And 
from what I know of Mrs Ls circumstances at the time, the policy was suitable for her.
Although BoS no longer has any of the point of sale documentation, it does have an 
electronic record of some of the basic details from the time the mortgage was taken out. This 
records that Mrs Ls salary was £12,000 at the time. Mrs L says her salary was closer to 
£30,000 in 1996. Its possible that the screenshot has recorded only Mrs Ls basic salary as 
Mrs L has confirmed that her income was additionally made up of regular bonuses. But 
actually, this doesnt make a difference to my decision  Im happy to rely on Mrs Ls higher 
figure  but I am still not upholding the complaint. The PPI provided cover for mortgage 
repayments if someone was unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment, 
regardless of someones income. And a higher salary is not necessarily an indicator that 
someone had less need for cover.
My understanding is that Mrs Ls employer would have given her twelve months full pay 
(although she had previously mentioned that it would have been six months full pay, 
followed by six months half pay), if she was off sick. But the policy would have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay. Mrs L says her employer also provided life and critical illness cover. 
But these covered a different set of risks and so the PPI was not duplicating Mrs Ls existing 
cover.
Mrs L has told us she had some savings at the time. But having the PPI would have meant 
that she could retain any savings or use them to cover other outgoings at what would have 
been a difficult time. And it also sounds like some of her savings were earmarked for buying 
items for her new home. Mrs L has spoken about the financial stability she was lucky enough 
to enjoy a couple of years later. But, looking at the point of sale, I cant see anything about 
Mrs Ls circumstances that made the PPI unsuitable.
I think that Mrs L would have known something about the policy  that it covered her 
mortgage repayments if she was unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment 
 because I dont think shed have decided to buy it without knowing anything at all about it.
Its possible that BoS didnt provide as much information as it should have about the policy, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mrs L wasnt affected by any of those 
things. As I consider that she had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think 
that further information would have caused her to change her mind. So she is no worse off 
as a result of anything BoS may have done wrong, so theres nothing that BoS needs to do 
to put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman