DRN-3705129
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) did not undertake proper 
affordability checks when providing him with overdraft facilities which have caused him 
extreme financial hardship. 
What happened
Mr C held two bank accounts with Barclays with overdraft facilities and limits at their highest 
of £5,900 (account ending 6395) and £3,400 (account ending 3635). Both accounts were 
closed and sent to recoveries account 6395 on 30 April 2021 with an outstanding balance of 
£6,385.21 and account 3635 on 8 September 2020 with an outstanding balance of 
£3,649.90.
Mr C complained to Barclays that the lending was irresponsible and requested a refund of all 
charges and interest on both accounts. Mr C offered Barclays £1,003.51 in full and final 
settlement of his complaint and requested all adverse data was removed from his credit file.
Barclays said all charges were applied to Mr Cs accounts in line with the terms and 
conditions of the accounts but offered Mr C two options to settle his complaint.
Option one
A full refund of the interest and charges applied to both accounts, covering the 
previous six years (combined refund total of £5,831.58). This offer would mean Mr C 
would still have outstanding balances for each account that he would need to repay.
Refund of charges on the account ending 6395, from September 2015 to April 2021, 
a total of £4,007.58, leaving a balance of £2,377.63.
Refund of charges on the account ending 3635, from April 2016 to September 2020, 
a total of £1,824.00 leaving a balance of £1,825.90.
Mr C would need to contact Barclays Recoveries department to discuss the 
outstanding balances and repayment options available to him (combined outstanding 
balances would be £4,203.53).
Option two
Barclays would accept a settlement figure of £3,101.54 (70% discount of the 
outstanding debt in-line with what was offered by a debt collection agency)
This amount would have to be paid in full and did not include a repayment option.
Mr C did not wish to accept either option but offered to settle the debts with a 70% reduction 
and a repayment plan to which Barclays declined.
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that Mr C wouldnt have been 
able to agree option two above, as he was not in a position to make the requested lump 
sum. But they thought option one was a fair way to settle the complaint.
Mr C disagreed. He wants to be compensated for the sustained and extreme distress due to 
Barclays conduct during a time when he had a family bereavement and lost his family home. 
Mr C wants Barclays to clear the balance of his debt with it and remove adverse information 
from his credit files. Alternatively, he has asked for 12 months breathing space regarding any 
repayments and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I hope that Mr C wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint in the way 
that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service and Ive concentrated on what I 
consider to be the crux of the matter. Our rules allow me to do that. 
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Barclays has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr C is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have.
So where a business increases or continued to allow a consumer to use a credit facility 
which it should have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer 
in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that 
credit. This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added 
to any credit from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. And if 
those interest and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year.
In this case, Mr C is left with an outstanding balance, once all adjustments have been made, 
and hes been refunded all of the interest, fees and charges caused by the overdraft 
facilities. So while Mr C has been left with a balance and he might be unhappy with this, 
Barclays has done what Id normally expect it to do here.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
continued to provide credit it shouldnt have (such as here), we can and will tell it to do 
something different or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what would be 
fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case.
Mr C says Barclays should do something different here. He says the irresponsible lending 
and charges created additional pressure on his finances during the pandemic which led to 
among other things his landlord serving notice on him to vacate the family home. 
Ive thought about what Mr C has said. And what hes said is a reason for upholding his 
complaint rather than a reason for departing from our normal approach to putting things right 
in cases such as his. All the interest, fees and charges Barclays shouldnt have added will be 
removed from what he now needs to pay. So what Mr C will be left with to repay are the 
funds which he used and benefitted from. And while I sympathise with Mr C in that he has been through a lot, I havent seen enough to 
persuade me that the loss of his family accommodation and costs incurred as a result of that 
are a direct result of Barclays decision to provide the overdraft lending it did. Indeed, I can 
see from Mr Cs bank statements in particular regarding account ending 6395 that he was 
able to successfully manage his overdraft at the highest limit of £5,900 for a number of years 
and often saw a credit balance until around 2019. 
So, in these circumstances, and bearing in mind Mr C spent them, I think its perfectly fair 
and reasonable to expect Mr C to repay these funds. And I dont think that Mr Cs 
unhappiness at having a balance to repay on his overdrafts, even after his complaint has 
been upheld, is in itself a compelling reason for me to depart from our usual approach here.
I also understand that Mr C would like Barclays to remove any adverse information it 
reported on his credit file. But Barclays does have a duty to make sure the information it 
reports on its customers affairs to the credit reference agencies it subscribes to is factually 
accurate  so providing this is the case I cant ask Barclays to amend this information.
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what Barclays has already agreed to do to put 
things right for Mr C is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his case and Im not 
requiring it to do anything more. As this is the case, its up to Mr C to decide whether he 
wishes to accept Barclays offer.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Barclays Bank UK PLC has already 
agreed to do to put things right for Mr C is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of his 
case. So Im not requiring it to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman