DRN-3137915
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the premium he is now being charged by Red Sands 
Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red Sands) to continue to insure his cat under his 
lifetime pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S has had an insurance policy with Red Sands for his cat since 2011. This is a lifetime 
policy which covers his cats treatment for conditions it develops for the rest of its life as 
long as the policy continues. His cat has since developed cardiomyopathy, and Mr S has 
made some claims for the treatment of this.
Mr S has complained that when his policy renewed in November 2020, the premium had 
increased by 18%. In November 2019 it had been £9.62 a month (including insurance 
premium tax) and in November 2020 it had increased to £11.30 a month (including IPT). 
Hes also unhappy that from November 2021, because his cat will by then have turned 10 
years old, there will be a co-payment of 20% that he will have to pay on any future claim. 
Mr S considers that the level of increase in his premium is unjustified and that hes being 
priced out of the cover he expected would cover his cat for its lifetime.
Red Sands referred Mr S to the Terms and Conditions of his policy which state:
When inviting renewal of this policy we may, at our sole discretion (and for a valid 
reason as we deem appropriate, taking into consideration, but not limited to your pets 
age, medical and/or claims history) change the cover, benefits, premium, terms and/or 
conditions.
It considered that Mr S had been provided with sufficient information about the policy 
Terms and Conditions.
Red Sands has also explained that there are a number of factors that can affect the price 
of premiums, such as the age, sex, and breed of the pet - older pets are more likely to 
require vet treatment and have higher claims experience, and therefore have increased 
risk - geographical factors, the risk of recurring conditions and claims, and inflation in vets 
fees both in terms of the number of claims and the cost of individual claims. It explained to 
Mr S that its pet insurance policies are reviewed annually by its underwriters and its 
pricing team when all these factors are considered.
Mr S has made two claims under the policy in 2014, one in 2015 and one in 2018. 
These totalled £641.16.
Mr S believes that the policy had been mis-sold to him as a lifetime policy should in his view 
provide cover for life without substantial increases. In its final response to Mr S, Red Sands 
said that based on the number of conditions that his pet had, the amount and dates of 
claims made as well as the factors mentioned above, the renewal premium was correct and 
it couldnt uphold his complaint.
Further attempts by Mr S to discuss the premium increase with Red Sands and his 
complaint that he was being priced out of the policy didnt result in a satisfactory outcome 
for him so he brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigators view was that the increase in premium was the same as any of Red 
Sands customers in the same position. However she also considered the information Mr S 
was provided with when the policy was taken out on-line in November 2011. She explained 
that when a policy is sold, the business should provide enough information for the 
customer to make an informed decision, highlighting anything that is of particular 
importance. She explained that Red Sands shouldve highlighted key information about the 
significant features of the lifetime policy Mr S was purchasing which would include 
explaining that the yearly cost of these policies can go up significantly at renewal, that 
theres no limit to how much the premium could increase to, and that a co-payment will be 
introduced when the pet reaches a certain age.
In our investigators view, Red Sands hadnt provided Mr S with sufficient information 
and that this had caused him upset for which she considered compensation of £250 
from Red Sands was appropriate.
Mr S doesnt accept our investigators view which he says doesnt take into account that his 
policy is for lifetime cover and that he cant shop around for cover elsewhere without paying 
more because of his cats pre-existing condition. He says he purchased lifetime cover for 
the peace of mind of knowing that his pet was covered for its lifetime, and that Red Sands 
price increases are changing the odds set when the policy was taken out to his detriment.
Mr S has asked that an ombudsman review his complaint
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should explain that insurers are entitled to decide how much to charge for the 
insurance cover they provide for the risks that they agree to cover. Its not within the power 
of this service to tell an insurer that they are charging too much or to require them to 
charge less. The premiums they charge will be based on their assessment of the risks that 
they have agreed to cover, and these are reviewed regularly. If an insurer considers that a 
risk has increased, then the premium they charge will likely increase. That is normal 
practice and this service cant say the insurer was wrong, unless it has treated a customer 
inconsistently or unfairly. In these circumstances, we can require the insurer to put things 
right.
There are a number of circumstances where we might consider that a customer has 
been treated unfairly.
We can consider it unfair if a customers premiums have increased when those of other 
customers with similar risk profiles have not. This is a difficult comparison to make as its 
unlikely that any two customers will have identical risk profiles. Red Sands has provided an 
example from a comparison website of how a one year difference in the age of a pet can 
result in an increase of 16.7% in premium. Ive also seen a table used by Red Sands thats used to adjust premiums dependent on the number of claims made and the amount 
claimed. Im afraid I cant share this with Mr S as it is confidential to Red Sands, but it 
evidences that the same criteria are applied to each customer. I therefore cant find that Mr 
S has been treated differently to any other customer, and so hasnt been treated unfairly in 
this manner.
We can also consider it unfair if a customer wasnt provided with sufficient information 
to enable them to be fully informed as to what they were agreeing to when they took out 
the policy.
In Mr Ss case, Ive reviewed the policy schedule and Terms and Conditions Mr S was 
provided with when he took out his policy in November 2011. These contain the term 
Ive quoted above which gives Red Sands the right to increase the premium payable. 
The schedule only outlines what the premium will be for the upcoming policy year.
I agree with our investigator that Red Sands shouldve highlighted key information about 
the lifetime policy Mr S was purchasing. It wouldve helped Mr S to make an informed 
choice about whether or not to take out the policy, and to manage his expectations, if the 
following had been highlighted:
that the premium will almost certainly increase year on year as his cat gets older
claims made are likely to impact on future premium increases
theres no limit on the amount by which the premium might increase
I cant say for certain whether Mr S wouldve continued with this policy if the above 
information had been highlighted to him before he took out the policy or during the 14 day 
cooling off period. But as such a policy would ensure maximum protection in the event 
of his cat developing a condition that required regular treatment, he might well have done 
so. The disadvantage is the likely increases in premium year on year as the cat gets 
older and the risk of the need for future treatment increases.
There is always also the possibility that the policy terms will change over time. Red Sands 
has the right to do this under the policy, and Ive quoted this term above. An example is the 
requirement for a co-payment when a pet reaches a specific age. This wasnt a policy 
term in 2011 when Mr S took out his policy but was introduced a few years later. This 
applies to all policy holders, so Mr S isnt being treated differently to any other customer.
Ive looked at the premiums Mr S paid as set out in Red Sands final response letter. 
Between 2012 and 2017, when Mr S had the Superior level of cover, his monthly 
premiums increased from £5.40 to £6.96 (a total increase of approximately 29% over five 
years). Between 2017 and 2021, when he had Super cover, they increased from £5.96 to 
£10.09 a month (a total increase of approximately 69% over four years). (Ive excluded the 
ICT element from these figures as this isnt a cost within Red Sands control). Whilst the 
percentage increases might seem high, these are not year on year percentages, and they 
are not as high as other premium increases this service might see with other lifetime 
policies.
My conclusion is that Red Sands has not acted unfairly towards Mr S in the increases 
in premiums that it has made. The policy gives Red Sands the right to increase 
premiums, Mr S has made claims under the policy, and his cat now has a condition that 
will require ongoing treatment. Ive seen no evidence that Red Sands has treated Mr S 
any differently to any other customer.
But I do consider that Mr S has suffered upset in finding himself in a position where the cover for his cat is becoming difficult for him to afford. The likelihood of premium 
increases was not in my view made sufficiently clear to him when he took out his policy, 
leading him to believe that, to borrow his own words, the odds he signed up to were 
being unfairly shifted against him. I think better information about the policy wouldve 
meant that Mr S wasnt so shocked or upset when the premiums increased as they did 
 instead this would have been something he wouldve anticipated.
I agree with our investigator that it would be fair for Red Sands to compensate Mr S for 
the upset he has felt from the lack of clear communication from it about the long-term 
implications of taking out a lifetime policy. I agree with her that £250 would be appropriate 
taking into account the relatively small increase in premiums in monetary terms.
My final decision
My final decision is that for the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint.
I require by Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to pay Mr S 
£250 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask                 
Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman