DRN-1433477
The complaint
Mr M says Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr M took out a store card in 1992 and was sold PPI to cover this. 
M&S said the PPI wasn't mis-sold, but offered to refund some commission it received for 
selling the PPI. 
Our adjudicator didn't think we could look at whether the PPI was mis-sold because Mr M 
referred the complaint to us more than six months after M&S issued its final response letter 
on that matter. And our adjudicator thought M&S's offer to refund some commission was fair 
and reasonable. 
Mr M disagreed, so I've been asked to make a decision on whether we can consider if the 
PPI was mis-sold and if M&S's offer of settlement is fair and reasonable. Mr M says the 
delay in bringing the complaint was the result of health conditions and other circumstances 
that resulted from this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mis-sale of the PPI
We can't look at every complaint that is bought to us. Where a complaint is brought to us 
more than six months after a final response letter, we can only do so if the business 
consents or the delay was, in the opinion of the ombudsman, the result of exceptional 
circumstances. 
In this case Mr M didn't bring the complaint about the mis-sale of the PPI to us until about six 
years after M&S issued its final response letter. That's outside the six months allowed, and 
M&S has not consented to us looking at the complaint. So I've thought about whether the 
circumstances that Mr M described caused the delay and allow me to look at the complaint.
I've thought about everything Mr M has said about why he didn't bring the complaint for so 
long. I can't even imagine the difficulties he's had in that time, and I hope things are 
improving for him. Having said that, I'm not persuaded that there would have been no 
occasions within those six years that Mr M would've been able to contact us to tell us about 
his complaint. So I've decided that we can't look at whether the PPI was mis-sold. I 
appreciate Mr M will be very disappointed by this. 
Commission and profit shareM&S offered to pay back some cost of the PPI to Mr M because it got a high level of 
commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - and it should have told 
Mr M about that. Because M&S didnt tell Mr M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, M&S has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer, which is line with what 
the regulator requires M&S to do, is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr M has said. But these points dont change my decision.
What the business needs to do
M&S has to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. M&S should also pay back to Mr M any extra interest he paid 
because of that.
M&S should re-work the card account and pay back to Mr M the difference between what 
he owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit share it got hadnt been 
over 50% of the cost of the PPI. M&S should also pay Mr M 8%* simple interest (15% before 
April 1993) if he paid off his card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr M can claim back the tax if he 
doesn't pay tax.
My final decision
I don't have the power to consider whether the PPI was mis-sold. So, Marks & Spencer 
Financial Services Plc does not have to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc does have to pay back to Mr M any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman