DRN-2884505
The complaint
Mr W and Miss M complain about the way Bank of Scotland plc has administered their 
mortgage account.
Specifically, they complain about the following:
The interest rate charged is too high;
The remediation that Bank of Scotland carried out on the mortgage account in March 
2019, and the impact this has had on their ability to make their monthly payments.
What happened
Mr W and Miss M have a mortgage with Bank of Scotland (BoS). Theyve struggled to make 
the full contractual monthly payment on the mortgage for some time, and so significant 
arrears have built up on the account. In September 2019, BoS wrote to Mr W and Miss M to 
let them know they would be starting legal action to recover the arrears.
Mr W and Miss M have complained to BoS over the years about multiple issues. In 2017 
they brought concerns about the mis-sale of the mortgage and the interest rate to our 
service. We said that we couldnt consider those complaints as theyd been brought to our 
service out of time.
In March 2019 BoS wrote to Mr W and Miss M about a remediation exercise theyd carried 
out on the mortgage. They said following guidance issued by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA), theyd reviewed Mr W and Miss Ms account and reduced the arrears balance to 
£27,931.98 (it was previously around £38,000). The contractual monthly payment (CMP) 
also changed to £2,198.55. 
In September 2019, Mr W and Miss M contacted us again to complain about the issues Ive 
set out above, as well as some other complaint points. BoS didnt give us consent to 
consider the complaint as they said it had been made out of time. I issued a decision which 
set out the complaint points our service could consider. I decided we could consider the 
following concerns:
The interest rate charged on the mortgage since April 2016;
The remediation BoS carried out in March 2019.
BoS told our service that Miss M and Mr W had been charged the standard variable rate 
(SVR) on their mortgage since 2013, in line with the terms and conditions of the account. 
They said that they do not allow customers in arrears to take out new interest rate products, 
as they have early repayment charges attached to them which could result in additional 
costs for the borrower if the house is repossessed or sold. The bank also said theyd 
consider consolidating the arrears on the mortgage account if the CMP was being 
maintained, subject to the borrowers demonstrating the mortgage was affordable.
BoS said theyd recalculated all the monthly payments since June 2010 as part of their 
remediation. They provided our service with a copy of the remediation breakdown. They said 
that even if theyd always followed the FCA guidance and calculated the CMP correctly, 
there would still have been significant arrears on the account as the payments made were 
insufficient to meet the CMP.
Miss M and Mr W have told us theyre not happy with the remediation calculation as it 
doesnt include a refund of any interest thats accrued on the mortgage as a result of the 
banks errors. They also said they tried to take out new interest rate products to make the 
CMP more affordable for them, but as the bank declined their requests theyve been paying 
the SVR which is much higher than rates offered by other lenders. They feel that the banks 
administration of the mortgage and the way BoS have treated them has resulted in their 
current financial position.
Our investigator considered what both parties had told us. He explained that he thought BoS 
had remediated Mr W and Miss Ms mortgage account fairly in 2019, and so he didnt think 
any further redress was due. He was also satisfied that BoS had acted fairly when it had 
declined Miss Ms requests for new interest rate products, and didnt think the rate they had 
charged was unfairly high. Overall he didnt think the bank needed to do anything further to 
put things right.
Miss M disagreed with the investigators view. In summary, she felt that if the CMP had been 
calculated correctly, they may have been able to pay it as well as contribute to the arrears 
balance. She also thought that a lower interest rate product would have helped with this too. 
Overall she was still satisfied that the banks errors in how theyd calculated the CMP over 
the years had resulted in the current position of the mortgage being worse than it should be.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change his view, and Miss M asked for an ombudsman 
to make a decision on the complaint. So the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I want to say that I appreciate Miss M and Mr W have been through some very 
difficult times over the years. Its clear things have not been easy for them, and Ive taken 
their overall circumstances into account when deciding a fair and reasonable outcome for 
this complaint. But having done so, I agree with the outcome our investigator reached, for 
broadly the same reasons. Ill explain why.
The interest rate charged on the account
As set out in my previous decision, Im only able to consider the interest rate charged on the 
account since April 2016. During this time Miss M and Mr Ws mortgage has been on BoS 
SVR which has fluctuated between 4.55% and 5.2% over the last five years.
 
Ive looked at the terms set out in Miss M and Mr Ws mortgage offer which they agreed to 
when they took out the mortgage in 2008. Im satisfied the offer explained that once the fixed 
interest rate of 5.79% expired on 31 January 2013, the mortgage would revert to the banks 
Home Loan Rate (the standard variable rate). Im satisfied Miss M and Mr W have been 
charged the SVR on their mortgage in line with the original terms.
 
Mr W and Miss M have said that the rate theyve been paying is higher than the rates offered 
by other lenders. But I dont think thats a reasonable comparison. A lenders SVR will 
typically be higher than other fixed rate deals available on the market, as is the case with 
BoSs own fixed rate products. When considering the SVR BoS have charged Mr W and 
Miss M, its broadly in line with comparable rates charged by other lenders in the market.
 However, Ive also thought about whether it was fair and reasonable for the bank to continue 
charging the SVR on the mortgage, despite Miss M and Mr W asking for lower interest rates. 
Bank of Scotland have told us that if a borrowers mortgage is in arrears, theyre not eligible 
to take out any of their interest rate deals. Whilst its generally reasonable for lenders to set 
their own eligibility criteria for those they wish to offer the best deals to, Ive thought about 
whether the banks application of that criteria here has led to unfair treatment for Mr W and 
Miss M.
Since April 2016 there were several conversations that took place between Miss M and the 
bank. Its clear Miss M was being open about her and Mr Ws financial situation, and that 
they were paying all they could afford. They were consistently making payments of £1,500 
per month, which increased to £1,700 per month in 2018. But this unfortunately was still not 
enough to cover the CMP whilst the mortgage was on the SVR.
In 2016 BoS explained they wouldnt be able to offer Miss M and Mr W a lower interest rate 
product whilst their account was in arrears. So they looked at alternative forbearance 
solutions to help them. I can see they discussed the possibility of extending the term in order 
to reduce the monthly payments, but they found this wouldnt reduce the payments low 
enough to what Miss M and Mr W could afford. It seems this calculation was done on the 
basis of extending the mortgage for as long as the bank would allow at the time. As this 
wouldnt have helped Miss M and Mr W reduce the arrears, and ultimately allow them 
access to an interest rate, I dont think it was unreasonable for BoS to decide not to make 
those changes to the mortgage at the time.
I say this because I think in order for a fixed interest rate product to have been suitable for 
Miss M and Mr W at the time it was requested, there needed to be a clear way forward that 
would have meant the mortgage payments were sustainable for them both in the short term 
and the long term. This mortgage is part interest only and part capital repayment, with a 
significant balance (around £200,000) being on interest only with around five years left on 
the term.
 
Even if the arrears were consolidated, and a term extension was applied, the mortgage 
payments were still unaffordable based on what Miss M and Mr W had told BoS about their 
income and expenditure, and there still would have been a significant balance to repay on 
interest only terms. Without there being a sustainable way to reduce the mortgage 
payments, I dont think it was unreasonable for BoS to decline their application for an interest 
rate product. The bank were considering taking legal action to recover the arrears, and so I 
dont think tying Miss M and Mr W into a fixed deal with charges applicable for exiting it early 
would have been suitable. As a result, Im not persuaded BoS have treated Miss M and Mr 
W unfairly. 
Having said this, bearing in mind the time thats past since these applications were made 
and the circumstances assessed, I would encourage both parties to conduct another full 
review of all the circumstances in order to see if theres anything else BoS may be able to do 
to help Miss M and Mr W before they take any further recovery action.
The remediation carried out in 2019
In March 2019, Bank of Scotland wrote to Miss M and Mr W to tell them their monthly 
payment would be changing from April. The letter explained theyd reviewed the mortgage 
account following guidance issued by the FCA, and theyd found that at least one of the 
monthly payments had included an amount towards the arrears. They compared this to what 
the monthly payments would have been had the arrears not been included, and adjusted the 
account accordingly.The adjustment reduced the mortgage arrears balance to £27,931.98, and the bank said the 
credit file would be updated if necessary.
Miss M and Mr W dont feel the remediation the bank have done to put things right goes far 
enough. Theyve told us that if the arrears hadnt been included in the monthly payments 
they were being asked to make, they would have been able to pay more money to the 
account to reduce the arrears balance.
 
A remediation calculation of this type is not a straight forward matter, as it involves re-
working the account as if a different (and correct) CMP had been asked for over the whole 
period where the bank had been automatically capitalising the arrears. The bank have 
provided their calculations and Ive reviewed them closely, as well as the transaction history 
of Miss M and Mr Ws account to see how theyve been impacted by this. Having done so, 
whilst Im satisfied Bank of Scotland had automatically capitalised arrears when they 
shouldnt have done, Im also satisfied theyve now remediated the account in line with the 
guidance set by the FCA. And in this case, I think this is a fair way to put things right, so I 
wont be asking the bank to refund any additional amounts.
Whilst I appreciate Miss M has said that if theyd know the true amounts of both the accurate 
CMP figure and the arrears figure, they could have contributed more towards the arrears, I 
think on balance thats unlikely to have been the case. Throughout the history of the 
mortgage since the arrears began, its clear Miss M and Mr W were paying all they could 
towards the mortgage, and they were having regular conversations about potential ways to 
clear the arrears. Looking at what the CMP should have been throughout the years had the 
arrears not been capitalised, for the majority of the time the payments they actually made 
still would not have been enough to meet the CMP, let alone reduce the arrears balance too. 
So I dont think the current position of the mortgage account and the level of arrears still 
outstanding can be attributed to the error the bank made when incorrectly calculating the 
CMP.
Miss M has also said that she thinks its unfair the refund the bank made didnt include any 
additional interest thats accrued as a result of the automatic capitalisation. But there was no 
additional interest accrued as a result of the automatic capitalisation. Interest is charged on 
the whole outstanding balance, including the arrears balance. So whether or not the arrears 
had been included in the CMP amount when they shouldnt have been, this didnt change 
the total balance outstanding on which interest was calculated. The bank have reconstructed 
the account to put it back in the position it would have been in, had the automatic 
capitalisation not occurred. As a result, I dont think the bank need to make an additional 
interest payment to Miss M and Mr W.
Overall, whilst I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Miss M and Mr W, Im not 
satisfied Bank of Scotland have acted unfairly under the scope of this complaint. I note that 
the bank have placed legal action to recover the mortgage arrears on hold whilst our service 
considered this complaint. Id like to take this opportunity to remind them of their obligations 
to treat Miss M and Mr W fairly when deciding the next steps for recovering this outstanding 
debt, and the need to take Miss M and Mr Ws individual circumstances into account.
My final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Kathryn BillingsOmbudsman