DRN-3197913
The complaint
Mr B complains that One Sure Insurance Limited cancelled his motorhome insurance policy. 
He wants it to waive its cancellation charges.
What happened
One Sure sent Mr B his renewal invite saying that his policy would be automatically 
renewed. When it sent him the renewal confirmation, it asked for some validation 
documents. But Mr B didnt respond to this. A second letter asked for the documents or the 
policy would be cancelled. 
Mr B said he emailed and posted these documents to One Sure. But it sent him a notice of 
cancellation. One Sure then sent Mr B a text thanking him for providing his documents. But 
the cancellation still went ahead and One Sure asked Mr B for an outstanding balance of 
£137.15. It later offered to reduce its cancellation charge by half as a gesture of goodwill so 
that Mr B owed £94.65. But Mr B was unhappy as he said hed sent in all the documents it 
had requested. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought One Sure 
had sent Mr B confusing and misleading communications about his policy. He thought it 
should have acted on the documents Mr B had sent in by email and then the policy wouldnt 
have cancelled. He thought One Sure should have done more before cancelling the policy. 
He thought One Sure should waive its cancellation fee and administration charges and its 
commission so that Mr B only needed to pay the insurers charge for time on cover. He 
thought it should remove any records of the cancellation and pay Mr B £100 compensation 
for the trouble and upset caused.  
One Sure replied that it had sent Mr B numerous messages and letters, but he hadnt co-
operated with its requests. It said it had offered to put Mr B back on cover, so it thought it 
wasnt responsible for him having to find cover elsewhere. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
One Sure said it had cancelled Mr Bs policy due to his lack of co-operation with its requests 
for documents to validate his policy. But Mr B said hed done all that he had been asked to 
do. So Ive looked at the timeline of events and compared the parties accounts against the 
evidence Ive seen. 
30 March 2021, One Sure sent Mr B his renewal invite to confirm the policy would 
automatically renew. He was told he only needed to contact One Sure if he didnt want to 
renew or if his details had changed. So I think Mr B reasonably expected his policy to renew.
26 April, One Sure sent Mr B his renewal letter to confirm his policy had been renewed. The 
letter requested that he complete a form and send in validation documents. Mr B said he 
didnt receive this letter. But I can see that it was sent to the same address as the other 
letters he received. One Sure said Mr B must have received this letter as he had agreed its 
Terms of Business through its online portal. But I can see that he logged in on 18 May, so I 
dont agree that this provides proof that Mr B received this letter, just that he had access to 
his online account and that hed thought all was well.
One Sure sent another letter on 6 May to confirm outstanding documents were needed or 
the policy would be cancelled in seven days. 
12 May, Mr B emailed and posted One Sure the documents it had requested. This was 
within the seven days notice period. But Mr B sent this from a different email address to that 
One Sure had on his policy. So it said it didnt notice this. 
I can understand that One Sure receives many emails, but Mr B included his policy number 
and all his details. I can also see that Mr B used the same email address to send his 
documents to One Sure the previous year, albeit this was sent to individual agents rather 
than a generic in box. I dont think its fair to expect Mr B to know that using a different email 
address would affect his policy. And I think it was unfair for One Sure to rely on this to say 
that Mr B hadnt co-operated. 
17 May, One Sure sent Mr B a letter to confirm the policy would be cancelled on 24 May due 
to outstanding documents.
18 May, Mr B was sent a text message from One Sure to thank him for providing the 
documents requested and it would contact him if it had any queries. These documents had 
arrived by post. So I think Mr B was left thinking matters had been resolved. One Sure said it 
had received just two of the documents, but I can see that they were all in the email Mr B 
had sent. And I think if One Sure had acted on this, then the policy wouldnt have been 
cancelled. 
24 May, One Sure sent Mr B an email to confirm the policy would be cancelled at 3pm due 
to outstanding documents as one he had provided was out of date. So One Sure had all the 
required documents except for proof of Mr Bs address. 
25 May Mr B contacted One Sure and he was told to provide a more recent document and it 
sent him an email to confirm the document needed. Mr B sent an email replying to the 
agents email with the document requested to One Sure the same day and his account was 
debited for his premium. So, again, I think Mr B was left thinking matters had been resolved 
and his policy was in place. But the email was again sent from a different email address and 
One Sure didnt pick this up. So the policy cancelled. For the same reasons Ive given 
above, I dont think this was fair or reasonable as One Sure hadnt warned Mr B about this. 
3 June, One Sure sent Mr B a letter to confirm an outstanding balance of £137.15 needed to 
be paid.
Mr B contacted One Sure on 7 June to confirm he had sent the requested document via 
email on 25 May. One Sure sent an email to him to confirm the document he had provided 
on 25 May had been accepted, and if he wanted to get back on cover, he would need to give 
it a call. 
Mr B was unhappy with the cancellation of the policy as he said he had provided all the 
documents requested, so he made a complaint. One Sure sent its final response letter 
saying that his customer journey could have been better. As a gesture of goodwill, One Sure 
offered to reduce the cancellation charge by 50%. Mr B didnt accept its decision and then 
referred the matter to this service.
So Im satisfied that Mr B did all he thought he needed to in order for his policy to renew. I 
dont know why Mr B didnt receive the first request for his documents. But when he was 
sent the second chaser for the validation documents, he provided these by email and post, 
but One Sure didnt locate the email. He called One Sure, emailed it and sent it documents 
by post. And I think One Sures responses were mis-leading and caused confusion. So I think One Sure should have done more before it cancelled Mr Bs policy. Mr B didnt 
accept its offer to waive its cancellation fee if he took out further cover. I can understand this 
as I can see that Mr B was frustrated with One Sures handling of his renewal. And Mr B 
didnt accept its offer to reduce its cancellation charge. I can understand this as I think Mr B 
did all he reasonably could to renew his policy. Hes now taken out cover elsewhere. 
So I think One Sure cancelled Mr Bs policy unfairly. To restore Mr Bs position, I think One 
Sure should do as our investigator has recommended and waive its charges and fees and 
remove records of the cancellation. Mr B then has to pay just the insurers charge for his 
time on cover. To make up for Mr Bs poor customer journey, I think One Sure should pay Mr 
B £100 compensation for the trouble and upset he has been caused. I think this is fair and 
reasonable as its in keeping with our published guidance.
 Putting things right
I require One Sure Insurance Limited to do the following:
1. Waive any cancellation fee, arrangement fee and loss of commission charge applied to 
the policy so that Mr B is just charged for his time on cover, £37.02.
2. Remove any records of the cancellation from any internal and external databases. 
3. Pay Mr B £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
administration of his policy. 
 My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require One 
Sure Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman