DRN-2754143
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG hasnt settled a curtailment claim
they made on their annual travel insurance policy.  
What happened
On 16 March 2020, Mr and Mrs J flew abroad on a package holiday, which was arranged by
a provider that Ill call T. They were staying in a hotel resort and they were due to return to
the UK on 30 March 2020.
However, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, Mr and Mrs Js hotel was placed in effective
lockdown. They were confined to their room, apart from set meal times and werent able to
make use of the resorts facilities. Mr and Mrs J returned to the UK early on 22 March 2020,
after T arranged a repatriation flight. T offered Mr and Mrs J a credit voucher of £1342.22,
which represented half the cost of their holiday. T said Mr and Mrs J could put this voucher
towards any of its trips. The voucher was valid until 31 October 2021.
Mr and Mrs J werent happy with the offer of a credit voucher. They said given they were
both nearly 70 years old and that they both had medical conditions, it was unlikely theyd
travel abroad again. They wanted a cash refund of the costs associated with the cutting
short of their trip. They were also unhappy that Ts offer didnt take into account the three
days theyd been confined to their room. They considered their trip had been curtailed at this
point. So they made a claim on their travel insurance policy.
ERGO agreed that the claim would fall within the scope of Mr and Mrs Js policy cover. But it
said that the policy only covered costs which couldnt be recovered from elsewhere. As Mr
and Mrs J had been offered a credit voucher representing the cost of their curtailed holiday,
ERGO didnt think theyd suffered a financial loss. And it didnt agree to cover the period
when Mr and Mrs J were confined to their room, because it said the policy didnt cover loss
of enjoyment.
Mr and Mrs J were unhappy with ERGOs decision and they asked us to look into their
complaint.
Following ongoing correspondence with one of our investigators, ERGO ultimately agreed
that it would reconsider Mr and Mrs Js claim after 31 October 2021, if they hadnt made use
of Ts credit voucher or if it couldnt be extended. It said that up until this point, it still 
remained of the view that Mr and Mrs J hadnt suffered a financial loss.
Our investigator didnt think ERGOs offer was reasonable. He considered that the voucher
was overly restrictive in Mr and Mrs Js specific circumstances and that they had no plans to
use the voucher. So he thought ERGO should settle Mr and Mrs Js claim now without
needing to wait for it to expire.
ERGO disagreed. It maintained that up until 31 October 2021, Mr and Mrs J still wouldnt
have suffered a financial loss. And it said that given the current vaccine programme, it was
still possible that Mr and Mrs J would be able to use the voucher before it was due to expire.
It said that if Mr and Mrs J chose not to use the voucher, this would be classed as
disinclination to travel, which simply isnt covered.  
I issued my provisional decision on 26 March 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I planned to uphold this complaint in part. I thought ERGOs offer to 
reconsider Mr and Mrs Js claim after 31 October 2021 if the voucher hasnt been used and 
cant be extended was fair and reasonable. But I also thought that ERGO should pay the 
effective curtailment claim for the three days Mr and Mrs J were locked-down in the resort 
before they were repatriated back to the UK. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive carefully considered, amongst other
things, the terms of Mr and Mrs Js policy and the circumstances of their claim to decide
whether ERGO handled the claim reasonably.
Is ERGOs offer to consider the claim after 31 October 2021 fair?
Ive first considered the policy terms because these form the basis of Mr and Mrs Js contract
with ERGO. Mr and Mrs J paid to take out the optional Travel Disruption Extension cover,
which extended the cancellation and curtailment cover available to them under their policy.
This section of the policy says:
What is covered:
We will pay you up to a maximum of £500 for Basic cover (unless you have purchased the
optional £1,000/£3,000 additional cover option) or £5,000 for Comprehensive cover per
insured person for any irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costs (and other
prepaid charges) which you have paid or are contracted to pay, plus any reasonable
additional travel expenses incurred if you were not able to travel and use your booked
accommodation or the trip was cut short before completion as a result of the Travel Advice
Unit of the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) or the World Health Organisation (WHO)
or regulatory authority in a country to/from which you are travelling issuing a directive:
a) prohibiting all travel or all but essential travel to; or
b) recommending evacuation from the country, or specific area or event to which you were
travelling, providing the directive came into force after you purchased, renewed or extended
this insurance or booked the trip (whichever is the later), or in the case of cutting short your
trip after you had left.
This section of the policy also includes a specific list of things which ERGO doesnt cover.
One of these says:
What is not covered
any costs incurred by you which are recoverable from the providers of the
accommodation (or their administrators) or for which you receive or are expected 
to receive compensation or reimbursement.
Theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs Js trip had to be cut short because of Covid-19. The
FCO advised against all but essential travel on 17 March 2020 and T arranged for Mr and
Mrs J to be repatriated seven nights early on 22 March 2020. So ERGO accepts that Mr and
Mrs Js claim falls within the scope of policy cover. But it doesnt think that theyve currently
suffered a financial loss and its satisfied that their loss has been recovered from T. Thats
because T has offered Mr and Mrs J a credit voucher for half of the cost of their holiday.
Ive seen an email setting out the scope of Ts offer. From what Ive seen, this offer was for£1342.22, which was exactly half of the cost of Mr and Mrs Js overall trip  calculated from
the point T repatriated Mr and Mrs J back to the UK. So, the value of the voucher represents
Mr and Mrs Js unused accommodation and travel costs and is currently valid until 31
October 2021 and can be put towards any of Ts holidays. I appreciate T didnt offer Mr and
Mrs J a cash refund. But I dont think it was unreasonable for ERGO to conclude that Mr and
Mrs J hadnt suffered a financial loss for the lost seven nights of their holiday.
I also dont think it was unreasonable for ERGO to conclude, in July 2020, that Mr and Mrs J
might have been able to make use of the voucher before 31 October 2021. So I think it was
reasonable for ERGO to initially consider there was nothing for it to pay based on a strict
interpretation of the policy terms.
However, ERGO has now told us that if Mr and Mrs J dont use the voucher before 31
October 2021 and T wont extend it, it will consider their claim at that point. In my view, this
is a very reasonable position for ERGO to take. I can entirely understand why Mr and Mrs J
may want a cash refund now. Given the current restrictions on travel and Mrs Js underlying
health conditions, I appreciate that their future travel plans are uncertain. But given the
current vaccination programme, its possible that international travel may resume and that Mr
and Mrs J may be in a position to use the voucher before it expires. Ive also noted that T is
a member of ABTA, which can look into individual complaints about travel providers. So I
think its also open to Mr and Mrs J to make a complaint to ABTA about Ts offer if theyre
unhappy with the credit voucher theyve been offered and would prefer cash.
So as Ive explained above, I think its fair for ERGO to consider that Mr and Mrs J havent
suffered a financial loss in relation to their unused travel and accommodation costs at this
point in time. Im also persuaded that the terms of Ts offer arent unfairly restrictive. So I
currently think ERGOs offer to reconsider Mr and Mrs Js claim after 31 October 2021, if
they havent used the voucher or T wont extend it is a fair one. This means Im not planning
to direct ERGO to pay Mr and Mrs J a cash settlement in lieu of Ts voucher.
Should ERGO settle Mr and Mrs Js claim for effective curtailment?
Ts offer represents reimbursement of the trip costs from the actual point Mr and Mrs Js trip
was cut short on 22 March 2020. This is in line with a strict interpretation of ERGOs policy
terms and on such an interpretation, ERGOs liability would be limited to this point.
But I can depart from a strict interpretation of the policy terms if I feel they result in an unfair
outcome. I think thats the case here.
Mr and Mrs J were able to make some use of their resort facilities for the first couple of days
of their holiday. However, theyve told us that on 19 March 2020, their resort effectively
locked-down as a result of Covid-19. Ive seen a copy of the instructions they were given by
the hotel management during Mr and Mrs Js stay. This said that guests had to stay in their
rooms; they were forbidden to use the pool or the beach or to go for walks and the bar and
all entertainments were closed. Guests were only allowed to leave their room for meals in
set areas.
In my view, at the point Mr and Mrs J were confined to their room, their holiday was
effectively curtailed. I dont think this period represents a simple loss of enjoyment  I think
Mr and Mrs Js holiday had effectively been ended. This was after the date the FCO had
advised against all but essential travel and Covid-19 had been declared a pandemic. Given
these particular circumstances, I think it would be fair and reasonable for ERGO to consider
that Mr and Mrs Js holiday was effectively cut short on 19 March 2020. This would mean
that it should calculate the cost of Mr and Mrs Js three lost days of their holiday, which T
hasnt taken into account in its offer and pay them this amount.So overall, I currently think its fair for ERGO to agree to consider Mr and Mrs Js claim for
the voucher costs on or after 31 October 2021 if the voucher hasnt been used at that point
and if T wont extend it. But Im currently persuaded that it should settle Mr and Mrs Js claim
for the period between 19 and 22 March 2020 under the curtailment section of the policy.
I asked both parties to send me any further information or evidence they wanted me to look 
at.
Neither ERGO nor Mr and Mrs J accepted my provisional decision.
ERGO said that Mr and Mrs Js circumstances didnt fall within the policy definition of 
curtailment. It also said that Mr and Mrs J had travelled with medical conditions and that it 
assumed theyd have been aware of the national lockdown which had been announced 
before they travelled. It said it wasnt the FCO which had locked down the hotel  it had been 
a local authority. It told us the only time it would consider paying for a policyholders 
curtailment if they hadnt returned to the UK early is if a policyholder had to isolate in their 
room due to illness or injury, on medical advice, until they returned to the UK. It maintained 
that Mr and Mrs Js claim was for loss of enjoyment. And it felt Mr and Mrs J had still been 
able to use some of the hotels facilities  such as the restaurant for meal times.
Mr and Mrs J felt that I hadnt considered the fact that theyd been deprived of the use of 
their holiday. They said T hadnt entered into any discussions about its voucher offer, 
beyond verbally confirming that its voucher terms were non-negotiable. They told us T hadnt 
responded to communications with them. So they didnt see how they could force it to 
convert the offer to cash. And they said ABTA wasnt interested in Ts goodwill offer. They 
maintained that they have no intention of travelling abroad again and that given the situation; 
travel insurance will be hard to find. So they consider the voucher is of no value to them. 
They also consider that if ERGO reconsiders the claim after 31 October 2021, it will turn it 
down on the grounds that Mr and Mrs J were disinclined to travel. They said theyd lost the 
holiday they wanted and the money they paid for it  and the voucher T had offered would 
only ever be likely to be a partial rebooking cost. They didnt think Id considered their 
complaint fairly and reasonably. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. I still think ERGOs offer to 
reconsider Mr and Mrs Js claim after 31 October 2021 if the voucher hasnt been used and 
cant be extended is fair and reasonable. And Im still persuaded that ERGO must pay the 
effective curtailment claim for the three days Mr and Mrs J were locked-down in the resort 
before they were repatriated back to the UK. Ill explain why.
ERGO argues that the fact Mr and Mrs J were unable to leave their hotel room except for 
meal times doesnt meet the policy definition of curtailment because they didnt return home 
early. As I explained in my provisional decision, I accept that if I interpret the policy terms 
strictly; the claim wouldnt fall within the scope of cover.
But I dont agree that Mr and Mrs Js curtailment claim should fairly be treated as loss of 
enjoyment. The instructions from their hotel were clear  Mr and Mrs J needed to effectively 
isolate in their room and were only allowed to go to the restaurant at set meal times. They 
werent allowed to go for walks, to swim, or to use the remaining hotel facilities as a result of 
the impact of Covid-19. So even though Mr and Mrs J didnt actually return home early until 
22 March 2020, I still think their holiday was effectively cut short at the point they were confined to their room between 19 and 22 March 2020. And while ERGO suggests that Mr 
and Mrs J wouldve been aware of the national lockdown when they travelled, I disagree. 
Although the government had advised limiting social contact and travel on 16 March 2020, 
the FCO hadnt advised against all but essential travel on that date. And the national 
lockdown wasnt imposed until 23 March 2020  after Mr and Mrs J had been flown home 
early. 
In the round, Im still satisfied that the fair outcome here is for ERGO to step away from a 
strict interpretation of the policy terms and treat Mr and Mrs Js trip as having been 
effectively curtailed on 19 March 2020. And so Im now directing it to settle Mr and Mrs Js 
curtailment claim for the period between 19 and 22 March 2020, when they were confined to 
their room.
However, while Ive carefully considered Mr and Mrs Js additional points, Im still persuaded 
that ERGOs offer to reconsider the claim for the rest of the curtailed holiday after 31 
October 2021 if the voucher remains unused and T wont extend it is a fair one. ERGO isnt 
responsible for the way T communicates with Mr and Mrs J and it has no power over the 
offers T decides to make to customers in Mr and Mrs Js circumstances. It still remains open 
to Mr and Mrs J to complain to both T and ABTA if theyre unhappy with Ts offer. As I 
explained, Ts voucher offer represents exactly half the cost of Mr and Mrs Js curtailed 
holiday and is calculated from the date T flew them home. I still think it was fair for ERGO to 
conclude that this offer represented Mr and Mrs Js unused travel and accommodation costs 
and that therefore, theyd suffered no recoverable financial loss.
I do appreciate why Mr and Mrs J feel the voucher will be of no use to them in the future, but 
I think ERGO has recognised that future travel plans remain uncertain. And I think its offer to 
reconsider the claim if Mr and Mrs J havent used the voucher by 31 October 2021 and if T 
wont extend it takes this uncertainty into account. I understand Mr and Mrs J are concerned 
that ERGO will simply turn down their claim on the basis of disclination to travel. However, it 
wouldnt be appropriate for me to speculate on the outcome of a future claim. It will be down 
to ERGO to assess the claim in line with its terms and conditions at that point if the voucher 
hasnt been used and T hasnt extended it. If Mr and Mrs J are unhappy with any further 
consideration of their claim by ERGO at that point; they may be able to bring a new 
complaint to us about that issue alone.
As Ive explained, I can consider a case more widely than the strict interpretation of the 
policy terms if I feel a strict application of those terms results in an unfair outcome. But my 
decisions need to be fair and reasonable to both parties. And in this case, I simply dont think 
it would be fair and reasonable for me to direct ERGO to settle Mr and Mrs Js full claim 
based on the evidence Ive seen. 
  My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint in part.
I direct ERGO Reiseversicherung AG to pay Mr and Mrs Js claim for the cost of their
holiday between 19 and 22 March 2020 under the curtailment section of their policy, in line
with the remaining policy terms and conditions. It must add interest to this amount
at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of claim until the date of settlement.  
*If ERGO considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs J how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and 
Mrs J a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman