DRN-3319909
The complaint
Miss M complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118118 Money (MCF) lent to her 
in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in January 2022. In that decision I explained 
why I thought that the complaint should be upheld. Both parties have received a copy of the 
provisional decision but, for completeness, I include some extracts from it below. In my 
decision I said;
Miss M was given a loan by MCF in October 2019. She borrowed £3,500 and agreed 
to repay the loan in 24 monthly instalments. Miss M says that she has recently repaid 
the loan.
MCF gathered some information from Miss M before it agreed the loan. It asked her 
for details of her income, and her normal expenditure. It then used some statistical 
analysis and some further checks to revise Miss Ms declared disposable income. 
And it checked her credit file to see how much she was paying to other lenders, and 
how shed managed credit in the past.
Miss M was entering into a significant commitment with MCF. She would need to 
make monthly repayments for a period of two years. So I think it was right that MCF 
wanted to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Miss 
Ms financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to her. I think that the checks Ive 
described above were sufficient to achieve that aim  I think that MCFs checks were 
proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs 
to react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial 
situation. Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan 
application outright. And that is what I think should have happened in this case.
 
As I have said earlier, MCF revised the amount of disposable income that Miss M 
declared. Its initial checks suggested that she was earning much less than shed 
said. And it thought her expenditure was likely to be far higher. Overall MCF reduced 
Miss Ms disposable income by over £900 to just 30% of what shed declared. I think 
the need for such a large reduction should have put MCF on notice that all might not 
be well with Miss Ms finances.
MCFs credit check showed that Miss M had faced some problems with her finances 
around five years before. In 2014 she had defaulted on two large loans with total 
values of over £30,000. I can see that in the intervening years Miss M had repaid 
much of that debt, with only a small balance outstanding on one of the loans. But 
experience suggests that consumers who have faced problems managing their 
money in the past, are more likely to face similar problems in the future.
And the more recent activity on Miss Ms credit file suggested that those similar 
problems might be starting to reoccur. It is true that the credit check suggested that 
Miss M was generally meeting her credit obligations as they became due. She had 
been behind on her mortgage payments for a couple of months around a year before, 
but otherwise her repayments were made on time. But the pattern of her recent 
borrowing should have caused concerns to MCF.
Miss M had four active credit card accounts. And each of those accounts was 
approaching its agreed credit limit  limits that had a total value of £7,4000. Two of 
the credit card accounts had been opened in the past three months. And of even 
greater concern was that the large balances on the other two accounts had also 
arisen in the same timeframe. That is indicative of someone that was facing 
increasing pressure on their finances. And since a part of those balances appeared 
to have arisen from cash withdrawals, that might also suggest that Miss M was 
needing to use credit to meet her other day to day living costs, or her repayments on 
her mortgage.
I think that what Ive described above are sufficient reasons for MCF to have declined
Miss Ms application for the loan. But at the very least I think the results of the checks 
should have caused MCF to gather more detailed information about what was 
happening with Miss Ms finances. So Ive looked at Miss Ms bank statements, and 
what shes told us about her financial situation, to see what better checks would have 
shown MCF.
At this stage I want to be clear that I am not suggesting that this is the exact check 
that MCF should have carried out. I do think, at the very least, that MCF needed 
further evidence about what was happening with Miss Ms finances. And looking at 
her bank statements is one way of achieving that although there are of course many 
other ways that level of detail could be established. But I think that by looking at 
Miss Ms bank statements I can get a good idea of what better checks might have 
shown.
Ive looked at Miss Ms bank statements for the three months before the loan was 
agreed. Those bank statements dont show that Miss M had a stable form of income. 
I can see that in one month she received income from an employment agency. The 
next month she received income from what seems to be a tourist attraction and a 
hotel. And only in the final month did she receive income from the employer shed 
declared to MCF. On average her income over those three months was just over 
£2,000 rather than the £2,900 shed declared
I can see that Miss Ms application did say that she had been with her employer for 
zero months. So that might explain why shed not received income from there in the 
past. But I think there was a realistic risk that either the income MCF would have 
seen was inflated, due to for example a tax refund being paid, or that Miss Ms 
employment was short term, or that she was in a probationary period. I dont think 
MCF could have any confidence about Miss Ms income remaining at that level for 
the following two years.
 
So overall I dont currently think MCF should have given the loan to Miss M. I think 
that the results of its initial checks should have led the lender to decline her 
application. But even if it had simply undertaken further, more detailed checks, I think 
they too should have led to the loan being refused. So I currently think that Miss Ms 
complaint should be upheld and that MCF needs to pay her some compensation.I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Miss M has said she accepts, and agrees with, my provisional decision. 
MCF hasnt provided us with anything further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party has provided me with any new evidence or further comments I see 
no reason to alter the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. So I dont think MCF 
should have given the loan to Miss M. I think that the results of its initial checks should have 
led the lender to decline her application. But even if it had simply undertaken further, more 
detailed checks, I think they too should have led to the loan being refused. So I think that 
Miss Ms complaint should be upheld and that MCF needs to pay her some compensation.
Putting things right
I dont think MCF should have agreed to lend to Miss M in October 2019. So MCF should;
refund all the interest and charges Miss M paid on the loan
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ms credit file in relation to the 
loan
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MCF to take off tax from this interest. MCF must give 
Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ms complaint and direct Madison CF UK Limited to 
put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman