DRN-3551152
The complaint
Mrs F, as a director of a limited company Ill refer to as D, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC 
(Lloyds) wont refund money D lost after falling victim to a scam.
What happened
In September 2020, D was expecting to pay a manufacturer in relation to an order theyd 
made. D says the manufacturer was one they used regularly. D received an email which said 
that due to a tax audit the manufacturer was unable to receive payments to their usual bank 
account. D were directed to make payment to a different bank account than theyd used 
previously. D were told the account was held by a subsidiary of the manufacturer and were 
provided with the new bank account information.
In fact, the manufacturers emails had been hacked and the email D received was sent by a 
fraudster who was unrelated to the genuine manufacturer. D say they emailed the 
manufacturer numerous times to check the new bank information was correct and were 
provided with a letter of authorisation. These emails were all intercepted and replied to by 
the fraudsters.
D set up a new payee on their Lloyds USD account and made two payments to the new 
bank details. The first payment on 14 September 2020, was for just over $60,000USD. The 
second payment on 20 September 2020, was for just over $53,000USD.
A few days after D made the second payment, the genuine manufacturer contacted D saying 
they hadnt received the expected payment. At this point D became aware theyd been the 
victim of a scam. D contacted Lloyds and raised a fraud claim the same day.
Lloyds contacted the corresponding bank that the funds were paid to. The corresponding 
bank was an intermediary bank between Lloyds and the beneficiary bank where the 
recipients account was held and where the funds were ultimately paid to. Lloyds say there 
were delays between them contacting the corresponding bank, and the corresponding bank 
contacting the beneficiary bank  then information coming back to Lloyds. However, at the 
end of October 2020 the corresponding bank let Lloyds know theyd had a response from the 
beneficiary bank and the recipient of the funds was refusing to return them. On that basis, 
they were unable to recover the funds for Lloyds.
While Lloyds were trying to recover the funds, D used their contacts in the country the funds 
were paid to, to try and recover the funds directly from the recipient. D discovered that the 
funds were paid into the account of a genuine trading firm. So, D contacted the recipient 
company directly and let them know that the funds theyd received were as a result of fraud 
and asked them to return the funds. 
D say the recipient asked for a letter from Lloyds confirming what they were saying about the 
fraud. D contacted Lloyds and say their relationship manager initially told them they would 
provide the letter as requested, however later said that she couldnt as it wasnt part of 
Lloyds fraud recovery process.  D also says Lloyds told them the recipients bank account 
had been frozen. Information that D shared with the recipient, who said it wasnt true. D say 
due to being given incorrect information and not getting the letter they requested, they 
appeared disingenuous and it created doubt with the recipient.
Ultimately, D got local law enforcement involved in the country the funds were paid to. As a 
result of that, D were able to recover 75% of the funds directly from the recipient.
D wasnt happy with Lloyds response or the service theyd received from Lloyds. D felt 
Lloyds shouldve contacted them before processing the payments, due to the size of the first 
payment, the quick succession of the second payment and the fact that they didnt usually 
set up new payees on their account. D also wasnt happy with the amount of time theyd had 
to spend chasing up Lloyds to find out what was happening, and that they were given 
incorrect information regarding the letter Lloyds initially told them they could produce and 
about the recipients account being frozen.
D raised a complaint with Lloyds, and Lloyds issued their final response letter in January 
2021. Lloyds accepted that D had to spend too much time on the phone with them trying to 
resolve the situation and that incorrect information had been given. On that basis, Lloyds 
paid D £250 for the level of service theyd received. However, they said theyd followed their 
fraud recovery process and taken appropriate steps to try and recover Ds funds on their 
behalf. They said the letter D had requested wasnt part of their usual process, and as the 
beneficiarys bank had told them that the recipient refused to return the funds, they didnt 
believe the letter (if provided) wouldve resulted in D getting all of their funds back.
D wasnt happy with Lloyds response, so they brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Ds complaint and didnt uphold it. Ultimately, they felt the 
payments werent particularly unusual or out of character, so wouldnt have expected Lloyds 
to intervene before processing the payments. They also felt Lloyds had taken appropriate 
steps to try and recover Ds money and we couldnt fairly say Lloyds shouldve provided the 
letter if it wasnt part of their process. The investigator felt that even if the letter had been 
provided it wouldnt have changed the outcome as the involvement of law enforcement had 
only resulted in 75% of the funds being recovered. They also felt the £250 paid for the 
service D received was fair.
D didnt agree with the investigators opinion. They say the letter wouldve resulted in them 
recovering 100% of the funds, therefore Lloyds should refund them the remaining 25%. D 
said that if Lloyds had told them straight away that they couldnt issue the letter, they 
wouldve accepted that and found alternative solutions. D said their main issue is not that 
Lloyds couldnt action their requests but that they were incorrectly told they could.
As D disagreed with the investigators opinion, the case was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Should Lloyds have prevented the payments?
Having reviewed Ds statements and the testimony given by Mrs F, Im not satisfied that the 
payments D made as part of the scam are unusual or out of character. I can see that Ds 
USD business account is regularly used for large payments, with a high proportion of 
payments in excess of $20,000 USD and numerous payments of $50,000 USD to $70,000 
USD being made. With a payment of $73,000 USD made the same day as the second scam payment. So, while the payments were particularly large, that wasnt out of character looking 
at the usual activity on Ds USD account.
D feel that setting up a new payee means the payment shouldve been flagged by Lloyds, as 
well as the second payment being made in quick succession. However, the payments were 
made nearly a week apart and a new payee isnt enough, by itself, for me to fairly say that 
Lloyds shouldve been concerned about the payments. Based on what Ive seen and what 
Mrs F has told us, Im not satisfied that Lloyds ought to have had concerns and intervened 
prior to processing the payments. So, I cant say Lloyds acted unreasonably in following Ds 
payment instructions or that they shouldve prevented the payments.
If D was given the right information, would it have resulted in a different outcome for D?
If we agree that something has gone wrong, we look to see what Lloyds shouldve done and 
put the consumer back in the position they wouldve been in. 
In this case, Lloyds said they couldnt produce the letter that D wanted as it wasnt part of 
their fraud process. However, Lloyds have accepted that they gave D incorrect information. 
So, if Lloyds had done what they shouldve, they wouldve told D at the start that they 
couldnt produce the letter the recipient had asked for. 
I cant see how Lloyds giving D the right information at the start wouldve changed the 
outcome in this case, as D still wouldnt have had a letter to give the recipient. And, while D 
was given incorrect information which they passed onto the recipient, I think its unlikely that 
not having that incorrect information would have changed things. I say this as the recipient 
had received funds into their account that they werent expecting and had no claim on. They 
couldve returned the funds via their bank to the source, which wouldve ensured it went 
back to the genuine sender if they doubted D was that party. Instead, the recipient retained 
the money and provided excuses as to why they didnt feel they could return it. Even after 
their bank had contacted them and let them know that a fraud claim had been raised by 
Lloyds. Im not convinced that the recipient has acted honestly and appropriately in the 
circumstances, but I cant hold Lloyds liable for that. 
I think its also important to note that even with local law enforcement getting involved, D 
only received 75% of their money back from the recipient. So, Im not satisfied that I can 
safely draw the conclusion that if D were given the letter or correct information upfront by 
Lloyds, that they wouldve recovered all of their funds from the recipient. So, I cant fairly 
hold Lloyds liable for their remaining loss on that basis.
The level of service D has received
From what Ive seen, Lloyds contacted the corresponding bank promptly on being made 
aware of the fraud but were reliant on the corresponding bank liaising with the beneficiary 
bank. Most of the delays that D experienced, were due to breaks in the contact between the 
corresponding and beneficiary banks, which Lloyds isnt responsible for and had no control 
over. 
Lloyds have accepted they gave D incorrect information and that D didnt receive the level of 
service they shouldve. But poor service doesnt mean I can fairly ask Lloyds to refund D 
their remaining loss. Also, D as a business cant suffer distress, so I can only make an award 
for the inconvenience they were caused in relation to the time spent chasing Lloyds for 
updates and being given incorrect information. And, having considered everything, Im 
satisfied that the £250 that Lloyds have already paid is fair in these circumstances.Im sorry to disappoint D, but I cant fairly ask Lloyds to refund them the remaining funds 
theyve lost.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman