DRN-2381300
The complaint
 Mr H complains that two appointments were cancelled as part of his claim on his car 
insurance with Admiral Insurance Company Limited.
What happened
 Mr H had a car insurance policy with Admiral. In December 2019 he made a claim for a 
damaged sun roof. Admiral accepted the claim and put Mr H in touch with its agent, who 
would carry out the repair. 
The agent arranged an appointment for the start of January. However when Mr H called 
beforehand, they said the appointment hadnt been booked properly so wouldnt go ahead. 
They offered him another appointment but when this date came, the same problem 
occurred. The appointment eventually went ahead on 24 January 2020.
Mr H made a complaint. He said the service he had received had been poor and it had 
meant he had had to book childcare for each of the appointments that didnt go ahead. He 
said this had been inconvenient and cost him money. 
Admiral upheld Mr Hs complaint as it accepted the service had been poor and had caused 
him inconvenience. It offered £15 compensation to make up for this.
Mr H didnt think this was fair as he said he had lost money, as he had still had to pay for 
childcare due to the late cancellation. He said Admiral should pay £80 to reimburse him for 
these costs. He brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. She 
thought Admiral should pay a greater amount of compensation due to the inconvenience of 
the two cancelled appointments. However she said she hadnt seen enough evidence to 
show that Mr H had lost out financially. So she recommended Admiral pay £50 
compensation.
Mr H didnt think this was enough, as he said it didnt make up for the money he had lost on 
childcare. He asked for the complaint tot be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Mr H says that Admiral has caused him inconvenience by its agent cancelling two 
appointments. And he says he has lost out financially due to this. Admiral has accepted that 
the service provided by its agent was poor. So Ive considered the impact this had on Mr H, 
in order to decide what it should do to put things right. 
Admirals agent arranged and cancelled two appointments before successfully repairing 
Mr Hs sun roof. Both times, these appointments werent properly booked on its system and  
Mr H only found out they wouldnt go ahead by calling the agent to check. I agree this would 
have been inconvenient and meant Mr H had to make phone calls that shouldnt have been 
necessary. 
Mr H has explained that he had to make arrangements for childcare in order to ensure he 
could take and pick up the car. So he had to cancel and rearrange these appointments both 
times, which I agree would have caused further inconvenience.
Admiral has offered £15 compensation to make up for this, however I dont think this is 
enough. Mr H had to rearrange his schedule and organise childcare twice, only to find out 
that these arrangements wouldnt be necessary. This would have taken up quite a bit of 
time, particularly as it happened twice. I agree with our investigator that £50 compensation is 
a more suitable amount to make up for this inconvenience and is in line with what we have 
offered on other similar cases.
Mr H has said that as well as the inconvenience caused, he has also lost money due to 
having to pay for the cancelled childcare arrangements. I have considered this, but I havent 
seen enough evidence to persuade me that he has lost out financially. 
Although Mr H has provided an email from a family member as evidence that he paid for the 
childcare arranged, the information contained in that email doesnt match the accounts he 
has given previously. Nor does it relate to specific dates, or mention that the appointments 
were cancelled. As Ive not seen enough evidence to show Mr H lost out financially, it 
wouldnt be fair for me to ask Admiral to reimburse him for these costs. So I wont ask 
Admiral to do anything further in this regard.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr H a total 
of £50 compensation to make up for the inconvenience it has caused.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman