DRN-1882760
 
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Quickly Finance Limited trading as Fast Track Reclaim (FTR) is 
charging a fee for a mis-sold payday loan claim.
What happened
Mr S said he took out a payday loan with a lender Ill call N. Mr S said this happened before 
2014.
In May 2018, FTR said Mr S had signed a letter of authority (LOA) for them to act on his 
behalf to look at whether hed been mis-sold any payday loans.
And in January 2020, FTR told Mr S that his claim had been successful as lender N had 
agreed to offset his refund against his outstanding balance, so he no longer owed anything 
to lender N . And as Mr S had a successful claim, FTR asked him to pay their fee of 30% 
plus VAT.
Mr S complained to FTR as he said he hadnt signed a LOA, so FTR werent authorised to 
act on his behalf. He didnt think FTR could charge their fee as he hadnt made any 
payments to lender N after 2014. And lender N had already agreed to remove 
outstanding debts for their customers.
FTR said that Mr S had received the benefit of their service and that their fee was in line with 
the terms and conditions Mr S had agreed to.
Mr S referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said FTR should waive their fee as Mr S hadnt benefited from their service 
as Mr S hadnt made any payments to lender N since 2014.
FTR didnt agree and have asked for an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint.
Mr S said he hadnt agreed for FTR to act on his behalf. But I can see that a LOA has been 
signed in May 2018. And our investigator was satisfied that Mr S had completed the LOA 
and provided the details of his lenders to FTR. Mr S has accepted this, so I wont comment 
any further. What remains in dispute is whether FTR can charge Mr S a fee for a mis-sold 
payday loan claim. FTR has said that their terms and conditions show that their fee is justified. So, Ive looked at 
these. FTRs terms and conditions say:
FTR will pursue a claim for mis-sold payday loans against the lender on behalf of you for all 
financial products. FTR will also provide updates on the progress of the claim, which will be 
undertake on a 'No Win No Fee' contingency basis. FTR will only progress claims which 
appear to have sufficient grounds to justify making a claim from the information provided to 
FTR by you.
The agreement Mr S had with FTR was on a No win No fee basis. This means 
FTR charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they did. 
This meant any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free. Where a 
claim was successful, FTRs fee maybe more or less than the value of the work they actually 
did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement.
FTR has said their fees are justified as Mr S claim was successful as lender N has written 
off his outstanding debt. And their terms and conditions say:
Should you receive and accept an offer for the balance of a credit agreement to be written 
off, or for redress/compensation to be offset against arrears, the fees will be calculated at 
30% of the write off or amount offset, plus VAT.
FTR told Mr S that lender N had used the refund he was due to settle his outstanding 
balance. But I dont think this is correct.
As outlined above the agreement Mr S had with FTR was for a claim to be made to lender 
N about a mis-sold payday loan. But looking at the response from lender N to FTR its 
clear that it relates to several customers not just Mr S. And says they have rejected any 
claim about the payday loan being mis-sold. Lender N does go on to say
they are prepared to forgive the balance. 
And 
This offer does not constitute an admission of liability but is made due to their current 
financial problems.. 
I think this shows that lender N wasnt agreeing to refund Mr S for the mis-selling of a 
payday loan. But was an offer in recognition of the financial hardship their customers were 
in. And this is supported as lender N has shown Mr S hadnt made any payments to them 
since 2014.
So, I dont think FTR can rely on their terms and conditions to justify their fee. Mr S mis-sold 
payday loan claim wasnt successful. And the work FTR had done didnt benefit Mr S as he 
hadnt been making any payments to lender N, and this situation wouldnt have changed. 
And in charging Mr S a fee FTR had made his situation worse, as he would have had an 
additional debt.
So, I uphold this complaint as I dont think its fair or reasonable for FTR to charge their 
success fee when Mr Ss claim was rejected. 
 
 My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Quickly Finance Limited trading as Fast Track Reclaim to 
waive their success fee of 30% plus VAT.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman