DRN-3177198
The complaint
Mr G complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited unfairly charged him for a Personal 
Life Policy attached to his personal pension plan, even after it ceased to offer him any 
benefits. 
The plan was sold by a company that has since been taken over by Aviva, for simplicity I will 
refer to Aviva throughout this decision. 
What happened
Mr G took out a with-profits Free-Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution Pension Plan 
(the Plan) in 1994. The Plan included a Personal Life Policy (life cover) with a sum assured 
of £100,000. The plan was due to run until 28 May 2020. The Plan provided that if Mr G died 
before the Date of Retirement, Aviva would pay the greater of the fund value or the sum 
assured. 
Mr G complained to Aviva in September 2019 that the fund value, when bonuses were 
factored in, had exceeded £100,000, and probably had for some time. Mr G was unhappy 
that, despite this, Aviva had continued to make deductions in respect of the life cover even 
though, in his opinion, there was no longer a benefit to this part of the Plan. 
Mr G asked for the life cover to be removed from the Plan with effect from 1 December 2019. 
Aviva considered his complaint but confirmed it had applied the appropriate charges. It 
explained it didnt include bonuses when calculating the fund value, as they werent 
guaranteed. It confirmed that the fund value hadnt exceeded the sum assured, and so 
deductions continued to be taken in respect of the life cover. 
Unhappy with the answer he received Mr G referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. He accepted Avivas position that 
any bonuses payable werent guaranteed and therefore couldnt be included in the fund 
value. As such, he accepted that the life cover still offered some benefit and as such Aviva 
was entitled to continue charging for that benefit. 
Mr G disagreed and asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman for a final 
decision. He explained that while he accepted that markets could rise and fall, he didnt 
accept that the fund value would drop below £100,000. He also commented that Aviva was 
paid to manage the funds, and as such it should be mitigating any risk to fluctuations in the 
bonuses it would pay him.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same decision as our investigator and for largely the same 
reasons. While I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr G, I cant say Aviva has 
treated him unfairly. Ill explain why. 
The Plan booklet sets out that if Mr G were to die before his Date of Retirement Aviva 
would pay the excess (if any) of:
(i) The Accumulated Unit Value on the date of death, over
(ii) The Sum assured at the time under the personal Life Policy
Plus the amount of the Special Allocation, if any.
This demonstrates, as Mr G has suggested, that on death the Plan would pay the greater of 
the Accumulated Unit Value (the fund value) or the life cover sum assured (£100,000). The 
issue in dispute is whether the fund value ever exceeded £100,000, and whether bonuses 
should be included in that calculation. 
Aviva has said that bonuses arent included in the fund value calculation as theyre not 
guaranteed. Im satisfied that this is supported by the Plan literature where it states: 
In respect of Units in the With-Profit Fund, allocated to the Policy on the date of death, 
[Aviva] reserves the right to pay an additional bonus to be determined at that time by the 
Company. 
This makes it clear that the bonuses are discretionary and will be calculated at the date of 
death. The Plan also doesnt refer to bonuses when it sets out how the fund value would be 
calculated. It says: 
The Accumulated Unit Value on any day is the aggregate of: 
(a) The number of Units of each Investment Fund allocated to the Policy multiplied by 
the Ruling Bid Price, and 
(b) The amount of any Regular and/or Single Investment contribution in respect of the 
which units have not been allocated as described below under the heading 
Allocation of Units (clauses entitled Date of Allocation and Number of Units 
Allocated. 
As such, I cant say Aviva acted unfairly by excluding any predicted bonuses from its fund 
value calculation. 
I havent seen any evidence that the fund value exceeded £100,000 prior to December 2019, 
when Mr G asked for the life cover to be removed from his Plan. As such, I cant say Aviva 
acted unfairly by continuing to deduct the appropriate charges in respect of the life cover 
prior to this. 
I understand Mr G feels very strongly that hes been charged for a policy that hed never 
have benefited from. But having carefully considered the Plan terms I cant say Aviva has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably towards him. As such I wont be asking it to reimburse him for 
the deductions it made in respect of the Personal Life Policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman