DRN-3427606
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) hasnt refunded him, in full, the money he lost 
after falling victim to an authorised push payment (APP) car purchase scam.
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our Investigator. As such, the facts are 
well-known to both parties, so I dont need to repeat them at length here. In summary, Mr A 
fell victim to a car purchase scam. 
In early 2021, Mr T was looking to buy a car. Mr T found one online through a well-known 
website. Mr T ended up being directed outside of that platform and liaised with whom he 
thought was a legitimate escrow service who held the car in Northern Ireland and would 
carry out the sale and hold the funds while the car was being delivered. 
On 1 April 2021, Mr T made a bank transfer of £8,970 for the purchase of the car. Shortly 
after, Mr Ts partner brought to Mr Ts attention that a similar car was advertised for sale on 
a well-known vehicle selling website. Mr T looked into it and discovered it was the same car. 
Mr T contacted the dealer who advised the car was in its possession. Mr T then realised he 
had been scammed and whom he had been dealing with werent legitimate. Mr T contacted 
Lloyds and the Receiving Firm (where the beneficiary account was held) to report the matter. 
Lloyds contacted the Receiving Firm, but unfortunately no funds remained and so there was 
nothing to return to Mr T.
Lloyds also considered whether Mr T was due a refund. Lloyds considered the case under 
the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) which 
it is a signatory off. 
The CRM Code was implemented to reduce the occurrence of APP scams. It sets out what 
is expected of the Sending Firm when payments are made which includes a consideration 
of whether a customer met their requisite level of care when making the payment. And it also 
sets out the obligations for the Receiving Firm. Where there is a failing by either the 
Sending Firm or Receiving Firm, they may be required to reimburse the customer. And the 
customer may also be required to share some responsibility for the loss if it is determined 
that they also failed to meet their requisite level of care under the CRM Code.
Lloyds reimbursed Mr T 50% of his losses (£4,485) as it considered it could have done more 
to protect Mr T. But Lloyds also says one of the exceptions in the CRM Code applies, in that 
it believes Mr T didnt have a reasonable basis for believing the purpose of his payment was 
legitimate and so failed to meet his requisite level of care under the CRM Code. 
Mr T brought his complaint to this service and one of our Investigators considered it. Initially 
they thought Lloyds should reimburse Mr T for his remaining loss as they werent persuaded 
that Mr T didnt have a reasonable basis of belief when making the payment.
Lloyds responded and advised that it considered the price Mr T was paying for the car was 
too good to be true and Mr T didnt meet his requisite level of care under the CRM Code. So 
Lloyds remained of the opinion that its offer to reimburse 50% was fair in the circumstances.
Our Investigator reviewed this aspect and, having carried out some checks into the valuation 
of the car alongside comparing it to similar models and lesser specification models, 
ultimately agreed with Lloyds. They therefore considered Lloyds offer to re-imburse Mr T 
50% was fair in the circumstances. 
Mr T didnt agree with the Investigators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to 
me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, to clarify, this decision focuses solely on the actions of Lloyds  as the Sending Firm 
from which Mr T made his payment / transfer. Mr T has a separate complaint about the 
Receiving Firms actions  which is being looked at separately under a different complaint 
reference.  
Im sorry to disappoint Mr T but Im not upholding his complaint. I know hes been the
victim of a cruel scam and I dont doubt that these events have had a significant impact on
him. But I dont believe Lloyds has acted unfairly or unreasonably in its answering of the 
complaint and I think its offer to refund Mr T 50% of his loss is fair. Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute that Mr T authorised the payment that is the subject of this
complaint, even though he did so as a result of being deceived by fraudsters. Broadly
speaking, under the account terms and conditions and the Payment Service Regulations
2017, he would normally be liable for it. But that isnt the end of the story.
Where a customer has been the victim of a scam it may be appropriate for the bank to 
reimburse the customer, even though payments have been properly authorised. Of particular
relevance to the question of what is fair and reasonable in this case is the CRM Code.
The CRM Code requires Firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances and it is for Lloyds to establish 
that a customer failed to meet their requisite level of care under one of the listed exceptions 
set out in the CRM Code.
Under the CRM Code, a Sending Firm may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can 
establish that*:
The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by
failing to take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning.
The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that:
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted
was legitimate.
*Further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code do not apply to this case.In this case, Lloyds accepted 50% liability of Mr Ts claim to acknowledge it didnt
do enough to protect Mr T. However I think Lloyds has been able to establish that it may
choose not to fully reimburse Mr T under the terms of the CRM Code. Im persuaded one
of the listed exceptions to reimbursement under the provisions of the CRM Code applies.
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics and 
complexity of the scam, I think the concerns Lloyds has raised about the legitimacy of the 
transaction Mr T made are enough to support its position that he failed to meet his requisite 
level of care under the CRM Code for the payment he made. I dont think Mr T had a 
reasonable basis for believing the person or business with whom he transacted with was
legitimate. Ill explain why.
In order to determine whether this exception to reimbursement applies, I must ask if he 
made the payment he did whilst having a reasonable basis for belief that all was genuine. 
Im afraid I dont find thats the case having considered the price / valuation of the car 
alongside Mr Ts testimony.
Mr T says that he had spent some time searching for the perfect car, had been looking at 
two manufacturers and was aware of what the costs were. Mr T has explained that the car 
make and model that he identified (and was subsequently scammed into paying for) was not 
the lowest price he had seen but Mr T has said he thought it was a good price and that it 
included delivery.
Having reviewed both Lloyds and our Investigators research and comments on this aspect 
 and considering the make, model, year, transmission type and mileage, of the car in 
question  I agree that the price Mr T thought he was purchasing it for was significantly lower 
than what it typically cost. By all accounts it was undervalue by, not just hundreds of pounds 
but several thousands of pounds. I note lesser specification models of the same make were 
still far more expensive than what Mr Ts vehicle was being advertised at.
Our Investigator when reviewing this aspect obtained the average valuations for the car in 
question and lesser specification models from April 2021. So Im satisfied the valuations 
obtained are a fair representation of the average price for that model and lesser models in 
April 2021.
I do appreciate Mr Ts comments that car prices have risen since then. And I agree they 
have, but even if I were to reasonably factor in around a 10-20% increase in second-hand 
prices (around April 2021)  the valuation of the car was still significantly lower than a similar 
model and still far lower than lesser specification models. 
The price or valuation of the car is an important factor here, as I find it should have given 
Mr T cause for concern that it may not have been a legitimate sale. I dont think a car sales 
business would realistically sell a car for this much under the retail value. I think the price for 
the car and for it to be delivered from Northern Ireland was simply too good to be true from 
the outset and to such an extent that it ought to have raised more than a significant doubt on 
Mr Ts part. The price, including delivery, ought to have led to Mr T questioning whether all was as it 
seemed. Mr T had spent some time looking for a car and it is reasonable to suggest that he 
would have seen other car dealers / traders websites and would have reasonably known the 
average price for a car of that model and specification. But it doesnt appear Mr T asked any 
questions around the price being what it was and seemingly took the price at face value. The 
average price for that make and model was far higher than £9,000 and to my mind stood out 
as too good to be true. So I think the value of the car potentially posed a significant risk and 
that this should have led to sufficient checks being carried out to ensure that it was a 
legitimate sale.
Mr T says that he checked the escrow company who were carrying out the sale on 
Companies House  and I dont doubt that. The company Mr T was liaising with (whom Ill 
call Company LN) was operated by a parent company (whom Ill call Company EP)  as 
mentioned on the documents Mr T has provided screen shots of. Company LN dont appear 
on Companies House, but Company EP do which is the company Mr T carried out his check 
on. 
However, had Mr T taken some extra time to ensure the company was legitimate, and 
carried out some further research he would have seen on Companies House that 
Company EP wasnt based in Northern Ireland and had a UK registered office address. And 
importantly, had he clicked on the filing history tab for Company EP it would have shown it 
was a dormant company. Had Mr T clicked on the directors tab, he would have seen that it 
didnt show individual names and also had a correspondence address for the directors in 
USA. 
A google search for Company EP also identifies Companies House as the first result and 
underneath that, the next result also has small preview wording about the company that 
states it is a dormant company and this is without requiring the user to enter or access that 
particular website.
Mr T also made the transfer to an account in the name of Company A  and received a no 
match Confirmation of Payee result from Lloyds. Mr T tried a variation of Company As 
name which also returned a no match. Mr T was told that the account was in the directors 
name with Mr T then using the name of the director which came back as maybe a match. I 
understand that Mr T may have proceeded on this basis, but I am also mindful that Mr T was 
paying into an account that wasnt in the name of either Company LN or Company EP. And 
the directors name he was told doesnt show as a directors name on Companies House for 
Company EP  which, had Mr T checked Companies House, he would have potentially 
spotted.
Overall the valuation and cost of the car was a major red flag that should have given Mr T 
more than a cause for concern. To my mind it is reasonable to suggest that this should have 
led to Mr T questioning the legitimacy of the sale and the company selling the car, and ought 
to have led to a greater degree of checking on Mr Ts part. 
With all of this in mind, while I am sorry that Mr T fell victim to a scam, I dont find that Mr T 
had a reasonable basis for believing the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or 
the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate. And so I consider it was 
fair for Lloyds to reimburse Mr T 50% of his claim under the CRM Code  with Mr T sharing 
some responsibility for the loss also, as I dont think he met his requisite level of care.I have also considered whether Lloyds did all it could to try and recover the money Mr T lost. 
Lloyds was limited in terms of what it could do here; it could only ask the Receiving Firm to 
return any money that remained in the recipient account. It needed to make enquiries quickly 
for the best chance of recovery. The evidence Ive seen persuades me Lloyds did act 
quickly. Unfortunately, it is common for fraudsters to withdraw or move the money on as 
quickly as possible. Despite Mr T reporting the matter promptly, no funds remained, so there 
was nothing more Lloyds could do.
I note that Lloyds also offered and paid Mr T £50 in compensation for the level of service it 
provided when it gave him confusing information around where the 50% refund came from. 
Overall, I think that is fair in the circumstances as Lloyds should have been clear on this 
aspect as it was refunding 50% and the amount wasnt from the Receiving Firm. 
My final decision
For the above reasons, I dont uphold this complaint and I dont direct Lloyds Bank PLC to 
do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman