DRN-4247858
The complaint
Mr C complains about the service he received from Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax 
when he transferred his ISA from another provider. 
What happened
In March, Mr C opened an ISA account with Halifax. He chose an account which pays 
interest monthly as he uses the interest to pay his bills. He wanted to transfer funds from an 
ISA he held with another business which Ill call P. Halifax sent a transfer request to P. Mr C 
says that, upon receipt of this, P closed his account and sent a cheque to Halifax.
But Mr C was concerned about how long the transfer was taking. He says he enquired about 
its progress many times in the Halifax branch and with P. He says that Halifax kept telling 
him it was only a matter of time and that he wouldnt lose any interest even if the transfer 
took a little while to process. He says it wasnt until 14 April, after much chasing by him, that 
he was told by Halifax that the cheque from P had gone missing and another one would 
need to be issued.
P sent another cheque to Halifax on or around 18 April. On or around 26 April, Halifax told 
Mr C that it had received this cheque. But Mr C also received a letter from Halifax saying that 
there was a problem with the cheque so it couldnt be paid. It said that the date on the 
cheque wasnt legible. So, the funds couldnt be credited to Mr Cs Halifax account and he 
had to ask P to raise another cheque.
Mr C raised a complaint with Halifax at this point. Halifax said that the ISA transfer hadnt 
completed yet because it hadnt received the first cheque and the second cheque wasnt 
clearly dated. It said it would monitor his account for receipt of the new cheque and tell Mr C 
when it was credited. It also said it would ask its ISA transfer team to backdate the interest. 
Halifax paid Mr C £80 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience hed experienced, 
although it said the delays werent its fault. It wrote to Mr C at the time telling him that it had 
resolved his complaint.
Having asked P to raise another cheque, Mr C says he contacted Halifax each day after that. 
But he says it didnt confirm receipt of the cheque until 3 May. A few days later, he hadnt 
heard any more, so he came to this service. He was very concerned about the situation, 
particularly the amount of time it was taking and the fact that he hadnt received an interest 
payment by that point. He said that Halifax had told him the matter was resolved and he was 
very unhappy about this because he said he was still waiting to hear of further progress 
beyond the third cheque having been received. 
After the complaint had been referred to this service, Halifax told Mr C that the first interest 
payment would be made on 28 May. He said that was at odds with previous assurances 
from Halifax that it would be paid as soon as possible. In the end, Mr C didnt receive the 
payment until 31 May. Halifax said it had backdated the calculation to 31 March.
Mr C was very unhappy about having to wait until the end of May. He said he was 
dependent on the interest to pay bills and that the stress of the situation had been 
significant. He said he had to go into the Halifax branch numerous times because he couldnt 
get through on the phone, all of which added to the stress and inconvenience which 
continued well beyond the point at which Halifax had paid him £80.
Our Investigator thought that Halifax had treated Mr C fairly and didnt ask it to do any more. 
But Mr C didnt agree. He said his difficulties in dealing with this situation whilst being a carer 
hadnt been considered, nor had the problem of trying to speak to anyone at Halifax over the 
phone. He said there was a lack of communication within Halifax and that hed consistently 
been told the payment would be imminent. He said Halifax hadnt paid the interest within a 
reasonable time and had caused him significant cost and inconvenience. He asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr C found the ISA transfer process extremely stressful and he says hes 
shocked at the amount of time it took. The process clearly didnt run smoothly here and took 
longer than expected. I dont doubt that the experience caused Mr C a great deal of stress 
and I sympathise with his situation. But my role is limited to looking at the actions of Halifax. 
So, my decision will focus on the part Halifax played in the transfer process and the extent to 
which it is responsible for the stress and inconvenience Mr C suffered.
Information on Halifaxs website says that the timescale for a transfer from a non-Halifax ISA 
is 15 working days. It says this is the indicative timing of a typical transfer and may vary. Ive 
borne this in mind when considering this complaint.
Mr Cs account was opened on 28 March. Im satisfied that Halifax sent the transfer request 
to P on that date. So there was no delay by Halifax in starting the transfer process. 
But, after this point, Mr C says that cheques went missing, were rejected and took weeks to 
be processed by Halifax, causing delays. He says he asked about progress of the transfer 
many times, but Halifax staff kept telling him it was only a matter of time until he would hear 
from them. I can appreciate that was frustrating for Mr C. But Halifax couldnt give him any 
news until it heard from P. I dont think Halifax had cause to take any further steps or contact 
P again during the first few days after it had sent the transfer request. At this stage, things 
appeared to be moving in line with the usual transfer timescale.
Information on Halifaxs website about the typical timescale says that, from day 11 onwards, 
it will chase the old ISA provider if it hasnt received a timely response to its transfer request. 
I find that that Halifax contacted P again on 11 April. Thats within its usual timeframe for 
chasing up requests, so I think Halifax acted reasonably in this respect.
Mr C says he wasnt told until 14 April that the cheque from P had gone missing. I find that 
Halifax only found out itself on that date, as a result of contact from P. So, I dont think 
Halifax delayed in informing Mr C about the missing cheque. I dont think it could have 
known before this that the cheque had gone missing and I dont think it had cause to contact 
P before 11 April. I dont find it to be Halifaxs fault that the cheque went missing. So, I dont 
think Halifax was responsible for any delay up to this point.
Mr C says that P issued a second cheque on 18 April. I find that this was received by Halifax 
on 25 April. I havent seen anything to explain why the cheque took several days to arrive. 
But, from the information available, I cant conclude this was Halifaxs fault. Unfortunately, 
once the cheque arrived, it couldnt be paid because there was a problem with the date on it. I dont find that to be Halifaxs fault. Halifax told Mr C about this promptly. So, I dont think it 
was responsible for any delay at this stage.
It was at this point that Mr C raised a complaint. Halifax says the branch manager explained 
to him that the transfer hadnt completed because the first cheque hadnt been received and 
the second one wasnt valid. I find that to be correct. Halifax didnt think it had done anything 
wrong. But it says that the branch manager sympathised with Mr Cs situation, so she 
arranged to pay him compensation of £80. She said she would look out for the new cheque 
and let Mr C know when it arrived. She also said she would ask the ISA team to backdate 
interest. I think that was a fair resolution to the complaint at that time.
Mr C says that Halifax wrote to him and told him the incident had been resolved. Hes 
unhappy about this as he says the matter wasnt resolved and there were many problems 
afterwards which caused more inconvenience and stress. When Halifax wrote to Mr C, his 
ISA still hadnt been transferred. So, the matter of the transfer wasnt resolved. But the letter 
was about the complaint only, not the ongoing transfer process. The letter said Thanks for 
letting us know about your concerns and giving us the chance to look at what happened. We 
reviewed the details and can confirm weve now resolved your complaint. The complaint as 
it stood then had been resolved, so I find the letter to be correct.
P issued a third cheque on 27 April, but Mr C says it wasnt cashed and credited to his 
Halifax account until 3 May. Im satisfied that Halifax received this cheque on 3 May. It was 
credited to Mr Cs account that day, so I dont find that Halifax delayed in processing it. I 
understand Mr Cs frustration that it took a few days for the cheque to reach Halifax. But I 
dont find that to be Halifaxs fault. I note there was a bank holiday during that period which 
may have affected the postal times.
I find that Halifax called Mr C on 3 May and told him the cheque had been received and 
credited to his account. So, it contacted him as soon as the cheque arrived which is what it 
had agreed to do. Mr C says he went into the branch every day it was open between 28 April 
and 3 May to find out what was happening. I dont doubt that this was stressful and 
inconvenient for him. But I dont think it was necessary for him to visit the branch every day, 
as Halifax had told him it would let him know when the cheque arrived. 
It was a few days after this that Mr C brought the complaint to this service. He says he was 
promised that the first interest payment would be made as soon as possible, but he hadnt 
received it. He was very concerned about this as he relies on the interest payments to pay 
bills. I understand that interest is paid to Mr C on the 28th of each month. Halifax says that, 
because it didnt receive the cheque until 3 May, it couldnt credit interest on 28 April and the 
first interest payment date was 28 May. I think thats reasonable.
But Mr C says he was given many false promises from Halifax about this, with the branch 
being unable to communicate effectively with the ISA team and him being unable to contact 
the ISA team himself. It seems that the branch staff were doing their best to assist Mr C and 
were sympathetic to his situation. I dont doubt what Mr C says about being told he would 
receive an interest payment straight away, so its understandable that he was disappointed 
when this didnt happen. Unfortunately, he seems to have been given some incorrect 
information initially about the timing of the payment. He says it wasnt until mid-May that he 
was told he wouldnt receive the interest until 28 May. Halifax wasnt obliged to make the 
interest payment straight away. So, I dont think it did anything wrong by not doing so. But 
its unfortunate that this wasnt made clear to Mr C at the outset.
Mr C says he hoped the ISA team would use some discretion and make the first interest 
payment soon after 3 May. No interest was paid into his account until the end of May. But, 
on 9 May the branch staff gave Mr C £60 in cash. This was a gesture to help him while he waited for the interest to be paid and had to be paid back. I think this was a reasonable 
approach by Halifax. Even though the interest itself wasnt paid early, Halifax responded to 
Mr Cs concerns by providing this cash, which I think was a fair approach. Mr C says he had 
to juggle his responsibilities so that he could go back to the branch to repay the £60. I 
understand that was inconvenient for him. But I dont think thats Halifaxs fault and it had 
provided this cash as a way of helping Mr C at the time.
Halifax said the first interest payment would be made on 28 May, but Mr C didnt receive it 
until 31 May. The terms and conditions of Mr Cs account say that, if the day interest is due 
to be paid isnt a working day, Halifax will pay it on the next working day. 28 May wasnt a 
working day and nor was 29 May as it was a bank holiday. So, I think it was reasonable that 
the payment wasnt made on 28 May, although its unfortunate that neither party seems to 
have realised in advance that this wasnt going to be a working day. I think Halifax should 
have made the payment on 30 May and I havent seen anything to suggest it did. So, I find 
there was a small delay in the interest being paid to Mr C.
Im satisfied that Halifax backdated the interest calculation to 31 March (which is the date P 
says it issued the first cheque). Im satisfied this puts Mr C in the position hed have been in 
if there hadnt been any problems with the cheques. I think thats fair. So I dont think Halifax 
needs to do any more about the interest.
But this situation caused Mr C very significant hassle, frustration and worry. He says he has 
been under intense pressure and is already under a great deal of stress as a carer. He says 
that, at times, he was visiting the branch nearly every working day - to his great 
inconvenience and difficulty - as it was impossible to contact Halifax by phone. I dont doubt 
that Mr C was greatly affected by this experience and I sympathise with his situation. But, in 
making this decision, Im only looking at Halifaxs role. So, I can only make an award if I think 
Halifax has done something wrong which had this impact on Mr C. 
Overall, I dont find Halifax to have delayed the transfer of Mr Cs ISA. I think it acted in line 
with its normal procedures as well as the terms and conditions of Mr Cs account and I think 
it treated him fairly. So, although I realise Mr C found the situation extremely stressful, I dont 
think that was because of mistakes that Halifax made. 
I think it did give him some incorrect information about when he might receive the first 
interest payment. But I think this was mitigated by the branch lending him £60 and the 
interest being backdated to 31 March. It also seems that it was difficult for Mr C to get 
through to Halifax on the phone. But I dont think it was necessary for him to call Halifax 
every day or visit the branch every day. So, whilst this was stressful and inconvenient for 
him, I dont think this was entirely Halifaxs fault. 
Halifax has already paid Mr C £80. I dont think it had to do that, as I dont find the problems 
with the first two cheques (and any consequent delay) to have been Halifaxs fault. Halifax 
recognised the distress and inconvenience Mr C had suffered, even though this wasnt its 
fault, and chose to make the payment. Im sorry to disappoint Mr C but, in light of this and 
taking account of all the circumstances, Im not going to ask Halifax to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 Katy Kidd
Ombudsman