DRN-3023678
The complaint
Mr R complains that Santander UK Plc closed his bank account and placed a CIFAS marker 
against his name. CIFAS is the UKs fraud alert service. 
What happened
Mr R had an account with Santander. He also had access to a business account, for a 
company I will refer to as V. 
On 1 July 2019, £2,500 was paid into Vs account. Following this Mr R made several  
payments from Vs account to accounts he held with another bank. 
On 10 July 2019, Santander were contacted by the bank from which the £2,500 had been 
sent. They said that their customer, Mr N, had been the victim of fraud, and that his account 
had been compromised. The bank asked Santander to return the money. Santander placed 
blocks on Mr Rs account whilst it investigated what had happened. 
Mr R said he was entitled to the money paid into Vs account. And explained that it was 
payment for consulting services hed provided to Mr N. He provided an invoice and 
messages hed received from the person whod arranged the payment to support what hed 
said about the money. Santander didnt think the information was enough to show Mr R was 
entitled to the money. It suggested to Mr R that he could contact Mr N to retract the fraud 
report hed made to his bank. But Mr R refused.
Following this, Santander decided to close Mr Rs account immediately. It also placed a 
CIFAS marker against his name. Mr R complained to Santander and said that hed been 
unable to open a bank account due to the marker and as a result his business had suffered. 
Santander said it hadnt done anything wrong and declined to remove the marker. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr R brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators said however that this service didnt have any power to look at 
Mr Rs complaint about the marker. The investigator said Santander had acted fairly in 
closing Mr Rs account. So, she didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr R disagreed. He wants the marker removed and maintained he hadnt done anything 
wrong. As no agreement could be reached, the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill deal first with Santanders decision to review Mr Rs account. As the investigator has 
already explained, Santander has important legal and regulatory obligations it must meet 
when providing accounts to customers. These obligations are ongoing, so do not only 
pertain to when an account is opened. To comply with its obligations Santander may need to 
review an account and/or restrict its customers access to accounts and funds held within 
them. Santander is also entitled to ask a customer for more information about how they use 
their account, including payments which are made into and out of an account. 
Ive no doubt that not having a functioning bank account or access to money in his account 
made things quite difficult for Mr R. So, I can understand why he found this experience with 
Santander stressful and inconvenient. But as Ive explained, banks have a legal obligation to 
comply with various laws and regulations. Having looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied 
that Santander was complying with its obligations when it blocked Mr Rs account. The bank 
has explained that this was its standard procedure, and I accept that it was. Thats in line 
with what most banks would do in the same situation, and it enabled Santander to consider 
how best to react to the report it had received from the other bank about the £2,500. So, 
whilst I accept this caused Mr R inconvenience, I cant say Santander treated him unfairly 
when it blocked his account. 
I then turn to the banks decision to close Mr Rs account. Its generally for banks to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually 
say that a bank must keep a customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case, 
Santander closed Mr Rs account immediately. For Santander to act fairly here they needed 
to meet the criteria to apply their terms for immediate closure  and having looked at these 
terms and all the evidence, Im satisfied that the bank has applied the terms fairly. And it was 
entitled to close the account as its already done. I note too that Mr R had access to at least 
one other bank account at the time, so the immediate impact on him would have been 
reduced. 
CIFAS marker
As the investigator explained, our powers are set out in that part of the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys Handbook that deals with dispute resolution  known as DISP. And DISP sets out 
the rules about which complaints we can look at. The rules say we can only consider 
complaints referred to us by (or on behalf) of eligible complainants.
DISP 2.7.3.(R) lists those people that are eligible. It says in summary, that the complainant 
must be one of the following: a consumer, a micro-enterprise, a charity, a trustee of a trust, a 
CBTL (consumer buy-to let), a small business or a guarantor. The two categories that are 
relevant to this complaint are micro-enterprise and consumer. 
Mr R as an individual isnt a mirco-enterprise, charity, and so on. And in the circumstances of 
this case Mr R doesnt meet the definition of consumer either. As the investigator noted, 
Mr Rs complaint arose because fraudulent funds were paid into Vs account, not his 
account. Mr R has said the payment was for consultancy work hed done. And that he was 
assisting V. This means , in bringing the complaint, Mr R wasnt acting as a consumer; that 
is, he wasnt acting for purposes outside his business, trade or profession. The complaint 
arose because of the activity on Vs account, and the marker has been placed against 
Mr Rs name specifically because of his actions while acting within his trade, business or 
profession and his connection with the company. 
In addition, in order to be an eligible complainant under the DISP rules, Mr Rs complaint 
must arise from one or more of the relationships with Santander set out in DISP 2.7.6. (R) 
Most, although not all, of the relationships listed involve a direct relationship between the 
person bringing the complaint and the financial business. And most complaints about banks are brought by their customers as a result of something the bank did or didnt do to them as 
customers. But Mr Rs complaint doesnt arise from any such relationship he had with 
Santander; he wasnt the banks customer; V was. For these reasons, Ive concluded that 
Mr Rs complaint doesnt arise from one of the necessary relationships between him and 
Santander set out in our rules. It follows that he isnt an eligible complainant. 
  
I stress that, in reaching this conclusion, I havent considered whether or not Santander was 
justified in placing the marker against Mr Rs name. I make no comment on that. My decision 
is concerned only with the issue of the services powers to look at his complaint.  It could be 
Mr R has a claim against Santander; its just that I dont have the power to consider this 
aspect of Mr Rs complaint.      
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman