DRN-3211578
The complaint
Mr I complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard rejected his claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
In March 2021 Mr I purchased an air rifle from a supplier and paid using his Barclaycard.
Mr I has said that when the gun arrived, it was faulty. He contacted the supplier and, after 
some discussion about whether Mr I could have a refund or a replacement, the gun was 
returned to the supplier.
Mr I contacted Barclaycard and asked to raise a chargeback. Barclaycard advised Mr I that it 
couldnt raise a chargeback because (at this point) the gun hadnt been returned to the 
supplier, and one of the rules stipulated by the scheme rules was that goods must be 
returned to the merchant in order for a chargeback to be raised on the grounds of faulty 
goods or goods not as described.
After Mr I had returned the gun, Barclaycard reviewed the correspondence between Mr I and 
the supplier. It said it couldnt raise a chargeback at this point because it didnt know whether 
a repair or a replacement had taken place. 
Barclaycard asked Mr I to let it know whether the goods had been returned to the 
manufacturer. Mr I told Barclaycard that hed received the gun back following a repair and 
that it still wasnt working. Barclaycard said it would review the claim under section 75 and 
asked Mr I to obtain an independent inspection of the gun to establish whether there was a 
fault. Barclaycard advised Mr I that it would cover the cost of the inspection provided that he 
supplied an invoice.
Mr I didnt obtain an independent inspection. Barclaycard issued a final response in which it 
said there wasnt any evidence that the goods were faulty, and therefore it wasnt accepting 
liability under section 75.
Mr I wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that although it was accepted that the 
gun had been faulty when first received, there wasnt any evidence to show that the gun 
remained faulty following the repair.
Mr I didnt agree. He felt that he should receive a refund or a replacement, and said he 
wasnt prepared to pay for an independent inspection. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 875 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of 
goods or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. In 
order to uphold Mr Is complaint, I would need to be satisfied that theres been a breach of 
contract and that Barclaycards response to the claim wasnt fair or reasonable.
The relevant law says that goods must be of satisfactory quality and fit for purpose at the 
point of supply. 
Ive looked at the available evidence. Its not disputed that the pullback mechanism wasnt 
working properly when Mr I first received the gun. I can see that Mr I returned the gun to the 
supplier for a repair and it was repaired by the manufacturer. The gun was then returned to 
Mr I.
Mr I has said that the repair wasnt successful and that the gun was still faulty. I can see that 
Barclaycard asked Mr I to obtain an independent inspection to establish whether there was a 
fault, but Mr I wasnt willing to do this.
In order to find that theres been a breach of contract, Id need to see evidence that the gun 
is still faulty. Based on what Ive seen, there isnt enough evidence for me to safely conclude 
that the gun is still faulty.
I appreciate that Mr I didnt want to pay for an independent inspection. However, Barclaycard 
previously offered to refund Mr I the cost of the report provided he supplied a receipt, so I 
dont think he would have been out of pocket had he obtained a report when he was 
requested to do so.
If Mr I decided to obtain an independent inspection report now, and if the report showed that 
there was a fault, Id expect Barclaycard to refund the costs of the report provided a that a 
receipt was supplied. However, based on the available evidence, Im unable to say that 
theres been a breach of contract and Im unable to say that  Barclaycard has handled the 
section 75 claim unfairly.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman