DRN-2675110
The complaint
Ms H complained that she was mis-sold a level annuity by Hub Financial Solutions Limited. 
Ms H is represented in this matter by a claims management company, who I will refer to 
below as F.
What happened
In 2012 Hub sent a pre-retirement report to Ms H. In respect of the overall nature of the 
report, it said:
it was based on information Ms H had provided to Hub
it focussed on conventional lifetime annuities  although an annuity wasnt Ms Hs only 
option and alternative products were available; and if Ms H wanted to explore other 
products she should seek independent financial advice
it was to provide Ms H with the annuity options available and to help her decide which 
one was right for her
that Hubs advice was limited to finding an annuity provider offering the most competitive 
terms
that advice wasnt provided in relation to the suitability of an annuity or the options Ms H 
chose
In respect of the available options the report:
explained there were different types of annuity but the simplest and most common one 
was a conventional lifetime annuity
explained that a conventional lifetime annuity would provide Ms H with a pension income 
for life; the income Ms H received would be guaranteed and based on choices she made 
at the outset; and the most basic annuity (which also provided the highest initial pension 
income) didnt increase over time to offset the effects of inflation and didnt provide an 
income for spouses or dependents
outlined some advantages and disadvantages of an annuity:
Advantages Disadvantages
Ms H knows in advance what her pension 
income will be
The income wont decrease if annuity rates 
decreaseMs H wont benefit if annuity rates increase
Ms H cant make any changes after the initial 
choice is made
outlined and explained the options available:
otaking a cash lump sum  Ms H could take a cash sum from her pension pot; an 
illustration was provided showing what effect this would have on her pension 
income
oescalation in payment  an annuity could be set up so that the income received 
increased to offset the effect of inflation; illustrations were provided showing how 
various increases would reduce the initial pension income and how inflation 
would affect buying power if the pension income didnt increase each year
oguarantee periods  the income could continue for a certain period if Ms H died 
within the short space of the annuity starting; an illustration was provided showing 
how guarantees would reduce the initial pension income
oother options  the frequency of the pension payments (eg monthly, quarterly) 
and whether theyre paid in advance or arrears; and whether upon Ms Hs death 
the final payment pro-rated for the time she survived from the previous payment
outlined the advantages and disadvantages of each option:
Outcome Advantages Disadvantages
Cash lump sum Get a tax-free lump sum
Might pay less income taxThe fund available to buy the annuity 
reduces
Savings might affect entitlement to 
state benefits
Payment 
escalationEffects of inflation are offset
Total income might exceed income from 
a level annuityIncome will be lower compared to a 
level annuity
May take some time before the total 
income from an escalating annuity 
exceeds that from a level annuity
Guarantee period Peace of mind that if Ms H dies early a 
guaranteed income is secured
Annuity income is protected for a certain 
periodGuarantee only applies for a limited 
period
Annuity income will be lower
provided a decision tree (essentially a set of questions) to help Ms H with her choice, 
including:
oasking if she wanted to try and offset the effects of inflation even though it would 
result in a lower starting income?:
no  it said Ms H could opt for a level annuity which pays out the same 
pension income throughout the entire term of the annuity, and will have a 
higher initial income than an escalating annuity, but wont increase each 
year
yes  it said Ms H could opt for an escalating annuity linked to the Retail 
Prices Index or escalating at a fixed rate.
At the end of the report there was an Instruction to Proceed section that Ms H needed to 
sign in order to confirm that shed like an annuity set up. Within this section it confirmed it 
was Ms Hs responsibility to decide on the terms of the annuity in respect of whether it 
increased, provided income for dependents and/or included a guarantee period. It also said 
the scope of Hubs service was limited to the provision of a quotation and arranging the 
purchase of the annuity once Ms H had made her choice.A letter that accompanied the report confirmed that other options may be available to Ms H if 
she sought the services of a professional advisor.
Based on the selections Ms H made, Hub then sent Ms H an annuity quote for a level 
annuity (ie one where her pension payments didnt increase each year) with a 10 year 
payment guarantee. An accompanying illustration from the annuity provider reminded Ms H 
that inflation would reduce what shes able to buy [with her pension payments] in the future. 
A similar message was contained in the annuity providers key facts document.
Ms H confirmed to Hub that she wished to proceed as per the annuity quote.
In 2019 F complained to Hub. It said that in 2012 Ms H needed money for university fees 
and realised she could take tax-free cash from her pension pot but she was advised she had 
to use the remainder of the pot to buy an annuity. F didnt think the annuity was suitable for 
Ms H. It made the following points:
Ms H shouldnt have been committed to receiving a level pension income, the 
purchasing power of which will reduce drastically over time
annuity rates in 2012 were near all-time record lows
there were more attractive options than the annuity recommended
Ms H wasnt properly informed of the available alternatives (including leaving the 
remainder of her pension pot invested in a low risk, low cost pension plan)
the alternatives not being presented to Ms H in a fair and balanced way made the advice 
to buy the level annuity unsuitable as she wasnt given the necessary information to 
decide if it was in her best interest to accept the advice
Ms H wasnt properly informed of the risk that the purchasing power of the annuity 
income would reduce over time.
Hub didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said it provided a non-advised service for 
customers referred to them and helped them search the open market to find an annuity 
provider to provide the retirement income they wanted. Hub further said that Ms Hs pension 
scheme referred her to it as shed already decided to buy an annuity. And it didnt give her 
any advice on what annuity to purchase  it simply facilitated the purchase.
F didnt think Hub had satisfactorily resolved Ms Hs complaint so it referred the matter to us. 
F said that although Hub said the sale was non-advised, it didnt meet the regulators test 
for a non-advised sale as it wasnt a transaction executed based on Ms Hs specific 
instructions. It also made the point that Hub saying it was a non-advised sale doesnt 
necessarily make it so.
In its submission to us Hub repeated that it didnt offer or provide Ms H with advice at any 
point and that she was referred to it by her employers pension scheme. It also said:
as the referral was in 2012, prior to pensions freedoms, in order to access her tax free 
cash Ms Hs only option was to buy an annuity; it felt this is a conversation she would 
have had with her employer or pension scheme
it only facilitated the purchase of the annuity once Ms H made her decision to buy oneit recommended that Ms H seek independent financial advice if she felt she needed it.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She felt Hub didnt give Ms H 
any advice on whether an annuity was suitable for her needs  it simply gave her the options 
available on the open market.
Ms H didnt accept our investigators conclusion. F referred to what our investigator had said 
about the sale being non-advised, and said it remained that Hub sold Ms H an annuity she 
didnt need without giving her the information she needed and without giving her appropriate 
warnings.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I explained in a provisional decision why I wasnt minded to uphold Ms Hs complaint. What I 
said in my provisional decision is repeated here:
Issue to decide
I need to decide whether Hub treated Ms H fairly by selling her a level annuity.
Relevant evidence
I consider the pre-retirement report from January 2012 to be the most persuasive piece of 
evidence Ive seen in order to decide this complaint.
Did Hub give Ms H advice?
In its response to our investigators opinion F didnt specifically dispute the conclusion she 
reached that Hub didnt give Ms H any advice. It concentrated on the fact that, in its view, 
Ms H was sold an annuity she didnt need and whether Ms H had been provided with 
sufficient information. So its not clear to me whether F now accepts this wasnt an advised 
sale.
Nevertheless, for completeness, its important that I decide whether the sale was advised or 
not because that ultimately determines what Hub needed to do in order to adhere to the 
relevant regulatory requirements.
The letter sent to Ms H that accompanied the pre-retirement report said We have been 
advised that you wish to receive your pension benefits from [Ms Hs occupational scheme]. 
The letter also said that if Ms H used Hubs services the Scheme Trustees/Administrators 
had negotiated favourable terms on her behalf. I think these comments support what Hub 
has told us about Ms Hs employer passing her details to it. So I conclude that what most 
likely happened is that Ms H was referred to Hub so that it could outline the various annuity 
options and search the market for the best annuity.
Ive not seen anything in the documentation provided which says, or even suggests, that 
Ms H sought Hubs advice on whether to buy an annuity or that Hub gave Ms H such advice. 
The pre-retirement report specifically said the opposite  most tellingly, in my view, the part 
that said advice wasnt given in relation to the suitability of an annuity or the various options 
available. I havent seen anything which indicates Hub recommended an annuity to Ms H, 
either in general or on a particular basis.
F referred to the regulators definition of a non-advised sale. In practice, a non-advised sale 
is one where a business provides material information to a consumer about a product and the consumer chooses what to buy. In contrast to an advised sale, no advice is given or 
recommendation made. After Ms H was referred to Hub by her pension scheme, Hub simply 
provided Ms H with relevant information and left the decision on what to buy to her. And 
once Ms H had decided, Hub arranged the annuity.
Ive previously seen cases where a sale that was intended and stated to be non-advised was 
in fact, or turned into, an advised sale because of information that was given or told to a 
consumer. I therefore agree with Fs point that Hub saying the sale was non-advised doesnt 
in itself make it so. However, I dont think its the case here that the sale strayed into the 
advised category.
So, for the above reasons, I conclude that the sale was non-advised  or, in other words, 
that Hub didnt advise (or recommend) that Ms H buy an annuity, or buy a certain type of 
annuity.
Relevant rules/regulations
In its complaint submission F referred to COBS rule 5.3.6 in the regulators handbook. Im 
assuming F is actually referring to COB 5.3.6  as COBS, which replaced COB in 2007, 
never contained this rule. However, at the time of sale COB 5.3.6 wasnt in force. In any 
event, it referred to a situation where a personal recommendation is made. And Ive already 
concluded that this was a non-advised sale and that no recommendation was made. So, the 
rule wouldnt have applied to this case in any event.
F also referred to a legal case heard in the Supreme Court in 2015 (Montgomery v 
Lanarkshire Health Board), which it felt required the disclosure of risks and alternatives by 
professionals such as financial advisors in order for consumers to make an informed 
decision whether to follow the advice being given.
And it made reference to the advisors duty under common law, which was to:
not make negligent mis-statements
disclose all material information (where information was given)
advise with reasonable care and skill (where advice was given).
I think additional relevant rules here to be considered are:
COBS 2.1.1  a firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the 
best interests of its client
COBS 4.2.1  a firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion is fair, 
clear and not misleading
COBS 4.5.6  if information compares relevant business, relevant investments, or 
persons who carry on relevant business, a firm must ensure that the comparison is 
meaningful and presented in a fair and balanced way.
For completeness, there are various rules in COBS that relate to what advisors need to do to 
ensure that any advice they give is suitable. I havent quoted those here because I dont 
think they apply given my above conclusion that no advice was given.
The over-riding regulatory principle of the rules is that Hub had a duty to treat Ms H fairly.My thoughts
Although I think the argument is largely redundant as Hub didnt give Ms H any advice, F 
made the comment that annuity rates in 2012 were near an all-time low. I agree that annuity 
rates were low in 2012; but I dont think that automatically means an annuity (or a level 
annuity) was unsuitable. That would ultimately depend on what other options were available 
to Ms H and on Ms Hs circumstances at the time.
As the sale was non-advised, in order to adhere to the abovementioned rules and 
regulations Hub had to give Ms H sufficient clear information so that she could make an 
informed choice on what to do. The decision was then Ms Hs.
Im satisfied the information contained within the pre-retirement report was sufficiently clear. 
This is because it explained what an annuity was, how it worked, and the various options 
available in terms that were easily understandable to the ordinary consumer. Im also 
satisfied that the information contained in the report was fair and balanced. This is because 
equal explanations were given in each part of the report, with advantages and 
disadvantages set out. And each option explained how Ms Hs choice might affect the 
retirement income she would receive.
F specifically argued that a level annuity shouldnt have been sold to Ms H and that the 
purchasing power of the income it provides is reduced. Its true that the purchasing power of 
Ms Hs pension income is reduced over time. But thats because Ms H chose to have an 
annuity where the payments she received didnt increase year on year  most likely because 
she favoured that in return for getting higher initial annuity payments. Im satisfied the pre-
retirement report gave Ms H sufficient information in this respect. For example, it said an 
annuity can be set up to increase in line with a Prices Index in order to offset the effect of 
inflation. It also said this was an advantage of an escalating annuity. In my view, that 
sufficiently implied the opposite was true if the income remained the same ie the effects of 
inflation wont be offset. The report also provided a table showing what Ms Hs 2012 pension 
income might be worth in the future  it showed, for example, that based on inflation of 2.5% 
£305 in 2012 would be worth £237 in 2022 and £184 in 2032.
Other options
F argued that more attractive options were available  it suggested Ms H taking the tax-free 
cash from her pension pot and leaving the remainder invested in a pension plan. Hub 
countered this argument by saying that what F had suggested wasnt an option at the time.
I dont think its strictly true that Ms Hs only option if she wanted to take the tax-free cash 
available was to buy an annuity. She likely would have been able to transfer her pension into 
a drawdown plan where after taking her tax free cash the remainder of her funds could have 
stayed invested.
If this was an advised sale I would want to see how Hub explored alternative options to take 
her benefits and also consider options outside of any pension for Ms H to raise the cash she 
needed. But as Hubs service was essentially to search the market for the best annuity I 
dont expect it to have provided information on any drawdown (or other) options.
Its likely that Ms H would have had other options. But the extent of Hubs involvement in the 
transaction here was made clear in the retirement report. And that was simply to give Ms H 
information on the annuity options available, to search the market for the best annuity to 
meet the choices she made and to facilitate the purchase if Ms H decided to proceed. It had made it clear to Ms H that if she wanted to explore options she needed to speak to a 
financial adviser.
Ive considered the judgement F referred to. The judgement concerned a medical negligence 
case where risks of vaginal birth should have been explained and the alternative of a 
caesarean section should have been considered. The potential consequence was severe 
disability of a child.
My understanding of the case/judgement  and I invite either party to make submissions in 
response to this provisional decision if they feel my understanding is incorrect  is that rather 
than being a matter for clinical judgement to be assessed by professional medical opinion, a 
patient should be told whatever they want to know, not what the doctor thinks they should be 
told. The judgement said the doctor is therefore under a duty to take reasonable care to 
ensure that the patient is aware of any material risks involved in any recommended 
treatment, and of any reasonable alternative or variant treatments.
It seems to me from the language used in the judgement that it applies to treatment that was 
recommended. So applying that to the context of this case, it would apply to advice or a 
recommendation given by Hub. As Ive already concluded that the sale was non-advised, I 
dont think the principle of the judgement applies to this case.
But even if the concept applied to non-advised treatment (or sales), Im satisfied that Hub did 
provide sufficient information about the risks of a level annuity and as explained above I 
dont consider it had the obligation to make Ms H aware of alternatives outside an annuity 
purchase. I dont consider the circumstances in the judgement of not pointing to an 
alternative and the risks involved are comparable to Hub not considering alternative pension 
options when it wasnt giving advice and it clearly explained to Ms H it was only informing 
her about annuity options.
Summary
For the reasons outlined above, I conclude that Hub treated Ms H fairly.
This was a non-advised sale, and Hub didnt recommend or advise Ms H to buy the level 
annuity. So there were no specific requirements that Hub needed to adhere to in respect of 
ensuring that the annuity Ms H bought was suitable.
Hub met the necessary regulatory and legal requirements. It acted in Ms Hs best interests 
and it presented the information to her in a clear, fair and balanced way. I havent seen 
evidence of any negligent mis-statements or of any material information that was withheld.
Responses to my provisional decision
Hub said it had no further comments to make.
F didn't think Id adequately addressed the key issues. It made the following points:
my conclusion that Hub didnt give any advice was incorrect  illustrated by the fact the 
pre-retirement report said that Hubs advice was limited to finding an annuity provider 
offering the most competitive terms
even if it was a non-advised sale, it remains that the sale of an annuity wasnt in Ms H's 
best interests  she had been made redundant and wasnt retiring; her intention was to 
go to universitythe key piece of information that should have been given to Ms H was that she didn't 
need to have an annuity in order to access the tax-free cash from her pension
Hubs statement that Ms Hs only option in order to access her tax-free cash was 
incorrect and is of paramount importance in this case
Overall, F remained of the view that Hub didnt act in Ms H's best interests and that the sale 
was inappropriate. Mrs H only wanted the tax-free cash element of her pension fund and 
didnt need an annuity as she wasnt retiring.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept Fs point about the pre-retirement report saying that Hubs advice was limited to 
finding an annuity provider. It nevertheless remains the case that I havent seen anything 
which says or suggests that Ms H sought Hubs advice on whether to buy an annuity or that 
Hub gave Ms H such advice. I also havent seen anything which says or suggests that Hub 
recommended that Ms H buy an annuity or the specific annuity that she bought. It therefore 
remains my conclusion that the sale was non-advised and Hub didnt advise or recommend 
that Ms H buy any annuity.
I was aware prior to issuing my provisional decision that Ms H wasnt intending to retire per 
se and that she needed the tax free cash in order to go to university. The key point for me 
regarding Ms Hs intention is that prior to Hub becoming involved she had already decided to 
receive her pension benefits from her occupational scheme  this is why she was referred to 
Hub in order for it to outline the annuity options and search the market.
I discussed the point F made about an annuity not being Ms Hs only option in order to 
access her tax-free cash in my provisional decision. I dont think F has added anything to 
what its previously argued so my thoughts remain the same, ie:
its likely that, via a drawdown plan, Ms H would have been able to take the tax free cash 
and the remainder of her funds could have stayed invested
but as Hub was simply searching the market for the best annuity and outlining the 
annuity options, I dont expect it to have provided information on any drawdown or other 
options
Finally, although neither party commented on it in response to my provisional decision, I add 
some more comments in respect of the legal case F referred to. The Montgomery case was 
considered in the High Court in relation to communication between a financial adviser and 
their client  in OHare v Coutts [2016] EWHC 2224 (QB). Essentially, the court concluded 
that the Montgomery test could apply to these communications, and that COBS itself 
contains a duty to explain which is not dissimilar to the Montgomery [test]. However, the 
court again described the treatment or sale as recommended. The sales in OHare were 
advised sales and the financial adviser had provided lengthy, detailed advice in phone calls, 
correspondence and face-to-face meetings.
I think this case again supports my provisional view that the principles in Montgomery dont 
apply to this case given my conclusion that the sale was non-advised  or, in other words, 
that no recommendation was given.Summary
It remains my conclusion that Hub treated Ms H fairly. It didnt recommend or advise Ms H to 
buy the level annuity and it acted in Ms Hs best interests. It presented the information to 
Ms H in a clear, fair and balanced way; and theres nothing Ive seen which shows there 
were any negligent mis-statements or that any material information that was withheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman