DRN-4277500
The complaint
A company that I will refer to as P has complained that Great Lakes Insurance SE unfairly 
declined its professional indemnity insurance claim. 
Great Lakes is the insurer of this policy. Part of this complaint concerns the actions of its 
agent. As Great Lakes has accepted it is accountable for the actions of its agent, any 
reference to Great Lakes includes the actions of its agent.
What happened
P held professional indemnity insurance with Great Lakes. P claimed on its policy in October 
2022 after a complaint that was brought against it by a client, who I will refer to as K, was 
upheld by our service. The final decision issued by our service required P to pay K 
compensation and P claimed on its policy with Great Lakes for its losses. 
Great Lakes declined Ps claim as it said that P had not declared the claim when it should 
have done and this had prejudiced its position. Moreover, Great Lakes said P had answered 
no when asked if it was looking to notify the claim at renewal in January 2022. As P had not 
notified the claim at renewal, Great Lakes issued the policy which included an exclusion for 
known claims and circumstances. 
Unhappy with Great Lakes response, P brought its complaint to our service.  
P said that K had raised a complaint with our service in April 2021 about the basis of 
settlement for its claim. P said it was informed by our service shortly afterwards that we 
would not be upholding Ks complaint.
P said that in January 2022, when the policy was due for renewal, it declared what had 
happened in its proposal form for the renewal. However, as it did not think that the complaint 
against it was progressing, when asked by Great Lakes, it said it did not want to declare the 
complaint as a potential claim. 
P said that our service contacted it again in October 2022 to advise that K had escalated its 
complaint for an Ombudsmans decision and the Ombudsman intended to uphold the 
complaint. P said the complaint being considered by the Ombudsman related to the quality 
of the documentation, rather than the basis of settlement which it considered to be the 
original complaint. So, P informed Great Lakes of the complaint and notified it of the claim. 
P said that it did not inform Great Lakes of the complaint in April 2021 because it did not 
think there was any merit in Ks complaint and it had been informed that it wasnt being 
upheld. P also thought that the nature of the complaint considered by the Ombudsman was 
different to the one raised in April 2021. Despite this, P said it did declare the complaint on 
the renewal form and Great Lakes would have known that claims of this nature could still be 
under consideration by our service. P did not think it was fair for Great Lakes to exclude 
cover, given the information provided on the form. It said it had no option but to renew with 
Great Lakes as the only insurer offering cover for claims relating to Covid-19. 
Our Investigator looked into Ps complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He did not 
think that P had notified Great Lakes of the claim in line with the policy terms and he thought 
that had prejudiced Great Lakes position. He thought that, as P had said it did not want to 
notify Great Lakes about the claim at renewal, it was fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to 
include the exclusion for known claims and circumstances. He thought that as the complaint 
would be considered a known claim or circumstance Great Lakes was entitled to rely on the 
exclusion to decline Ps claim.  
P asked for an Ombudsmans decision. 
P said the nature of Ks complaint changed in April 2022 when K escalated its complaint to 
an Ombudsman. It did not believe that the complaint raised in April 2021 was the same 
complaint as the complaint considered by the Ombudsman in October 2022 and said it could 
not have raised the issue with Great Lakes until the complaint was amended by the 
Ombudsman. It believed the original complaint made by K was about the basis of settlement 
and therefore it was not responsible for that. 
P said it bought its policy through a specialist broker in an advised sale. Ks complaint was 
not considered by our service until April 2022 and was not upheld by the Investigator. P said 
that, at the time of the renewal, it did not know the complaint was progressing, or that what 
our service could consider could change from the complaint initially raised. It said it was not 
practical to notify Great Lakes of every complaint that was made to it. 
P did not think it was reasonable for Great Lakes to have included the exclusion for known 
claims and circumstances at renewal given the information contained within the proposal 
form; and it said Great Lakes should have done more to let it know that the complaint raised 
with our service might not have been resolved. It also thought Great Lakes should be 
required to explain how it had been prejudiced by the late notification of the claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Notifying Great Lakes of the claim
The insuring clauses section of Ps policy indemnifies P for any final and binding 
compensatory awards or determinations by any Ombudsman as long as the claim was 
notified during the period of insurance. The period of insurance was January 2021 to 
January 2022. 
The claims conditions sections says that if P fails to comply with any of the claims 
conditions, Great Lakes will be entitled to reduce the amount it pays by an amount it 
determines to be fair and reasonable based on the prejudice caused by the non-compliance. 
The policy says that P should notify Great Lakes:
in writing as soon as reasonably possible if You receive, discover or become 
aware of 
1.1.1. any Claim made against You;                                                                                   
1.1.2. any indication that someone intends to make a Claim against You or                             
1.1.3. a Circumstance.
Notification under this clause must be made irrespective of Your view on liability or the validity of the Claim or potential Claim.
1.2 What must be included
The notification must include full particulars, including without limitation the 
identity of the claimant or potential claimant, details of the allegations and 
potential allegations against You, identification of the services giving rise to the 
Claim or Circumstance and, if known, the potential quantum of the Claim or 
Circumstance.
Within the definitions section, the policy says that a claim:
shall mean any written or oral demand for monetary damages and/or notice in 
writing of any intention to commence legal proceedings against You and/or other 
relief including non-pecuniary relief and/or any civil arbitration or adjudication 
proceedings including counterclaim and appeal made by a third party against 
You in connection with Your Business
A circumstance:
shall mean any circumstance, event or state of affairs which may reasonably be 
expected to give rise to a Claim against You or a claim for Loss by you of a kind 
that may be covered under this Policy. Subject to the terms of Claims Condition 
1, examples of the types of matters which You should notify as a Circumstance 
include but are not limited to the following:
a. any complaint from a client about work undertaken by You and which cannot 
be resolved within three working days;                                                                  
b. any series of complaints from a client about work done by You;                        
c. any situation by which You become aware of any shortcoming in work 
undertaken for a client (whether this is known to the client or not);                        
d. any situation in which a client, following a complaint by the client, fails to pay 
fees or premiums invoiced by You;                                                                        
e. any threat of a Claim being brought against You;                                              
f. the discovery, or reasonable cause for suspicion, of dishonesty or fraud on the 
part of any current or former partner, director, member or Employee of Yours;   
g. the receipt by You of any written demand for compensation or demand for 
other civil relief including non-pecuniary relief made by a third party against You; 
h. any civil, arbitration or adjudication proceedings, application including any 
counterclaim or appeal served upon You;                                                                
i. the receipt by You of any communication invoking a Pre-Action Protocol
P did not notify Great Lakes about Ks complaint during the period of insurance and I think it 
should have done. Ill explain why.
P said that it did not consider that Ps complaint was something that needed to be notified to 
Great Lakes as it was about the basis of settlement of the claim. P has referred to a letter 
provided by Great Lakes regarding Covid-19 claims which said:
Firstly, if a broker insured with [Great Lakes agent] is aware of Circumstances 
(as defined in the policy) then we should be notified formally in the usual way. 
This would include a Claim being made against you.
A number of brokers insured with [Great Lakes agent] have been contacted by 
clients asking for information as to how their insurance may respond to COVID-19. Most will be uninsured and consequently disappointed. Such enquiries will 
generally not meet the definition of Claim or Circumstance and won't act as a 
trigger to notify us...
I do not believe that Ks initial complaint was not a complaint against P. In its letter of 
complaint in April 2021, K said it believed Ps action, or inaction and lack of care, has 
directly resulted in a substantial loss to our business. It let P know that if it could not 
reach a satisfactory settlement it would bring the complaint to our service. 
In my view, in April 2021, K let P know it believed P had caused it a financial loss and 
asked for a settlement for its error in the way the policy had been arranged. K also let P 
know it would bring the complaint to our service if it was not resolved. I think this 
amounted to a written demand for monetary damages and therefore was a claim. 
However, even if it did not meet this definition P should have notified Great Lakes as a 
circumstance as a applied. P was also notified that the complaint had been raised 
with our service a short while later, so I also think g also applied. 
I appreciate that P did not believe that Ks complaint would be upheld but the notification 
condition applies irrespective of the insureds view of the validity of the claim. And the letter 
from Great Lakes agent makes it clear that if there is a claim against a broker it should be 
notified in the usual way. 
Moreover, even if I accepted that P did not think that it needed to notify Great Lakes in April 
2021, by May 2022 P had been informed that Ks complaint had been considered by an 
Investigator and referred to an Ombudsman for a decision. So I do not believe that P should 
only have reasonably known to notify Great Lakes about it in October 2022. So, even 
though the renewal had already occurred, I think P should reasonably have notified Great 
Lakes about the complaint much earlier than October 2022. 
Great Lakes said that the late notification prejudiced its position because it had lost the 
opportunity to consider Ps liability, to appoint solicitors to assist P in its response and to 
explore the opportunity to explore negotiation of a settlement with K.
While its impossible to know what would have happened if P had notified Great Lakes of the 
claim sooner, I accept the points that Great Lakes has made about the late notification of the 
claim causing prejudice. Therefore, I think it is reasonable for Great Lakes to rely on the late 
notification to refuse to pay Ps claim.
Exclusion for known claims and circumstances
In any event, the terms and conditions of Ps policy for the period January 2022 to January 
2023 say that the policy will not provide indemnity against any loss arising directly or 
indirectly from:
Known claims or circumstances                                                                                        
any Claim made or Circumstance known to You (or of which You ought to have 
been aware) before the date of commencement of the Period of Insurance;
The definitions for claims and circumstances in the policy remained the same as in the 
2020-2021 policy. 
The proposal form for Ps renewal asked if P was aware of any circumstance which might 
lead to a claim. P answered yes and provided the details of the complaint that had been 
raised against it. Great Lakes asked if P intended to notify the claim and it said it wasnt. It is for Great Lakes to decide the risks it wants to cover and I dont consider that the 
exclusion is an unfair term given that P said it did not want to formally notify the claim. I 
recognise that P did not believe that Ks complaint was progressing but Great Lakes 
specifically asked whether P wanted to notify the claim and P said it did not. I do not 
consider that there was any obligation on Great Lakes to inform P that Ks complaint might 
not be resolved, particularly given that Ps policy was sold via another broker. 
That means that the policy was written to exclude known claims and circumstances. In its 
letter of complaint in April 2021, K complained that Ps actions when arranging the policy had 
caused it a financial loss. This is the same complaint issue that the Ombudsman considered 
in her final decision, so I am satisfied that when the claim was made it was regarding a 
known claim or circumstance and therefore excluded by the policy.
Taking all of this into consideration, I do not uphold this complaint and am not going to 
require Great Lakes to pay Ps claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman