DRN-2161117
The complaint
Mr S says he got poor service from Soteria Insurance Limited when he made a claim on his 
motor insurance policy and repairs were carried out on his car.
What happened
Mr Ss car was damaged on 25 August 2019. Shortly afterwards, Soterias approved repairer 
(garage A) inspected it. As it required a specialist repair, the car was then sent to a 
dealership garage (garage B). Garage B couldnt take the car until 4 October 2019 and it 
then had to order parts from abroad. The car was returned to Mr S on 31 October 2019. In 
the meantime, he wasnt happy with the lack of updates from garage A. He complained to 
Soteria about that and about the delay in finalising the repairs. 
 
Around six weeks later, Mr S told Soteria that a door lock wasnt working properly. The lock 
was one of the issues with the car that had been identified initially. A replacement part was 
ordered, and the second repair was completed on 11 February 2020. Mr S made a new 
complaint to Soteria about the fault and about not getting a copy of the engineers report.
Soteria didnt uphold Mr Ss first complaint. It said the delays by garage B were outside its 
control and that garage A had tried to get updates about the repairs with no success. Soteria 
said garage A had contacted Mr S as soon as it had something to report. On the second 
complaint, Soteria said garage B was responsible for the fault and the second repair. But it 
offered him an apology for not chasing for a copy of the engineers report hed requested.  
 
As Mr S wasnt happy with Soterias response, he complained to this service. One of our 
investigators thought it should pay Mr S £150 compensation for the inconvenience of  
second repairs having to be done on a fault identified before the initial repairs were started. 
He noted that Mr S wanted six months insurance and road tax to be refunded, but he didnt 
think that was appropriate. Soteria agreed to pay the compensation proposed by the 
investigator. But Mr S asked for a review of his complaint by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The damage to the car was done towards the end of August 2019 and the car was back with 
Mr S by 31 October 2019. It isnt unusual or unreasonable for repairs to take a few weeks. 
And in this case, due to the nature of the damage, Soteria had to rely on the schedule set by 
garage B. It had no control over that schedule, and it was bound to cause a delay when 
garage B had to order parts. I think its likely that garage A would have given Mr S updates 
had garage B responded to its queries about progress. 
Unfortunately, as a damaged part wasnt replaced by garage B in error, Mr S was without the 
car for two days in February 2020 as well. The repair couldnt be done sooner, as garage B 
had the part on back order and had to wait for it to be delivered. Soteria says Mr S was still 
able to use the car (except when it was in the garage) by locking the door manually. 
I dont think Soteria should have to refund part of Mr Ss premium. He made a claim on the 
policy that it dealt with - and when a successful claim is made on a policy, the whole 
premium for the year is payable. I dont think it should have to refund his road tax either. The 
car was off the road due to the damage caused to it by an unknown third party, and road tax 
isnt usually refunded when a damaged car needs to be repaired. I dont think it was 
Soterias fault that the car couldnt be repaired more quickly. 
The fault Mr S reported to Soteria in December 2019 was one that should have been dealt 
with during the initial repairs. As the lock wasnt replaced by garage B, Soteria had to ensure 
that was put right. But Mr S didnt complain about the fault until six weeks after the car was 
returned to him, so Soteria couldnt have acted earlier than it did. It then had to rely once 
again on garage Bs schedule for carrying out the repair.   
 
Soteria has accepted that it would be fair for it to pay Mr S £150 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience he faced by the initial repairs having to be rectified. I think it has 
provided a reasonable explanation about garage As limited contact with Mr S. And it 
apologised to him for not chasing a copy of the engineers report. Taking everything into 
account, I dont think more than £150 compensation is justified in this case. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Solteria Insurance Limited to 
pay Mr S £150 compensation, as it has already agreed to do.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman