DRN-1607483
 
The complaint
Mr M says Bank of Scotland Plc (BOS) mis-sold him a regular payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy to cover his credit card repayments. 
What happened
Mr M applied for a credit card by post in 1997. At the same time he took out a PPI policy to 
cover his credit card repayments. The policy cost around £0.73 per £100 of the balance on 
Mr Ms credit card. A successful claim on the policy wouldve paid 10% of the outstanding 
balance for up to 12 months per claim if Mr M was unable to work due to accident or 
sickness or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld because she thought Mr M 
wouldve understood he had a choice in taking the policy and thought it wouldve provided a 
useful benefit.
Mr M disagrees. He says if PPI had been properly explained to him he wouldnt have taken it 
out.
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ms complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
The PPI was applied for by post when Mr M completed a postal application for a credit card. 
BOS have given us a copy of the application form Mr M completed. 
From what I know about BOSs credit card application forms there is usually a separate 
section within them that gives the option to take out PPI to cover the credit card repayments. 
Ive been given a copy of Mr Ms credit card application form and I can see that theres a 
separate section on the application form that deals with consent. Within this section there 
are three tick boxes. The second of which appears to deal with PPI as although it isnt a 
good copy I can make out the words Yes, Credit Care and the eligibility requirements. I 
can see Mr M has ticked next to this and the first box leaving the final one clear. 
Based on what I know about BOSs application forms and from what Ive seen in this one I 
think it is likely the second box asked for Mr Ms consent to take out PPI. And I think there is 
enough there for Mr M to understand he didnt need to take PPI because he couldve just left 
the section blank. So I think Mr M selected to take PPI with a tick because he wanted the cover. 
Because the PPI was taken out through the post I dont think BOS advised Mr M to take PPI. 
What this means is that BOS didnt recommend PPI to Mr M, it just gave him information 
about PPI. This information needed to be given in a way that was clear, fair and not 
misleading so he could make an informed choice about buying PPI.
I dont know if BOS did give all the proper information that was needed. But even if BOS did 
give all the information Mr M needed to make an informed choice on taking out the policy, 
I think he wouldve still taken the policy because at the time of sale from what we know about 
BOS policies:
He was eligible for the PPI.
 
It doesnt look like he wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions in the 
terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made it difficult to make a 
successful claim.
 
At the time of the sale Mr M says he was entitled to a good level of sick pay he could 
use to make his credit card payments if he couldnt work due to accident or sickness. 
But a successful claim on the policy wouldve paid out on top of any work benefits 
and covered his credit card payments if he lost his job. So I cant see how knowing 
this information wouldve put him off buying it.
 
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mr M and he could cancel 
the policy if he no longer wanted it.
 
So I dont think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mr M on 
the PPI. I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI policy as it was of value to him.
Which means BOS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But BOS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
 
When the policy was sold, BOS expected to get a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr M about that. 
Because BOS didnt tell Mr M, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, BOS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr M.But Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman