DRN-1682285
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complains that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1993. 
The policy covered Mr S for up to twenty-four months if he was unable to work because of 
an accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
The mortgage and PPI policy were taken out some twenty-seven years ago. So its not that 
surprising that there arent many documents from that time now available. Businesses arent 
required to keep these sorts of records for such long periods of time. And I wouldnt really 
expect consumers to recall - in detail - everything that happened from so long ago either. So 
in cases like these, I need to decide what I think is most likely to have happened, based on 
the limited and incomplete information available to me. This includes what I know, more 
generally, about Nationwides normal sales processes from around this time. 
Nationwide says that, as the mortgage and PPI were taken out so long ago, it cant be sure 
of how the sale took place. Mr and Mrs S say it was in a meeting and, as it involved a 
mortgage, I think this is most likely to have been the case. Mr and Mrs S say Nationwide 
didnt make it clear at the time that a PPI policy had been sold to them with their mortgage 
and they werent aware they were paying for it. 
Nationwide says that at the time its policy was to make the PPI a condition for granting a 
mortgage of the type Mr and Mrs S were applying for with a fixed interest period. It would be 
wrong for a business to tell a customer PPI is compulsory with a mortgage if this was untrue 
and the customer could choose to take the mortgage without PPI. But, in a case such as 
this, Nationwide is entitled to make PPI a condition of the mortgage. It is then up to the 
customer to decide if they want to take out a mortgage with such a condition attached to it. 
So, as long as Nationwide made clear that the PPI policy was a condition of the mortgage, it 
doesnt mean the PPI was mis-sold. Nationwide has provided a copy of the leaflet which it says it was using at the time for this 
type of mortgage and which would have been given to Mr and Mrs S. This leaflet states:
It is a condition of the offer that Mortgage Payment Cover is arranged through the society, 
and payments made by Direct Debit. These conditions must be maintained for two years (24 
premiums)."
Ive no real reason to think that Mr and Mrs S wouldnt have been given a copy of this leaflet. 
And it seems likely that they would have been asked to complete a Direct Debit mandate to 
enable the premium payments to be collected by the insurer of the policy. 
Nationwide has also provided a sample copy of the type of mortgage statement which it says 
Mr and Mrs S would have been sent after the sale. And I can see that the PPI premiums are 
shown separately on this statement. So I think Mr and Mrs S would have been likely to query 
why they were paying these premiums if they hadnt been aware at the time that the policy 
had been opened with the mortgage. 
Nationwide says that the PPI policy was cancelled by Mr and Mrs S soon after the two-year 
mandatory period for this cover ended. And this might also seem to suggest that 
Mr and Mrs S were aware at the time that they had this policy and when - under the terms of 
their mortgage  they were able to cancel it.
I cant know now what was said to Mr and Mrs S at the meeting they had with Nationwide to 
discuss their mortgage. And I accept that its possible that the person they spoke to failed to 
mention the requirement to take out the PPI policy with the mortgage. But I dont think it 
would be fair for me to conclude that this is what is most likely to have happened, based only 
on what Mr and Mrs S recall about a meeting which happened so long ago. On balance, I 
think its more likely that they would have been told they needed to take out the PPI policy to 
get their mortgage. And I think the person they spoke to would have checked that Mr S was 
eligible for the policy and told them they needed to pay the premiums by Direct Debit. 
So, from what Ive seen, I think Mr and Mrs S actively decided to take the mortgage and PPI 
policy, knowing that they could choose to take out a different type of mortgage which didnt 
require PPI cover, or to look somewhere else for their mortgage. But I can understand why 
they may not be able to recall this now.
Nationwide says that no advice was given to Mr and Mrs S about the PPI policy. And I 
havent seen anything to suggest that Nationwide did recommend the policy to them based 
on their specific circumstances at the time. This means that Nationwide didnt need to 
ensure that the policy was suitable. But it did still need to give Mr and Mrs S enough 
information about the policy for them to decide if they wanted to agree to a mortgage which 
required this policy to be taken out with it. I think its possible that the information 
Mr and Mrs S received from Nationwide could have been better than it was. But I dont think 
better information would have changed their minds about taking it. I say this because:        
Mr S appears to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations
 
Mr and Mrs S say that they didnt need the cover the policy provided because Mr S 
had a generous sick pay entitlement from his employer and they also had some 
savings they could have used to make their mortgage repayments if Mr S was unable 
to work. But this policy would have paid out in addition to these other means and for 
longer than these would have been likely to last. It would have protected their 
mortgage for up to twenty-four months if Mr S was unable to work because of an accident, sickness or unemployment. And a mortgage is a big financial commitment  
one where ones home is at risk if the repayments cant be met. So I still think that Mr 
and Mrs S would have valued the extra security which the policy gave then if things 
went wrong.
 
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs S. And as the 
premiums were paid monthly, it could have been cancelled - once the mandatory 
period had expired  if it no longer met their needs.
 
So, having carefully considered all the available information - including the reasons 
Mr and Mrs S have given for disagreeing with the adjudicators view - I dont think that 
Mr and Mrs S have lost out by anything that Nationwide may have done wrong when it sold 
them this policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint against Nationwide Building 
Society. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman