DRN-3592523
The complaint
Miss B had motor insurance underwritten by Tesco Underwriting Limited (Tesco). She 
complains about the condition of her car when it was returned to her following accident 
repairs. References to Tesco include organisations and individuals acting on its behalf.
What happened
Miss Bs car was damaged in an accident. Tesco arranged for it to be taken to its repairer. 
Miss B says when the car was returned there was rust on the wheels which hadnt been 
there before. 
Miss B complained to Tesco. Tescos engineer said that due to the design of the alloy 
wheels with a large area of the wheel surface exposed, the brake components were exposed 
to weather and water. So it wouldnt be unusual for there to be light surface corrosion on the 
brake discs and this was a normal occurrence when the car got wet and was left standing for 
a short time. The engineer said the corrosion would usually be removed when the car was 
driven and the brakes applied.  
Miss B wasnt happy with this response and complained to this service. Our investigator 
upheld her complaint. She said Tesco should arrange to fix the cosmetic damage to the 
wheels and pay Miss B £75 compensation.
Tesco didnt agree with the investigators suggestion and so the complaint has been passed 
to me. Miss B wants the wheels repaired to the standard they were before the accident.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
On 21 June 2022 I issued a provisional decision in this case. My provisional decision said:
I dont intend to uphold Miss Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
In response to her complaint, Tescos engineer said to Miss B:
You contacted us to advise that you noticed surface corrosion to the front brake discs on 
your car, when it was returned after repair.
Your car is fitted with 5 x twin spoke alloy wheels where the spokes have been machined to 
a narrow finish. This in turn leaves quite a large area of the wheel surface open, which 
subsequently results in the brake components being exposed to the weather elements and 
also water, whilst the car is cleaned. If the car has been subjected to water and is left 
standing for a short period of time, either outside in adverse weather conditions, or after it 
has been cleaned, it is not unusual for the steel brake components to oxidise slightly 
resulting in light surface corrosion. This will usually be removed as soon as the car is driven 
for a short while and the brakes have been applied a few times. I consider that the surface 
corrosion is as a result of factors outside of the repairer's control, and do not consider that 
they have failed in their duty of care whilst carrying out the repairs.
I have been advised that you will be taking your car to a main dealer for them to examine the 
brakes. If they conclude that the corrosion has been caused by any negligence on the part of 
the repairer, we will consider further, upon receipt of a written report from the dealer advising 
us accordingly.
Miss B obtained a report from the dealership which said:
Corrosion on all 4 hubs, callipers and carriers however all cosmetic damage and will not 
affect vehi [sic].
In response to our investigators suggested solution, Tescos engineer said:
Even if we arranged for the corrosion to be removed from the brake discs, the corrosion 
would re appear within a couple of days as this is what happens with steel when it is heated 
and cooled. The discs are heated by normal driving and the friction that is caused whilst 
breaking and in turn causing the brakes to heat to high temperaturesit is just a 
characteristic of the material and how it reacts to heat and the elements. 
The [dealership] health check report that the [policyholder] obtained states the corrosion is 
cosmetic and will not affect the vehicle braking of the vehicle, if thedealer had any 
concerns they would have noted it.
Im not an engineer. Its not my role to decide how the rust on Miss Bs car was caused. My 
role is to decide whether Tesco has acted fairly and reasonably. I think it was fair and 
reasonable for Tesco to have relied on its engineers expert advice, especially in the 
absence of any conflicting expert opinion.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above I dont intend to uphold Miss Bs complaint. So I dont intend to 
ask Tesco Underwriting Limited to do anything.
Responses to my provisional decision
Tesco didnt respond to my provisional decision.
Miss B said:
As you know the rust/corrosion on the wheels has not been caused by the weather in the 22 
days the garage had it, it has been caused by either the chemicals used to polish out the 
wheels (as there was some white residue on all 4 wheels) upon its return to me, or the 
wheels have been sand blasted without being removed from the vehicle. Incidentally the 
garage repaired all 4 wheels (slight scuff marks) when the damage caused by the accident 
was only to the one front wheel. So they didnt need to repair all 4 - I wish they hadnt as this 
wouldnt have happened.
No one from the garage or Tescos has inspected the car, so they have assumed brake dust/ 
weather damage, which it isnt, I am more than happy for someone to inspect the car to see 
the damage caused.  As I have pointed out before, the garage took many (about 20 minutes 
worth) of photographs of every inch of my car the day they collected it (to protect them and 
me) but they are refusing to share them, how is that fair? If they submitted those together with the photographs they took of my car the day they returned it the difference is abundantly 
clear.
I dont understand how this decision can be made on assumptions of weather damage that 
occurred within the 22 days they had the car, when no such damage occurred in the 449 
days I owned the car prior to their collection. Without anyone actually inspecting it?
I only have 1 photo of the damaged wheel the day they collected the car as the other wheels 
werent supposed to be touched so I personally didnt take any of all 4 wheels as they did 
that anyway. But you can see the difference on that one photograph, again how is this 
acceptable.
Have you seen the garages before and after photographs of all 4 wheels before and after? 
Even Tescos havent so again how can their engineer make an assumption of the cause of 
damage?
If you can provide the photographs taken by the garage, date stamped on the day of 
collection and the date of return then that I could understand this decision but to date no one 
has even seen them.  
I have attached my 2 photographs again, but the damage is on all FOUR. Ive never bought 
a brand new car before in my 33 years of driving, its completely unfair that my wheels have 
been ruined by a garage and the car is now not new at all and devalued by the damage.
Im completely devastated by this unfair decision and would like it to be reconsidered.
And one more point, they refer to light surface corrosion which would disappear after brakes 
applied which of course is not the case. It is not light surface corrosion.
Miss B also resent pictures of the car wheels.
I have considered Miss Bs comments very carefully. However I still think it was fair and 
reasonable of Tesco to rely on its engineers expert opinion in the absence of any conflicting 
expert evidence. So Im not changing my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint. So I wont be asking Tesco 
Underwriting Limited to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman