DRN-2507213
The complaint
Mr H says PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender lent to him irresponsibly. 
  
What happened
This complaint is about nine payday loans Mr Lender provided to Mr H between 
November 2012 and August 2016. Some information about the loans is summarised in the 
table below. 
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowed monthly 
instalmentsdate repaid
1 27/05/2012 £250 1 16/11/2012
2 18/12/2012 £150 1 08/02/2013
3 10/02/2013 £400 1 18/10/2013
4 18/10/2013 £500 1 30/05/2014
5 30/05/2014 £700 1 31/10/2014
6 09/12/2014 £100 2 30/01/2015
7 30/01/2015 £300 3 30/04/2015
8 27/05/2015 £250 3 21/08/2015
9 29/08/2016 £200 3 11/11/2016
Our adjudicator partly upheld the complaint. She thought that Mr Lender shouldnt have 
approved the lending from the fourth rollover of loans 1 and loans 3. And loans 4 to loan 8. 
She didnt uphold the initial approval of loans 1 and 3, and loans 2 and 9 in their entirety.  
Mr Lender partly agreed with the adjudicators opinion. It made an offer of compensation on 
the same basis the adjudicator recommended in respect of loans 6 to 8. But it didnt think it 
was wrong to approve the rollovers on loans 1 and 3 and loans 4 and 5.   
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Hs complaint in part and have explained why below.
Mr H didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion not to award compensation for loans 1, 2, 
3 and loan 9. And Mr Lender has agreed to pay compensation in respect of loans 6 to 8. 
Because of this I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these lending 
decisions. So, I wont be making a decision about them. In this decision, Im only considering 
if Mr Lender was right to have kept extending loans 1 and 3 and then to approve loans 4 and 
5. 
And the lending decisions for loans 1, 2 and 3, and loans 6 to 8, were part of the borrowing 
relationship Mr H had with Mr Lender. So they are something I will take into account when 
considering the other loans he took.
As our adjudicator outlined Mr H had problems repaying loans 1 and 3. He extended loan 1 
six times making a payment of £75 each time to do so. This meant the total he repaid for the 
£250 loan was around £720. And Mr H extended loan 3 nine times with a repayment of £120 
each time. This meant Mr H ended up repaying around £1,450 in total for the £400 loan. 
Mr Lender should have treated Mr H reasonably. And it should have extended forbearance 
when Mr H was having problems making the scheduled loan repayments, as he clearly was 
here. And it is relevant that in 2012 one of the trade bodies, the Consumer Finance 
Association, said that short term lending shouldnt be rolled over more than three times. So I 
think this good practice was established around the time of these loans. Mr Lender didnt do 
this. I cant see that it took any action at all to help Mr H and allow him to repay the loans in a 
reasonable timeframe. 
So, having looked at all of the circumstances around the rollovers of loans 1 and 3, I agree 
that Mr Lender shouldve stopped charging interest on both of these loans after the third 
rollover. It should refund the interest Mr H paid on both these loans from, and including, 
rollover four onwards. 
Mr H repaid loan 2 without a problem. And this does suggest that it wasnt unreasonable for 
Mr Lender to initially approve loan 3.  
But when Mr Lender approved loan 4 the lending relationship had been in place for just 
under a year and a half. This is a significant time to be continuously using what is meant to 
be a short term product to assist with temporary cash flow problems. And Mr H had taken a very long time to fully repay loan 3, just over 8 months. I think this clearly shows he was in 
financial difficulty
So even without looking into Mr Hs circumstances further, I think its reasonable to say he 
was unable to sustainably repay any further lending at this point. Because of this, overall, Im 
upholding the complaint from rollover four on loans 1 and 3, and loans 4 to 8 in their entirety. 
Mr Lender should put things right for this lending. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mr Lender should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it not approved any lending from rollover four on loans 1 and 3, 
and loans 4 to 8, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr H may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr H in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr H would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Mr Lender shouldnt have stopped charging interest on loans 1 and 3 from, and including, 
rollover 4, and it shouldnt have approved loans 4 to 8. Mr Lender should put things right.
A) Mr Lender should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr H towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Mr Lender should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr H 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr H originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Mr Lender should pay Mr H the total of A plus B.
D) Mr Lender should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Mr Hs credit file in 
relation to the parts of loans 1 and 3 Ive upheld and loans 4 to 6. The overall pattern of Mr 
Hs borrowing for loans 7 to 8 means any information recorded about them is adverse, so it 
should remove these loans entirely from Mr Hs credit file. If Mr Lender has sold any of the 
loans it should ask the debt purchaser to do the same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to deduct tax from this interest. Mr Lender should give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax Mr Lender has deducted, if they ask for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mr Hs complaint.
PDL Finance Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman