DRN-3426638
The complaint
Ms B, through her representative, complains that the advice she received from Phoenix Life
Limited to take out a Free Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) plan was
unsuitable. She says that if shed been properly advised she would have contributed to her
occupational in-house additional voluntary contribution (AVC) scheme instead and so wants
compensating for the loss she has suffered.
What happened
In 1996 Ms B was advised by Phoenix Life to take out a FSAVC plan. Her circumstances at 
the time, as recorded in the paperwork completed by the adviser, show that Ms B:
Was aged 36
Was married with two dependants
Worked in the NHS
Had an income of around £22,000
Had been a member of her occupation pension scheme for around 12 years
Expected to retire at 60 but her preferred age was 55.
In 2021 Ms B, through her representative, complained to Phoenix Life raising the complaint
point detailed above. Phoenix Life didnt uphold her complaint because it said the plan was
suitable and Ms B had been provided with the appropriate advice and information at the 
time.
Dissatisfied with its response, Ms B brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman
Service.
I issued my provisional decision of March 2022 in which I said I was likely to uphold the 
complaint. In summary I said I didnt think Phoenix Life had complied with the relevant 
guidance when it advised Ms B in 1996 and as a result I thought Ms B had lost out because I 
didnt think shed have still taken out the FSAVC had things happened as they should have. I 
said I intended to direct Phoenix Life to carry out a loss assessment in line with our general 
approach to complaints of this type.
Ms B did not respond to my provisional decision.
Phoenix Life replied to my provisional decision. In summary it said:
The adviser was unable to give advice on Ms Bs employers scheme, which would 
suggest that she would have been aware that she needed to seek details from them 
herself.
Because the reason for taking out the FSAVC was that she wanted better flexibility and 
control over contribution levels and both of these things were listed in the booklet 
provided, this implies the details in the booklet were discussed with Ms B.
There is no argument the booklet was provided and suggests the onus was on Ms B to 
read the documentation she was provided with.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding what is, in all the circumstance of the case, fair and reasonable Ive also taken 
into account relevant law, any relevant regulatory rules and relevant guidance and what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, for the reasons I have set out below Ive decided to uphold this complaint.
In deciding this complaint, I need to consider two questions: whether Phoenix Life complied
with the applicable regulatory guidance in place at the time of the advice; and then if it
didnt, would Ms B have acted any differently had it done so  that is would Ms B have
made her additional pension contributions to an AVC arrangement provided by her
occupation scheme?
The advice was provided by Phoenix Life in September 1996. So the relevant regulatory
guidance was contained in the May 1996 Regulatory Update 20 (RU20), which was 
produced by the Personal Investment Authority (PIA), one of the predecessors to the current 
regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). RU20 gave guidance on the procedures 
for advising clients on the relative merits of FSAVCs and AVCs provided by occupational 
pension schemes.
The guidance set out different requirements depending on whether the adviser was an
independent financial adviser or a tied adviser  one who is employed by, or contracted to,
one organisation and can only recommend and sell that organisations products. In this case
the adviser was tied.
For tied advisers, RU 20 indicated that:
A representative should not recommend his own companys FSAVC until he has:
- drawn the clients attention to the in-scheme alternative;
- discussed the differences between the two routes in generic terms (taking account,
among other things, of the features described in this article); and
- directed the client to his employer, or to the scheme trustees, for more information
on the in-scheme option.
When these procedures are followed and documented, it is not necessary for the
representative to undertake a full comparison of the in-scheme AVC and his companys
FSAVC.
Among the features referred to in the article were that charges under in-house AVCs
would usually be lower. The regulator indicated that it would expect the advice file to have
documentary evidence demonstrating that the procedures in the update had been
followed.
So Phoenix Life needed to make Ms B aware of the in-house AVC and to discuss the
generic features of the in-house options and of the FSAVC. The key difference I wouldve
expected Phoenix Life to discuss with Ms B would be the likelihood of lower charges forthe in-house AVC. I would also expect Ms B to have been directed to her employer and/or
occupational pension scheme trustee to obtain more information on her in-house options.
Phoenix Life has provided the paperwork completed at the time, including the fact-find
document, which also records the summary of advice given and why the adviser thought the
recommendation was suitable.
Having considered this carefully, Im not persuaded that the procedures required by
the update Ive set out above were followed. I say this because the advisers notes do not
say or in my view imply that a discussion took place about the differences between in-house
AVCs and the FSAVC. Phoenix Life in response to my provisional decision says it should be 
implied there was a discussion based on the reason Ms B said she wanted the FSAVC  a 
reason listed in the booklet.
But I disagree. If there was a discussion I wouldve expected the adviser to have said so. But 
the adviser simply records that they explained there are two alternatives either an in-house 
scheme or a free standing scheme... And this is the limit of whats recorded. Theres nothing 
to say the differences between the two were discussed.
In addition theres nothing recorded here about charges and importantly that the in-house
scheme would likely have lower charges  it is silent on this point  or anything to show that
Ms B was directed to her employer to find out more information about her in-house scheme.
I can see that the advisers notes say: I gave Ms B the booklet outlining the differences
[between the in-house scheme and FSAVC]... and Phoenix Life has provided a copy of this
booklet. And while I think the information contained here is clear and it does set out the
generic differences between the two schemes and talks about the difference in charges, I
dont think simply giving Ms B a booklet is enough for me to fairly say that Phoenix Life
complied with the regulators requirements in this case. Its possible Ms B didnt read the 
booklet.
Phoenix Life has said the onus was on Ms B to read the information she was given. But the 
guidance in my view is clear - it requires a discussion not just the provision of information. 
And as Ive found, theres simply not enough evidence to show or imply that the contents of 
the booklet was discussed with Ms B  not even a direction given to her to read it and what 
she needed to pay particular attention to. 
So for these reasons, I dont think that Phoenix Life complied with the guidance in relation to
the sale of the FSAVC plan to Ms B.
I now need to consider the second question and decide if Ms B has potentially lost out as
result of the failing identified  i.e. would Ms B have likely acted differently had everything
happened as it should have and directed her additional pension contribution to her in-house
scheme instead?
I can see that Ms B expected to retire at age 60  but that 55 was recorded as being her
preferred retirement age. This preferred age was five years before her normal pension age
in her occupational scheme. I can also see that the reason the adviser gave for Ms B
choosing a FSAVC plan was for one reason: to provide her with flexibility and control over
contribution levels.
While its not necessarily the case that Ms Bs in-house scheme was inflexible - Im also
mindful that Ms B was still more than 15 years away from her preferred retirement age (itwas preferred and perhaps not a set intention) and her plans might change - on the one 
hand I accept this may suggest that the recommendation to take out the FSAVC remained
suitable, despite the difference in charges.
But on the other hand, given the regulators view that a critical factor driving choice between
FSAVCs and AVCs was the typically lower charges, I think, more likely than not
that Ms B wouldve chosen to contribute to her in-house AVC scheme had things happened
as they should have and had she been properly advised and informed. Im not persuaded
that what was recorded as the sole reason for choosing the FSAVC  flexibility  wouldve
alone made a difference to her decision. Ms B was working for the NHS and in my view likely 
to remain within its employment  Ive not seen anything to suggest otherwise.
So it is for these reasons that I think Ms B has lost out because I think she wouldve more
likely contributed to her in-house AVC scheme rather than the FSAVC plan if things had
happened as they should have and shed been properly advised and informed.
Putting things right
I think compensation for Ms B should be calculated in line with our general approach to
complaints of this type. Phoenix Life should undertake a redress calculation in accordance
with the regulators FSAVC review guidance, incorporating the amendment below, to take
into account that data for the CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods
after 1 January 2005.
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index
is used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer
matching contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires
ongoing charges in an investment based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January
2005, Phoenix Life should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005
and the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should, if possible, be
paid into Ms Bs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and
any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible, or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Ms B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for
income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be
tax-free and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in
retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. Ms B 
should confirm her tax rate to us as part of her response to this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and I direct Phoenix 
Life Limited to settle the complaint using the FCAs FSAVC guidance as I have set out in the
section Putting things right above. I make no other award.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman