DRN-2485719
The complaint
Mr Ls complaint is that the car he acquired through a finance agreement with Hyundai 
Capital UK Limited (trading as Kia Finance) wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr L acquired a new car through a conditional sale agreement with Hyundai in March 2019. 
Mr L noticed a rattling noise shortly after acquisition and the car was returned to the dealer 
on several occasions from April 2019. He then raised the issues with Hyundai in September 
2019.
An independent inspection was carried out and the issues identified were confirmed by the 
inspector. However, the report concluded that the issues wouldnt have been present from 
the point of supply. Based on this Hyundai didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Mr L referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator thought that the issues raised 
showed the vehicle wasnt sufficiently durable and therefore not of satisfactory quality at the 
point of supply. She noted that repairs had been attempted but the issue not resolved. 
Based on this she upheld Mr Ls complaint.
Mr L part exchanged his car as part of a new finance arrangement with a different finance 
provider and settled his agreement with Hyundai in November 2019. Our investigator 
thought that Mr L had incurred a financial loss through this process (calculated as £3,244) 
and recommended that this be refunded. She also said that Mr L should be paid £200 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience he had been caused.
Mr L accepted our investigators view.
Hyundai accepted the view in terms of the complaint being upheld but challenged the 
calculation of Mr Ls financial loss. It said that Mr L hadnt incurred a financial loss through 
the settlement of his agreement.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Mr L acquired a new car and so would have expected it to be free from faults 
including any minor defects. He had to return the car on several occasions, and the 
work cards showed repair attempts which I found, on balance, confirmed Mr Ls 
comments about the issues he experienced. Given when the issues were raised, I 
found It more likely than not that the issues were present from the point of supply and 
that the car wasnt sufficiently durable. Our investigator had come to the same 
conclusion and after our investigation, Hyundai accepted our investigators view in 
order to resolve the complaint.
The outstanding issue related to the redress required to settle this complaint. I 
thought that rejection would have been a reasonable remedy. However, Mr L part 
exchanged the car and settled his finance agreement with Hyundai in November 
2019. Had Mr L rejected the car his agreement would have been settled at no cost to 
him and any deposit would have been refunded.
The conditional sale agreement dated March 2019, showed an advance payment of 
£1,750. Hyundai said that this advance payment was a contribution from the 
manufacturer. Based on this, I said it appeared that Mr L didnt pay a deposit and so 
there was no amount that needed to be refunded.
Mr L part exchanged the car as part of a new finance agreement. The invoice 
provided showed that the part exchange amount received by Mr L equalled the 
settlement amount due under Mr Ls March 2019 agreement. Therefore, Mr L was 
able to exit the agreement at no cost. Therefore, it appeared that Mr L hadnt suffered 
a financial loss by part exchanging his car. 
Mr L had driven 4,700 miles when he part exchanged the car in November 2019. The 
annual mileage allowance under his agreement was 10,000 miles. The issues he 
experienced didnt stop him from using the car and while I noted he did have to return 
the car on several occasions I didnt have evidence to show he was without the car 
for any extended periods of time. Based on the mileage, I found it fair to say that Mr L 
had reasonable use of the car and so I didnt require the payments he made while in 
possession of the car to be refunded.
Overall, I didnt find that the evidence showed that Mr L has suffered a financial loss in this 
case and so didnt find he needed to be refunded any amount to reflect this. I did agree with 
our investigator that the issues with Mr Ls car caused him inconvenience and distress and 
that compensation of £200 should be paid because of this. 
Hyundai accepted my provisional decision. Mr L didnt. Mr L said that he had tried to reject 
the car but this hadnt been accepted. He said he then had no choice but to trade the car in 
due to the timescales involved in dealing with his complaint. He said this meant he had to 
enter a new agreement extending his debt beyond where it would have been and resulting in 
him having an additional 13 monthly payments to make. He said the negative equity from his 
car was carried into his new agreement.  
Mr L said he had suffered a financial loss. He said he had paid a deposit of £100. He said 
that the car he was forced to trade in was purchased at a cost of £15,700.56 and had a 
settlement value of £13,802.56 giving negative equity of over £1898.00. He said this should 
be refunded along with the £100 deposit. He also said that £200 wasnt enough 
compensation for the trouble and upset he had been caused. He said he had rejected a 
previous car and experienced less inconvenience and received £600. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L acquired a new car financed by a conditional sale agreement with Hyundai. Under the 
regulations, specifically the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA), Hyundai can be held liable if 
the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. As the car was new at 
acquisition, it is reasonable that Mr L would expect the car to be free from faults, including 
minor defects, and sufficiently durable. As I set out in my provisional decision, I dont think 
Mr Ls car was sufficiently durable due to the issues he experienced and so I find it wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.In such cases there are different remedies available under the legislation but as I explained 
in my provisional decision I think Mr L should have been allowed to reject the car. Mr L 
settled his agreement with Hyundai in November 2019. While I note his comments about the 
extended period for which he would now make payments for a car and his comments about 
feeling he had no choice but to take this action, it was Mr Ls decision to enter into the new 
agreement and I cannot hold Hyundai responsible for the terms he agreed to as part of this. 
Instead, I have considered what would have happened had Mr L been allowed to reject the 
car and I have calculated the redress based on this.
When we say that a rejection should take place, it is usual that we would expect any deposit 
that was paid to be refunded along with interest from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement. We would also expect the agreement relating to the rejected vehicle to be settled 
at no cost to the consumer. We then consider the use the consumer had of the car while in 
their possession and any other issues that should be addressed including any 
compensation.
Mr L has said he paid a deposit of £100 and provided an invoice to show this. However, the 
invoice Mr L refers to is for the new car he acquired after trading in the car this decision 
relates to. Hyundai said that no deposit was paid by Mr L and that the advance payment 
recorded in the agreement was a manufacturer contribution. As I have no evidence that Mr L 
paid a deposit I cannot say there is an amount that needs to the be refunded. However, if 
Mr L provided evidence that he paid a deposit as part of the Hyundai agreement I would 
expect that to be refunded along with 8% simple interest.
When Mr L traded in the car, the settlement amount due on the Hyundai agreement was 
matched by the part exchange amount he was paid. Therefore, the Hyundai agreement was 
settled at no cost to him. As this is what I would expect to happen if the car had been 
rejected I cannot say that Mr L has suffered a loss that needs to be refunded. I note his 
comments about the difference between the price of the car at the start of the agreement 
and the part exchange amount received but we would expect a new car to reduce in value. 
As Mr L financed the acquisition through a conditional sale agreement it is the costs resulting 
from this that need to be covered. As this happened, I do not find that I can say Mr L 
suffered a financial loss.
As I also set out in my provisional decision, I find that Mr L had reasonable use of the car 
while it was in his possession, based on the mileage covered. Therefore, I do not require his 
monthly payments to be refunded. 
I appreciate the comments Mr L has made about the amount of compensation. However, in 
this case I find that £200 is reasonable. Mr L did have to return a new car on several 
occasions, but I also note the issues in identifying a fault. I think Hyundai could have done 
more to assist Mr L which is why I have said compensation should be paid but I also note its 
comments about no fault being found. Based on the evidence in this case - each case is 
assessed on its own merits - I find £200 compensation is reasonable.
Putting things right
I have no evidence to show that Mr L paid a deposit towards the Hyundai conditional sale 
agreement. If Mr L was to provide evidence that he paid a deposit I would expect this to be 
refunded along with 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement. 
As I do not find that the evidence shows that Mr L suffered a financial loss, I only require 
compensation to be paid to reflect the distress and inconvenience he suffered. I require 
Hyundai Capital UK Limited to pay Mr L £200 compensation. I also require any adverse information that may have been recorded regarding this agreement to be removed from 
Mr Ls credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint about Hyundai Capital UK Limited. It should 
take the actions set out above to settle this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman