DRN-4137348
Complaint
Miss L has complained that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) irresponsibly provided 
her with an overdraft and then unfairly continued applying charges to it.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought Halifax should have realised 
that Miss Ls overdraft had become unsustainable for her by November 2017 and so it 
shouldnt have added the charges it did from this point onwards. Halifax didnt respond to our 
adjudicators view. So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this provisional 
decision.
Having considered everything provided, I think Halifax acted unfairly when it continued 
adding interest and associated fees and charges to Miss Ls overdraft from November 2017. 
By this point, it was evident that Miss Ls overdraft had become unsustainable for her and 
that continuing to provide it was likely to cause significant adverse consequences. 
A cursory look at Miss Ls statements leading up to this period shows that she hadnt seen a 
meaningful credit balance for an extended period of time. So she was effectively hardcore 
borrowing. I accept that Miss Ls overdraft was for less than the amount she earned each 
month. But this doesnt change that she was proving unable to maintain a credit balance. 
I think Halifax ought to have realised that Miss L was struggling and, in these circumstances, 
it should have instead treated Miss L with forbearance, rather than applying a new charging 
structure that would lead to her paying more. So Halifax should have realised that Miss L 
wasnt using her overdraft as intended and as the account conduct had suggested it had 
become unsustainable shouldnt have continued offering it on the same terms.
 
As Halifax didnt react to Miss Ls overdraft usage and instead continued with imposing a 
new charging structure, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. Miss L ended up paying 
additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft at a time when she was already 
experiencing difficulty. So I think that Miss L lost out because of what Halifax did wrong and 
that it should put things right.
I know that Miss L is unhappy that Halifax removed her overdraft after she complained. But 
she did say that it was unaffordable. And as Ive also found that Halifax ought to have taken 
corrective action as it ought to have realised that the overdraft was unsustainable, albeit a 
period of time earlier, it follows that I dont think that Halifaxs response to Miss Ls concerns 
was unfair and Im not upholding this part of the complaint.
Fair compensation  what Halifax needs to do to put things right for Miss L
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Ls complaint for Halifax to put things right by:
Reworking Miss Ls current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it and which havent already been refunded from November 
2017 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Halifax should contact Miss L to arrange a suitable repayment plan 
for this. If Halifax considers it appropriate to record negative information on          
Miss Ls credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started 
the process of taking corrective action on the account from November 2017.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss L along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Halifax 
should remove any adverse information from Miss Ls credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest. Halifax must 
give Miss L a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Ls complaint. Bank of Scotland Plc 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman