DRN-2927522
The complaint
Mr C complains he couldnt transfer money out his National Westminster Bank Plc account 
while he was abroad.
What happened
Mr C was abroad and couldnt return home because of Covid related travel restrictions. 
From around mid-October 2020 he wanted to transfer large amounts of money out of his 
account but found he couldnt. He was concerned as this meant he was losing out on 
interest and his balance exceeded the Financial Services Compensation Scheme 
(FSCS) protection limit. The transfers were eventually made, and to-date NatWest has 
paid Mr C £250 compensation to cover any loss of interest, call costs and to apologise 
for any general customer service issues.
The investigator wasnt persuaded NatWest had acted unfairly. In his view the root 
cause of Mr Cs issues was his location and the difficulties NatWest had verifying him for 
security reasons. Overall, he felt the £250 compensation Mr C had been paid was fair 
and reasonable, and therefore didnt recommend NatWest pay Mr C more. Mr C didnt 
agree as he felt NatWest had held on to his money for six-months and therefore 
exposed him to risk (limited FSCS protection) and caused him to lose out on £900 in 
interest he could have earned on his money. As an agreement couldnt be reached the 
complaint was passed to me.
I reviewed the complaint and reached a slightly different conclusion to the investigator. I 
wrote to both parties to say, in summary, that I accepted there were technical difficulties 
initially which were outside of NatWests control; that given Mr Cs location 
communication may have been challenging; and that given the amounts of money Mr C 
wanted to transfer (roughly £250,000 in total) security was always going to be an 
impediment. I thought, however, that by 19 November 2020 NatWest had all it needed to 
make the transfers and they still didnt get made for several weeks  with transfers being 
made on 9, 21 and 24 December 2020. I felt Mr C should be compensated for any loss 
of interest this delay caused him.
NatWest accepted my reasoning, so I asked Mr C to evidence his loss of interest. He 
said he would have been earning interest at between 0.5% and 1% on his money had he 
been able to make the transfers, but little else to substantiate his alleged £900 loss of 
interest. Using Mr Cs statements, I did a rough calculation based on a simple interest 
rate of 1% per annum (the high end of what Mr C said). This showed an interest loss of 
about £164. I shared my workings with Mr C and said the following:
NatWest has already paid you £250 compensation. Im inclined to say this is 
enough as it covers your loss of interest, even based on an interest rate of 1%, 
and it goes some way in recognising the distress and inconvenience you were 
caused, which, for the reasons set out above, I cant reasonably hold NatWest 
wholly responsible for.
Im aware you say you also had expensive phone calls, but without evidence of 
the costs I cant fairly require NatWest to cover them, and even if they could be 
evidenced, Im not persuaded it would be practical to break down which were 
required as a consequence of the issues you experienced because of your 
location, and the issues which arose because NatWest didnt do more on or 
around 19 November 2020.
I invited Mr C to scrutinise my calculation and provide his thoughts. He didnt challenge 
my reasoning for choosing 19 November 2020 as the date his loss arose, but he did 
make some comments, which Ill summarise below.
- he couldnt transfer his money until March 2021, and so my calculations are 
incorrect;
- he was caused a lot of stress and had to make several long phone calls in which 
some of the customer service was poor; and
- by not having FCSC protection on all his money at a time of uncertainty brought 
about by the pandemic, he could have lost his life savings had NatWest failed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I remain satisfied NatWest wasnt initially responsible for Mr C being unable to make 
transfers, but that it ought to have been able to make them sooner than they ultimately 
were. 
Mr C says he couldnt transfer his money until March 2021. I have re-visited his account 
statements and I cant see thats the case. They show the following:
- Payments in  13/10/2020, 17/11/2020 and 02/12/2020 (about £250,000 in total)
- Payments out  09/12/20, 21/12/20 and 24/12/20 (about £250,000 in total)
Im therefore not persuaded the dates used in my calculation are incorrect.
I dont doubt this matter caused Mr C some stress. But for the reasons Ive already 
explained, some of it was unavoidable. Nor, for the reasons Ive previously explained, 
can I fairly require NatWest to refund his call costs.
Mr Cs investments all appear to be around £85,000, the limit of FCSC protection for 
deposit-holders, so Im satisfied said protection is important to him. But I cant make an 
award for something which didnt happen. In this case, NatWest didnt fail, and Mr C has 
since moved his money to where he wants it, so he hasnt  Im pleased to say  lost his 
life savings. 
Overall, I accept Mr C had some difficulties transferring his money and that this caused 
him a loss of interest, some unnecessary call costs and distress and inconvenience. But 
Im satisfied the £250 compensation NatWest has paid Mr C fairly reflects the impact its 
contribution to these difficulties had on Mr C. It follows Im not going to require NatWest 
to pay him more compensation.
My final decisionI dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman