DRN-2077304
The complaint
Mr M says Chase de Vere Independent Financial Advisers Limited (Chase) mismanaged 
the transfer of his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) to a new platform  resulting in 
allocation of the wrong type of platform account  and that it breached his instructions in the 
course of doing so. He claims compensation, including for financial loss arising from a delay 
in accessing his pension caused by the incorrect account allocation  and arising from the 
lost investment opportunities within that.
What happened
Mr Ms objective was to have his SIPP transferred unto a platform that allowed the direct 
access and self-management her sought. This was the subject of a financial review between 
February and March 2019 in which both parties were engaged. The result of the review was 
recommendation to transfer the SIPP to the Fidelity FundsNetwork (Fidelity) platform and 
Mr M says all relevant transfer forms were singed and dated by him by 23 April 2019.
By the end of May 2019 the SIPP, in cash, was transferred to the Fidelity platform. Mr M 
says prior to this there had been a delay in concluding the transfer and that he had to prompt 
Chase to monitor and progress the matter. After the transfer was completed, he tried to 
manage the SIPP in the platform account but was prevented from doing so. Upon querying 
this with Fidelity he says he learnt the problem was that Chase had used the wrong forms in 
the transfer (forms related to advised accounts) so his SIPP had been allocated into the 
wrong type of account  an advised account that required management by an adviser and 
that prevented self-management.
Mr M referred the problem to Chase on 17 June 2019 and then had to complete and submit 
a different set of forms to Fidelity (on 20 June 2019) in order to correct the error. Thereafter 
he still could not access the platform account and when he queried this on 5 August 2019 he 
says Fidelity conceded treating the second set of forms as duplication of the first, so it had 
taken no action to correct the account allocation. The problem was then resolved by 7 
August 2019.
Mr M considers that Chase did not correctly carry out its recommendation of the transfer, so 
the fee of £1,500 he paid for its advice on the transfer should be refunded to him; that the 
delay he experienced from 31 May 2019 (the day after the transfer was completed) to 7 
August 2019 (when the correct account was eventually allocated to him) corresponds to a 
period of lost investment opportunities, given that his SIPP remained uninvested (in cash) 
throughout; that based on the performance of one of Fidelitys balanced funds  which 
serves as a benchmark for considering how his SIPP would have performed during the 
period if invested  he lost a potential gain of 4.5% on the SIPPs transfer value during this 
period; that this amounts to a loss of around £9,500, for which he holds Chase responsible; 
and that Chase is also responsible for refunding to him a service fee of £22.50 applied by 
Fidelity for the advised account that was wrongly allocated to his SIPP (and that was 
inapplicable to the correct non-advised account).
Chase disputes the complaint and, in the main, it says:
It pursued progress in and completion of the transfer in May 2019 as Mr M 
requested, the delay at the time related to the third parties (transferors and 
transferee) involved in the transfer and by the end of that month the transfer was 
completed.
In terms of events thereafter, Mr M first contacted it on 17 June 2019 and by his own 
admission  in his email of that date  he had delayed in making that contact 
because he had been away; it contacted Fidelity immediately to query the account 
allocation issue and Fidelity conceded that it had made the assumption that Chase 
would be the adviser servicing the SIPP on its platform, hence allocation of the SIPP 
to an advised account; by 20 June 2019 Mr M had been issued with and had 
completed and submitted the forms required to correct the matter; and the facts are 
that the events thereafter related to Fidelity not actioning the correction until 7 
August.
Chase is not responsible for Fidelitys actions/inactions in the matter and it is entitled 
to the fee Mr M paid for its transfer advice, which included advisory work and work in 
consolidating two pensions into the SIPP for the transfer.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint, concluded that it should not be upheld 
and did so for reasons broadly similar to the points made by Chase. Mr M did not accept this 
outcome and the matter was referred to an ombudsman. He retained his position on the 
complaint and considered that Chase must have led Fidelity to believe that it (Chase) was to 
remain the servicing adviser for the SIPP, otherwise  why else would Fidelity have put 
[his] funds into an account to be administered by a financial advisor?
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint and I have reached this conclusion for the following 
reasons:
By his own presentation, Mr Ms claims are for a refund of the fees he paid to Chase 
for the advice/report given to him in March 2019 (Claim 1); for compensation for 
financial loss between 31 May 2019 and 7 August 2019 (Claim 2); and for a refund 
of the service fee applied to his account by Fidelity (Claim 3).
Claim 1 is isolated to the advice event. Nowhere within Mr Ms complaint is there an 
allegation about the transfer advice being unsuitable or defective. The related report, 
with relatively detailed contents, serves as evidence of the work performed by Chase 
leading up to and inclusive of the report. In these circumstances I do not consider 
that there are grounds for Chase to be deprived of the fee it worked and provided an 
advisory service for and, put another way, I do not consider that there are grounds for 
Mr M to receive a refund of the fee he paid for advice and an advisory service that he 
received and that he has not alleged to be unsuitable. I note his point about 
execution of the transfer advice but that is a matter separate to provision of the 
advice itself. If he considers that the advisory service extended to the point of 
completing the transfer, there is evidence  some of which he has presented  that 
Chase was involved in the matter up to that point and that it played its role, 
subsequent to submission of the transfer forms, in progressing the transfer to its 
conclusion. Overall, on balance and for the above reasons, I do not uphold Claim 1.As Claim 2 has been defined by Mr M (that is, financial loss from 31 May 2019 
onwards), the events in May 2019  prior to 31 May and during which completion of 
the transfer experienced some delay  must be discounted. In any case, evidence 
suggests that the cause of the delay was remote to Chase and that it related more to 
the transferors and transferee in the matter. I consider that the period between 31 
May 2019 and 17 June 2019 should also be discounted. I address the matter of 
responsibility for the wrong account allocation further below, and I conclude that 
Chase was not responsible. However, aside from this finding, I am mindful that it was 
Mr M who delayed, up to 17 June, in bringing the allocation problem to Chases 
attention and it is within his written correspondence that he notified Chase (on 17 
June) before notifying Fidelity because the platform directed him to contact his 
adviser. The cause for his delay is not clear, but the effect was that mitigation of the 
allocation problem did not begin until after his delay. Even in the context of Mr Ms 
argument that Chase was the root cause of the problem, it remains fair and 
reasonable to consider mitigation (by him and/or Chase) of the problem. As 
mitigation was possible but was delayed by him between 31 May and 17 June, 
responsibility for any loss during that period could not reasonably belong to someone 
else.
I also consider that the period between 20 June 2019 and 7 August 2019 must be 
discounted from Claim 2. Evidence appears to be quite clear that the delay (and 
cause) in correcting the account allocation problem during this period was also 
remote to Chase. Mr M had returned the second set of forms on 20 June and it is 
both parties account that Fidelity committed the mistake of assuming the forms were 
duplicates of the first set of forms and, because of that, Fidelity took no action on the 
correction  until after Mr M prompted it to do so on 5 August. Lack of action in this 
period had nothing to do with Chase.
The period that remains, for which Chase could potentially be responsible, are the 
three days between 17 June 2019 and 20 June 2019. However, I do not find 
evidence of such responsibility. Having been contacted by Mr M on 17 June Chase 
responded to him on the same date. On the following date, 18 June, Chase wrote to 
him with a summary of (and quote from) its discussion of the problem with Fidelity 
and what Fidelity had said. Within this, Mr M was informed that it was Fidelitys 
assumption that Chase remained servicing adviser for the SIPP  and I have not 
seen evidence to support his claim that Chase must have led Fidelity to this belief. 
Within the summary (and quote) was meaningful guidance on what Mr M had to do  
directly with Fidelity  in order to resolve the problem. Mr M says he took the required 
action on 19 June and by 20 June he had submitted the necessary second set of 
forms. This sequence of events does not portray Chase as creating or contributing to 
a delay. To the contrary it shows that Chases prompt action between 17 and 18 
June led to the corrective action also promptly taken by Mr M on 19 and 20 June. 
Thereafter, as addressed above, it was inaction by Fidelity that delayed the matter 
until 7 August.
In terms of responsibility for the erroneous account allocation, I am not persuaded by 
evidence that this rests with Chase. I have considered the first set of forms Mr M 
completed and there appears to be nothing prominent within them that is dedicated 
to an advised platform account. There is a section for Adviser details but this 
appears to have been for completion by the adviser who advised the transfer  as the 
declarations within the section suggest. Notably, Chase completed this section with 
confirmation that no initial or ongoing charges were applicable, so that should have 
indicated to Fidelity that Chase was not to be the servicing adviser for the platform 
account. Furthermore, available evidence is that Fidelity has conceded making the wrong assumption in this respect. In the absence of evidence showing that Chase did 
something to create or encourage that assumption Chase cannot fairly be blamed for 
it. For the above reasons, I do not consider that Chase is responsible for Claim 3 (or 
for any of the claims).
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman