DRN-3195609
The complaint
The trustees of a trust, J,  complain about Lloyds Bank Plcs poor management of the trusts 
bank account.
What happened
The trust has three trustees: Mr L, a relative of the beneficiaries; an accountant; and a 
solicitor. The trustees make this complaint jointly, but they are represented by Mr L. Mr L told 
us:
The trustees opened the trusts bank account in 2015. All trustees visited a Lloyds 
branch and provided proof of their identities. 
In 2017 Lloyds said it had lost the identity evidence previously provided, and that the 
trustees needed to visit a branch to provide further copies. The trustees did that, but 
were then told that the bank branch they had used up until that point would be 
closing. They could not make a payment while the transfer of the account to a new 
branch was taking place.
Once the account was transferred to a new branch, the trustees were told that they 
needed to visit that new branch with their identity documents. That meant a payment 
they wanted to make to a beneficiary in respect of the 2018/19 tax year could not be 
made.
In early 2019 the three trustees went to the bank again (on separate dates) and 
provided their identity paperwork. Shortly afterwards, in June 2019, one of the 
trustees issued a cheque drawn on the trusts bank account only to find that the 
cheque was not paid. That cheque had been intended to make a payment towards 
the student loan of one of the beneficiaries, and Lloyds failure to honour it caused 
tax losses to the beneficiary.
Two other cheques issued on a separate cheque book were paid, but a fourth 
cheque was returned. The trustees asked the staff at the new bank branch what had 
happened, and were told that Lloyds had again lost all of the trustees signatures and 
paperwork.
In April 2020 the trustees decided to help two of the beneficiaries with rental 
payments, and attempted to set up two standing orders to make a monthly payment 
to each of those beneficiaries. Lloyds successfully made a payment to one 
beneficiary, but not the other. It later said it shouldnt have paid either of them, 
because it didnt have the relevant paperwork on file. That meant Mr L had to 
urgently find another way of making a payment to the two beneficiaries, and did so as 
a loan from a family company to the trust. The result was that one of the beneficiaries 
was unable to complete a lease because she couldnt demonstrate her income from 
the trust  and she had to move back into the family home.
Lloyds errors cost the three trustees at least £5,000 in time and travel alone, and 
there was also substantial embarrassment in having to borrow money from the family 
company.
The trustees have since been able to close the trusts Lloyds bank account and open 
an alternative account with a different bank. But there were difficulties even in closing 
the account, with Lloyds ultimately paying the trusts money into Mr Ls personal bank 
account.
Lloyds told us:
It accepts that it has let its customer down. It believes it must have been provided 
with signature details when the trusts account was opened in 2015, but those details 
were not retained on its system. That meant it needed to ask Mr L and the other 
trustees to resubmit their details.
It cannot see any evidence on its system to show that the trustees provided the 
necessary documentation  but it also notes that the trustees say they provided that 
documentation several times. It has upheld their complaint because it has no reason 
to doubt what they said.
It has paid £350 in recognition of the upset and inconvenience caused, and a further 
£120 to cover call costs.
One of our investigators looked at the evidence both parties had provided. Briefly, she said:
On the date the trustees first referred this complaint to Lloyds, the net asset value of 
the trust was above £1 million but below £5 million. That means the Financial 
Ombudsman Service only has the power to consider whether Lloyds treated the 
trustees fairly from 1 April 2019 onwards.
She thought the payments Lloyds had already made, of £350 for distress and 
inconvenience and £120 towards call costs, represented fair compensation for all of 
the mistakes Lloyds had made on or after 1 April 2019.
She didnt think the trustees had provided enough evidence to show that the trust 
had suffered financial losses because of errors Lloyds made on or after 1 April 2019, 
so she didnt recommend any further award. She also thought the trustees could 
have mitigated any losses to the beneficiaries by using other funds to make the 
payments
The trustees did not accept our investigators conclusions, and asked for their complaint to 
be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as our investigator. I give 
further explanation for my findings below.
Our jurisdiction: which events can we look at, and whose losses can we consider?Our investigator was right to say that we can only consider Lloyds actions from 1 April 2019 
onwards. Before that date, the Financial Ombudsman Service was generally unable to 
consider any complaints from trusts with a net asset value of £1 million or more (with some 
exceptions, such as trusts which were also charities with annual income below £1 million). 
From 1 April 2019 onwards we have been able to consider complaints from trustees of trusts 
like this one, with a net asset value between £1 million and £5 million  but only when those 
complaints were about events that occurred on or after 1 April 2019.
It is clear that some of the events the trustees complain about must have happened before 
1 April 2019. For example, both sides accept that the trustees must have provided identity 
documents when the account was opened in 2015, but those documents appear to have 
been lost at some point between 2015 and 2017. I cannot make any findings about the 
impact any errors made before 1 April 2019 might have had on the trustees, and I cannot 
award any compensation for those errors.
Some of the events complained about, such as the issues with the standing orders, clearly 
happened after 1 April 2019. But there is some doubt about the exact dates of other events, 
and in particular the visits the trustees made to Lloyds in early 2019. Neither the trustees 
nor the bank can tell me whether those visits happened before or after 1 April 2019.
I acknowledge that Mr L believes Lloyds should hold all the relevant records, including 
records of all of the trustees visits to the bank. Lloyds does not dispute that  it accepts that 
it ought to have records of any visits the trustees made to its branches in early 2019. But it 
says it does not in fact have those records, and so it cannot provide those records to me. 
In the circumstances, and in the absence of any contrary evidence from Lloyds, I think it is 
fairest for me to assume that all three of the visits the trustees made to Lloyds in early 2019 
were made either on or shortly after 1 April 2019. 
I can also see that Mr L would like Lloyds to pay compensation for the impact its errors have 
had on the beneficiaries of the trust. Amongst other things, he has drawn my attention to one 
of the beneficiaries inability to complete on a lease. 
I appreciate that in some cases, a loss that appears at first glance to be a loss to a 
beneficiary may in fact be a loss to the trustees of that trust, for example where the trust is 
required to reimburse costs incurred by a beneficiary. But where a loss is genuinely a loss to 
a beneficiary, I cannot consider it. Our rules only allow me to make awards for losses 
suffered by the complainant, and I cannot make awards for losses suffered by other parties. 
Here, the beneficiaries are not themselves eligible complainants under our rules; they are 
not customers of Lloyds in relation to this matter, and they do not have any of the other 
relationships listed in our rules.
Identity and signature evidence after 1 April 2019
Lloyds says that at 1 April 2019, it did not have the correct identity documents for the 
trustees. I cannot make any findings about why that was the case, but I do note that Lloyds 
believes the lack of documents was a result of its own error. However, any such error must 
have taken place before 1 April 2019, and so I cannot award any compensation for its 
impact. 
Regardless of the reason why Lloyds didnt have identity evidence for the trustees on 
1 April 2019, I accept that it wasnt practically possible for Lloyds to operate the account 
without that identity evidence. That means I cant award compensation for the inconvenience 
caused to the trustees in having to visit Lloyds branches in early 2019 to provide identity 
evidence.However, it appears that even after the trustees visited Lloyds branches in early 2019, 
Lloyds still did not have the correct identity evidence for the trustees. Given that everyone 
agrees the trustees did provide that evidence, I think the most likely explanation is that 
Lloyds either lost the trustees identity evidence or failed to record it properly in the first 
place. That means I can award compensation for the inconvenience caused to the trustees 
in having to visit a Lloyds branch yet again in 2020.
Cheques after 1 April 2019
From 1 April 2019 onwards, Lloyds paid some of the cheques the trustees issued but not all 
of them. I have not been able to determine exactly why it paid some but not others, but it 
seems likely that the cheques it did not pay were reviewed by a member of Lloyds staff. It 
would not have been possible for any staff member to have matched the signature on a 
cheque to the signature on Lloyds records, because it appears Lloyds did not in fact have 
copy signatures on record.
I know the trustees are unhappy that Lloyds did not pay all of the cheques. Strictly I think 
Lloyds error here was in losing the signature evidence rather than in failing to pay the 
cheques; given that it had no signature evidence it should not have honoured any of the 
cheques. But either way, I consider that if Lloyds had done everything it should have done 
from 1 April 2019 onwards then the cheque the trustees issued in respect of one of the 
beneficiaries student loan would have been paid.
However, I am not satisfied that Lloyds errors in respect of the cheques caused financial 
loss to the trust, or to the trustees of the trust. The trustees have provided us with evidence 
showing that one of the beneficiaries paid interest on his student loan, but that does not 
show a loss to the trust. Similarly, even if the beneficiary did suffer tax losses that would not 
be a loss to the trust.
The trustees say they suffered embarrassment because they had to borrow money from a 
family company. But I dont see the embarrassment of borrowing money from a company of 
which Mr L was a major shareholder. I consider that when Mr L decided whether to take 
money from a family trust or a family company, he was simply acting in the best interest of 
his family. But I do see that the issues surrounding the cheque caused the trustees 
inconvenience, both in having to present the cheque several times and in having to arrange 
alternative finance.
Standing orders after 1 April 2019
The trustees have complained that Lloyds allowed them to set up a standing order to make 
payments from the trust to one beneficiary, but did not allow a very similar standing order to 
a second beneficiary. 
I havent been able to establish why one standing order was set up but not the other. It 
seems likely that there was some manual intervention by Lloyds staff in respect of the 
standing order that was not set up, but I cannot confirm that.
Like the cheques, strictly I think Lloyds error was in not retaining the identity/signature 
evidence rather than in failing to set up one of the standing orders. Without relevant 
evidence, Lloyds should not have allowed either of the standing orders to be set up. But as 
with the cheques, if Lloyds had done everything it should have done from 1 April 2019 
onwards then I consider it likely that both standing orders would have been set up.However, I cannot see that Lloyds failure to set up the standing orders caused the trustees 
to suffer losses in their capacity as trustees. I can certainly see that the trustees suffered 
inconvenience, but that is not the same as financial loss.
The trustees have said that one of the beneficiaries was unable to complete a rental contract 
because of the issues with the standing order. I note that this happened in early 2020, at a 
time when many people were making significant changes to their plans for reasons that had 
nothing to do with any banking errors. I also note that the family company was able to lend 
money to a beneficiary at a different time, and given the overall circumstances it seems 
unlikely to me that the beneficiary was unable to access funds from any other source. But 
even if she could not, I would still not be able to make an award for losses suffered by a 
beneficiary. 
Fair compensation
For the reasons explained above, I am not satisfied that Lloyds errors after 1 April 2019 
caused the trustees to suffer financial loss. That means I cannot make an award for financial 
loss.
I think its understandable that the trustees chose to move the trusts bank account after 
what they say is years of errors by Lloyds. But I can only look at the inconvenience the 
trustees suffered as a result of errors Lloyds made from 1 April 2019 onwards. In light of my 
findings above, that means I can look at compensation for the inconvenience the trustees 
suffered when:
They had to make further visits to Lloyds branches in 2020.
They presented a cheque several times, and then had to arrange alternative finance.
They had to resolve the issues associated with a standing order not being set up.
Our investigator thought the payment Lloyds has already made  of £350 for upset and 
inconvenience, and £120 for call costs  was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. She 
noted Mr Ls explanation that none of the trustees had charged the trust for the additional 
work theyd undertaken, and she didnt think theyd carried out any additional work in their 
professional capacities as a result of Lloyds errors. She also said that rather than award 
compensation based on a complainants hourly rate, we look at the overall impact the firms 
error had on that complainant.
I know Mr L strongly disagrees with our investigator, but there is very little I can add to the 
explanation she provided. I think she was right to say that Lloyds offer is fair in respect of 
the errors it has made since 1 April 2019, and so I do not require Lloyds to do anything 
more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Js trustees to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman