DRN-3822388
The complaint
Ms K complains about how Accord Mortgages Limited treats overpayments to her mortgage. 
She says her mortgage agreement allows her to make overpayments which reduce the term 
of her mortgage, rather than the monthly payment, but Accord repeatedly failed to do this.
What happened
Ms K said she took out a new mortgage agreement with Accord in 2018, and shed chosen
this deal because she wanted to be able to overpay to reduce the mortgage term. She said
shed read the mortgage offer, and understood that this product allowed her to do that, as
long as she told Accord this was what she wanted. But she said Accord wasnt doing this.
Ms K said this hadnt been a problem while she still had a lot of her mortgage left to pay off,
because she then had sufficient headroom to make overpayments without exceeding the
10% overpayment allowance on her mortgage. But now she was getting closer to the end of
her mortgage. And Accord had reduced her required monthly payment (which our service
calls the contractual monthly payment or CMP). So the difference between the reduced
CMP and her original CMP of £986.17 was classed as an overpayment, and that was eating
in to her 10% overpayment allowance.
Ms K said shed asked Accord to reduce her mortgage term and reinstate her old CMP, but it
said it cant do this as the annual review process cant be changed. Instead, it offered her
£40 in compensation, because it said its service hadnt been up to the expected standard.
The mortgage offer that Ms K accepted includes the following 
If you make an overpayment or lump sum payment then the amount you owe, and so
the amount of interest payable, is reduced immediately. This provides you with
benefit immediately. Any overpayment made may not subsequently be redrawn. If
you want the overpayment or lump sum payment to reduce your monthly mortgage
payment then you must tell us at the time of making such payment.
If you want a lump sum payment or regular overpayments to reduce the term of a
repayment mortgage you must:
 tell us at the time of making the lump sum payment
 set up and maintain a static payment arrangement
 monitor the static payment arrangement to take account of any changes to your
mortgage such as interest rate increases
 contact us at each Account Review, or when a recalculation event occurs, to ensure
the payment arrangement continues to meet your needs.
It is not compulsory to follow the above requirements. But if you do not do so then
your monthly mortgage payment will automatically be adjusted at Account Review, or
when a recalculation event occurs, in line with your remaining contractual mortgage
term and that term will not be reduced.
Accord responded to our service on the basis that Ms K was complaining about her first
mortgage with it, in 2013. Our investigator didnt think we could consider a complaint about
that, because Ms K agreed that too long ago, and she knew from the start that this mortgage
term wasnt being reduced each year. But Ms K has since confirmed shes only complaining
about her 2018 mortgage. Our investigator has explained to Accord that any complaint about
Ms Ks 2018 mortgage cannot be considered to be out of time on the basis of the operation
of a different mortgage agreement.
Accords position is that it doesnt provide formal annual shortening of a mortgage term. It
will carry out an annual review of Ms Ks mortgage, but this will only review the amount
payable, and will reduce that amount where Ms K has made overpayments in the previous
year. Accord says if Ms K wants to achieve a reduction in her mortgage term, she would
need to go through an application with Accords sales channel. Accord said that making
overpayments will never automatically cause the contractual term to decrease.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld, but not in the way Ms K wanted.
She said she had viewed the mortgage document, and thought it had caused confusion, as it
reads as if it is possible for the CMP not to be adjusted at account review.
Our investigator had considered the communications with Ms K, and she couldnt see that
Accord had provided a clear explanation to Ms K of how her mortgage actually works. She
didnt think Accord was wrong to refuse to reduce Ms Ks CMP. But she said this hadnt been
properly explained to Ms K, so she thought Accord should pay £150 to make up for that.
Accord didnt agree, it said if we reviewed the communications notes it had sent, we would
see on 31 January 2019 a clear explanation was provided to Ms K about how overpayments
work. And it sent us a call from 1 February 2019 where it said it again confirmed how
overpayments work. So it said Ms K knew annual reviews cant be avoided, and that it was
her responsibility to contact it upon each review to ensure her static payments are in line
with new mortgage repayments and within the 10% overpayment limit. It didnt think a
payment of compensation was warranted here.
Because no agreement was reached, this case was passed to me for a decision. I then 
reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
I should start by setting out how I read Ms Ks mortgage offer, which she accepted in 
2018. I think that offer sets out a number of requirements which Ms K must observe if 
she wants her overpayments to reduce the term of her mortgage instead of her CMP. 
But once those requirements are observed, I think the offer Ms K received from Accord 
commits Accord to using Ms Ks overpayments to reduce her mortgage term.
So I dont think that the mortgage offer is unclear, or confusing. Rather, I think that what 
Accord has said to Ms K since doesnt fit with that offer.
Ms K has explained why a mortgage which allowed her to make overpayments, and to 
use those overpayments to reduce the term, was important to her. Although Accord now 
says it cant do this, I think Ms K reasonably understood thats the agreement she had 
reached.
Ive reviewed the contact that Ms K had with Accord, against the conditions it applies if 
she wants her mortgage term to be reduced, rather than the CMP, on each annual review. And its my view that, when set in the context of what do appear to me to be 
somewhat confused communications with Ms K, that Ms K has done enough to satisfy 
the requirements for having her overpayments used in this way. So I think Accord 
should review Ms Ks mortgage, from the date that her 2018 offer took effect, and 
recalculate it so that all the overpayments she has made to date are used to reduce the 
contractual term, not the CMP.
Ms K remains on a fixed interest rate deal on this mortgage until 30 September 2023. 
After this, she can overpay as much as she likes without incurring an early repayment 
charge. But I anticipate that Ms K will wish to continue to overpay until the end of 
September 2023. So, going forward, if Accord isnt able to automate this process for Ms 
K until September 2023, it must offer Ms K a review in January 2023 with one of its 
sales advisors, where Accord will discuss with Ms K whether she wants to use any 
overpayments in the last year to reduce her term. And it should do the same in 
September 2023, for overpayments she makes between January and September 2023. 
Accord should then reduce the term of Ms Ks mortgage if she wants this, without 
altering the remaining terms of her agreement.
Our investigator also suggested that Accord should pay Ms K £150 in compensation, to 
make up for its confusing communications. I also think that Accords communications 
have been confusing, and all the more so because it has maintained a position which 
doesnt seem to me to fit with Ms Ks mortgage offer. So I also think that Accord should 
pay Ms K a total of £150 in compensation for its poor service. I will allow Accord to count 
towards that amount any payment it has already made to Ms K for this complaint.
I think that provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms K simply said that she had no further comments, and she hadnt accepted or received 
any compensation payment from Accord. 
Accord wrote to object to my provisional decision. Ill set out its objections in full before I 
reply. 
Accord said it understood Id reached this decision because it wasnt explained clearly to Ms 
K how the overpayments to her mortgage would work. So Id said Accord should re-calculate 
her mortgage from 2018 until now to reduce formally her contractual mortgage term.
Accord said it disagreed with this. It didnt think this was putting the customer back into 
position they wouldve been if the confusing information wasnt provided. It said it couldnt 
assume that Ms K wouldve proceeded with an advised appointment with a mortgage adviser 
to formally reduce her mortgage term, had she fully understood in 2018 how overpayments 
worked. 
Accord said that what I was asking it to do in this case was to re-work the mortgage in line 
with Ms Ks understanding of how the overpayments wouldve worked. So I wanted Accord 
to disregard the term amendment procedures and treat Ms K differently to other customers 
who make regular overpayments.Accord said it would agree that some unclear information was provided to Ms K and the 
complaint was upheld for that reason. It would agree to pay her £150 to make up for that.
But Accord said it wouldnt agree that it should be forced to re-work Ms Ks mortgage term. 
Accord said it had explained that a mortgage term change is a formal change to the 
mortgage and must follow the advised mortgage process.
Accord said that it appreciated that by making these payments, Ms K proved that higher 
mortgage payments were affordable to her at the time, it said that the advised process was 
in place to ensure that the amendment (to the legally binding contract) meets certain
regulations. It said that affordability must be formally assessed.
Accord said that Ms K would be bound by the formal term reduction until the end of her new 
mortgage term, and as a responsible lender it has to ensure Ms Ks mortgage is affordable 
now and in the future.
Id like to start by saying that I think Accord hasnt quite understood the reason for my 
decision. I havent reached this decision because Ms K didnt get a clear explanation of how 
Accord understood overpayments to her mortgage to work. Ive reached this decision 
because, in my view, the mortgage agreement it reached with Ms K does entitle her, when 
she makes overpayments, to choose how those overpayments are used. So the agreement 
she signed with Accord (which, as Accord reminds us, is legally binding) allows Ms K to opt 
for a term reduction rather than a reduction in her CMP, when she makes overpayments. 
I reached the decision above because Accord doesnt seem to me to be following the 
mortgage agreement it has with Ms K. And I think its fair and reasonable in this case to ask 
it to do so.
Accord is concerned about making an amendment to Ms Ks contract, without an 
assessment of affordability. But Im not suggesting that Ms Ks contract is amended 
otherwise than in the way her existing agreement provides for. So Ms Ks CMP would not be 
increased, and she would not be bound to continue making payments in future at the same 
level as her previous overpayments. Accord would simply use the overpayments Ms K has 
already made to reduce her overall term, instead of to reduce her monthly payment. 
I am, as I have explained, simply asking Accord to implement provisions which it has already 
agreed with Ms K. I note that a number of other lenders include similar provisions in their 
mortgage contracts, and do manage to operate these provisions to shorten mortgage terms 
in this way on request, without needing to carry out a fresh affordability assessment. 
For those reasons, I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally 
proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Accord Mortgages Limited must recalculate Ms Ks 2018 mortgage 
so that all the overpayments she has made to date are used to reduce the contractual term, 
not the contractual monthly payment.
Accord Mortgages Limited must also offer Ms K a mortgage review in January and
September 2023, to discuss whether Ms K wants to use her overpayments to reduce her
term. Accord Mortgages Limited must then use her overpayments to reduce the term of Ms
Ks mortgage if she wants this, and leave the remaining terms of her agreement unchanged.And Accord Mortgages Limited must pay Ms K £150 in compensation. It can count towards
that amount any payment it has already made to Ms K for this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman