DRN-2854714
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as T have complained that Society of Lloyd's unfairly turned down 
their business interruption insurance claim after they were forced to close due to the Covid-
19 pandemic. Miss B, director of T, has complained on Ts behalf. 
For ease of reading, reference to Lloyds will include anything done by the underwriters. 
What happened
T held a business interruption insurance policy with Lloyds. They claimed on their policy 
after they were required to close due to the Governments actions in response to Covid-19. 
 
Lloyds said that the policy didnt provide cover for the circumstances of Ts claim because 
Covid-19 hadnt caused damage to property. And while the policy covered business 
interruption as a result of a notifiable disease at the premises, T had closed as a result of the 
Government Act in response to the national pandemic. As T hadnt indicated that there had 
been a case of Covid-19 at their business premises, Lloyds turned down their claim.
 
T were unhappy with Lloyds response and brought their complaint to our service.
 
Our investigator looked into Ts complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought 
Lloyds had turned down the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. He 
thought the policy would only cover closure due to Covid-19 if there had been a case at 
the premises. And as there hadnt been a case of Covid-19 at the premises, the claim wasnt 
covered.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
T business. But I wont be upholding their complaint. Ill explain why.  
 
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to 
see if Lloyds has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining Ts claim.  
 
The most relevant part of Ts policy covers:
Closure - of the premises by a competent authority due to:
a) an outbreak of any notifiable human infectious or contagious disease at      
the premises.  
Covid-19 is a notifiable disease but I dont think this term covers Ts claim. I say that 
because the policy requires the closure to be due to an outbreak of a notifiable human 
infectious or contagious disease at Ts premises. However, T confirmed that they closed as 
a result of the Governments response to the pandemic and they havent identified a case of 
Covid-19 at their premises
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Miss B was hoping for but, having considered this matter 
very carefully, I dont think I can fairly ask Lloyds to pay Ts claim.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman