DRN-3687939
The complaint
Mr H complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim he made 
under sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr H is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around February 2017, Mr H was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call 
P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Mr H decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In January 2021 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr Hs behalf under section 75 of 
the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of representations 
about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that 
had induced Mr H to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the system would pay for itself within nine years;
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on his electricity bills would provide enough 
income to cover the monthly loan payments; and
an optional extra called a voltage optimiser would provide significant further savings.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr H or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
However it offered £200 compensation for its delay in responding to the complaint.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr H and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
Mr H didnt agree with the adjudicators view. He said he had actually been told it would only 
take five years for the system to pay for itself. He also said that he must not be receiving the 
amount of energy he had been promised, because he was paying as much for energy as 
other people in similar sized houses, with similar sized families.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr H paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that section 
75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr H could claim against Shawbrook (the 
creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could have 
claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr H and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing him loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr H says that during a sales meeting he was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both parties. These include the 
credit agreement and solar quote, titled Getting Started. Ive considered these, along with 
Mr Hs testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to decide on balance what is most 
likely to have happened.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with Mr H, explaining any benefits of the system, prior 
to him agreeing to enter into the contract. Mr H has signed it.
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with Mr Hs version 
of events, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.
FIT payments and savings
Mr H has said that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and the savings on his energy bills. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P as well as Mr Hs recollections of his meeting with Ps representative 
to decide what is most likely to have been said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr H could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr H could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £161.65. The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr H 
could expect from the system. The expected year one electricity savings are £287.52 and, 
when taking into account the optional extras chosen by Mr H  specifically the voltage 
optimiser  the combined income and savings in year one is shown as £792.37. This is 
shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
This results in an average monthly income of about £66. Im satisfied that the same 
document set out that there would be a monthly loan repayment due of £93.86. As a result, 
Im not able to conclude that Mr H was told that the monthly loan repayments would be 
covered by the FIT payments and savings.
Theres another section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 
60 months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months as this is 
the length of the loan that Mr H entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 180 monthly payments of £93.86. (This is incorrect; the loan agreement gives 
the correct monthly figure of £91.73, but the difference  £2.13  is too small to affect the 
following observations.) For each year of the 15 year loan it shows the expected grand total 
return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, and subtracts the 
monthly loan repayment, to give an average difference between the monthly return from the 
system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives a negative figure for the 
first six years of the loan, meaning that the system would not begin to make enough money 
to cover the loan payments until year seven.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr H could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments and savings, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income and 
savings to the monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income he 
could expect to receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would not be 
immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. Ive carefully thought about 
Mr Hs version of events. However, as Ive found that the quote did form a central part of the 
sales process which the salesperson went through at the meeting, I dont think I can 
reasonably find that he was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the 
FIT income and savings. Nor can I agree that he was told that the system would pay for itself 
within five years.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr H that the system would be self-funding from the outset. 
In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have 
happened.
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand (notwithstanding the £2.13 
discrepancy in the monthly payments). That section of the quote has been signed by Mr H, 
so Im satisfied that P did enough to bring it to his attention. On balance Im also satisfied 
that the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr H was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain period of time.
The Putting it all together page of the quote states that it would take nine years for the 
overall benefits that Mr H could expect to receive to match the cash price of the system. This 
appears next to two other figures which expressly exclude the cost of the finance. So I think 
it would have been clear that the nine-year payback time refers to the cash price, not the 
cost of the finance.
A later page of the quote has a table detailing the estimated performance of the system over 
25 years. This too shows that during year 9 the overall benefits that Mr H could expect to 
receive would reach the cash price of the system, £8,784. (To save space I have only shown 
here the rows for years 1, 8 and 9.)
The sixth column, headed VO for voltage optimiser, shows that the savings from this extra 
have been included in the overall total. Columns 3 and 4 show the FIT tariffs, with the same 
figures as shown in the FIT table on page 3 of this decision. Column 5 shows the savings on 
energy bills. Adding together the figures in columns 3 to 6 gives the total shown in column 
11, headed Total income savings.
The same table also shows that the total amount payable under the loan agreement, 
£16,511.40, would be reached by the end of year 14.
So Im satisfied that P told Mr H that the system would pay for its cash price in 9 years, and 
for the loan in about 14 years, as supported by the table above, which was included in the 
quote. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced 
him to enter into the contract, and he subsequently suffered a loss, then that could amount 
to a misrepresentation. So Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and 
whether this is in line with the contract between P and Mr H.
Performance
The MCS certificate and quote set out that the system is expected to produce 2,462 kWh a 
year. I have looked at Mr Hs FIT statements and can see that his system, on average, has 
generated 2,618 kWh a year. This is slightly more than estimated by P at the point of sale 
(106%), so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected, in terms of energy 
generation, if not financially. So the reason Mr H has not seen the expected financial returns 
is not because the system is defective, but for some other cause.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to calculate the utility price and RPI inflation. 
I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 2020, and the increases 
have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think this explains why Mr H 
hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have been expecting from the solar 
panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the modelling predicted, the 
savings achieved through the energy generated by the system have been correspondingly 
lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr H could have 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr H entered into the contract.
(Mr H may begin to see increased savings as energy prices go up in the future.)
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr H to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
I leave it to Mr H to decide whether to accept Shawbrooks offer of £200 compensation for its 
delay in responding to his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman