DRN-1094807
The complaint
Mr T complains about his motor insurance provider, London Victoria Insurance Company 
Limited (LV), deciding he was at fault in a car accident. Mr Ts also not happy that hes not 
received a £50 payment LV said theyd make for issues when his car was taken to have its 
damage inspected.
What happened
Mr T was involved in a car accident in March 2018. His insurer LV decided to accept hed 
been at fault for the accident, and paid to repair the damage to the other car involved. 
Mr Ts car also needed repair, so he began a claim to have it fixed. His car was taken from 
his home address to LVs chosen repairers on 9 April. The repairers said the work needed 
would cost more than the value of the car. Mr T spoke to LV about this and decided to 
withdraw his claim and pay for the repairs himself. Mr Ts got his car back on 14 April. 
Mr T complained about LVs decision that he was at fault, and about the difficulties hed had 
when his car was taken away for inspection. He specifically mentioned not being given a 
courtesy car while he was without his. LV explained their reasons for deciding Mr T was at 
fault, but accepted there had been some issues when Mr Ts car was taken to be inspected. 
LV offered £50 compensation for the costs and inconvenience Mr T incurred because he 
didnt have his car. Mr T accepted this in May 2018, while still disputing that he was at fault 
for the accident. LVs records show they sent a cheque to Mr T in July 2018, but its never 
been cashed. Mr T says hes never received the £50, and feels the delay is unreasonable. 
The matter came to us for review. Our investigator felt it was reasonable for LV to find Mr T 
was at fault for the accident, given the evidence theyd had at the time. She also felt LV 
didnt need to give Mr T a replacement car when his was taken for inspection, as his car was 
assessed as a write-off and hed decided not to go ahead with the claim. She said the delay 
paying the £50 compensation was reasonable, as the complaint wasnt fully resolved by that 
offer. 
Mr T didnt agree with the investigators views, so the matter has come to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The main issue in this complaint when Mr T brought it to us was the decision that he was at 
fault for the accident. So Ive looked at that first. 
Like many motor insurers, LVs policy includes a term that allows them to take over the 
handling and settlement of a claim. This means the policy allowed them to decide whether 
Mr T was at fault for the accident. But LVs decision would need to be based on a 
reasonable assessment of the evidence available, so Ive thought about whether it was.
Mr Ts statement about the accident said he came to a roundabout, saw another car already 
on the roundabout, pulled out, and then both he and the car hed seen left at the same exit. 
Mr T felt the other car hadnt been in the correct position to exit the roundabout, and hadnt 
indicated that it was going to leave either. 
The damage on the cars showed damage to the front right-hand side of Mr Ts car and the 
rear left-hand side of the other car. Mr Ts statement also said there were no independent 
witnesses of the accident. 
I can appreciate Mr T felt he wasnt at fault here, but I can also see the situation from LVs 
point of view. Two cars had collided exiting a roundabout, with both drivers believing they 
werent at fault. Mr Ts car though had been to the left and behind the other car, and had 
entered the roundabout after seeing the other car was already on it. 
The Highway Code, specifically section 185, says when someone comes to a roundabout 
they should give priority to traffic on their right and watch out for all other road users already 
on the roundabout. I can see how with that in mind, and with no independent witnesses to 
confirm Mr Ts statements about the position or indicating of the other car, LV decided they 
couldnt argue Mr T wasnt at fault. 
So I find LVs decision was reasonable, given the evidence available doesnt look like it 
would be enough to make the argument that Mr T wasnt at fault. I understand Mr T isnt 
happy with the impact this had on his renewal premiums and his no claims discount. But, as 
our investigator explained, that follows from LVs reasonable decision about who was at fault 
for the accident. So Im not going to look to change that impact. 
The other part of Mr Ts complaint was about what happened when his car was taken for 
inspection. I can see his policy said hed get a replacement car while he didnt have his own, 
so I can see why Mr T feels LVs service fell short by not providing one. 
But the policy also put a limit on this  if Mr Ts car was damaged beyond economic repair, 
then he wouldnt get the replacement car. That seems to have been the case here. Notes in 
LVs records show Mr T was told by the repairers on the day they took his car that the cost of 
repairs would exceed its value. From that point, and certainly after Mr T decided not to go 
ahead with his claim, the terms of the policy say LV didnt have to provide a replacement car.
I appreciate this left Mr T waiting to get his car back, but that was in my view an unavoidable 
part of the process to assess the damage to his car. While I recognise Mr T was 
inconvenienced and put to some extra cost not having his car from 9 to 14 April, I dont see 
that links to any failure by LV. The circumstances of the claim meant they didnt need to 
provide Mr T with a replacement car. 
With that said, I see LV made an offer to pay £50 to Mr T to acknowledge the costs and 
inconvenience they felt had been caused when assessing the damage to his car. Mr T 
accepted this, but it looks like LVs cheque didnt arrive with him. LV say their records show 
a cheque was issued, and I cant see anything to say something they did caused Mr T not to 
receive it. Im not holding LV responsible for any problems there may have been in the 
delivery service. So Im not going to say LV should increase the amount they give Mr T. But 
he should receive that amount, given he accepted it back in May 2018. 
I can see that Mr T told LV in November 2018 that he still hadnt had the money. I think LV 
could perhaps have checked their records at that point, and seen that the cheque hadnt been cashed. But I can also see that Mr Ts comment was part of his wider complaint, so I 
can understand why they focused on responding to that instead.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited, as their 
decision about fault was made reasonably, and the circumstances of the case meant they 
didnt need to provide a replacement car to Mr T. Their £50 offer is still to be paid though, so 
LV should reissue the cheque  or otherwise make that payment  to Mr T. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman