DRN-4077396
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) acted irresponsibly 
by increasing her overdraft limit and continuing to apply charges to her account when she 
was in financial difficulty.
What happened
In October 2016 Mrs M held a bank account with Nationwide with an overdraft limit of £1,660 
and was on a £10 monthly overdraft reducing plan. In January 2019 Mrs M received a bank 
credit of £1,519 which paid her overdraft off and her overdraft was removed. 
In September 2019 Mrs M was approved for an overdraft of £300. This was increased to 
£350 in October 2019 and in June 2022 her overdraft was increased to its highest limit of 
£2,500. 
Around three months after the last limit increase Mrs M got in touch with Nationwide and 
complained about that the overdraft interest being applied to her account was causing her 
financial difficulty and asked that interest was frozen moving forward.  
Nationwide said all interest was applied in line with the terms and conditions of the account 
and that if Mrs M was having financial difficulties she should get in touch with its Triage 
Team who would go through her income and expenditure and review her affordability 
following which it may look at an interest freeze. 
Mrs M didnt wish to do this and brought her complaint to this service. Mrs Ms complaint was 
considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that Nationwide ought to have realised 
that Mrs M was experiencing financial difficulty and that her overdraft wasnt affordable by 
October 2016 and so shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this 
point onwards. 
Nationwide disagreed. It says at that point it wasnt actively lending to Mrs A and was 
working with her to remove an overdraft limit and doesnt believe that this amounted to 
irresponsible lending. 
So Mrs Ms complaint was progressed for an ombudsmans decision. I issued my provisional 
decision on 13 March 2023. In my provisional decision, I explained why I was proposing to 
partially uphold Mrs Ms complaint. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Mrs M has responded and provided a lot of detail regarding her difficult personal 
circumstances now and in the lead up to her complaint. Nationwide has confirmed it has 
received my provisional decision but has not added anything further. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said that:
Mrs M has complained about the charges applied to her account. Mrs M would like 
Nationwide to freeze overdraft interest and wipe the balance of her overdraft. Before I go any 
further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the various amounts 
Nationwide charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in comparison 
to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. That said, while Im not looking at Nationwides 
various charging structures or processes per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably 
towards Mrs M if it applied any interest, fees and charges to Mrs Ms account in 
circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Mrs 
M was experiencing financial difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where Nationwide didnt treat Mrs M fairly 
and reasonably. And from October 2016 up until Mrs Ms latest limit increase in June 2022 I 
dont think that Nationwide did treat Mrs M unfairly or unreasonably. I say this because 
having looked at Mrs Ms statements Im not persuaded that Nationwide ought to have done 
more than what it was already doing in trying to support Mrs M to reduce her overdraft. 
From 2015 Nationwide had been working with Mrs M to reduce her overdraft by reducing the 
limit by £10 a month. Having carefully reviewed Mrs Ms statements during this period Im 
not convinced Mrs Ms continued overdraft usage was due solely to financial difficulties. 
While Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over Mrs M expenditure, 
nonetheless there are significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and 
discretionary transactions  in particular regular spending on retail, online shopping and fast 
food and this type of spending became more frequent as time went on. 
There were regular credits into the account and Mrs M was able to bring the overdraft down 
before once again going on to use her overdraft to make debit card transactions, money 
transfers and cash withdrawals. I accept Mrs M didnt see a credit balance until January 
2019 when a large bank credit paid off her overdraft, but I think this was overall due to Mrs 
Ms spending habits rather than severe financial hardship. 
So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for Nationwide to proceed 
with adding the interest, fees and charges it did in light of how Mrs Ms account was being 
used. 
However, given Mrs Ms banking history I dont think Nationwide shouldve agreed to 
increase Mrs Ms overdraft limit by over £2,000 from £350 to £2,500 in June 2022. And I 
think it acted unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees from 
this point.  
I say this because the statements show in the months leading up to this increase Mrs M 
spent a lot of the time at the top of her limit and rarely saw a credit balance. The statements 
show that Mrs M was able to reduce her overdraft when credits came into her account, but 
almost as soon as the credits came in the money would go back out again. And overall Mrs 
Ms overdraft was not reducing. 
Mrs M was clearly struggling to manage her existing overdraft limit and I think that 
Nationwide ought to have realised that increasing her limit and continuing to allow Mrs M to 
use her overdraft in this way wasnt in her best interests and there was a significant risk that she may not be able to pay back what she already owed within a reasonable period of time, 
let alone an increased limit by seven times. 
Nationwides own literature suggests that overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency 
borrowing and as Mrs M wasnt using her overdraft as intended Nationwide shouldnt have 
continued offering it on the same terms.
So Im currently minded to think that Nationwide should not have agreed to increase Mrs Ms 
overdraft limit and instead treated Mrs M with forbearance. As Nationwide didnt react to Mrs 
Ms overdraft usage and instead continued charging in the same way, I think it failed to act 
fairly and reasonably. And this means that it should put things right.  
In response to my provisional decision Mrs M has provided a detailed background of her 
personal circumstances and the health conditions she suffers from. Ive no doubt Mrs M has 
had a very difficult time and she has my sympathy. Mrs M has explained that some of the 
discretionary spending and online shopping was due to her personal circumstances, and I 
accept this to be the case. But there isnt anything in these types of transactions in 
themselves which ought to have alerted Nationwide to potential financial difficulty or Mrs Ms 
circumstances. 
So prior to the last overdraft limit increase in June 2022, I dont think Nationwide had enough 
information to know something was wrong or treated Mrs M unreasonably.
Mrs M would like Nationwide to wipe the outstanding balance of her overdraft. But in cases 
such as hers where a business increases or continued to allow a consumer to use a credit 
facility which it should have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the 
consumer in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges 
on that credit. This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges 
added to any credit from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. 
And if those interest and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year.  
So while Mrs M is likely going to be left with a balance to pay on her overdraft - and she will 
be unhappy with this - I havent been given a reason for departing from our normal approach 
to putting things right in cases such as hers. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mrs M  especially as shes been waiting 
some time for this answer. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to. 
So it follows that I partially uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Putting things right
I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mrs Ms complaint for 
Nationwide to put things right by:
Re-working Mrs Ms current overdraft balance so that any additional interest, fees
and charges applied as a result of the overdraft limit increase from June 2022 
onwards are removed. This means that from this point onwards interest can only be 
charged on the first £350 of any overdrawn balance. 
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Nationwide should contact Mrs M to arrange a suitable repayment plan 
for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mrs Mscredit file, it should backdate this to June 2022.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer being
an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and
returned to Mrs M along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the
date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no outstanding
balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Nationwide should 
remove any adverse information from Mrs Ms credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide 
must give Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold Mrs Ms complaint against Nationwide Building 
Society and direct it pay the fair compensation outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman