DRN-4107118
The complaint
Mrs C complains about how esure Insurance Limited (esure) has handled her claim on her 
car insurance policy and about how it has valued her car.
esure is the underwriter of this policy; that is, it is Mrs Cs insurer. Part of this complaint 
concerns the actions of esures agents. As esure has accepted its accountable for the 
actions of its agents, in my decision, any reference to esure includes the actions of its 
agents.
What happened
Mrs C says she and her children were involved in an accident on a busy road when a third 
party hit her stationary car from behind. So she made a claim on her car insurance policy.
Mrs C has given us a detailed chronology of what happened during her claim. Ive looked at 
everything Mrs C has said but, for brevity, Im going to focus on the specific concerns Mrs C 
has raised.
esure said Mrs Cs car was a total loss. Mrs C is unhappy with the valuation esure gave for 
her car. And Mrs C is also unhappy with how esure has handled her claim as a whole. She 
says this caused stress to, and placed financial pressure on, her and her family. More 
recently, Mrs C was upset to find photos of her car on a salvage website still showing her 
private number plate, which shed previously told esure she wanted to retain.
When Mrs C complained to esure about these things, it said it was satisfied its valuation of 
Mrs Cs car was in line with her policy terms and conditions. esure accepted the service it 
had given Mrs C was below the standard it expected and it has offered her £475 in total in 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience this has caused her. In relation to her 
private number plate, esure says Mrs Cs car became its property once it was declared a 
total loss. But it said it had asked its agent to remove the images showing Mrs Cs private 
plate from its website.
Unhappy with this outcome, Mrs C brought her complaint to us. The investigator who looked 
at it thought esures approach to valuing Mrs Cs car was fair and reasonable. He also 
thought the compensation esure had offered Mrs C for its failings in her claims journey was 
fair and in line with our approach to compensation. But, since Mrs C had asked esure to 
retain her private number plate, he thought esure shouldve removed it and used the original 
plate before the car was advertised for sale. He said esure should pay Mrs C £100 for the 
worry this had caused her.
Mrs C has accepted our investigators recommendations. esure hasnt. It says the photos 
showing details of Mrs Cs private plate were removed from the salvage website within 48 
hours, which it thinks is a reasonable timescale. 
So Mrs Cs complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold some parts of Mrs Cs complaint but not others, as Ill 
explain.
Mrs Cs car insurance policy says esure wont pay more than the market value of her car at 
the time of its loss (less the total excess payable). The policy says the market value is the 
amount Mrs C could reasonably have expected to sell her car for on the open market 
immediately before her accident. The policy also says its assessment of the value is based 
on cars of the same make and model and of a similar age, condition and mileage at the time 
of the accident. And finally the policy says this value is based on research from the motor 
trade guides.
From information esure has sent us, I can see it got valuations from the main motor trade 
guides and offered Mrs C a settlement amount that was an average of these valuations.
The approach esure has taken to valuing Mrs Cs car is in line with the approach we take to 
car valuations and its also in line with Mrs Cs policy terms and conditions. So I think the 
valuation esure has given Mrs C is fair and reasonable and therefore it follows that I dont 
uphold Mrs Cs complaint on this point.
Turning next to the handling of Mrs Cs claim, from what Mrs C has said and from esures 
records, her journey has been difficult. esure has acknowledged its failings and has offered 
Mrs C £475 in total in compensation for the impact this has had on her. As a result of esures 
handling of Mrs Cs claim. I think shes had considerable distress, upset and worry and 
significant inconvenience and disruption that has taken a lot of extra effort to sort out over 
some months. In these circumstances, I think its fair and reasonable of esure to offer to pay 
Mrs C £475 in compensation for its failings here. 
In relation to esures actions in relation to Mrs Cs private number plate, its clear from notes 
esure has sent us Mrs C wanted to keep her plate  and esure agreed to it. From these 
notes, it looks as if the plate was returned to Mrs C a while after shed made the request to 
keep it. But  some while after that  photos on a salvage website showed Mrs Cs car with 
her private plate still on it. 
esure says its reasonable the photos were taken down from the website within 48 hours. 
From what Mrs C has shown us, the photos werent removed within that timeframe. But, in 
any case, Mrs C had already told esure she wanted to keep her private plate, so I dont think 
photos of it shouldve have been uploaded to the website in the first place. For the additional 
distress and inconvenience this has caused Mrs C, I think its fair and reasonable to direct 
esure to pay her an additional £100 in compensation (on top of the £475 it has already 
offered).
When our investigator told Mrs C esure hadnt accepted his view on her complaint, she 
suggested the £100 in compensation hed recommended should be increased. But esure 
had the right to comment on our investigators recommendations, so it wouldnt be fair to 
increase the amount of compensation because it did so.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mrs Cs complaint in part and direct esure Insurance 
Limited to pay her £575 in total in compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused her (that is, the £475 it has already offered Mrs C plus an additional £100 for its 
failings in dealing with her private number plate).
esure Insurance Limited must pay Mrs C this compensation within 28 days of the date we tell 
it Mrs C has accepted my final decision. If it doesnt, esure Insurance Limited must pay    
Mrs C simple interest on this amount at the rate of 8% a year from the date of my final 
decision to the date of payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2023.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman