DRN-1450663
The complaint
Mr W has complained about the way his insurer, One Insurance Limited (One Insurance), 
dealt with a claim he made on his commercial vehicle insurance policy after his van was 
damaged. 
All references to One Insurance include its agents. 
 
What happened
 In July 2019 Mr Ws van was damaged whilst he was driving down the motorway. He said 
he noticed blue smoke coming out of his air vents and as soon as this happened the van lost 
power and he stopped at the side of the road. He said he called the fire service, as the van 
looked like it was on fire, who attended and poured water over the van. Mr W then called a 
recovery agent to recover his van. He says he was then informed by the agent that there 
was debris under the bumper.
Mr W made a claim to One Insurance who sent an independent engineer to inspect the van. 
One insurance initially tuned down the claim. Mr W said One Insurance initially did so 
because it said hed made a fire claim; even though there was no fire. He said it later told 
him it was turning the claim down as there was no sign of accidental damage. Mr W paid 
himself for the van to be taken to a garage and repaired.
Mr W complained to One Insurance. It said the engineer found that the van was completely 
out of coolant but found no visible damage to account for the coolant loss. It concluded that 
there was no impact damage from debris or fire and so the claim was rejected. 
One insurance later again sent an independent engineer to re-inspect the van who found 
signs of damage to its radiator and a large piece of concrete under the bumper. It ultimately 
agreed to cover the claim but said it would only pay for damage to the bumper but not to the 
engine. It said this was because Mr W continued to drive the van even though he wouldve 
been aware that the coolant level was low because a warning light wouldve come on 
immediately after the impact. It offered Mr W £150 compensation for delays in arranging the 
independent engineers report. 
Mr W said the first he knew that there was an issue with the van was when he lost power 
and saw the smoke. He also said he only found out about impact damage and debris when 
the recovery agent told him about it and advised him to speak to his insurer. 
Mr W was unhappy about One Insurances response and complained to us. He said he had 
since bought a replacement van but wanted One Insurance to pay for his van repairs in full. 
Our investigator who reviewed the complaint thought it should be upheld. He thought the first 
Mr W was aware of the issue was when he noticed smoke coming in through the vents. And 
that he didnt know that a piece of concrete had damaged the bumper and radiator. Our 
investigator thought One Insurance should settle the claim because it was unlikely Mr W 
wouldve been aware of the loss of coolant. And as such he didn't realise he could be 
damaging the engine by continuing to drive. Our Investigator said Mr W had mitigated his 
losses by having the van repaired and sold so he could pay back the loan he had taken out 
to buy it. He said One Insurance should pay the cost of repairs and recovery upon Mr W 
providing receipts. He also thought it should pay £100 compensation in addition to the £150 
it already offered to Mr W.  
One Insurance didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said that Mr W 
wouldve had lights flashing in his van warning him that the coolant was low. It also said that 
he wouldve been aware of the impact and yet continued to drive. 
On 13 January 2021 we went back to One Insurance. We said it hadn't provided any 
evidence to show when the warning light wouldve come on or whether Mr W wouldve had 
time to react. And if he had, there was no evidence to show whether this would have meant 
that the damage to the engine would have been less significant. Thats because all 
engineers whove given their opinions have agreed that the coolant loss was rapid; and that 
he was driving at speed on the motorway. We said on the evidence available to us Mr W 
stopped as soon as he reasonably could. 
On 19 January 2021 we provided One Insurance with a copy of Mr Ws repair invoice 
showing that the repairs cost £4,750 and invited it to comment. As we received no response 
or comments we wrote to One Insurance on 9 February 2021 to say that I would be asking it 
to reimburse Mr W for the full cost of the repairs and that my decision would specify the 
amount owed so there was no confusion. 
One Insurance responded on 10 February 2021 and said that the warning light would have 
been immediately apparent. It also said that we dont seem to have taken the engineers 
comments into account where they said that the impact occurred before Mr W said it did. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so Ive decided to uphold it. 
The policy says that One Insurance will pay the cost of repairs if the van is damaged by 
accident. It also says that any person in charge of the van must take reasonable precautions 
to protect it from damage or loss. 
One Insurance initially rejected the claim and said that Mr W had made a fire claim when in 
fact that damage was caused by mechanical breakdown. It now accepts that the claim was 
covered. So, I will only look at whether it should pay for all the damage caused to the van or 
whether its offer to pay only for the damage to the bumper is fair and reasonable. 
The expert evidence is somewhat contradictory. The first engineers report, which was from 
an independent engineer One Insurance instructed, said that the cooling system had almost 
no coolant and that the salvage yard, where the van was being stored, wouldnt let them 
replenish the coolant to check for any major leaks. They said though that there was no 
evidence of any damage that would cause significant coolant loss. They also said they 
examined the front of the van and found no significant debris that had come into contact with 
the cooling system. They added that they found a significant amount of excess oil in the 
engine and an empty oil container in the van. They couldnt start the engine because of 
restrictions at the salvage yard but noticed that the engine smelled very strongly of hot or 
burned oil. They concluded that there was no evidence of impact from debris or fire damage and that the insurer had no liability. It was based on this report that the claim was rejected 
initially.
Mr W has provided a copy of a report from his garage dated 21 August 2019 which says that 
there was a significant leak from the damage to the coolant and oil cooler radiator. It said 
this was caused by the impact from road debris passing through the front bumper. In the 
garages opinion the van wouldve rapidly lost coolant under pressure causing it to overheat 
and damage the engine. It said in order to determine the extent of the damage it would have 
to strip the engine down and investigate further.
When One Insurances independent engineers re-inspected the van they noted that there 
was a large triangular piece of concrete which measured around 100 millimetres on each 
side and was about 40 millimetres thick that hit the lower front bumper and damaged the air 
grille, the turbo intercooler and the cooling radiator. They said that the radiator was 
punctured and that this would allow coolant to escape. They topped up the cooling system 
and noted that there was a significant rate of flow of coolant and said that coolant loss at this 
rate would fairly rapidly drain the system (though not instantaneously) and cause the engine 
to overheat. They also said that the engine smelled of a severely overheated unit which 
would suggest the van was driven post impact and until the engine failed. They said that 
there would have been an engine temperature gauge in the van that would have alerted 
Mr W to the van overheating before the engine failed. They added that they were aware that 
Mr W knew something had hit the van and should have stopped driving immediately. They 
added that Mr W contributed to the damage to the engine because he didnt stop 
immediately after the collision and ignored warnings about the excess engine temperature. 
The engineers added that the engine had probably suffered catastrophic failure and would 
highly likely need to be replaced. They said a reconditioned one would cost £1,500 plus 
£800 labour and £150 for fluids. They didnt think One Insurance should pay for this but that 
it should pay for the bumper to be repaired and repainted. They estimated the cost at 
£1,160.02 in total. 
Mr W denies that he knew about the impact whilst driving the van- despite what the 
engineers report says. He said he has repeatedly told One Insurance this but it ignored him. 
He repeated that the first he knew there was a problem was when he saw smoke coming 
into the van and when it lost power.
I dont think I can take into account the first engineers report (instructed by One Insurance) 
bearing in mind that the inspection was incomplete and also the fact that the large piece of 
concrete was not spotted at the time. From the photographs provided in the second report 
(which was done by the same company) I can see that the piece of concrete is clearly visible 
and should have been spotted even with the restrictions imposed by the salvage yard. So I 
think its fair to disregard that report. 
Mr Ws engineers and One Insurances engineers second report agree that the damage was 
caused by the debris. So, this seems to be the cause of the incident. The engineers agree 
that the damage was significant, and that the coolant loss was rapid. So, the dispute is 
ultimately about whether Mr W ignored warning signs and continued to drive to the point 
where he damaged the engine or whether he stopped as soon as he became aware of the 
issue and therefore that the damage to the engine was unavoidable. 
Mr W has been consistent in saying that the first he knew that there was a problem was 
when smoke came through the vents. He also said the van quickly lost power. I appreciate 
that a warning light might have come on, but I find it unlikely that Mr W wouldve continued to 
drive despite this- or that he didnt stop as soon as he realised he needed to.I say that because I dont think he wouldve wanted to put himself, or his child who was with 
him at the time, in danger. Also both engineers said that the coolant loss was rapid. And as 
we said to One Insurance already there is no evidence to say when the warning light came 
on and when the smoke came in to the van. If the coolant loss was rapid I think its likely that 
these two events happened in quick succession. And, bearing in mind that Mr W was 
travelling at speed on a road with no hard shoulder, makes me think that, on balance, Mr W 
stopped the van as early as he reasonably could under the circumstances. So Im satisfied 
that he damage to the van, including to its engine, was a direct result of an impact with the 
concrete block that damaged the cooling system. And thats an event thats covered by 
Mr Ws policy. And for these reasons I think One Insurance should be responsible for the 
entire cost of repairs. 
I also note that Mr W has told us that he didnt know about the impact until the recovery 
agent made him aware when it attended after the fire service. And he has told us and 
One Insurance that he wasnt aware of the issue until smoke started coming it. I find Mr Ws 
evidence persuasive as it has been consistent throughout his complaint to One Insurance 
and to us and seems entirely plausible.  
Before I issued this decision we sent One Insurance a copy of Mr Ws repair invoice which 
said he paid £4,750 to repair the van before selling it on. We gave One Insurance an 
opportunity to comment on this but it hasnt. We also said to it that I would be awarding the 
full amount in the absence of any further comments. No comment has been received. 
One Insurance only responded with comments regarding the engineers report. 
Bearing in mind that One Insurance said that a rough estimate for a reconditioned engine 
would cost £2,450 excluding VAT and also that it valued the damage to the bumper at 
around £1,160 (inclusive of VAT) I dont think what Mr W has paid is unreasonable. And in 
the absence of any comments from One Insurance I think it should reimburse those costs to 
Mr W in full.
One Insurance initially turned the claim down as a fire claim and then because it said there 
was no accidental damage. This was because its engineers failed to spot the piece of 
concrete under the van when they first inspected it. If they had, I think this would have 
avoided Mr W having to pay to have the van recovered himself. So I think One Insurance 
should cover the costs of the recovery. And Mr W was put to extra distress and 
inconvenience for doing so. One Insurance has already agreed to pay Mr W £150 for delays 
in organising the inspection. I think it should pay him a further £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience the first inspection caused him in addition to the fact that he had to arrange 
his own inspection and repairs. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. One Insurance Limited should:
Pay Mr W the cost of the repairs (£4,750) plus the cost of the recovery of the van (which 
Mr W said was £72) subject to him providing proof of payment. The receipt for the 
repairs has already been provided to One Insurance Limited. It must also pay interest on 
these amounts form the date they were paid to the date it pays them at 8% a year 
simple. 
Pay Mr W £250 compensation in total (£100 in addition to the £150 it already offered) for 
the distress and inconvenience it caused him. If the £150 has already been paid it 
doesnt have to be paid again. It must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mr W accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
If One Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr W how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr W a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman