DRN-3358119
The complaint
Mr M complains HSBC UK Bank plc (HSBC) provided poor service leading to a delay in 
sending a currency payment, resulting in an unfavourable exchange rate being provided.
What happened
Mr M held a US dollar currency account and a sterling servicing current account with HSBC. 
Mr M says following a visit to his branch in mid -2020 he was informed his bank accounts 
had been suspended/closed and says he eventually discovered this was a result of inactivity 
on the sterling current account, although he had never been informed of this previously. In 
order to sort out this problem Mr M says he made numerous telephone calls over the 
following few months and in view of the poor service offered by HSBC, and to take 
advantage of the beneficial exchange rate at the time, at the end of October 2020 Mr M 
instructed HSBC to close his US dollar account and send the payment to a bank account 
with another provider. Mr M says the monies never arrived at his bank and after 
experiencing further poor service and delays from HSBC, Mr M says his other bank informed 
him, HSBC may have the incorrect standing settlement instruction code (SSI).
In mid-November 2020, Mr M says he emailed HSBC with this information following on from 
a telephone call he had with a member of HSBC staff. When these funds still hadnt arrived 
sometime later, Mr M says he made a series of telephone calls to HSBC and lodged a 
complaint with them about the poor service he had received. Eventually after visiting his 
branch again, Mr M managed to get a member of HSBCs staff to locate the payment and 
correct the SSI code and the funds were finally credited to his other bank account on 3 
December 2020. Mr M says during the time he could have expected the funds to have been 
credited to his other bank account in early November 2020, to the actual settlement date, the 
exchange rate had gone against him, and he was out of pocket by approximately £6,000 
plus the cost of international charges of $75. Mr M wishes to be reimbursed by HSBC for this 
loss.
HSBC says the problem over the SSI code is due to the recipient bank not updating their 
payment details as soon as they should have and not due to any error on its part. HSBC also 
says it wrote to Mr M in January 2020 informing him of the closure of his sterling current 
account, which may have led to some of the service issues Mr M experienced. 
Mr M wasnt happy with HSBCs response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information and upheld the complaint. The 
investigator felt HSBC had been contacted by Mr M on numerous occasions to sort out this 
issue and due to their administrative errors it was responsible for the delays caused in the 
payment being delayed. The investigator recommended HSBC pay Mr M £4,356.70 
calculated as the exchange rate loss, plus 8% interest on those monies from 4 November 
2020 to the date it is paid. In addition, the investigator says HSBC should also pay Mr M 
£350 for the trouble and upset caused.
HSBC didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
I sent both sides a provisional decision, where I said:
Ive considered all of the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to a different outcome to that of the investigator and I will 
explain how I have come to my decision.
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Mr M to have been uncertain as to the 
whereabouts of a large payment he made, and the delays he experienced in establishing 
what the cause of this was. When looking at this complaint I will consider if HSBC were at 
fault for the delay caused in sending the US dollar payment instructed by Mr M to his other 
bank account. 
The first thing to say here is part of the service issues experienced by Mr M were a direct 
result of his sterling account being closed, making it more problematic dealing with HSBCs 
staff regarding his US dollar account. What is worth mentioning here is although a pre 
requisite of maintaining  currency accounts with HSBC is to hold a servicing sterling current 
account, I have seen a copy of a letter from HSBC to Mr M dated 12 January 2020 advising 
him it was their intention to close the sterling current account, due to its inactivity. Although 
Mr M says he never received the letter, its reasonable to say this was sent by HSBC, so I 
cant say Mr M wasnt ever informed of this. That said, while this may have contributed to 
some of the earlier service issues Mr M refers to, I cant see this had any material affect as 
to why the US dollar payment took as long as it did to reach Mr Ms other bank account. 
Here, the key issue centres around the correct details provided on the payment itself and 
specifically the SSI code that both banks refer to. This code helps establish the correct 
destination of the payment and from what I can see this is something the 
recipient/correspondent bank are responsible for as they need to advise the swift network of 
any change in details. HSBC says Mr Ms other bank, the recipient, had changed 
correspondent banks but hadnt made this clear to its customers or other banks, and I am 
satisfied in all probability that is why they advised Mr M that HSBC may have the wrong SSI 
code details, when they did back in November 2020. I say this because its unlikely Mr Ms 
recipient bank would have suggested this if that wasnt the case here. 
Having said that, what is clear is Mr M sent HSBC an email on 15 November 2020, in which 
he highlighted the actions required by HSBC to correct the SSI information needed to make 
the payment. I can see HSBC then resent the payment on 19 November 2020, which was 
subsequently returned by the recipient bank on 1 December 2020 and finally successfully 
resent and accepted by the recipient bank on 3 December 2020.
So while HSBC resent the payment on 19 November 2020, from the information I have seen 
I cant see any evidence to show it sent the payment with the amended details provided to 
them by Mr M, which caused the payment to be returned again by the recipient bank. 
I should also mention here, HSBC arent able to tell this service when the SSI information 
was updated on the swift system, which it says was incorrect. But its fair to say HSBC were 
aware of the correct information when Mr M told them what was required on 15 November 
2020. So thats where I have an issue with HSBCs actions on the 19 November 2020, as it 
would be reasonable to expect HSBC to check with the recipient bank that the SSI details 
were correct at that point. 
While HSBC may not agree, I propose it re-works the exchange rate as at the 19 November 
2020, based on the live exchange rate it would have used that day, and refund Mr M the 
difference to the exchange rate he received in December 2020. I also propose HSBC should pay 8% simple interest on this sum from 19 November 2020 until paid, and additionally pay 
Mr M £350 for the trouble and upset caused.
While HSBC will be disappointed with my provisional decision, I am satisfied this is a fair 
outcome here.
Both Mr M and HSBC responded to my provisional decision, so the case has been passed 
back to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I gave both Mr M and HSBC until 9 March 2022 to accept or reject my provisional decision. 
HSBC have accepted my provisional decision saying it had nothing further to add. Mr M 
questioned the exchange rate HSBC will use to calculate the refund due to him, this hasnt 
been provided to this service, but I will ask the investigator to arrange with HSBC for this 
information to be provided to Mr M. That said it doesnt alter my decision here, that the date 
for re-working the exchange rate and any refund due to Mr M as a result, should be based 
on HSBCs live exchange rate as at 19 November 2020, for the reasons I have already 
given. 
With this in mind I see no need to change or add to my provisional decision and so my final 
decision remains the same.
Putting things right
I instruct HSBC UK Bank plc to re-work the exchange rate as at the 19 November 2020, 
based on the live exchange rate it would have used that day, and refund Mr M with any 
difference to the exchange rate he received in December 2020. I also propose HSBC should 
pay 8% simple interest on this sum from 19 November 2020 until paid, and additionally pay 
Mr M £350 for the trouble and upset caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct HSBC UK Bank plc to re-work the exchange rate as at the 19 November 2020, 
based on the live exchange rate it would have used that day, and refund Mr M with any 
difference to the exchange rate he received in December 2020. I also propose HSBC should 
pay 8% simple interest on this sum from 19 November 2020 until paid, and additionally pay 
Mr M £350 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman