DRN-1741316
 
The complaint
Mr H complains about the way his ISA was administered by IG Markets Limited (IG).
 
What happened
Mr H discovered upon transfer to another broker that he was unable to trade his TEVA 
shares that he purchased which had been accepted into his ISA.  
Mr H says that as he doesnt trade outside of his ISA that IG is now responsible for allowing 
this holding, and any losses that arise from him purchasing it.  
IG didnt uphold the complaint but initially felt that £200 (as a good will gesture) was 
reasonable in recognition of the inconvenience suffered by Mr H. 
It said that the TEVA shares couldnt be traded  unless on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange  
and suggested that an alternative option would be perform a reverse bed&ISA which would 
simultaneously sell his holdings and purchase it in his share dealing account, which would 
make the stocks available for transfer with his new provider. 
Mr H says that IG then informed him that the TEVA shares could be traded on a recognised 
stock exchange and offered him £300 compensation for any trouble and upset caused by the 
mixed messages.  
But IG has since confirmed that it cant trade the TEVA shares. It also said that it offered an 
execution only service so wouldnt have advised Mr H to purchase the shares, and that on 
balance it wasnt satisfied that Mr H wouldnt trade outside of his ISA. 
Mr H disagreed with IGs outcome. He said he was confused by the conflicting information 
that he received, but still feels IG is responsible for his losses, so referred the complaint to 
our service.   
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he was satisfied by IGs response that having considered the HMRC guidelines it 
thought Mr H could trade the TEVA shares, so long as it was done on a recognised stock 
exchange  such as the New York Stock Exchange  where TEVA shares are traded. 
He said that whilst the information from IG was confusing, he felt the £300 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience was reasonable. 
 
Mr H disagreed with the investigators conclusions. In summary, he said:
Hed bought the shares some years ago and IG allowed him to do so. Over the years hes been losing money on it but hoping hed get it back. 
His new broker refused to trade the TEVA shares saying they werent allowed on his 
ISA, so he made a complaint anticipating that hed be forced to sell the shares 
making a loss, as hes never traded outside of his ISA. 
IG then said that he could trade the shares  having initially told him he couldnt  
and offered £300 compensation for trouble and upset. 
He made enquires himself with HMRC and found out that it wasnt possible to trade 
these shares.
IG then informed him that itd sell the shares  without his permission  because of 
the HMRC position. It did so in due course, crystallising his losses inside the ISA to 
the tune of £3,500. 
He would never have made these losses had IG not allowed him to buy the TEVA 
shares in the first place and thats why IGs responsible for the losses. 
In 15 years of trading hes never traded outside an ISA. 
Because hes made a loss theres unlikely to be any taxes that need to be paid and 
IG knows that. Thats why it doesnt make sense that its allowed to get away without 
having to cover his losses just by offering to cover a tax liability that wont arise. 
Assuming he wouldve traded outside his ISA, any losses he incurred couldve been 
offset against other losses. But as the situation stands his losses have crystallised 
inside the ISA so he cant use them to offset any capital gains. 
If he were to try and recoup the losses, he can only do that by buying the shares 
back outside the ISA. So, if by some luck the price goes up, hell still have to pay a 
28% CGT liability, again leaving him at a financial loss. 
 
IG made the following key observations in response to Mr Hs submissions:
oIt had no way of knowing whether Mr H wouldve traded the TEVA shares 
outside of an ISA, and that when it was determined that Mr H couldnt trade 
the shares in the ISA, he had the choice of transferring the stock to the share 
dealing account or closing the position. 
oMr H opted not to transfer the position, so it was closed. Had Mr H been in 
profit, IG wouldnt be looking to take it back. So, in the circumstances it 
doesnt seem fair to compensate him for losses, as the losses were due to the 
market movement rather than an error on the part of IG. 
oIt had no way of knowing Mr Hs full tax position, but as he doesnt trade 
outside the ISA its likely that he wouldve had his full CGT allowance, in 
excess of £3,500. 
oHad Mr H opted to transfer outside his ISA he couldve recovered the full 
taxable gain once the full price had been reached.
oHad the loss been realised outside the ISA it wouldve been possible to offset 
the losses against other gains  but Mr H opted not to take this route.  
oOverall it accepts that the service Mr H received was poor, but the losses 
realised were due to Mr Hs desire to gain exposure to TEVA shares (which 
ultimately fell in value) with Mr H choosing not to maintain this exposure. 
oIt feels its offer of redress is fair and reasonable and doesnt feel the need to 
increase its offer. 
 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. He said:
He was sorry for the trouble and upset his view had caused Mr H but we (as an 
organisation) are reliant upon the business providing correct information. At the time the business had  erroneously  confirmed that having considered 
HMRC guidance it could accept TEVA shares into the ISA. 
Its been established that the shares cant be held in the ISA and thats why the case 
was re-opened. 
He doesnt doubt that Mr H wouldnt have invested in the TEVA shares had he been 
aware they werent eligible for his ISA. 
As IG wasnt minded to increase its previous offer, the matter would have to be 
decided by an ombudsman. 
 
Mr H disagreed with the investigators conclusion and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
In summary, he made the following key points:
He strongly disagreed with the business response. 
Even according to IGs own email notification nothing couldve been transferred out 
of the ISA, it would have had to have been sold and then bought back at market 
price. 
The losses wouldve been realised inside the ISA and therefore couldnt be offset 
against any other capital gains elsewhere, so hed be in the same position. 
Inside the ISA he couldve made a billion pound in profits without taxes. 
Since he would never have traded outside the ISA hes now completely 
disadvantaged. 
 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons, Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance I think the offer of redress  which I think 
should be £350 rather than £300  is broadly fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  I 
dont think I need to issue a provisional decision for increasing the sum by £50. 
But before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr Hs strength of feeling about this matter. 
He has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by him and IG, and reach what I think is an independent, fair and 
reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice but Im not bound by it. Its for me to decide, based on the information Ive 
been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.It seems to me that IG erroneously accepted the TEVA shares into Mr Hs ISA when it 
shouldnt have. It accepts that it made an error in this respect and is sorry for the distress 
and inconvenience caused.  
That notwithstanding, Im mindful IG offered an execution only service and hadnt advised Mr 
H to purchase the TEVA shares which he did of his own volition. Im conscious Mr H 
couldve reasonably made enquiries about whether (or not) he could trade these shares. So, 
in the circumstances I cant really blame IG for Mr H wanting exposure to the TEVA shares. 
It just so happens that the TEVA shares went down in value  in line with market movement 
 I cant hold IG responsible for this. In my opinion, to do so would be unreasonable. 
Im aware that according to Mr H the value had been going down for some time, but he 
made no efforts to sell - in the hope that the value recovered. This was a judgement call he 
was entitled to make, but unfortunately for him it didnt pay off.
Ive seen nothing to suggest that IG had erroneously and deliberately accepted the shares 
into the ISA in order to cause Mr H distress and inconvenience. I note IG accepts that the 
overall service it provided was poor, which I agree with  not only for accepting the TEVA 
shares but also the conflicting information it then provided. 
Nevertheless, Im mindful that Mr H had the option of transferring the stock to the share 
dealing account, but opted not to do this so it was closed.
Whilst I appreciate the points Mr H makes about the losses, its still, on balance, possible 
that he can use the losses that have crystalized against any future gains, whether it be in 
TEVA shares or anything else.  
So, given that the TEVA shares couldnt be traded in Mr Hs ISA, and that this was a non-
advised service, despite the fact that IG accepts that it made an error about the type of 
wrapper he could hold these shares in, I still think Mr H bought shares that lost value which 
isnt IGs fault. 
Given what Mr H says about how he invests, its possible that this situation is unlikely to 
make a material difference (from a tax perspective) whether (or not) the shares were held in 
the ISA wrapper or not. 
So, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr H says, in the 
circumstances, I think the offer to pay any tax implications, along with £350 compensation 
for distress and inconvenience caused is broadly fair and reasonable. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr H says, Im unable to say that 
IG is responsible for paying for any loss in value of the shares. I cant say that Mr H wouldnt 
have suffered financial loss had IG not allowed the TEVA shares to be accepted.  
I appreciate Mr H will be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what he wants to hear. But on the face of the 
available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give him what he wants. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7July2020.
Dara Islam
Ombudsman