DRN-4296420
The complaint
Mr C complains that ReAssure Limited has failed to manage his pension investments in a 
professional manner.
What happened
Mr C holds pension savings with ReAssure in a personal pension plan. All his pension 
savings are invested in a single UK Fixed Interest fund. Mr C saw the value of his savings 
decline during the second half of 2022. He complained to ReAssure that it had failed to 
properly manage his pension investments. He also complained that ReAssure had set his 
retirement age at 85 without any consultation with him. And he said that the information 
ReAssure had provided on its annual statements about the pension income he might be able 
to obtain in the future was confusing.
ReAssure didnt agree with Mr Cs complaint. It responded to his concerns over two decision 
letters. ReAssure told Mr C that his pension savings were invested in funds linked to the 
stock market. It said that meant that changes in the value of the underlying assets would 
affect the value of Mr Cs pension policy. It explained that it had a range of funds that Mr C 
could make use of if he wished to make alternative investments. And it said that it wasnt 
able to provide Mr C with any advice about which of the dates shown in its projections would 
be best for him to take his pension benefits. Mr C remained unhappy with what ReAssure 
had said so brought his complaint to us.
Mr Cs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He didnt think that 
ReAssure had done anything wrong. He said it was for Mr C to manage the investments he 
made with his pension savings, and that the change of retirement age had no material 
impact on Mr Cs pension plan. So he didnt think Mr Cs complaint should be upheld.
Mr C didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr C and by ReAssure. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
I think it is important to first set out the basis of the relationship between Mr C and ReAssure. 
Mr Cs pension has been with ReAssure for a number of years since ReAssure took it over 
from a previous provider. At the time of that switch, and subsequently, Mr Cs pension 
savings were invested in a UK Fixed Interest fund. 
ReAssure is not Mr Cs financial advisor. So it simply acts on the instructions he provides. It 
isnt for ReAssure to ensure that any investment choices are suitable for Mr Cs needs  
those are essentially decisions he needs to make for himself. And I have seen that 
ReAssures website provides comprehensive information for investors about the range of 
funds that are offered. 
Mr C has said that the information he received from ReAssure said that it applied charges for 
managing his pension plan. Mr C says that he considers the management of his plan to 
mean the management of the pension investments that are held within it. But, as I will now 
go on to explain, I dont agree. 
Mr Cs pension plan is essentially a receptacle into which his investments can be placed, to 
receive the beneficial tax treatment that is offered to pension savings. The responsibilities of 
ReAssure extend to the operation of the plan to ensure that any investments held within it 
comply with the rules put in place by HMRC and the relevant legislation. But, most 
importantly here, those responsibilities dont extend to ensuring the suitability of the 
investments that are held within the plan. 
I have noted that in the annual statements ReAssure sent to Mr C, a number of comments 
are made that highlight his responsibility to ensure the suitability of the pension investments 
that he holds. For example they suggest that Mr C should regularly review the funds hes 
invested in to make sure they match his attitude to risk and what he has planned for his 
money. The documents tell Mr C that ReAssure offers a range of funds and investment 
approaches to choose from. And they recommend that Mr C might find it useful to seek 
advice from an independent financial advisor if he is unsure about what to do. 
So I dont think it would have been reasonable for Mr C to conclude that ReAssure was 
solely responsible for ensuring that his pension savings were invested suitably. It had no 
knowledge of Mr Cs personal circumstances, such as his attitude to risk on which to base 
any investment decisions. 
Mr Cs pension investments were held in a single fund. That fund was described by 
ReAssure as a managed fund primarily investing in high quality, sterling dominated fixed 
interest stocks. Although the income from fixed interest stocks is fixed, the price of the 
underlying assets can go down as well as up due to changes in interest rates. 
A fund such as the one in which Mr Cs pension investments were held might generally be 
considered to be of a lower risk than for example some equity investments. But that doesnt 
mean it carried no risk at all. During 2022 the prevailing market conditions led to falls in what 
are generally seen as safer investments due to Government economic policy, and rising 
interest rates. Many commentators noted that what are considered to be more risky 
investments, such as equities, suffered smaller losses during that time. I havent seen 
anything that makes me think that the investment decisions made by the fund manager were 
outside what could be considered normal industry practice.I agree with Mr C that part of the explanation he was given by ReAssure about why his 
pension savings had fallen in value might have been better expressed. His pension savings 
were not directly affected by changes in the values of stocks held on global stock markets. 
So the recovery that Mr C saw in the FTSE indices were not reflected in changes in the 
value of his pension investments. But I think that should have been clear to Mr C from the 
other information that was available to him both on his annual pension statements and that 
shown on ReAssures website.
Mr Cs pension savings did not have any lifestyling approach applied to them. That meant 
that there were no automatic changes made to the investments to reflect the proximity of 
Mr Cs selected retirement date. That retirement date was originally set as Mr Cs 
60th birthday. When Mr C didnt take his pension benefits at that time, his retirement date 
was automatically changed to his 75th birthday. And later, following a policy change by 
ReAssure, his retirement date was changed to his 85th birthday.
ReAssure cannot be sure that it told Mr C that it was changing his retirement date from his 
75th to his 85th birthday. It says it sent letters to all affected customers, but no longer has a 
specific record showing that letter was sent to Mr C. But, importantly here, those changes 
had no impact on Mr Cs pension investments. As Ive said earlier, there wouldnt have been 
any automatic changes made to his investments as he approached retirement. And as each 
pension statement told Mr C, he was able to take his pension benefits at any time after his 
55th birthday.
The annual statements that ReAssure sent to Mr C provided a very high-level summary on 
the cover page of what pension income (in todays terms) might be available to him if he took 
an annuity at various ages. But later in those statements is a far more comprehensive 
explanation of that information, and in particular that the income figures quoted are adjusted 
to take account of yearly inflation at a rate of 2.5%. It provided an example that, under that 
assumption, a yearly retirement income of £10,000 would only be worth the equivalent of 
£6,100 in todays money. Hopefully by reading those explanations Mr C can get a better 
understanding of the information provided by ReAssure on his statements.
I appreciate that this decision will be disappointing for Mr C. It must be difficult as he is 
approaching the point he wishes to make use of the retirement savings he has made over 
his working life to see their value fall so sharply. But I dont think that ReAssure was 
responsible for the way in which his retirement savings were invested. It is possible that 
ReAssure failed to advise Mr C that it was increasing his retirement age to 85, but even so 
I dont think that had any material impact on his pension savings. And whilst it might have 
been helpful for ReAssure to better explain the pension projections to Mr C when he called, 
I think all the information he reasonably needed was contained in the pension statement.
On balance Im not persuaded that ReAssure has done anything wrong so I dont think it 
needs to pay any compensation to Mr C. I dont think the complaint should be upheld.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
ReAssure Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Paul ReillyOmbudsman