DRN-3388823
The complaint
Ms G complains she has lost out because of the way IG Markets Limited (IG) have 
executed trades on her account.  
What happened
Ms G opened an ISA trading account with IG in April 2019. In 2021, Ms G complained to IG 
that:
She had incurred a charge when placing trades in May 2021, which IG told her was a 
currency conversion fee of 0.5%. Ms G said she hadnt been told about the charge when 
she opened her account and IG hadnt disclosed it on her statements or in the 
transaction history section of her account. 
She thought IG were inflating exchange rates so that she received less profit from certain 
trades. 
Her orders to sell shares in two companies (companies A and B) had not been executed 
at the price she requested. 
In response to Ms Gs complaint, IG said:
Ms G was told about the currency conversion fee in the customer agreement she 
accepted when opening her account.
For relevant transactions, they convert currencies at the time of execution based on the 
best available exchange rate, plus a spread of 0.5%.
Ms Gs share sales were executed at a lower price because of market slippage, a risk 
that was highlighted to her at the time she opened her account. 
Ms G was unhappy with the response from IG and brought her complaint to the ombudsman 
service. Our investigator looked into Ms Gs complaint and didnt think IG had done anything 
wrong. He said IG had provided Ms G with clear information about their fees and charges 
and hed seen no evidence that IG had applied their charges unfairly or their exchange rates 
incorrectly. He also thought IG had executed Ms Gs orders to sell shares in companies A 
and B fairly and promptly.  
Ms G has said she accepts our investigators findings on how IG applied their fees and the 
relevant exchange rates on her account. She doesnt accept his findings on the sale of her 
shares in companies A and B. She says IGs behaviour has been misleading and 
unprofessional and she thinks IG should compensate her for the poor execution of her 
trades.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont look in detail at the complaint points on which Ms G has accepted our investigators 
findings. But I would like to reassure Ms G that I have looked at all the evidence submitted 
on these points. Having done so, I think IG provided sufficiently clear information to Ms G 
about the currency conversion fee and how currency conversions would be made. I agree 
with our investigators findings that IG have not done anything wrong on these points and I 
wont be asking them to do anything further. 
Ms G remains unhappy with how IG executed the sale of shares in companies A and B. 
On 7 July 2021, she placed stop orders to sell her 14 shares in company A at $68 and her 
two shares in company B at $247. The shares were sold the following day at prices of 
$66.77 and $243.88 respectively. 
Ms G has said that IG behaved unacceptably in the way they executed her trades. She says 
they have breached a number of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Principles for Business by 
failing to act with integrity and in her best interests, and by giving her inaccurate information. 
Ms G wants IG to refund the difference between the sale price and the price she requested, 
which she has calculated to be total of $23.99.
Ive looked carefully at what both parties have said and at information on the share price of 
companies A and B on 7 and 8 July 2021. Ms G used stop orders when attempting to sell 
her shares, which meant she specified a price level which needed to be reached before her 
order was executed. On 7 July 2021, from what Ive seen, the share prices remained above 
the prices specified by Ms G and so the orders were not executed. 
At the opening of the US market on 8 July 2021 the share price for both companies had 
fallen below the price specified by Ms G and so her orders to sell were executed. The sales 
were executed promptly after the opening of the market and, based on the evidence Ive 
seen, were made in line with IGs best execution policy. Unfortunately, the best available 
market price was below Ms Gs desired price. But I dont think IG did anything wrong, so I 
cant ask them to reimburse Ms G for the losses she feels shes suffered.
I note that in their letter of 9 September 2021 IG gave Ms G notice that they would be closing 
her account. When Ms G opened her account with IG, she agreed to be bound by the terms 
and conditions. These allow IG to close accounts with 30 days written notice and so I dont 
think IG acted contrary to their terms and conditions when they made the decision to end 
their relationship with Ms G. It is for IG to choose who they do business with, just as its for 
Ms G to choose which businesses she wants to have accounts with. 
IG told Ms G they were allowing her a period of 90 days to transfer her stocks to another 
provider. I understand that Ms Gs account is still open and set to closings only, which 
means she can close positions she currently has open but cannot open new positions. I think 
IG have acted fairly and allowed Ms G sufficient time to consider alternative platforms. 
 
I appreciate this will be a disappointing decision for Ms G, but I wont be asking IG to do 
anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Gs complaint 
against IG Markets Limited.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Matthew Young
Ombudsman