DRN-3400433
The complaint
Mrs C has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her credit card payment protection 
insurance.
What happened
Mrs C took out the credit card in 1995. There are no records of when the PPI started 
although it is most likely that it was set up at the same time as the credit card.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagree with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as it is here), inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what is considered most likely to have 
happened given the evidence that is available to me and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Mrs C says she didnt know she had PPI  meaning that it was added without her knowledge 
or consent.
Lloyds no longer has any documentation from the time of the sale, which is not surprising 
considering how long ago it took place. However, we have seen samples of credit card 
application forms from that time which show that someone had to tick a box to elect to have 
PPI.
I have no doubt that Mrs C has provided her genuine recollection of events. However, given 
the sale took place sometime between 1995  2000, it would also not be surprising if her 
memory of events has faded.
From what we know of Lloydss sales process at the time  for all sales channels - the PPI 
was usually presented as optional. I havent seen any evidence to persuade me that 
something different happened in this case. Ive thought very carefully about what Mrs C has 
said about never knowingly agreeing to PPI. However, overall, Im unable to conclude that 
she wasnt given a choice about taking out the policy. I find it just as likely that she decided 
to buy it, knowing that she didnt have to, even if she no longer remember doing so.
If this was an advised sale, it means that Lloyds had to ensure that the PPI met Mrs Cs 
needs. And from what I know of Mrs Cs circumstances at the time, the policy was suitable 
for her.
Mrs C has said that her employer was a family business that would have paid her full sick 
pay for as long as she was off sick. As our adjudicator has said, this would be an unusually 
generous level of cover. Given the nature of her employer, it seems unlikely that Mrs C 
would have received full sick pay for 12 months, which is the length of time that the PPI 
would have provided cover for. The PPI also covered unemployment.
Mrs C says that her husband would have paid the credit card bill if she wasnt working. But 
having the policy would have meant that the card bills were covered, so her husbands 
salary could have been used to pay for other outgoings at what would have been a difficult 
time.
Lloyds had to provide Mrs C with sufficient information for her to be able to make an 
informed choice about whether or not the policy was right for her. I think that Mrs C must 
have known something about the PPI  that it would cover her mortgage repayments if she 
was unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment  because I dont think shed 
have decided to buy it without knowing anything at all about it. 
Its possible that Lloyds could have provided more information about the PPI, particularly 
about the things that it didnt cover. But Mrs C wasnt affected by any of those things. For 
example, she didnt have a pre-existing medical condition that might have limited his ability 
to claim under the policy. As I consider that Mrs C had an interest in the PPI and decided to 
buy it, I dont think that more information would have caused her to change her mind about 
buying it. So Mrs C is no worse off as a result of anything Lloyds may have done wrong, so 
there is nothing that Lloyds needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman