DRN-2066359
The complaint
 Miss M complains that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited (trading as Argos) 
registered a default on her credit file in error. Shes unhappy that she disputed the default 
previously but was advised that it was correct. 
What happened
Miss M held a credit account with Argos. Between June and October 2016, she missed 
some payments.
In December 2016 Argos issued a default notice and advised Miss M that she had 28 days 
to pay the arrears in full. No payment was received so Argos registered a default in February 
2017.
In July 2017 Miss M paid the account balance in full.
In May 2018 Miss M complained to Argos. She was unhappy that her account hadnt been 
marked as settled. Argos sent a final response in June 2018 in which it advised that her 
account would show as satisfied, but the default would remain on her credit file for 6 years.
In November 2019 Argos wrote to Miss M and advised her that it had incorrectly registered 
the default on her credit file. It apologised and said the default would be removed and 
offered to pay £100 compensation.
Miss M brought a complaint to this service. Following this, Argos acknowledged that it hadnt 
marked Miss Ms account as settled in July 2017 and offered a further £50 compensation.
Our investigator considered whether Argos needed to do anything more to resolve Miss Ms 
complaint. She said it was right that Argos had acknowledged the error and paid 
compensation, but felt that further compensation should be paid to reflect the impact on Miss 
M.
Miss M didnt agree that a further £50 compensation was enough to reflect the errors that 
Argos had made.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Argos made an error in registering the default and a further error in 
failing to mark the account as settled. It has apologised and paid compensation and offered 
a further £50 compensation.
Ive looked at what happened, and Ive taken into account the impact of the errors to decide 
whether the compensation offered by Argos is fair. 
Miss M has explained that the knowledge that she had a default on her credit file caused her 
distress and led her to abandon hope of obtaining a good credit score and planning for the 
future. Shes said that this impacted on her mental health and led to other issues. Mrs M 
says that since the default was removed, shes been able to improve her credit score. 
Ive taken what Miss M has said about the impact of the errors into account. Whilst Im able 
to take distress and inconvenience into account , in order to make an award for financial loss 
I would need to see evidence that (for instance) Miss M had an application for credit declined 
because of the default, or that she was charged a higher rate of interest because if it. I 
havent seen anything to suggest that Miss M was directly finically impacted in this way.  
What Miss M has described is a worry that she would be refused credit, which isnt the 
same.  
Putting things right
Taking everything into account, Im in agreement with the investigator that a further £50 
compensation  making total compensation of £200  is fair  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Home Retail Group Card Services Limited 
must pay further compensation of £50 to Miss M.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman