DRN-2528245
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about the decision by Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to pay a 
proportionate settlement under their building insurance claim, due to misrepresentation. 
What happened
In 2018, Mr and Mrs W took out a buildings insurance policy. They were asked if the building 
had suffered subsidence within the past 25 years, and answered no.
In late 2019, Mr and Mrs W noticed some cracks in their utility room. In January 2020, they 
advised Admiral about the cracks, and made a subsidence claim. During the claim, Mr and 
Mrs W told Admiral the property had previously suffered from subsidence. 
During Admirals investigations, it found that the previous subsidence had taken place within 
25 years of Mr and Mrs W taking out the policy. Admiral advised Mr and Mrs W that if it had 
known that information when the policy was taken out, it wouldve applied a higher premium. 
Consequently, it said it would pay a proportionate settlement of the claim (49%), as Mr and 
Mrs W had only paid 49% of the correct premium. Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs W brought 
a complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Mr and Mrs W had 
failed to take reasonable care when answering the question, and so she considered Admiral 
was entitled to pay a proportionate settlement.
Mr and Mrs W didnt agree with our investigators conclusions, and so the matter has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this complaint concerns misrepresentation under a consumer contract, Ive considered 
the matter in accordance with the principles set out in the Consumer and Insurance 
(Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA).
Mrs W took out the policy in January 2018 over the phone for her and her husband. Admiral 
doesnt have a copy of that call recording, but Mrs W accepts that she was asked during that 
call if the property had suffered from subsidence in the past 25 years. 
Mrs W says she knew the policy had previously experienced subsidence, but she thought 
this had taken place more than 25 years ago. 
After the policy was taken out, Admiral says it sent Mr and Mrs W a Home Proposal 
Confirmation document. Ive only seen the document for the January 2019 renewal, but I 
assume it was the same for 2018. 
This Home Proposal Confirmation asked Mr and Mrs W to carefully check the document 
because it was a record of the information they had provided, and to inform Admiral if any of 
the information was incorrect. Under property details it had the statements subsidence, 
landslip or heave, as well as previously underpinned/reinforced, and the answers to both 
were no.
Mr and Mrs W make the point that this document doesnt refer to the 25-year period. I accept 
that, and I agree that it ought to have done. However, I dont think it can be argued that Mr 
and Mrs W didnt need to disclose the subsidence because of this. I say that because they 
were aware their property had previously experienced subsidence and that it had been 
underpinned, yet this document made it seem as though that hadnt happened (because of 
the absence of a time-frame). 
I think this alone ought to have put Mr and Mrs W on notice that they would need to tell 
Admiral about the historical subsidence. Though its largely irrelevant, because Mrs W 
accepts that she was asked if thered been subsidence in the past 25 years when taking out 
the policy, and that shed answered no to that question.
Turning to the historical subsidence itself. Mr and Mrs W say they cant be sure when the 
subsidence happened. 
Ive seen an arboriculturists report dated 8 May 1997 which refers to a visit to the site to look 
at the influence of vegetation upon the property. I think its reasonable to conclude the letter 
would have been sent fairly soon after their visit, and therefore the subsidence was likely 
taking place in 1997. A follow-up letter from an engineer dated 6 August 1997 referred to the 
recommendations made by the arboriculturist in respect of preventing further damage to the 
property. I also see Mrs W wrote to a third party about the matter before buying the property. 
Her letter dated 4 September 2006 referred to subsidence taking place in 1995, and repairs 
being completed in November 1998.
Im therefore satisfied that it was reasonable for Admiral to say that the historical subsidence 
occurred within 25 years of the policy being taken out. 
Mrs W explains she thought the subsidence had taken place more than 25 years ago when 
she took out the policy. I appreciate she didnt intend to mislead Admiral intentionally about 
this. She even made Admiral aware of the historical subsidence when she made the claim. 
However, given that she knew thered previously been subsidence, the date of this was 
available to her if shed checked. Consequently, I think Mr and Mrs W failed to take 
reasonable care when taking out the policy, and so there was careless misrepresentation.
The next point for me to consider is whether the misrepresentation was qualifying. In other 
words, whether Admiral have done something different, had it known about the historical 
subsidence when the policy was taken out.
Admiral says it would have still offered Mr and Mrs W cover, but at a higher premium. It says 
they only paid 49% of the correct premium. 
Since then, Mr and Mrs W made Admiral aware that the property had been underpinned. 
Admiral has shown this service that because of this information, the premium it would have 
charged would have been slightly less than it initially thought. Mr and Mrs W therefore paid 
50% of the correct premium. I would expect Admiral to increase its claims settlement to 50%, 
in line with this.  
Im therefore satisfied that Admiral has shown that the misrepresentation was qualifying. 
CIDRA sets out the remedies available to an insurer in cases of careless misrepresentation. As Admiral would have charged Mr and Mrs W a higher premium had it known of the 
historical subsidence, it was entitled to pay a proportionate settlement of the claim.
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy that Admiral wont carry out repairs, and are instead going to 
make them a cash payment. However, it wouldnt be appropriate for Admiral to carry out 
repairs when its only required to pay half of the claims settlement. Admiral was therefore 
entitled to pay a cash settlement, rather than repair.
Mr and Mrs W have also raised concerns about the excess. Theyre not happy that Admiral 
has advised them they need to pay their proportion of the claim costs, as well as the excess. 
Ive checked the policy terms, and these allow Admiral to charge Mr and Mrs W an excess, 
and so Im satisfied Admiral gave them the correct information. 
I note Mr and Mrs W have queried why Admiral took a payment of £141.09 from them in 
January 2020. Admiral has told this service that, although thered been a loss before the 
renewal date of 7 January 2020, it didnt rate the policy correctly at renewal because Mr and 
Mrs W didnt tell it about the loss until 8 January 2020. The payment therefore reflected the 
additional renewal price they ought to have been charged on 7 January 2020 to reflect that a 
claim had been made in the previous policy year.  
Finally, Mr and Mrs W have raised concerns about the sale of their policy. However, I cant 
see that theyve raised this with Admiral. If they still have concerns about this, they should 
raise them with Admiral in the first instance.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman