DRN-4202246
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Lloyds Bank PLC havent refunded them in full after they fell 
victim to an investment scam.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision for this complaint on 6 June 2023. Both parties have 
responded to say theyve nothing further to add. Ive copied the provisional decision below.
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties and has been discussed at 
length prior to the issuing of this provisional decision. Those discussions have included an 
informal explanation of the outcome I intend to reach. I dont then intend to go over the 
detailed circumstances of what happened, instead focusing on the key points and what is 
still in dispute.
Mr and Mrs G are joint complainants. But it is Mr G that dealt with the scammers. And so 
much of what I say will refer to him alone.
Mr and Mrs G fell victim to a sophisticated investment scam. Mr G had been 
contacted by scammers posing as legitimate investment brokers after he searched 
for opportunities online and submitting his details for contact. He spoke on the 
phone to different scammers  posing as different members of staff  whom he 
has described as professional and convincing.
The scammers cloned the details of genuine brokers based overseas. Mr G 
checked the details of the legitimate companies on the Commission de 
Surveillance du Secteur Financier (CSSF) register.
Mr G was told the overseas brokers were backed by a UK firm which appeared 
on the FCA register, though Mr G didnt check that for any of the firms.
The scammers used what Mr G has described as professional looking websites. 
He was given working login details which enabled him to view his holdings with 
each scam broker. And each broker had a client onboarding process which 
included ID and anti-money laundering checks.
Mr G began investing in December 2020, starting with a bond. He received interest 
payments in January and March 2021. He made further investments into other 
bonds and a trading account between January and March 2021.
The investments were as follows:
Date Amount Rate of return Investment type
December 2020 £75,000 across 
five payments7% 2-year bond
January 2021 £100,000 across 
six payments7.5-11% Managed trading 
account
January 2021 £50,250 across 
four payments4.75% 3-year bond
February 2021 £50,000 across 
two payments9.5% 18-month bond
The bonds Mr G was told he was investing in were all legitimately available as 
investments, with the details being copied. Mr G was sent links to legitimate 
websites that listed the bonds.
Mr G began receiving what appeared to be returns on his investments. The 
first payment was made in January 2021 with a second coming in early March 
2021.
In mid-March 2021 Mr G was told that one of the brokers was being taken over by 
another firm and that hed have to pick one of three options on how to proceed: pay 
a further £75,000 which would be matched by the broker in order to bring holdings 
up to the minimum threshold of £250,000; pay an early redemption fee of 20% to 
have funds returned; do nothing but with the condition that the invested funds 
would be locked-in and inaccessible for five years. Mr G opted for the increased 
and matched investment, sending a further £75,000.
Mr G was told there had been an issue with the payment of his £75,000 and that 
hed have to send it again, with the original payment to be refunded at a later date. 
At this point Mr G realised something was wrong so he checked online for the 
details of the firm and the scam was uncovered. By this time hed sent £350,250 to 
accounts controlled by the scammers.
Mr G received written warnings when he was setting up each of the new payees 
and making payments. He was also called by the bank at numerous points to 
discuss the legitimacy of the payments.
On one occasion, in early March 2021, the bank explained that the account Mr G 
was sending money to had been used by scammers. But it allowed the payments 
to go through as Mr G explained hed received returns on his investment.
Mr G reported the scam to Lloyds and it began investigating, considering its 
obligations under the Lending Standards Boards CRM (Contingent 
Reimbursement Model) Code. It found that, whilst it had presented Mr G some 
written warnings and had even discussed payments on the phone, it hadnt done 
all it ought to have to protect him and Mrs G from fraud.
Lloyds felt Mr G hadnt carried out enough due diligence and said he ought to 
bear some responsibility for the loss. On that basis it said it would refund 50% of 
the loss under the Code and paid back £175,125. Lloyds paid interest on the 
refund at 8% simple to compensate Mr and Mrs G for the time spent without the 
money.
Lloyds contacted the banks the money had been sent to and was able to recover 
a further £3,530.35 which has been paid back to Mr and Mrs G.
Mr and Mrs G brought the complaint to this service as they felt they should be 
reimbursed in full. One of our investigators agreed. She said Mr G had held a 
reasonable basis for believing the investments and parties involved were legitimate. So she felt a full refund under the CRM Code was due as no 
exceptions to reimbursement applied.
Lloyds disagreed and so the case has been passed to me for a decision. Ive 
discussed the circumstances with both Lloyds and Mr G at length. Lloyds position 
remains principally the same as when it answered Mr and Mrs Gs complaint 
originally. It can be summarised as follows:
oMr G has previously invested in a loan note. Hes also invested into a 
managed stocks and shares ISA. This demonstrates investment 
experience.
oThe nature of the loan note investment indicates Mr G is accepting of a 
high- risk investment.
oMr G has a financial advisor with whom he couldve sought advice 
and discussed the individual investments before sending any 
money.
oThe written warnings presented to Mr G told him to check the FCA website 
and, if he had done so, he wouldve seen cloned firm warnings relating to 
the brokers involved.
oThe payee names didnt match the company name Mr G believed he 
was investing with.
oThe rates of return were too good to be true.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I intend to uphold the complaint, though not for 100% of Mr and Mrs Gs 
loss. Ill explain why.
Should Lloyds have provided Mr and Mrs G with a full refund under the CRM Code?
Lloyds is a signatory to the CRM Code which looks to refund victims of scams in all but a 
limited number of circumstances. The Code sets out some exceptions to reimbursement 
which a bank might rely on. The two exceptions of relevance here can be summarised in 
the form of two questions:
did Mr and Mrs G ignore an effective warning given by the bank?
did Mr and Mrs G hold a reasonable basis for believing they were making 
legitimate payments, to legitimate parties, for legitimate purposes?
As with the background of this case, I dont intend to go into unnecessary detail with my 
findings. Importantly, the bank has already recognised it didnt do enough to protect Mr 
and Mrs G through warnings and intervention. Under the Code, this means it didnt meet 
the standards for firms and so it bears at least partially responsibility for the loss. It has 
refunded 50% on that basis. This means theres no need for me to consider either Lloyds 
or Mr and Mrs Gs liability under the effective warnings exception. As a point of record 
though, Ive not seen evidence to suggest that Mr and Mrs G were given an effective 
warning at any time, either in writing or verbally.
The only other point I will make about Lloyds actions here, in terms of protection and 
intervention, is that it is very disappointing to see that the bank knew at one stage that 
Mr G was making a payment to an account being used to defraud and scam people. And 
yet it still allowed the payment to go through. That not only highlights the banks failure to protect Mr G here, it also calls into question its understanding of its requirements  and 
systems in place to  prevent fraud and money laundering more generally. Its also fair to 
say that Mr G might well have taken some comfort from Lloyds allowing the payments to 
go through, apparently having been somewhat vetted by the bank.
The remaining dispute is over whether Mr G held a reasonable basis of belief when 
making the payments. The summary points included in the background of this decision all 
relate to this consideration, even where the provision of warnings is mentioned. I believe it 
then makes sense to address Lloyds objections in turn and so Ill do so below.
In addressing each point its important to remember that this was a sophisticated 
investment scam involving cloned firms, convincing client management and on-boarding 
processes, fake websites and online portals, and the copying of genuine bond 
information.
Mr G has previously invested in a loan note. Hes also invested into a managed 
stocks and shares ISA.
Lloyds are trying to argue here that Mr G is an experienced investor and so ought to 
have enough knowledge about investing (how it works, likely rates of return, FCA 
regulation etc) to adequately protect himself from the scam he fell victim to.
Im not persuaded by this argument. For one, the scam was a sophisticated one 
involving cloned firms, professional websites and correspondence, and working online 
investment portfolios.
Second, the investment activity Lloyds refers to (in terms of the loan note) was 
undertaken just a couple of weeks prior to the first payment to the scammers. It 
doesnt then follow that it can be said Mr G had a great deal of investment experience 
as a result.
The payments made to a stocks and shares ISA also dont demonstrate a high level of 
investment knowledge or experience. Mr G has explained the ISA is a managed 
account and I can see that it is a basic and easy to use retail investing platform. Im 
not persuaded by Lloyds argument here.
The loan note indicates Mr G is accepting of a high-risk investment.
It may be that the loan note was a high-risk investment vehicle. But its unclear to me 
what impact Lloyds is suggesting this has on Mr Gs reasonable basis of belief. I 
certainly dont think Mr Gs decision to invest in the loan note means he was more 
willing to risk what might have been a scam. Nor do I think it indicates recklessness on 
his part in being tricked by sophisticated fraudsters.
Mr G has a financial advisor with whom he couldve sought advice and discussed 
the individual investments before sending any money.
Mr G has explained that he did have a financial adviser that hed spoken to about 
personal finances some years earlier. But he wasnt involved in any of the discussions 
about these investments. Whilst it might be considered prudent to consult a financial 
adviser about investing money it isnt a requirement. And so Mr Gs lack of such a 
consultation doesnt mean he lacked a reasonable basis of belief.
Im aware theres evidence which shows Mr G did mention speaking to a financial 
adviser when Lloyds questioned him about some of the payments. Mr G has said he 
doesnt recall saying that and that he hadnt had such a conversation. It seems 
unlikely to me that he did have such a conversation. But, if he actually had done, and 
had he received advice to proceed, that would in fact strengthen his basis for belief.
Its impossible for me to know for sure, but I believe its more likely than not that when 
Mr G said he had spoken to a financial adviser, he was probably referring to the scammer posing as a broker. He had discussed the investment with that person and, 
given the surrounding circumstances, it seems more likely than not Mr G was referring 
to him.
Theres a lack of evidence on this point, at least in part, due to the fact Lloyds didnt 
question Mr G further about the investment or who he had sought advice from. An error 
Lloyds itself has recognised.
The written warning presented to Mr G told him to check the FCA website and, if 
he had done so, he wouldve seen cloned firm warnings relating to the brokers 
involved.
It is true that written warnings presented to Mr G did give advice to check the FCA 
register. And even though those warnings werent effective under the Code, it can 
fairly be said that they still perhaps have ought to have influenced Mr Gs actions.
However, Mr G knew the firms he was dealing with were based in Luxembourg. And 
he knew hed checked for those firms on the CSSF register. Its then understandable 
why he didnt believe there was a need to check the FCA register. There wasnt a 
clear explanation provided as to why it was important for a firm to be FCA registered 
or the risks involved if it wasnt.
Ive also considered what Mr G would have found had he checked the FCA register. 
Lloyds has continuously insisted that Mr G would have found cloned firm warnings for 
the brokers. But this isnt true. Lloyds seem to have been relying on a cloned firm 
warning for a completely different firm that bears little to no resemblance to the ones 
involved. Its unclear to me why Lloyds relied so heavily on an unrelated cloned firm 
listing. And yet it appears to have been one of the main reasons for not refunding Mr 
and Mrs G in full. Its been disappointing to see thats the case.
There were relevant cloned firm warnings posted on the FCA website in February 2021. 
This was after Mr G had already been drawn into the scam, was investing, and receiving 
returns. I wouldnt have expected him to go back and check the firms again as the scam 
went on, unless there were strong prompts (certainly stronger than he received from 
Lloyds) to do so.
The payee names didnt match the company name Mr G believed he was 
investing with.
Lloyds is correct in what its said here. The payee name changed with each different 
investment. Lloyds has said this ought to have been a red flag to Mr G.
Ive asked Mr G about this and hes said he didnt think much of the differing payee 
names; he didnt really know any better. And whilst he had made previous payments 
to his ISA and the loan note, with the payee names matching the firms involved, I dont 
find this point ought to have caused Mr G such concern so as to say his reasonable 
basis of belief doesnt stand up.
There wasnt anything particularly alarming about the payee names. The money wasnt 
clearly being sent to individuals rather than businesses. And the business names 
werent suspicious in of themselves.
The first scam payments were made to the same account as the last, showing the 
scammers had control of an account for around four months at least. I find that goes 
some way to help demonstrate the sophistication of the scam.
Its also the case that the first attempt at payment to the scammers didnt work. That 
meant he was then provided with a different set of account details, with a different 
payee name. Lloyds has also pointed to this as a red flag.
Mr G has said he did question this at the time and was told hed been given the wrong details originally. Its not a detailed explanation but its also not one that is so far 
removed from what could be true that Id now say Mr G ought to have questioned the 
entire situation he was in, when all else seemed sophisticated and legitimate.
The rates of return were too good to be true.
I understand the point the bank is making here as the promised returns do appear high. 
Especially when compared to standard savings rates and fixed-term bonds offered by 
banks.
However, its important to recognise here that Mr G was presented with legitimately 
available corporate bonds. The details of these bonds can still be found online and were 
indeed shared with Mr G on at least some occasions, based on the evidence available.
Looking at these genuine bonds it is clear that the advertised coupon rates match the 
rates of return that Mr G was promised. And so the argument about those returns 
being too good to be true fall away as they did appear entirely legitimate.
Mr G has said he saw other firms offering similar rates at the time he invested. If those 
firms were encouraging people to invest in similar corporate bonds then its 
understandable that he would have seen comparable offers.
Did Mr G lack a reasonable basis of belief?
I accept what Lloyds has said in that there were warning signs that all was not as it 
appeared. However, Im not persuaded these signs  either individually or cumulatively 
 lead to a position where Mr G didnt have a reasonable basis of belief from the outset.
And so, I dont find it was fair and reasonable to deny Mr and Mrs G a full refund of their 
loss in the way Lloyds did.
However, I do have to consider how events unfolded as the scam developed. Ive 
thought about whether there were any events which ought to have led Mr G to 
question what he was doing. I believe there was.
Mr G was told, in mid-March 2021, that one of the firms was being taken over by 
another. The scammers informed Mr G that meant he would need to take action as a 
significant change in the terms of his holdings was being imposed.
I find this event to be the point at which Mr G ought to have questioned what was 
happening. He was being told the terms and conditions governing his holdings with 
the firm were being changed significantly. I believe its fair to say it would have been 
reasonable and appropriate for Mr G to question whether such changes  to what 
appeared to be regulated investments for significant sums of money  could 
realistically have been made in this way.
Im satisfied that the scammers offer to match Mr and Mrs Gs further investment of
£75,000 also ought to have led to Mr G questioning what he was being told. Why a firm 
would offer up such a significant sum of free money lacks a reasonable explanation.
This would also appear to be the point at which Lloyds warned Mr G about the 
receiving account having been used to scam others. The dates here are unclear, as 
Lloyds notes refer to a call to release funds on 3 March 2021. But there were no 
payments on that date. It seems likely the typed date is wrong and its actually 
referring to the payments made from 17 March 2021, given the number of payments 
that followed and the total value matches the banks notes on this. And although Mr G 
might have taken a degree of confidence from the bank allowing the payments 
through, I believe the two factors together (the unusual developments with the broker 
and the highlighting of the recipient account by Lloyds) ought to have caused Mr G a 
good deal of concern.
Had Mr G done some further digging at this point, before he sent any more money, he would have likely discovered the scam. There were live FCA warnings for all of the 
firms supposedly involved in Mr and Mrs Gs investments at this time and those 
warnings are easily found in an online search. And when he did carry out further 
checks a week later the scam was revealed.
Im satisfied that Mr Gs reasonable basis of belief falls away at this point. And so the
£75,000 neednt be refunded in full by Lloyds under the Code. Instead, the refund of 
50% that has already been paid should stand.
Interest payable on the refund
Lloyds has acknowledged that it ought to have done more to prevent the scam from 
succeeding. Its agreed that the call with Mr G for the very first payment wasnt good 
enough. Probing questions werent asked and important details about the scam 
werent brought to light. Had they been, Im satisfied its more likely than not the scam 
would have been revealed and avoided at the outset.
Whilst there were no live FCA warnings at the time, Lloyds ought to have been 
knowledgeable enough about investment scams to know that any firm engaged in such 
activity in the UK must be regulated by the FCA. It also ought to have known that if the 
firms involved did not appear to be FCA regulated then there was a significant risk of the 
customer being scammed.
Lloyds could have also identified some of the other features its described as 
concerning or red flags and discussed those with Mr G too.
These details ought to have been drawn out and discussed with Mr G, with strong 
warnings against proceeding given. It seems more likely than not Mr G wouldnt have 
proceeded and the scam would then have been avoided entirely. That means that any 
interest award ought to be calculated from the date of each payment until the date of 
settlement.
As for the rate of interest to be used, it seems clear Mr G intended to invest the money 
in a diverse way. We cant know what he might have invested in or how each 
investment might have performed. But I dont believe the funds would have been 
placed into a normal savings account or would have sat in a current account. And so I 
find the rate of 8% simple interest per year (the same as that already awarded by 
Lloyds) to be the most appropriate to compensate Mr and Mrs G for being deprived of 
the money.
Recovery of funds
The evidence suggests Lloyds did contact the receiving bank quickly, but little of Mr and Mrs 
Gs money remained. What was available has already been returned with no impact on how 
Lloyds calculated the 50 %refund already paid. Given the difficulty in trying to establish 
which payments the returned funds might relate to, I intend to follow suit with Lloyds and not 
deduct the returned funds from any further refund. If anything, it seems more likely than not 
the returned funds related to the final payments made by Mr G, and so wouldnt have 
impacted the further refund in any case. It seems the risk of any double-recovery of money 
lost is very remote.
Putting things right
I intend to uphold this complaint and tell Lloyds to:
Refund the remaining 50% of the payments made between December 2020 
and February 2021, that being an amount of £137,625. As Mr and Mrs G 
received two payments which they were told were returns on the first 
investment  provided the money hasnt been returned to the original sender  Lloyds may deduct the total (£690) from the refund.
Pay interest on the refund at 8% simple per year from the date each payment 
was made to the date of settlement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out my findings in my provisional decision, copied above. Both parties have responded 
to say theyve nothing further to add. And so I see no reason to depart from those findings. 
Putting things right
Upon Mr and Mrs Gs acceptance, Lloyds should:
Refund the remaining 50% of the payments made between December 2020 
and February 2021, that being an amount of £137,625. As Mr and Mrs G 
received two payments which they were told were returns on the first 
investment  provided the money hasnt been returned to the original sender  
Lloyds may deduct the total (£690) from the refund.
Pay interest on the refund at 8% simple per year from the date each payment 
was made to the date of settlement.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman