DRN-4377597
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In May 2018, Mr M was supplied with a new car through a hire purchase agreement with 
VWFS. He paid a deposit of £5,251 and the agreement was for £23,173 over 49 months; 
with 48 monthly payments of £325.36 and a final payment of £11,162.50. The agreement 
was repaid in full on 22 April 2022.
In March 2023 the car broke down and was recovered to a manufacturers dealership for 
investigation. The dealership found the engine had failed due to an oil leak which resulted in 
the cambelt tensioner failing, and a replacement engine was required. At the time of failure, 
the car had done around 27,280 miles. 
Mr M wasnt happy with what had happened, and he complained to VWFS that the car 
wasnt reasonably durable. VWFS didnt uphold the complaint, so Mr M brought it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said there was a fault with the car that had caused the cambelt tensioner to 
fail. She said the evidence provided indicated this was caused by a slow oil leak, but there 
was no evidence this was present or developing at the point of supply.
The investigator also said that the cambelt was a part that was subject to wear and tear. As 
such, she didnt think the failure was as a result of lack of durability. And she didnt think 
VWFS needed to do anything more.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigator. He said that manufacturer guidelines say the cambelt 
tensioner should be changed every 70,000 miles or 5 years, whichever is sooner. And 
neither of these conditions apply in his case. So, he thinks that VWFS should 
cover/contribute towards the costs hes incurred.
Mr M also said he thought the fault was caused by something different to what the evidence 
suggested. The investigator agreed a four-week extension for Mr M to provide any additional 
evidence to support this, but he didnt provide anything. As such, this matter has been 
passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr M was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to investigate complaints about it.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, VWFS 
are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other relevant 
circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage at the 
time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless VWFS can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified after 
the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Mr M to show it was present when the car 
was supplied.
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr M took possession of it, or that the car wasnt 
sufficiently durable, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and 
reasonable to ask VWFS to put this right.
In this instance, its not disputed there was a problem with the car, and that the cambelt 
tensioner failed. However, I need to consider if this was due to a fault that was present or 
developing when the car was supplied to Mr M, or if the fault was caused because the car 
wasnt reasonably durable.
Mr M has said the car broke down on 3 March 2023, which Ive noted was around 4 years 
and 11 months after the car was supplied to him.
Ive seen an estimate from the dealership dated 17 March 2023. This says the car had 
broken down after the coolant light had come on. And Mr M was quoted for a replacement 
engine. A further email from the dealership dated 21 April 2023 confirmed that there was an 
oil leak from the exhaust cam/sprocket/adjuster cover that had caused oil contamination in 
the rear of the engine.
In their final complaint response letter, VWFS have said the dealership confirmed the 
cambelt had failed, which caused damage to the engine. This doesnt seem to be disputed 
and would tie-in with the quotation for a replacement engine. As such, Im satisfied its 
reasonable for me to accept it was a failed cambelt tensioner, most likely due to an oil leak, 
that caused the breakdown of the car.
Mr M has provided a letter from the DVSA, dated 20 December 2022, and addressed to 
someone other than himself. This letter relates to a bolt, which holds the fuel rail in an 
unspecified make, model, and age of car, that has sheared. And the DVSA determined this 
wasnt a safety defect with the car.
Mr M has also provided details of a safety recall for cars of the same make, model, and age 
as the one VWFS supplied. However, this also relates to fuel rail bolts in cars that were sold 
in the US and Canadian markets only.
As the issues with the car supplied to Mr M relate to an oil leak, which resulted in a cambelt 
tensioner failure, Im satisfied the information provided by Mr M about the fuel rail bolts has no relevance to the car he was supplied with. And I wont be taking this into consideration 
when making my decision.
I havent seen anything to show me that the cambelt tensioner failed due to a fault that was 
present or developing when the car was supplied to Mr M. Ive also seen that Mr M had the 
car regularly serviced, which included an oil and oil filter change. Had there been an oil leak 
present when the servicing took place, or had the cambelt tensioner needed replacing, I 
wouldve expected it to be noted on the servicing documents. And nothing has been. Given 
this, Im satisfied the fault with the car wasnt present or developing when the car was 
supplied to Mr M.
Turning to durability, the cambelt tensioner is a part that wears during regular usage and 
needs replacing. Mr M has said the manufacturers guidelines say this should be replaced 
every 70,000 miles, or every five years, whichever is sooner. While the car had done less 
than 30,000 miles when the part failed, it was a few weeks short of being five years old  the 
point at which the manufacturer said replacement would be needed.
While I appreciate whats happened, and the impact this had on Mr M, the fault was caused 
by the failure of a part that shouldve been replaced within weeks according to the 
manufacturer. And, while the car wasnt quite five years old, it was sufficiently close to five 
years for me to say that, on the balance of probabilities, and in the absence of any other 
information, the cambelt tensioner failed due to normal in-service wear and tear and not 
because it wasnt sufficiently durable.
As such, given the above, I wont be asking VWFS to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman