DRN-3482753
The complaint
Mr Z has complained that Haven Insurance Company Limited intended to charge him a 
cancellation fee and request the balance of the yearly premium when he wanted to cancel 
his commercial vehicle insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Z bought a commercial vehicle insurance policy with the insurer Haven through a broker. 
In June 2021 he reported an incident involving a third party. He said he didnt intend to make 
a claim. 
Later in June 2021 Mr Z called the broker to cancel the policy. The broker advised him that 
as there was an open claim under the policy, he would need to pay the remainder of the 
years premium on cancellation and would be subject to a cancellation fee. 
Mr Z didnt think this was fair and so he complained. This service is dealing with a separate 
complaint against the broker. 
Mr Z complained to Haven that he felt he had no choice but to stay insured with them. He 
wanted a refund of the premium hed paid since he asked to cancel the policy. 
Haven didnt uphold Mr Zs complaint. It said the information provided about cancellation and 
having to pay the full premium while there was an open claim was correct. 
Mr Z asked us to look at his complaint. Our Investigator didnt think Haven had done 
anything wrong. 
Mr Z didnt agree. In summary he thinks its unfair for Haven to rely on the terms and 
conditions of the policy. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr Z reported an incident to the broker, Haven as the insurer recorded the incident 
and opened a claim. It is industry practice for an insurer to open a claim involving a third 
party when notified. And it isnt unusual for an insurer to keep a claim open for a reasonable 
period of time in the event of receiving a claim from a third party for damage or personal 
injury. 
Haven said it would keep the claim open for six months. If no claim was received by then, it 
said it would close the claim as a notification only. 
Although Mr Z paid monthly for his premium, he entered into a yearly contract with Haven. 
Where there is an open claim, the insurer is entitled to seek the full premium  either by way 
of remaining monthly instalments  or in the event of cancellation, request the balance then. 
The Investigator provided a copy of the relevant policy wording which clearly sets out what 
Haven will do and charge in the event of a claim and cancellation in his view. So I dont 
intend to copy the wording again in my decision; other than to agree that the wording is 
clear. Mr Z doesnt dispute the wording but believes the terms and conditions are unfair.
In its response to Mr Zs complaint Haven explained that  if Mr Z had decided to go ahead 
with the cancellation of his policy and the claim subsequently closed as a notification only, 
Haven would have arranged a pro rata refund of the premium. I think this is fair and in line 
with industry practice. 
I understand Mr Z will be disappointed with my decision. But I think Haven acted reasonably 
and in line with the policy. So I dont think it owes Mr Z a refund of premium as Mr Z 
continued with the policy and Haven continued to provide policy cover for the duration. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman