DRN-1435767
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage that Miss C and Mr R hold with Yorkshire Building 
Society, under the Chelsea Building Society (CBS) brand. Theyre unhappy that the new 
fixed rate they took out in 2019 costs more each month than they were first told.
What happened
In what follows, I have summarised events in rather less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words to do so, and also rounding some of the amounts involved. No 
discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral. Another reason 
I have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying the consumers when my 
decision is published.
In April 2019, CBS issued a letter to Miss C and Mr R reminding them their current deal was 
about to expire and that they might wish to choose a new deal. Miss C and Mr R have said 
they never received this letter and it wasnt until July 2019 that a new deal was agreed. They 
opted for a seven-year fixed rate of 2.46%; the illustration for which put the monthly payment 
at £1,016. However, when the product change went through, the new payment turned out to 
be a little over £1,026. 
CBS explained that the incorrect figure in the illustration was due to an IT error, apologised 
and sent them £150 compensation. Miss C and Mr R referred their complaint to us. They 
said if theyd known the true figure was around £1,026, theyd have looked for a cheaper 
seven-year deal with another lender. Theyve asked to be compensated £840 for the extra 
amount theyll pay over the seven years, plus £1,000 compensation.
Our investigator thought CBS had made a fair offer of compensation. He considered that if 
the correct figure had been given at the outset, Miss C and Mr R would probably still have 
accepted it. Miss C and Mr R have asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ill deal first with the dispute over the letter reminding Miss C and Mr R that their previous 
deal was about to end. The first observation Id make is that lenders dont have to send such 
reminders at all. Lenders can reasonably take the view that it is the individual consumers 
responsibility to manage their own affairs. When lenders do send out reminder letters, its 
because theres a commercial benefit to doing so, as it increases the likelihood of the 
borrower agreeing a new deal and staying with their existing provider.
So I wouldnt be criticising CBS if it hadnt sent Miss C and Mr R a reminder letter. However, 
its quite apparent that CBS did send a reminder letter in April 2019. Ive no way of knowing if 
it got lost in the post; not every item of mail reaches its intended destination. 
So its quite possible the letter didnt arrive, but not only is thats not CBSs fault, Im satisfied 
Miss C and Mr R knew in any event that their current rate was about to end. Thats because 
Ive seen an entry in CBS contact notes showing that Miss C first phoned on 18 May 2019 to 
discuss a possible product transfer.
Turning to the crux of the complaint, when a business gives out wrong information, thats 
called misrepresentation. If we find that a misrepresentation has happened, and someone 
has acted on it, we dont seek to put the person in the position theyd be in if the wrong 
information had been right. We put them in the position theyd be in if the right information 
had been given in the first. 
The right information was that Miss C and Mr Rs monthly payment on the new rate was a 
little over £1,026. So the pertinent question I have to decide here is what Miss C and Mr R 
would have done differently if CBS had given them that figure from the outset. Theyve said 
theyd have taken another deal elsewhere, but Ill explain why Im not so sure thats what 
would have happened.
The first thing to keep in mind is that for the monthly payment to be cheaper elsewhere, 
Miss C and Mr R would have needed to find a seven-year fixed deal where the rate was 
lower that what CBS was offering, otherwise the monthly payment would be broadly the 
same. 
The second thing to keep in mind is that any rate from another lender would need to be not 
just lower than CBS deal. It would need to be lower by a margin significant enough for the 
monthly payment saving over seven years to offset the costs of changing lender. Most 
re-mortgages transactions cost substantially more than £840, once product fees, valuation 
fees and conveyancing costs have been taken into account. 
In all likelihood, Im not convinced Miss C and Mr R would have found a product that offered 
them a reason not to stay with CBS, paying just over £1,026 a month. On the balance of 
probabilities, I think Miss C and Mr R would still have gone ahead with the new product. That 
being so, overall, I dont think their current position would be any different if CBS hadnt 
given the wrong figure to begin with.
Nonetheless, it did give them the wrong figure, but insofar as the higher figure is the right 
one  and Miss C and Mr R would have ended up paying it anyway  the loss theyve 
suffered isnt financial. Theyve merely had their expectations raised; the mistake was 
regrettable, but mistakes do sometimes happen. I appreciate its caused Miss C and Mr R some stress, but in my view, the compensation 
CBS has already paid them is fair in all the circumstances. If CBS hadnt already made the 
gesture, I would not be awarding more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final 
decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C and Mr R 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 July 2020.
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman