DRN-4279790
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC acted irresponsibly when it provided him
two loans, one in July 2021 and the second one in March 2022.
Background
Mr H has complained that Barclays acted irresponsibly when it provided him with multiple
forms of credit between July 2021 and March 2022. He has explained that he has a
compulsive gambling problem that has resulted in him becoming over reliant on credit and
unable to manage his finances properly. He believes that Barclays contributed to his debt by
providing him with two loans and an overdraft during a time when his gambling was getting
out of control. He believes the bank shouldve realised that he wasnt managing his finances
well and shouldve refused to provide him with any additional credit.
Barclays has said that when Mr H applied for his loans there was no evidence to show they
may not be affordable to him. It has said that there was no evidence of gambling on his
account statements and that it ran all the necessary checks prior to providing him with the
loans and overdraft and its satisfied the lending appeared to be both affordable and
sustainable. On that basis it didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Unhappy with Barclays response Mr H brought his complaint to our service. We split Mr Hs
complaint into two separate issues, one about the lending decisions for the loans and the 
second one about the lending decisions around the overdraft. This decision is considering 
whether or not Barclays acted irresponsibly when it provided Mr H with the two personal 
loans. 
I issued a provisional decision on 17 August 2023. In it I said that the checks completed by 
Barclays at the time Mr H applied for his first loan were proportionate based on his 
circumstances and lending history at that time. However, I felt that when he applied for the 
second loan in March 2022, Barclays shouldve done more in-depth checks. If it had it 
wouldve realised the extent of Mr Hs compulsive gambling and the harm it was causing 
him. As such I didnt think that Barclays shouldve provided Mr H with the second loan and 
explained I intended to uphold this loan and ask Barclays to pay Mr H some compensation in 
recognition of the distress the lending decision caused him. 
I asked both parties to respond to the provisional decision by 14 September 2023. 
Mr H responded saying he agreed with the outcome but wanted to know if the second loan 
would be deleted from his credit file as part of my instruction. 
Barclays didnt respond to the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has raised any new points my reasoning for partially upholding Mr Hs 
complaint remains the same. For the sake of fullness I will repeat it here and will clarify the 
point around amending Mr Hs credit file at the end of that rationale. 
Mr H applied for two loans with Barclays. Ill discuss them in chronological order.
July 2021 loan for £15,000
In July 2021 Mr H applied for, and was given, a loan of £15,000 over five years at a monthly
repayment of approximately £391 per month.
At this time Mr H did have some other credit, he had recently (June 2021) taken out a
£15,000 loan with a credit union and also had a second loan, that appears to have been
peer-to-peer lending, taken in February 2021 that had a repayment value of over £16,100. In
addition to these two loans there was also a hire purchase agreement from April 2021, that
had a repayment value of nearly £10,700.
So, it does seem that just before Mr H applied to Barclays for his first loan that his overall
indebtedness had increased. However, this alone isnt enough to stop Barclays from
providing him with more credit. Looking at Mr Hs credit file, all the existing accounts were
being maintained and despite the increased lending prior to taking the loan in July 2021, it
did seem that the additional loan would be affordable to him.
I have to add here that although Barclays wouldve reviewed Mr Hs credit score prior to
providing him with the first loan, its unlikely that the loan he took with the credit union in
June 2021, wouldve shown on his credit file as it had only been granted a few weeks prior to
the second loan. Normally credit files are updated on a monthly basis. And although
Barclays had access to Mr Hs bank statements and arguably shouldve queried the large
credit on his account in June, its unlikely it looked at them in that much detail. Rather its
more likely it was focused on ensuring the account was well managed, not going into
unarranged overdrafts or having direct debits or standing orders returned unpaid.
So even though there were indications in July 2021 that Mr Hs finances were starting to
become unmanageable I dont think there was enough happening on the account at that
time to flag to Barclays that the lending would be unaffordable or potentially unsustainable in
the future. So, I cant say it acted irresponsibly when it provided the first loan to Mr H. So Im
not upholding this part of his complaint.
March 2022 loan for £9,000
When Mr H applied for the second loan in March 2022 for £9,000 his finances were starting
to spiral. Mr H is self employed and his bank statements show that by this time he was
transferring money from his business multiple times a week to keep his account in credit. In
addition, he was overdrawn by over £3,700 when he applied for this loan; having only
received the £4,000 overdraft approximately two weeks earlier.
This second loan was also over five years and Barclays has said that some of it was used
for debt consolidation because it cleared the overdraft balance when it was credited to the
account.
However, I do think that Barclays shouldve question the sustainability of this loan with Mr H
and taken a closer look at his account and how he was running it before approving the loan.
I say this because the bank had provided him with a £4,000 overdraft just a few weeks prior,
not to mention the £15,000 five-year loan, only eight months before that. And by this stage
there can be no doubt that the other £15,000 loan with the credit union would also beregistered on Mr Hs credit file. As well as the peer-to-peer lending from February 2021.
So, although the basic checks may have indicated this lending would be affordable I think it
was evident at this stage that Mr H was becoming reliant on credit and Barclays shouldve
considered whether or not it was sustainable. If it had done more thorough checks, or indeed
properly reviewed the bank statements that were available on its systems, I dont think it
wouldve provided Mr H with this second loan. And so, I intend to uphold this part of Mr Hs
complaint.
Mr H has explained that as a result of obtaining all of the credit he did his gambling spiralled
out of control. He had to continually borrow more money to stay on top of the debt he had
already amassed and by the end of 2022 was relying on loans from friends, family and high-
cost credit, to maintain his existing debt. I think that the lending decisions Barclays made
contributed to that and for that reason I think it should pay Mr H £300 compensation for the
distress caused.
Mr H has asked if Barclays should remove any record of the second loan from his credit file. 
Generally, when we say that a business shouldnt have provided lending to a consumer, we 
direct a business to remove any adverse information recorded on their credit file that is 
linked to any interest, fees or chargers associated with the loan. This often results in all the 
adverse information being removed where credit repayments have been kept up to date, or 
where no outstanding balance remains.  
However, I wont ask Barclays to remove all evidence of the lending agreement from Mr Hs 
credit file as he is still obliged to repay the capital amount borrowed and if he is unable to do 
this, then it is possible negative markers could be added to his credit file in the future. We 
take this approach as it is important that credit files reflect the true nature of consumers 
lending history. 
Putting things right
I dont think Barclays should have provided the second loan to Mr H so I dont think its fair
for it to charge any interest or charges on that loan. However, Mr H did have access to the
funds he borrowed, and not all of it was used for gambling, and so I do think he needs to pay
back the capital amount he borrowed. Therefore, if my decision becomes final I think
Barclays should:
Refund all the interest and charges added onto the capital amount Mr H borrowed in
March 2022
Work out an affordable repayment plan with Mr H for the balance owed
Pay Mr H £300 compensation in recognition of the harm caused by providing him
with access to more credit when he was already showing clear signs of vulnerability
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Hs credit file relating to the loan 
taken in March 2022
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I partially uphold Mr Hs complaint against Barclays Bank UK 
PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Karen HanlonOmbudsman