DRN-3028931
complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) taken in 1999. The 
cover was increased with further advances taken in 2001 and 2003. Mrs W says 
Lloyds Bank PLC, Cheltenham & Gloucester at the time, (Lloyds) mis-sold her the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which include much of 
Mrs Ws circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations 
and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here. 
Mrs W was in employment at the time of the original policy sale and the increases. Shes told 
us of a health issue she saw her doctor for around three years before the original sale and 
for which she took medication but didnt take any time off work.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mrs Ws representatives disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated complaint points and arguments theyd previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ws. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Ws 
complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
Mrs W has said the PPI was just included with her mortgage. But I think it likely Lloyds 
made it clear Mrs W didnt have to take the PPI and she chose to take it. 
For example, Mrs Ws application forms for the mortgage and increases all had boxes to 
tick to say either yes or no to wanting the PPI. On her forms, the yes box was ticked 
each time  and I think she wouldve known that if she didnt want cover the no box 
shouldve been ticked instead. Also, Mrs W signed a separate PPI application form to 
apply for the PPI each time and signed a separate direct debit each time to pay for it. So 
I think it likely she was aware the PPI was something separate from the mortgage and 
something about which she had a separate decision to make.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs W so it had to check that the PPI was right for her. 
And the evidence about Mrs Ws circumstances at the time, shows that the policy wasnt 
unsuitable for her. For example, she was eligible for it and wouldve suffered a loss of 
income if she couldnt work due disability or unemployment for longer than her existing 
cover would last. So the policy benefit couldve helped her in that situation. Benefit could 
not be claimed after age 65 or if Mrs W retired or gave up work, but she wasnt yet in her 
mid-fifties when she first took the policy. So I think the cover, and increases, had enough 
time to run to be worthwhile when Lloyds recommended them to Mrs W. It also looks like 
the cover was affordable for her.
Mrs W couldnt claim if she missed work due to the health issue shes told us she had 
that started around three years before the sale and for which she took tablets.  But taking 
into account all shes told us about this, including that she hadnt missed any work with it, 
I still dont think it was wrong for Lloyds to have recommended Mrs W the cover  given 
what it still covered her for. Also there were no additional restrictions on cover for mental 
health or back problems  and nothing about Mrs Ws job or employment wouldve made 
it hard for her to claim.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found she chose to take it, and I dont think she wouldve taken 
it without at least a broad understanding of what it covered. I think it likely she 
understood, broadly, that it was cover to help with her mortgage and related costs if she 
couldnt work due to disability or unemployment.  So it looks to me like she wanted this 
type of cover. It wasnt unsuitable for her, as I concluded above, and it seems like it 
wouldve been useful for her if something went wrong in the circumstances it covered. 
Also, as I think it likely she understood it was cover in case disability or unemployment 
stopped her working, I think unlikely Mrs W wouldve thought she could claim on it after 
she gave up work. I think the cover was near enough to what its likely Mrs W thought 
she was buying from the information its likely she was given  and, with this and all Ive 
said above in mind, I dont think she wouldve declined it had Lloyds done anything more.
Overall, I consider Mrs W would have still taken PPI. I think the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. I also think the policy was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting. And in those circumstances, 
I think that she would have taken the policy in any event.
Mrs Ws representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; that these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and that the duty of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor 
value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had 
on the chances of making a claim.
Mrs Ws representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Ws individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Ws particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this 
complaint. This means Lloyds doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs W to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 November 2021. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman