DRN-3605821
The complaint
Ms S has complained about National House-Building Council (NHBC). She feels it hasnt 
treated her fairly after she made a claim on her building warranty policy in relation to her 
damp proof course (DPC).
What happened
Ms S bought a new-build property in March 2019, thats covered by a ten-year building 
warranty policy. During the first two years of cover, she reported a number of issues with her 
new home. Ive already explained to Ms S separately that a number of her concerns relating 
to her garage roof cant be considered by this Service as they are not about a regulated 
activity. So, this decision will solely focus on Ms S complaint about the DPC in her garage. 
She would like NHBC to reinstall the DPC.
As Ms S is aware this Service can look at complaints when NHBC has issued a resolution 
report which directs the housebuilder to do something by a deadline and the builder has 
failed to do this or is insolvent. When this happens NHBC is seen to be acting as an insurer 
and carrying out a regulated activity, even if NHBC continues to use the homebuilder to 
complete the necessary work. 
Ms S discovered the defects with the garage DPC and raised these with the builder within 
the first two years of completion. NHBC then acted as a mediator between Ms S and the 
builder in providing a resolution service. It decided there was a technical breach and 
produced a resolution report on 4 November 2020 requiring the builder to repair the defect 
with the garage DPC. The repairs were required to be completed by 21 December 2020. The 
builder had only undertaken part of the DPC work, to the side of the garage but not the front, 
when Ms S complained to NHBC in September 2021.
But, when Ms S contacted NHBC about this in September 2021 it said it wasnt aware that 
the builder hadnt undertaken all the work. So, it told Ms S it would liaise with the builder in 
order to get the remaining work undertaken and would take over the builders responsibilities 
if for any reason it didnt complete the work. As Ms S remained unhappy about this she 
complained to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into things for her but didnt uphold her complaint. Although she 
could understand Ms S frustration she didnt think NHBC had acted unreasonably. This was 
because she thought NHBCs confirmation that it would liaise with the builder in looking to 
ensure the work was undertaken now or it would step in and undertake the work itself if this 
failed was a fair way to proceed. As Ms S didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for 
review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I can understand why Ms S remains frustrated, as she simply wanted the 
work done and her builder only completed part of the DPC work that was required. However, 
I agree with our investigator that NHBC has looked to take reasonable steps to remedy the 
situation once it was made aware of the problem by Ms S. And I must highlight that Ive only 
considered what happened up to NHBCs final response letter (FRL) of 25 November 2021. 
And as our investigator explained to Ms S if she remains unhappy about anything after this 
date she will need to raise a separate complaint about this. 
I also think its important to explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been 
said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the 
crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to 
reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I 
dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question 
raised unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
As our investigator outlined the timeline of events leading up to Ms S complaint I dont 
intend to go over this again here. It is regrettable that the builder didnt undertake all the 
work that was required in relation to the DPC at the garage after the resolution report. And I 
can understand why Ms S was unhappy about this.
However, NHBC has acted fairly and reasonably and in line with its obligations when looking 
to put this matter right. When Ms S first made it aware of the defects it acted as a mediator 
between Ms S and the builder and provided a resolution service and concluded there was a 
technical breach. And its resolution report required the builder to repair the defect with the 
garage DPC. Unfortunately the builder didnt undertake all of the required works and only 
rectified the DPC to the side of the garage and not the front. 
NHBC wasnt aware that all of the work hadnt been completed until September 2021 when 
Ms S made them aware. And once it was aware it clarified the position with Ms S and agreed 
a plan of action with the builder to put things right. It isnt clear why the builder didnt 
complete the rectification work fully in the first place but NHBC has acted fairly in looking to 
ensure it completes the work now. In its FRL it said that it will look to resolve the matter and 
will liaise with the builder to ensure the DPC to the front of the garage is completed. And if 
the builder refuses for any reason it will step in and take over the builders responsibilities 
under the policy terms.
Given all of this, and the circumstances of the claim, I think NHBCs proposals here seem 
fair. It has offered to step in if the builder doesnt complete the work which is in line with the 
kind of steps I would ask it to take in any event. So Ill simply leave NHBC to advance this 
now and Im not recommending it does anything further to resolve this complaint. I would 
expect NHBC to give Ms S meaningful updates about the progress of this and Ms S is free to 
complain again if it hasnt acted fairly since that time or she has any further complaints. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I think the actions taken by the National House-
Building Council in relation to this complaint are reasonable. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or reject my decision before 
31 August 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman