DRN-4160458
The complaint
Mr D complains Santander UK Plc cancelled a direct debit on his credit card.
What happened
Mr D has a credit card with Santander and hadnt used it for some time. Mr D previously had 
a direct debit set up to pay the card.
A new card was ordered, and Mr D used the card. Santander sent Mr D a statement, but he 
didnt make a payment, thinking the direct debit was still active. Santander sent a statement 
the following month, showing the missed payment, and Mr D made a payment to the card.
But Santander charged Mr D a late payment fee and added a missed payment marker to his 
credit file. Mr D says this missed payment marker stopped him getting a better deal on 
finance for a new vehicle.
Mr D complained to Santander, saying it was unfair he wasnt told the direct debit had been 
cancelled.
Santander replied to say it cancelled the direct debit because it hadnt been used for 13 
months. Santander said it wouldnt remove the missed payment from the credit file because 
this was an accurate record.
Santander sent a follow up final response and said Mr Ds direct debit had been 
automatically cancelled because it hadnt been used for more than 60 months. Santander 
still didnt agree to remove the missed payment marker.
Unhappy with these answers, Mr D brought his complaint to this service. An investigator 
looked into things and didnt think Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. The investigator said 
Pay.UK, which oversees the direct debit scheme, says direct debits should be cancelled 
after a minimum of 24 months without being used.
The investigator said Mr Ds direct debit hadnt been used for at least seven years, so it was 
reasonable for Santander to cancel it. The investigator also said Mr Ds statements provided 
details of how to pay and didnt say a direct debit was active.
The investigator could see Mr D didnt make a payment to his credit card one month, so it 
was fair for Santander to add a missed payment marker to his credit file. Mr D didnt agree 
and said he made a payment as soon as he saw hed missed one the previous month. Mr D 
asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute Mr D missed a payment to his credit card. I need to decide if its fair for 
Santander to record this missed payment on Mr Ds credit file.
Santander says Mr D has held a credit card for some time. Mr D had a balance on his credit 
card in January 2016, and this was the last time a payment was made by direct debit.
Mr D says he ordered a new card around November 2022 and spent on it that month. 
Santander sent Mr D a statement in December 2022, letting him know what the minimum 
payment for the month would be.
On the front of the statement it says details of how you can make your payment are shown 
overleaf. On the back of the statement it lists the ways to pay and it says if youd like to set 
up a Direct Debit. I think it was clear Santander wouldnt be taking the minimum payment for 
the month by direct debit.
I accept Mr D wasnt told his direct debit had been cancelled, and I accept Mr D wouldnt 
necessarily have known about the process of direct debits becoming dormant. But 
Santander hadnt claimed on the direct debit for over six years.
In the circumstances, and looking at the relevant guidance, I dont think its unreasonable 
Santander recorded the direct debit as dormant.
And Santander was clear, on its statements, that Mr D had to make a payment. And it should 
have been clear to Mr D there was no direct debit set up to make this payment, so he would 
need to pay a different way.
Mr D didnt pay another way, and missed the payment, so in the individual circumstances of 
this complaint I think its fair for Santander to record this on his credit file. Mr D missed a 
payment, and Santander has an obligation to record accurate information on credit files.
Because I dont think Santander did anything wrong here, I wont be asking it to remove the 
missed payment from Mr Ds credit file. And because of this, I dont think it would be fair for 
Santander to compensate Mr D for any effect the missed payment markers had.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023. 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman