DRN-4061601
The complaint
Mr W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) didnt do enough to protect him when he 
fell victim to a scam and wont reimburse the money he lost. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry that Mr W has been the victim of a cruel scam, I agree with 
the overall conclusions reached by the investigator for the following reasons:
Its not in dispute that the funds were ultimately lost to a scam. Its also not in dispute 
that Mr W authorised the payments from his HSBC account, through a combination 
of debit card and faster payments, albeit not realising he was being scammed. So, 
the starting position  in line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017  is that 
hes liable for the transactions.
But there are some situations where we believe that banks  taking into account 
relevant law, regulations and good industry practice  ought to have identified a fraud 
risk, so should have looked at the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction 
before processing a payment. If HSBC failed to do so, and that failure led to a 
fraudulent loss, it might be fair to hold it liable.
Ive considered whether HSBC ought to have made additional checks on the 
disputed payments. And I dont think it ought to have. Part of the reason I say this is 
based on who most of the payments were going to. Mr W made these payments 
expecting them to ultimately reach a company Ill call N. I note theres a warning on 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) register about N, but this warning was added 
in January 2023  which is some time after the disputed payments were made. And, 
crucially, the payments werent made to N as far as HSBC would have been aware  
most were being made by faster payment to Mr Ws own account with a legitimate 
cryptocurrency exchange.
The remaining payments were being made to merchants which also didnt (and dont) 
have warnings on the FCA register or the International Organisation of Securities 
Commissions (IOSCO). So, I dont think HSBC ought to have intervened based on 
any warnings about the recipient of the funds.
Im also not persuaded HSBC ought to have intervened when I consider the payment 
amounts. I dont consider the payments to have been particularly unusual or out of 
character. In total, Mr W made payments totalling just over £3,300 across a period of 
approximately two weeks, with the lowest payment being around £208 and the 
highest being £1,000. 
I wouldnt expect the lower of these payments to have flagged as they simply werent 
high enough to look unusual. And, while I note Mr Ws spending on the account 
wasnt typically very high, I dont consider even the highest payment (of £1,000) to be 
significant enough in value to have triggered HSBCs fraud alert systems. And, by the 
time this payment was made, Mr W had already made multiple payments to the 
company  a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange platform  across the 
aforementioned two-week period. So, Im not persuaded HSBC ought to have been 
alert to a possible risk of fraud or a scam given the circumstances involved in this 
particular case. And I therefore wouldnt have expected it to intervene.
Ive thought about whether HSBC could reasonably have done more to help Mr W to 
recover the funds once it was made aware of the scam. But the majority of the 
payments were made to a cryptocurrency account in Mr Ws name and, seemingly, 
control before being transferred on to the scammer. By the time this was reported to 
HSBC, its unlikely any of the funds would have remained (as, if they did, Mr W likely 
could have removed them himself), though I note HSBC did approach the beneficiary 
bank anyway. And the payments made by card were unlikely to lead to a successful 
chargeback on the basis of a lack of evidence to satisfy the chargeback and the time 
frames involved. So, I dont think HSBC could reasonably have done more to recover 
the funds. 
For the sake of completeness, I note that almost £900 was recovered but this was 
after all the payments had been made so doesnt impact what Ive outlined above  it 
simply means the overall loss here is slightly lower, totalling around £2,400. 
While Im sorry about Mr Ws loss, based on the circumstances of this case, I dont think it 
was caused by a failing of HSBCs part.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman