DRN-4182050
The complaint
Mr S complains that Nationwide Building Society unfairly declined his application to borrow 
additional funds on his mortgage after giving him incorrect information about its lending 
criteria.
What happened
Mr S has a mortgage with Nationwide. In March 2023 he discussed borrowing an additional 
amount on his mortgage. He said he originally asked to borrow to repay debt, but was told 
the loan-to-value (LTV) was too high for that. So he decided to borrow money for home 
improvements instead. 
Mr S told Nationwide that he thought his flat was worth £120,000. He asked to increase his 
total borrowing to £100,000 (83% LTV), as this was under what Nationwide told him was the 
maximum LTV threshold of 90%. 
The application was approved in principle. But when the valuation was carried out, the 
surveyor valued the property at £115,000. That made the LTV just under 87%. Nationwide 
declined the application. It said that the maximum LTV for flats was 85%.
Mr S complains that Nationwide gave him incorrect information about the maximum LTV. He 
said hed paid a deposit of £200 for home improvements based on what Nationwide had told 
him. Hed lost that money as he was unable to proceed without the mortgage. Mr S said 
everything that happened caused him a lot of stress.
Our investigator thought that Nationwides offer to pay Mr S £75 for any distress and 
inconvenience was fair. She did not think that Nationwide should compensate Mr S for the 
lost deposit as Nationwide had been clear that the application was subject to valuation.
Mr S responded to reiterate his position that Nationwide gave him incorrect information and 
led him to believe that the mortgage was in place. He said he was told the maximum LTV 
was 90% and it was only when the application as declined that Nationwide said it was 
actually 85%.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that Nationwide gave Mr S incorrect information about the LTV. I agree it 
should have taken much more care to give Mr S accurate information at all stages of the 
application process. I accept what Mr S has told us, including that he was left with the 
impression that there would be no problem with the application and it had a high prospect of 
success.
The mortgage illustration said that it had been produced on the information provided so far 
and did not constitute any obligation for Nationwide to grant Mr S a loan. And the decision in 
principle set out clearly and prominently that the application was subject to valuation, along 
with other checks. Overall, it would be difficult for me to find that Nationwide had told Mr S 
the application had definitely been approved. The evidence we have is that it told Mr S it was 
subject to further checks  and Mr S could have queried that if it was different to what hed 
been told.
Where a business has made a mistake, we look to put the affected party back in the position 
they would have been in had the mistake not occurred. In this case, that would have meant 
that Nationwide gave Mr S the correct information about the LTV throughout the application 
process  that the maximum LTV was 85%. Mr S would not have seen any problem with that 
as his expectation was his home was valued at £120,000. So the borrowing he wanted 
would still have been under 85% LTV. I cant see that Mr S would have done anything 
differently if hed been given the correct information. 
It was Mr Ss decision to pay a deposit for home improvements without knowing that 
Nationwide had definitely approved the application. In the circumstances, that seems likely 
to have happened even if hed been given the correct information about the LTV. I dont 
consider it would be fair for me to say that Nationwide should reimburse Mr S for that, 
bearing in mind it had not told him that the application had been approved.
I think it is likely that Mr S would still have gone through the application process if Nationwide 
had given him the correct information. So I cant tell Nationwide to compensate Mr S for any 
stress or inconvenience caused by that  or for his decision to pay a deposit for home 
improvements and any upset caused by losing that money.
I accept that Mr S had his expectations raised unfairly because of the incorrect information 
Nationwide gave him and he would have been disappointed when he found out the correct 
position. But in all the circumstances, I think that Nationwides offer of £75 is fair and 
reasonable.
My final decision
Nationwide has already made an offer to pay Mr S £75 to settle the complaint and I think this 
offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
My decision is that Nationwide Building Society should pay Mr S £75. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman