DRN-1112529
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Rock Insurance Service Limited mis-sold him travel insurance. 
What happened
Mr C applied for travel insurance through a price comparison website. His mobile phone was 
unfortunately stolen while he was on holiday. He sought to claim for it but was disappointed 
to learn the policy didnt include cover for mobile phones. 
Mr C complained that the policy had been mis-sold as he wasnt made aware his mobile 
phone wouldnt be covered. He said if hed been aware he wouldnt have taken out the 
cover. 
Rock Insurance didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. It explained the policy wording made it clear 
what was and wasnt included in cover. It also noted that Mr C had been given no advice 
about which policy to take out. 
Mr C remained unhappy so referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. He was satisfied that the policy wording was 
sufficiently clear that mobile phones werent included. He also didnt think the exclusion was 
particularly significant or unusual, so he didnt think it needed to be specifically drawn to his 
attention. 
Mr C disagreed and asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for much the same reason as the 
investigator. 
By taking out insurance through a price comparison website, Mr C was accepting that hed 
be provided with information about the cover on offer, but it was ultimately for him to decide 
if the policy met his specific needs. 
Im satisfied that Mr C was given an opportunity to review the policy terms and conditions 
before he took out cover. Indeed he was required to tick a box to confirm hed read the policy 
documentation before he could take out the cover. The policy terms and conditions set out 
that mobile phones or smart phones arent covered by the policy. 
Mr C was also provided with a policy summary which set out the key limitations to cover. 
While this didnt specifically state that mobile phones werent included, it confirmed that he 
wouldnt be covered for Anything mentioned in the sections marked What you are not 
covered for and the General Exclusions in the policy wording. The policy terms and conditions are clearly laid out based on the type of claim. In each section its clearly 
highlighted what isnt covered.
I agree with the investigator that it wouldn't be possible for the policy summary to highlight 
each and every exclusion that applied to the policy. Instead, it should highlight the most 
significant and unusual policy terms. 
I dont think the mobile phone exclusion was either significant or unusual. Travel insurance 
policies often exclude cover for mobile phones and other gadgets, or only include cover for 
an additional premium. Indeed Ive seen that other price comparison websites ask at the 
outset if gadget cover is required, as this will limit the insurers that are able to offer this type 
of insurance. I cant hold Rock Insurance responsible for the fact that the price comparison 
website Mr C used didnt include this feature. As its common across the industry for travel 
insurers to exclude cover for mobile phones, I cant say the exclusion was unusual. 
I also dont agree the exclusion was so significant it needed to be specifically highlighted 
beyond the general exclusion that was included in the policy summary. Generally Id 
consider an exclusion to be significant if it had the potential to fundamentally limit the cover 
that was available or if it required the consumer to take some action in order to be covered.
Im also mindful of the fact that the policy cost Mr C £3.77. Given that hed chosen a budget 
insurance policy, I think it shouldve been clear to him that the policy wouldnt cover 
everything a more comprehensive, and therefore expensive, policy may cover. Im satisfied 
that Rock Insurance did enough to highlight to Mr C that his policy was subject to exclusions 
in addition to those specifically listed in the policy summary, and it was for him to review the 
exclusions and satisfy himself that the policy was suitable for his needs. 
Having carefully considered all the evidence, Im not persuaded the policy was mis-sold so 
Im not asking Rock Insurance to do anything further.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2019.
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman