DRN-4356365
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire agreement with Lex Autolease Ltd 
trading as Land Rover Contract Hire was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In November 2021, Mr B was supplied with a new car through a hire agreement with Lex. He 
paid an initial rental of £5,912.78 and the agreement was for 48 months; with 47 monthly hire 
rentals of £614.76 and 47 monthly service rental payments of £42.22.
Mr B complained that the car had broken down several times while it was in his possession 
and, in February 2023, he raised a complaint with Lex. They upheld his complaint as there 
had been multiple issues with the car. And they offered him £832.27 compensation.
Mr B wasnt happy with Lexs offer, and he brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation. While the matter was being investigated, Lex 
increased their offer of compensation, and they said Mr B would be able to terminate the 
agreement early, with no termination costs to pay.
Our investigator said there were faults with the car that meant it wasnt sufficiently durable. 
Which made it of an unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied. However, she said that the 
faults had now been fixed, and there was no evidence theyd reoccurred. And, in these 
circumstances, we wouldnt usually say the car could be returned and the agreement ended.
Because of this, the investigator thought that Lexs offer was reasonable in the 
circumstances, and she didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Mr B didnt think the investigator had fully considered hed had issues with the car for around 
18-months. And he explained how this had affected him. He also explained how this had 
affected his wife, and she was reluctant to drive the car due to warning lights, and this meant 
he had to make major changes to my daily life as a result. And he needed to buy a second 
car because of this. So, while he was happy to return the car, he didnt think the 
compensation offered was sufficient for all the inconvenience and stress caused to both 
himself and his wife.
Because Mr B didnt agree, this matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr B was supplied with a car under a hire 
agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to 
investigate complaints about it.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, Lex 
are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other relevant 
circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage at the 
time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Lex can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified after 
the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Mr B to show it was present when the car 
was supplied.
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr B took possession of it, or that the car wasnt 
sufficiently durable, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and 
reasonable to ask Lex to put this right.
In this instance, its not disputed there were faults with the car, nor that these made the car 
of an unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr B, due to the lack of reasonable 
durability. As such, Im satisfied that I dont need to consider the merits of this issue within 
my decision. However, I will address the impact of the faults, as these are pertinent to the 
impact on Mr B, and what I think is reasonable compensation.
Based on what hes said during the complaint, Mr B is looking for a refund of his deposit, a 
refund of some monthly rental payments, reimbursement for the alternate transport costs 
hes incurred, and compensation for the time hes spent dealing with this matter, based on 
his consultancy rate of £1,000 plus VAT a day.
While this is noted, Mr B didnt pay a deposit, but an initial rental. An initial rental is used to 
reduce the monthly rental payments and, had this not been paid, then the monthly rental 
payment would be higher. As such, Mr B has had the benefit of this initial rental payment for 
each month hes been in possession of the car. Given this, even if I were to say the initial 
rental should be refunded to Mr B, this would only be done on a pro-rata basis to reflect the 
benefit Mr B has received, and not the whole amount refunded.
Whats more, our approach to compensation is based on the impact this has had on the 
customer. In circumstances such as this, we dont consider loss of earnings. So, any 
compensation would be considered on this basis.
In his comments on the investigators view, Mr B has explained how this situation has 
impacted both him and his wife. While I appreciate that his wife was affected by whats 
happened, the agreement with Lex was in Mr Bs sole name. As such, Mr Bs wife wasnt a 
customer of Lex. My powers only allow me to consider customers of the financial business. 
So, and while I dont mean to belittle how Mr Bs wife has been affected, Ill only be 
considering how Mr B has been directly impacted by whats happened when deciding what is 
a fair compensation.Mr B has said the issues with the car started in early 2022, a few months after the car was 
supplied to him, when it failed dangerously. The warranty repair history shows the car 
broke down on 15 April 2022 due to a charging fault that affected the gearbox. Mr B has 
confirmed that the alternator was replaced, and Ive seen no evidence that shows me the 
fault has reoccurred. As such, Im satisfied this was a successful repair.
I also havent seen anything that shows me the issue with the alternator resulted in the car 
being dangerous to drive or otherwise being unfit to be driven.
Mr B had a second breakdown on 26 May 2022, due to a punctured tyre. I havent seen 
anything that shows me the puncture was because of the tyre not being fit for purpose at the 
point the car was supplied to Mr B. As such, Im satisfied this was more likely than not 
caused by something the car had driven over. And I wont be considering this breakdown as 
part of my overall decision.
Mr B has also said he had non-stop issues with the car between March and August 2023, 
caused by an issue with the fuel injectors. This resulted in him being without use of the car 
for six days, and he had alternate transport costs of £191 during this period. He also said 
that he considered the car to be unsafe, dangerous to drive, and highly likely to break down 
again. In late March 2023, Mr B chose to hire a car for a family holiday abroad, rather than 
use the car supplied by Lex.
Mr B has said that, in February 2023, while driving on a busy motorway, a warning light 
came on, and the car lost power intermittently. After pulling over to restart the car, which 
didnt fix the fault, he continued his journey, but did so at a maximum speed of 40mph due to 
the fault. The warranty repair history shows the car displayed a warning light for a fuel 
injector on 13 February 2023, which resulted in a slight misfire. This was fixed on 27 
February 2023, and Mr B was supplied with a courtesy car while the repair was taking place. 
Mr B didnt return the courtesy car, and collect the car supplied by Lex, until 16 March 2023. 
At this point the car was displaying a warning light for a low battery, so Mr B refused to 
accept it. He considered this meant the car was extremely dangerous [and] was the same 
fault that nearly killed my family previously. The garage wasnt able to provide him with a 
courtesy car that day, so he took a taxi home. Hes provided taxi receipts for journeys taken 
between 16 and 21 March 2023, totalling £132.
The car was fixed and returned to Mr B on 21 March 2023. A warning light came on again 24 
March 2023, and Mr B took the car back to the dealership the same day, when he was 
provided with another courtesy car. The car supplied by Lex was repaired on 5 April 2023, 
when the wiring to the fuel injectors was replaced. Ive seen nothing that shows me this fault 
reoccurred, or anything to show me that the car was dangerous or otherwise unfit to be 
driven after this repair had been completed.
Mr B has said that, after the car was returned in April 2023, his wife stopped driving it. Which 
resulted in him having to make extra journeys for family commitments etc. And this has been 
disruptive and impacted his ability to work.
A warning light came on the car again on 30 June 2023, which related to the exhaust gas 
recirculation system. This was fixed by a breakdown company the same day. However, this 
fault reoccurred on 21 July 2023, which was fixed the same day by a breakdown company (a 
blocked filter was replaced). Ive seen nothing to show me this fault has reoccurred.
Mr B took delivery of a new car on 12 September 2023, and he says he stopped using the 
car supplied by Lex from this date. Hes also said that hes now under pressure financially due to having to make payments for two cars, which includes insurance costs. And hed like 
this to be accounted for in any compensation awarded.
Its clear from what Ive seen that Mr B has been significantly impacted by whats happened. 
And Id expect Lex to compensate him for this. Id also expect Lex to either refund the 
payments hes made for the periods of time he was without the use of the car they supplied 
or a courtesy car, or to reimburse his alternate transport costs for these periods. However, I 
wouldnt expect them to do both, as this would result in Mr B having received free 
transportation, which I dont consider fair or reasonable.
Mr B has financed a new car, which comes with its own costs, and has resulted in financial 
pressures. And hes done this because he feels the car supplied by Lex is unsafe/dangerous 
to drive and doing so puts his familys lives at risk. While I appreciate his strength of feeling 
about this, and its clear the car has had a number of breakdowns due to unconnected 
issues, I havent seen anything, for example an independent engineers report, that says the 
car shouldnt be driven, as to do so would be dangerous. As such, it was Mr Bs own choice 
to finance a second car, and I wouldnt expect Lex to cover either the costs of this or 
reimburse any rentals for the period when Mr B was in possession of two cars.
As stated above, I also havent seen anything to show me that the car supplied by Lex has 
any ongoing faults that were present or developing at the point of supply, or that any of the 
previous repairs has failed. As such, the CRA doesnt support rejection of the car, and I 
wouldnt expect Lex to offer this to Mr B.
Turning now to what Lex have offered. And Ive seen offers have been made, and improved 
on, in the final response letter they sent to Mr B, and in various correspondence throughout 
the complaints process.
In their final complaint response letter, Lex offered to refund six days payments for the first 
period of time Mr B was without a car. On 22 August 2023 they said they would also refund 
the payments for when Mr B was without a car between 17 and 21 March 2023. For the 
reasons already given Im satisfied this is a reasonable offer. And I wouldnt expect Lex to 
also refund Mr B his taxi costs during these periods.
In addition to this, Lex have offered to refund Mr B 20% of the rental payments he made for 
32 days, to compensate him for the loss of enjoyment of the car he had. And theyve said 
theyd pay 8% simple annual interest from the date of when Mr B made these payments, to 
the date of the refund (less tax). This is more than I wouldve directed in the circumstances.
As Ive already said, under the CRA Mr B doesnt have the right of rejection. However, Lex 
have said he can terminate the agreement early, with no additional termination costs (except 
any pro-rata additional mileage costs, or the costs of any damage to the car that falls outside 
fair wear and tear). On 9 June 2023, Lex also said they would provide a pro-rata refund of 
the initial rental payment upon termination. Again, this is more than I wouldve directed in the 
circumstances.
Finally, as Ive said, Mr B was significantly inconvenienced by whats happened. Lex have 
offered to pay him £500 for the stress and inconvenience hes suffered, which is in line with 
what I wouldve directed had no recommendation been made. So, I wouldnt expect them to 
increase this.
As such, I wont be asking Lex to do anything more, and its now for Mr B to decide whether 
to accept their offer.My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about Lex Autolease Ltd trading 
as Land Rover Contract Hire.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman