DRN-2272504
The complaint
 Mr M complains, through a claims management company (CMC) that he was given 
unsuitable investment advice by Barclays Bank UK PLC because he was advised to invest 
too much money and the investments were too risky.
What happened
 The CMC raised a complaint regarding various investments. Barclays said it wasnt the 
selling agent for two of the investments. It also identified another reference relating to 
another possible investment but had no information, and Mr M said he had no recollection of 
this investment.
Regarding the two other investments Mr M had complained about, the information available 
shows that Mr M saw an adviser in 1999 to discuss investing some of his available capital. 
The adviser recommended he invest £7,000 in the Scottish Equitable Technology fund ISA. 
In 2000 Mr M invested a further £7,000 into the Henderson Global Technology fund.
 
In its final response letter Barclays said that both funds were suitable for Mr Ms recorded 
medium risk appetite and the amount invested wasnt too much of his available capital. It 
said that the adviser had noted Mr M specifically wanted to invest in technology funds having 
read an article about these.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and also thought that the two funds were 
suitable for Mr M. He noted Barclays wasnt responsible for the sale of two other investments 
and said Mr M needed to contact those businesses. He also noted there was no information 
about another potential investment and explained that without any evidence about this we 
wouldnt be able to consider this.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigator that the two technology funds were suitable for a 
medium risk investor and asked for a review by an ombudsman.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 The CMC raised two specific issues about suitability of the investments made by Mr M  
namely that he was advised to invest too much and that the investments that he was 
recommended were too risky. I have considered those two specific issues and the overall 
suitability of the investments and having done so Im not satisfied that they were unsuitable.
In its original complaint to Barclays the CMC said that Mr M had been advised to invest too 
much because he was advised to invest £25,000 but this seems to include money invested 
in one of the investments Barclays isnt responsible for. 
I am considering a complaint about two investments totalling £14,000. The fact find 
completed at the end of 1999 shows that Mr M had £17,624 in bank accounts, £20,000 in 
premium bonds, just over £45,000 in a fixed rate bond due to mature in early 2001 and 
£17,000 in PEPS. I also note that he had a significant net income each month, after 
deduction of his outgoings. In the circumstances Im not persuaded that investing a total of 
£14,000 was too much of his available capital.
In terms of risk the fact find notes Mr Ms preferred level of risk as medium. This is described 
in the suitability report that was sent to Mr M after the meeting with the adviser, as:
The underlying assets of this type of investment are broadly based being backed by real 
assets such as stocks and shares. This will provide you with the potential to benefit from true 
capital growth over and above inflation. Investment values will fluctuate according to market 
values.
The only information in the fact find as to the selection of the risk category is the comments 
recorded as against the four different risk categories. These show Mr M wasnt interested in 
high risk or very low risk investments but recorded that medium risk sounded right, and that 
low risk was okay for some of his money. 
It is of note that the suitability report of 13 December 1999 records that Mr M had been 
reading several articles in the paper and felt that technology, particularly the internet, were 
areas that had the best potential for growth over the next few years. So, it appears Mr M had 
been making his own enquiries into possible investments before seeing the adviser. Mr M 
also had some previous experience of investment through PEPs and
In the circumstances, based on the evidence I have been provided with, Im not persuaded 
that Mr M was incorrectly identified as a medium risk investor - medium risk being as 
described in the suitability letter.
The CMC has provided no evidence that the Scottish Equitable and Henderson funds 
werent suitable for Mr M as a medium risk investor and they were in accordance with his 
desire to invest in technology-based investments. I have also seen no persuasive evidence 
that the investments werent otherwise suitable for him based on his recorded circumstances 
and needs.
My final decision
 I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 January 2021.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman