DRN-2815550
The complaint
A complains HSBC UK Bank Plc wont transfer the money left in its account after it was 
closed.
What happened
A made a request to HSBC to close the companys account and transfer the funds to an 
account in the United States. The transfer hasnt happened. A feels it has given HSBC all 
the information required to complete the transfer. And A says it made several transfers in the 
past to the same recipient and that HSBC should hold its directors US telephone number. 
HSBC has said A needs to update its contact details because the transaction needs to be 
verified by calling As director on the telephone number it holds for A. HSBC said it is unable 
to transfer the funds until As details have been updated.
The investigator looking at this complaint didnt think we could look at all the complaint that A 
brought to this service because some of it was brought to us too late. Both A and HSBC 
have accepted her view that we can only look at a compliant about HSBC failing to transfer 
the money from 20 June 2019.
The investigator could see that HSBC holds a different telephone number for A to the 
number As director has given on the letters requesting the transfer. She felt it was 
reasonable that as A hadnt stated in these letters it wanted to update its contact details, 
HSBC was unable to change the telephone number and address. She also felt it was 
reasonable for HSBC to need to verify the transfer and to do so it would use the contact 
number in As contact details.
She did, however, recommend the complaint be upheld. This was because she thought 
HSBC had missed an opportunity to resolve the issue sooner when As director contacted it 
by phone in August 2019. She thought this gave it the chance to explain to As director that 
he would need to write a letter saying specifically A wanted to change its contact details. She 
noted that HSBC issued two final response letters on 16 October and 6 November 2019. 
And in these HSBC said it needed As director to write a letter signed in accordance with the 
mandate so it can update As address and telephone number.
The investigator recommended that HSBC pay A £100 compensation and, as it had 
previously said it would do, refund all account charges since October 2018.
HSBC accepted her recommendation.
A did not. It didnt think the compensation she recommended was enough. It said it had been 
deprived of its money and thinks it should receive interest on that money. It said HSBC had 
failed in its obligations to its customer. A said that it had on numerous occasions given 
HSBC the contact details for its director. A had pointed out that in the past it had 
successfully transferred money and the contact details for it had remained unchanged since 
the account was opened. A also said that HSBC should have explained what it needed to do 
when it referred to A updating its contact details in accordance to the signing mandate. A 
also wanted an HSBC employees name who will manage the transfer.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said I could understand the frustration of As director. It 
was, however, As responsibility to ensure HSBC had up-to-date contact details for it. I 
appreciated A had on numerous occasions given As directors contact details to the bank, 
but it did need to let the bank know that it wanted to update As contact details. It hadnt 
done this, and I couldnt hold HSBC responsible for that. I noted A thought it had been 
deprived of its money. I agreed the transfer hadnt happened, but I didnt agree HSBC had 
deprived it of its money. HSBC needed to verify the transfer. It couldnt do so because it 
didnt have up-to-date contact details.
I said I was only able to look at a complaint about what HSBC has done wrong from 20 June 
2019. I am satisfied by 20 June 2019, A knew the transfer wasnt happening because HSBC 
could only verify the transfer by phoning the number it held for A on its system. The fact that 
prior to 2011 transfers could be done without calling this number wasnt something I thought 
was relevant to a transfer many years later. 
Like the investigator, I was also satisfied that HSBC ought to have realised when it spoke to 
As director in August 2019 that A didnt realise what it needed to do to ensure the transfer 
happened. I didnt think HSBC made it clear to A  even though it should have realised As 
director didnt understand - what needed to happen regarding the contact details until its 
October 2019 final response letter.
I could see that even after the October 2019 final response letter As director says he didnt 
understand what needed to happen because HSBC used the words: in accordance with the 
mandate. I can understand the use of jargon might have been confusing to some, but As 
director comes across as a sophisticated person and I didnt think if he was confused by 
these words he would have been confused for long. I also thought he could have contacted 
HSBC to ask it what it meant if he remained confused.
Given HSBC failed to explain things clearly until October 2019 and the sum involved, I 
thought the compensation recommended by the investigator wasnt enough. I noted A would 
like me to award interest. I didnt think this would be fair as I didnt think HSBC deprived A of 
its money. I reminded A that if its contact details were up-to-date then I didnt think it would 
have encountered any of the problems it had encountered. Instead I thought for a few 
months HSBC didnt take the opportunity to help A in a way that I thought it would normally 
expect to do. In these circumstances, I thought it would be fair for HSBC to pay A £300 as 
well as refunding all the charges on the account since October 2018.
A wanted a named individual at HSBC to handle the transfer. I said I was not going to 
require HSBC to provide this. But A could arrange to update its contact details and request 
the transfer before I did my final decision and so if it encountered any further problems it 
could let me know.
Response to my provisional decision
HSBC accepted the provisional decision.
A did not. It maintains it has done all it needs to do to update its contact details. It would like 
a more realistic assessment of compensation and has referred to information already 
supplied to this service. 
I asked the investigator to check with A whether it had managed to complete the transfer 
since the provisional decision. A didnt respond.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate A thinks HSBC has up-to-date contact details for it. It has been explained to A 
that for HSBC to update As contact details As director would need to write a letter and send 
it to HSBC saying specifically A wanted to change its contact details and then provide the 
details it wanted changed.
A thinks more compensation should be awarded. It still thinks it has been deprived of its 
money and that it has done all it needed to do to get its money. 
I do not agree. I explained why I didnt think A had been deprived of its money in my 
provisional decision. A hasnt said anything new and so I see no reason to change my mind 
on this and confirm my reasoning here.
I realise dealing with this complaint has taken up a lot of time for As director. I do, however, 
feel the compensation I set out in my provisional decision is fair. As I explained I dont 
uphold the whole of As complaint. What I thought HSBC did wrong was not take the 
opportunity to explain things clearly to A until October 2019. The compensation I set out in 
my provisional decision and confirm here compensates A for the inconvenience caused by 
that failure to explain things clearly. 
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above I think HSBC should pay A £300 and refund all charges 
incurred by A with the bank since October 2018.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and order HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
Pay A £300; and
Refund all account charges incurred by A with the bank since October 2018.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman