DRN-1699164
 
The complaint
Mr T complains that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) lent irresponsibly to 
him. 
What happened
Between January 2018 and December 2018, Mr T applied for three loans from Mr 
Lender. The borrowing history is set out below:
As set out above, I understand there is an outstanding balance in respect of loan 3. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld in respect of loan 3. Mr Lender 
disagreed with that view. It said that it would have been disproportionate to undertake a full 
review of Mr Ts circumstances at that point. 
As the parties are not in agreement with our adjudicator, the matter has been passed to me 
to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr T 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
Loan 
numberDate 
taken outDate repaidPlanned 
instalmentsPrincipal 
1 02/01/2018 19/05/2018 5 £300.00
2 19/05/2018 18/12/2018 6 £500.00
3 18/12/2018  outstanding 12 £1,000.00the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr T could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
So in applying that to Mr Ts case, I can see when he applied for loans 1 and 2, Mr Lender 
asked some questions about his income and expenditure. It also undertook a relatively 
straightforward credit check. Looking at the information it had, I can see how Mr Lender 
would have reasonably concluded that the repayments for loans 1 and 2 were sustainably 
affordable. As this was early in the lending relationship, I think Mr Lender was entitled to rely 
on the information Mr T provided to it. I dont think anything within that information would 
have put Mr Lender on notice that Mr T was in financial trouble. 
However, by the time Mr T applied for loan 3, in the particular circumstances of this case, I 
agree with our adjudicator that Mr Lender should have probably made more enquiries about 
Mr Ts circumstances. I say that because Mr T applied for a new loan with Mr Lender the day 
after he repaid his previous borrowing each time. In respect of loan 3, I can see Mr Lender 
knew that Mr T had repayments exceeding £500 each month to other short-term lenders. 
Looking at the amount Mr T was paying back each month in high cost short-term lending, 
along with the fact that he took out a new Mr Lender loan straightaway, I think there were 
questions to be asked about whether he was reliant on this type of short-term borrowing. I 
appreciate Mr Lender argued that Mr T repaid his other loans on time, but the factors I have 
identified above could indicate that he was using one loan to repay another and that things 
were starting to spiral out of control. Im satisfied that by loan 3, a proportionate check 
should have constituted a full review of Mr Ts financial circumstances. 
Had that review been undertaken, I think Mr Lender would have seen that Mr T was 
significantly indebted and that his regular expenditure clearly outweighed his regular income. 
Im satisfied that a proportionate check would have revealed that Mr T could not sustainably 
repay loan 3. 
So I am upholding the complaint in respect of loan 3 and Mr Lender will have to put things 
right as set out below. 
Putting things right
As I said above, it appears there is an outstanding balance in respect of loan 3. If that is the 
case and Mr Lender sold the outstanding debt to a third party, it must buy it back if it can and then follow the steps set out below. If it cannot buy the debt back, it must liaise with the new 
debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
a) Mr Lender must remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance of loan 3, and 
treat any repayments made by Mr T as though they had been repayments of the 
principal on this loan. If this results in Mr T having made overpayments then Mr 
Lender must refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated and paid 
on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date 
the complaint is settled. 
b) However, if there is still an outstanding balance then Mr Lender should try to agree 
an affordable repayment plan with Mr T. It must not pursue outstanding balances 
made up of principal it has already written-off. 
c) Mr Lender must remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ts credit file in 
relation to loan 3. 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr Ta certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
If Mr Lender and Mr T do need to agree a repayment plan, I remind Mr Lender of its 
obligation to treat Mr T fairly.
My final decision
I have partly upheld this complaint to the extent set out above. PDL Finance Limited, 
trading as Mr Lender, must comply with the above putting things right section.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2020.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman