DRN-2241916
The complaint
Miss T says Western Circle Ltd trading as Cashfloat didnt act in a timely manner when she 
told it that she was in financial difficulty. Because of this additional interest and charges were 
added to her account. She feels that these should be refunded to her. 
Miss T has also made a complaint about irresponsible lending. This has been considered 
separately. 
What happened
This complaint is about a payday loan Cashfloat provided to Miss T in July 2019. This loan 
was for £500. Miss T was due to make three monthly repayments of around £240. The 
agreement was due to end on 30 September 2019. 
Miss T was able to make the first repayment due on 31 July 2019. But she was unable to 
make the subsequent two repayments. 
Miss T has provided details of the contact she has had with Cashfloat about this issue. 
There is a large amount of this, so I wont detail everything here. But Ill outline what I think 
are the most important aspects of it below:
on 11 September 2019 Miss T and Cashfloat corresponded about the loan arears 
Miss T says she informed it that she was having repayment problems and asked that 
any further interest on the loans be suspended
on 24 September 2019 Miss T complained about irresponsible lending. I understand 
the interest and charges on the loan were suspended shortly after this 
on 24 October 2019 Cashfloat rejected Miss Ts complaint about irresponsible 
lending. It said the period when intertest would not be added was now over 
There was a significant amount of correspondence after this time. Miss T was still unable to 
make the loan repayments and she explained why. She also explained about some other 
problems she was having. The loan moved into arrears and Cashfloat took steps to recover 
the amounts Miss T owed. 
I can see a payment plan was discussed multiple times and this is what Miss T wanted. But 
this wasnt put into place until 13 May 2020. I understand that Cashfloat and Miss T agreed 
that she would repay £25 a month. Cashfloat also agreed to write off £250 of the loans 
outstanding balance as a goodwill gesture. 
Miss T didnt agree that this was a reasonable way to resolve her complaint. 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. He was persuaded that Cashfloat shouldnt have 
applied any interest after the communication of 11 September 2020. He also thought that 
Cashfloat shouldve taken steps to arrange a repayment plan at a much earlier time. It didnt 
act on Miss Ts request to correspond by email, it asked her talk on the phone on numerous 
occasions. He thought all of this had also caused Miss T some distress and inconvenience. 
Cashfloat disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said that the email of 11 September 
2019 wasnt a clear indication of financial hardship as Miss T had offered to repay the loan in 
full at a later date. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Ive decided to uphold Miss Ts complaint and Ive explained why below.
An overarching principle of the regulations that Cashfloat operate under is that it needs to 
treat its customers fairly. It should act positively and sympathetically if a consumer finds 
themselves in financial difficulty. And it should try to resolve any issues that this causes.
Having looked at all of the correspondence I think the crux of this complaint is should the 
communications in early September have been enough to alert Cashfloat to Miss Ts 
financial problems. In my view they were. 
As a starting point Miss T had been unable to make the loan repayments on time  her loan 
account was already in arrears when she made contact. And she had contacted Cashfloat to 
say that whilst she intended to pay in the future she would also not be able to make the next 
repayment on time. Whilst she did say that she would repay the loan in full in the near future 
this seems to be more of an aim than Miss T informing Cashfloat she wouldnt be in financial 
difficulty in the future. 
So, it follows that I think Cashfloat should have stopped charging interest at this point until it 
could agree a repayment plan or assist Miss T some other way. And it should have looked 
into Miss Ts circumstances to see what the best way was to do this. As far as I can see 
Cashfloat didnt do this. 
So, I think Cashfloat remove any interest that was added to Miss Ts loan after 11 
September 2019. 
This situation wasnt resolved for some time. As Ive outlined above it took almost eight 
months for a repayment plan to be put in place. Whilst I can accept that it isnt always easy 
to sort out situations where a person is in financial difficulty this is still far too long. It is clear 
Miss T wanted to come to some kind of payment arrangement very early on here and I dont 
think Cashfloat was always helpful about this. 
So Cashfloat should amend Miss Ts credit file to show that she entered a repayment plan 
on 11 September 2019. I appreciate this may not be the exact date a payment plan wouldve 
been agreed but it I dont think its unreasonable to use this date to resolve this issue.
And lastly Miss T clearly asked to correspond by email or text message and she explained 
why this was. I dont think this was unreasonable. But Ive seen multiple instances where 
Cashfloat asked Miss T to contact it by telephone to arrange a repayment plan. And these 
communications suggested this was the only way she could do this. Or that she would get a 
better deal if she spoke over the telephone. This is unfair and I think it would have 
unnecessarily caused Miss T distress and inconvenience. I think Miss T should be paid compensation of £150 for this. And Cashfloat should continue to correspond with her via 
email or text message going forward where this is practical. 
Putting things right
Cashfloat should now:
remove any interest, fees and charges incurred on Miss Ts account from 
11 September 2019
amend the information recorded on Miss Ts credit file, so that it shows that a 
payment plan was applied on 11 September 2019
ensure, that Miss Ts communication requests are adhered to as far as possible
pay Miss T £150 for the trouble and upset that has been caused
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Ts complaint.
Western Circle Ltd should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman