DRN-2563541
The complaint
Mrs H and Mr H says Principality Building Society (Principality) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs H and Mr H took out a mortgage with Principality in November 2007. A while later, in 
March 2009 they took out an MPPI policy in a branch meeting. It gave Mr H as the sole 
policy holder protection against accident, sickness and unemployment. Mrs H and Mr H paid 
a monthly amount for it. 
Mrs H and Mr H say their financial circumstances had considerably improved from when 
they arranged the mortgage in 2007 and when they took out the MPPI policy. They say they 
had savings and sick pay so didnt need the MPPI policy. They add the costs and benefits 
were not explained clearly to them. They also say they were not told about details of any 
commission that Principality would have received for selling the policy to them.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs H and Mr H disagreed so the complaint was 
passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed 
it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs H and Mr Hs complaint for the following reasons:
Principality had to make it clear to Mrs H and Mr H the MPPI was optional. As the policy 
was sold several months after the mortgage was arranged, I think its most likely they 
would have known the policy was a separate product from the mortgage. I have also 
looked at the sales documentation provided by Principality and can see from a sample 
MPPI application that it was presented as optional. Based on what I have seen in front 
of me, I think the balance of evidence shows Principality made it clear the PPI was 
optional on this occasion and Mrs H and Mr H chose to take it.
I cant be sure if Principality recommended the policy to Mr H, as the sole policy holder 
or not but it seems to have been suitable for him anyway based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time. Mrs H and Mr H say Mr H was entitled to 6 months full and 6 
months half sick pay from his employer at the time and they held £6000 in savings. But 
the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to this. It would also have paid out for each 
successful claim giving long term protection on Mrs H and Mr Hs mortgage. Overall, I 
think it wouldve been useful for Mrs H and Mr H if Mr H was sick or lost his job. 
Principality has provided details about the cost of the policy, but I cant be sure that this 
was disclosed to Mrs H and Mr H in the meeting when it was sold to them. That said, 
even if Principality had disclosed the costs clearly to them, I think they would have taken 
it anyway for the reasons I have given for why the policy was suitable. I am persuaded 
the policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable.
Mr H was eligible for the policy and wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy 
didnt cover. So I dont think better information on the exclusions or limitations wouldve 
changed Mrs H and Mr Hs decision. 
Finally, Mrs H and Mr H say they were not told about commission that Principality would 
have received for selling the policy to them. Our service has been looking into issues around 
unfair commission and this is due to a supreme court judgment. The findings in this 
judgment relate to unfair relationship provisions of the consumer credit act where a creditor 
enters into a relationship with an individual. I can see in Mrs H and Mr Hs case, as our 
adjudicator mentioned, that the mortgage they took out was at the time they arranged it, 
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and not through the provisions of the consumer 
credit act. But in any case, they didnt take their MPPI at the time they arranged their 
mortgage, they took it out separately and at a later date. So, the unfair relationship issues 
that we would look at in some complaints, do not apply here.
It follows I dont think Mrs H and Mr H has lost out because of any problems with the sale.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs H and Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman