DRN-2889989
The complaint
Mr M says Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him irresponsibly.  
What happened
Mr M took out an 18-month instalment loan from Loans 2 Go in December 2019. It was for
£400 and the weekly repayments were £21.10. The total repayable was £1645.80.
Mr M says he was struggling financially at the time and if proper checks had been done he 
would not have been given the loan. The interest charged was ridiculous and a family 
member had to repay the debt for him. It increased his financial difficulties and caused a lot 
of stress.
Our investigator said Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. He thought the lenders checks 
were proportionate but Loans 2 Go did not make a fair lending decision based on the 
information it gathered.
Loans 2 Go disagreed, saying Mr M had more disposable income than the investigator said. 
And it given the type of lending it offers some adverse data on an applicants credit file could 
be expected and would not automatically be a reason to decline and application.  
As an agreement wasnt reached, the complaint was passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when Loans 2 Go lent to Mr M required it to carry out a
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he
owed in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment
or an affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So Loans 2 Go had to think about whether
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for
Mr M. In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr M.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for. In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
- the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
- the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether Loans 2 Go did what it needed to before agreeing
to lend to Mr M. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
- did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing
Mr Ms loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in
a sustainable way?
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
- did Loans 2 Go make a fair lending decision?
- did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see Loans 2 Go asked for some information from Mr M before it approved the loan. It
asked for his monthly income and expenditure. It then completed an income verification
check with a third party to establish his minimum income and increased his declared 
expenditure to ensure it was reasonable based on national statistics. It checked Mr Ms 
credit file to understand his existing monthly credit commitments and credit history. From 
these checks combined Loans 2 Go concluded Mr M had enough disposable income for the 
loan to be affordable.
I think these checks were proportionate given the size and term of the loan and its 
repayments, but I dont think Loans 2 Go made a fair lending decision based on the 
information it gathered. Loans 2 Go challenged the investigators disposable income 
calculation  and it seems the difference comes from looking at expenditure with or without 
the 10% buffer the lender added  but I wont comment further on the pounds and pence 
affordability of this loan as it does not alter my overall conclusion. Ill explain why.
Whilst Mr M did not appear to be heavily indebted with £2,681 of unsecured debt, I think 
there were clear signs he was having problems managing his money. The credit check 
Loans 2 Go carried out showed Mr M had taken out five payday loans between May and 
October 2019. He had entered into an arrangement to pay on his overdraft the month prior to 
this application and his overdraft was significant  in excess of his declared monthly income. 
Repayments on one of his credit cards (that was at its limit) were over six months in arrears. 
So, in the round, I dont think the lenders analysis that past commitments and recent use of 
credit cards didnt highlight a harmful dependency on credit (source: final response letter) is 
fair or reasonable. Rather, I think there was sufficient evidence for the lender to be 
concerned that Mr M was under financial pressure and so there was a risk he might not be 
able to sustainably repay this loan. And this was something it needed to consider to meet its 
regulatory obligations. CONC 5.2A.12(R) sets out:
The firm must consider the customers ability to make repayments under the agreement:
(1) as they fall due over the life of the agreement and, where the agreement is an open-endagreement, within a reasonable period;
(2) out of, or using, one or more of the following:
(a) the customers income;
(b) income from savings or assets jointly held by the customer with another person, income
received by the customer jointly with another person or income received by another person in
so far as it is reasonable to expect such income to be available to the customer to make
repayments under the agreement; and/or
(c) savings or other assets where the customer has indicated clearly an intention to repay
(wholly or partly) using them;
(3) without the customer having to borrow to meet the repayments;
(4) without failing to make any other payment the customer has a contractual or statutory obligation to
make; and
(5) without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers financial situation.
Loans 2 Go argues that Mr M made all his repayments on time and the loan was settled 
early so it did not prove to be unsustainable and harmful as a result. But it does not seem to 
consider how Mr M repaid the loan, he has told us a family member settled it for him. I am 
also unsure how it can present this argument to defend its lending decision as it has now 
seen copies of Mr Ms bank statements in the months prior and so is aware of how he was 
managing his finances at the time.
It follows I think Loans 2 Go was wrong to give this loan to Mr M.
Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr M in some other way?
I dont find that it did, Ill explain why. Mr M says the interest rate was too high and that was
unfair. I accept it was high, but Mr M had to actively engage in the loan application process,
so I think its likely that he was aware of what he was agreeing to pay. I havent seen
anything which makes me think that Loans 2 Go treated Mr M unfairly or breached industry
practice regarding interest charges. But in any event, the interest and charges will be
refunded as Ive concluded this loan shouldnt have been given.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr M to repay the capital that he borrowed, because he
had the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt
have been provided to him.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan and treat all the payments Mr M
made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Ms loan account results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then Loans 2 Go should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go should
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one. 
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ms complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited must put things right as set out above.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman