DRN-2197918
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Santander UK Plc failed to provide her with all the relevant information 
when she took out a with-profits bond in 2000. She also says the application form, 
completed by its representative, contained various errors and omissions (including her name 
and the monthly withdrawals), and she was not shown the completed form or asked to check 
it. She also believes that the application should have been voided as an electronic 
transmission failure meant it was not processed on the day of application.
What happened
An investigator at this service did not feel Mrs Gs complaint should be upheld and explained 
her reasoning as follows:
Documentation
She was satisfied that Santander had provided the appropriate documentation including a 
key features document which outlined the nature of the product, the charges, the possibility 
of a Market Valuation Reduction (MVR) and the risks involved. She also noted that Mrs G 
had already complained about the MVR and other aspects of this product/sale and that 
these had been fully dealt with via a separate decision.
The Application Form
Santander accepted it had copied Mrs Gs full name, including her patronymic, from a 
previous ISA application and that she no longer used this name. But the investigator didnt 
believe this indicated it had falsified the application or that it was not valid.
She said there was no regulation which says that a signed incomplete form should 
automatically be made void. Santander wasnt obliged to detail the charging structure of the 
bond on the application form or complete the advisers name in order for it to be valid. The 
applicable charges were made clear in a separate document which was provided.
If Mrs G was dissatisfied with the standard of the completed form, she should have 
challenged the adviser at the time and/or requested a copy of the completed version. This 
would have enabled her to raise any concerns about the captured information. Overall, the 
errors and omissions that Mrs G referred to didnt warrant a conclusion that the contract was 
invalid.
The validity of the start date
The investigator acknowledged that Mrs G completed the bond application on 10 January 
2000 while the transaction didnt go through till 12 January 2000. She noted that Mrs G 
claimed the delay placed her at a financial disadvantage as the unit price on the date of the 
application was 97.80p while the unit price on 12 January was 103.10p.
She noted that Santanders email of 20 August 2020 explained that it experienced an 
electronic transmission failure on the day of the application which meant that it couldnt be 
processed on the day. This was duly noted on the application record. But she said Mrs G 
had not suffered financially as a result of this as Santander applied the unit price as of 10 
January 2000. Further, that Mrs G referred to the bid price (sell) on the day as opposed to 
the offer price(buy) so her figures werent correct.
Falsification of her withdrawal entitlement
The investigator noted that Mrs G had alleged that Santander was fraudulent in setting up 
her account, saying:
I was given as allowance the amount of Maximum Monthly withdrawals of £286 per month.
The true sum was of £300 as shown in the provisions of the Technical Details document.
The business falsified the withdrawals that I was entitled to take as income in their letter
dated 15 January 2001 stating that the Bond is enjoying an annual bonus rate of 5.5% from
1 March 2000 to 9 January 2001 but £286 per month did not represent this rate. The verbal
arrangement for 25 March 2000 differs from its written form and was arranged for 25
February 2000 as my first withdrawal of £286 representing the 5.25% of annual bonus. I did
not receive the benefits under the true provisions of the Bond.
She said Santander had provided a detailed explanation of how the withdrawal amount was 
calculated, which shed previously shared with Mrs G, and she was satisfied that no error 
was made in respect of the agreed monthly income, and that the correct start date was 
applied to her investment.
She noted that Santander had identified a small error in relation to the number of units Mrs G 
received for the amount invested, explaining:
Mrs G was given the Offer price of 103.10p which was the prevailing price on 12/1/00. So
although her Bond was given the correct commencement date of 10/1/00, she would have
received an Offer price of 103.00p on 10/1/00, a difference of 0.1p This means she would 
have got a few extra units, calculated as follows: £72,100 / 103.00 = 70,000.00 units.
The difference between the 70,000.00 units and the 69,932.10 units she got is 67.90 units.
When she fully encashed the Bond on 4/10/01, these extra 67.90 units would have been
worth £65.40 after the MVR had been applied. They would not have impacted on the income 
she received. It was prepared to add 8% simple interest (less 20% tax) to this sum and pay 
her £65.40 + £79.18 net interest = £144.58 to correct this oversight.
The investigator said it was disappointing that Santander didnt pick up on this oversight until 
recently. However, it had now promptly made an appropriate offer to compensate for this 
loss. As this issue was not something Mrs G had complained about, this did not affect the 
merits of this complaint which she did not believe should be upheld.
Mrs G disagreed, and responded to the dispute issues as follows:
The partial surrender information
The investigator was incorrect in saying that she made the partial surrender of £19,000 in 
February 2001 as a result of a change in her circumstances.  The advisor knew that she 
intended to make such a withdrawal to fund house improvements. He told her she could take 
monthly withdrawals from the outset and a one-off withdrawal of £19,000, the maximum 
permitted, after a year.
She was also led to believe that if she made a further withdrawal she would have to fully 
surrender the bond. So when she needed a further £5,000 in September 2001 she encashed the remainder of the bond. In the absence of a Technical Details document, and given what 
the advisor had told her, she assumed she had no alternative, though she would have 
preferred not to fully encash. 
The change of circumstances related to her unexpected need for the additional £5,000. 
This led to an MVR, the subject of her previous complaint. However, this part of her 
complaint concerns Santanders failure to provide the Technical Details document. If she 
had been provided with this she would have known she could keep the bond open, with a 
minimum of £500, and avoided the MVR.
Key documentation
The section entitled What If I need money in the Key Features document she received is 
different from the one Santander supplied. Her 1999 version was designed to be provided 
along with a Technical Details document. So in effect she only received half the necessary 
information.
Regular withdrawal information
Santanders recently provided documentation shows a table outlining the start dates of the 
regular income withdrawals; her paperwork did not. This is important as the table plays a 
direct role in understanding income start dates, for which there was an error on her 
application form. The table shows that if the start date was between the 10th day to end of 
month, the first income payment date would be the 25th day of month after next. Having 
taken out the bond on 10 January 2000, the 25 February 2000 first income payment date on 
her application form was incorrect, and all other documents confirm that the income will start 
from 25 March 2000, which it did. Scrutinising the application form was made harder by not 
having access to the income table in the Technical Details document.
Withdrawal entitlement
Both Santander and the investigator claimed she had received a higher 5.5% Annual Bonus 
Rate (ABR) from January 2001, whereas the initial ABR of 5.25% had never changed  and 
she received £286 a month from the start to the date of encashment. So if the ABR was 
increased at some point, why was she not asked if she wanted to increase her cash 
withdrawals to £299 a month?
Santander claims that she did not suffer as a result of not taking her full increased monthly 
entitlement as she was left with more units on encashment as a result. But this ignores the 
impact of the MVR on that encashment which meant she ended up with £9 less than if she 
had taken the higher regular withdrawals from January 2001.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator and broadly for the same reasons.
I acknowledge that Mrs G has made a very large number of submissions, raising numerous 
points about why she believes this was a mis-sale. I have considered all of these. 
However, it is important to stress that my role is reach a decision about whether a business 
did something wrong - based on the balance of probabilities  and then to outline my overall 
reasoning. As such, I do not think it is necessary, in this decision, to address every single point Mrs G raises. Instead I will explain my approach to her complaint and why I do not feel 
there is sufficient evidence to safely say that Santander clearly did something wrong.
Ill firstly deal with several issues concerning the validity of the application.
If Santander mistakenly used Mrs Gs patronymic, as appears to be the case, this does not 
invalidate the application. Nor, in my view, does it indicate Mrs G was not shown a copy of 
the completed form. Nor do I agree with Mrs Gs other points about the application forms 
invalid status such as the advisors missing signature or the absence of information about 
charges or deductions.
If there were fundamental flaws in Santanders ISA application forms I would expect the 
industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, to have investigated these. Ive seen no 
evidence that it has done so. 
Nor do I accept that the application was only valid on the date it was completed. I am 
satisfied that Santander was entitled to process it after that date. And for the reasons it 
explained, Mrs G did not lose out financially as a result of the delay.
 
In relation to the issues Mrs G raised  which I summarised under the heading partial 
surrender issue  I dont believe there is sufficient, persuasive to conclude that she was 
misled by the advisor or that she didnt receive sufficient documentation.
On the first issue, I can see no reason why the advisor would have told Mrs G that she could 
only make a single one-off withdrawal, after which she would have to surrender the rest of 
the bond. Throughout the documentation  whichever version one looks at  it is clear that 
investors are entitled to make as many one-off withdrawals of any size they choose to. The 
limit applying to regular withdrawals is governed by regulatory/tax rules.
In my experience, with-profits bonds generally permit unlimited withdrawals  even though 
there may be significant financial disadvantages in doing so. In this context, I find it even 
more implausible that the advisor would have misled Mrs G in the way she claims.
If, for whatever reason, she was uncertain about whether she could have made a second 
one-off withdrawal and still keep her bond open, then I believe it was her responsibility to 
check with Santander. From what Ive read, Santander provided her with sufficient 
documentation to make a reasonable assessment of how this product worked  whether she 
was given a Technical Document or not  and it was for her to decide if she needed 
additional information or advice.
Further, I do not believe the differences in wording between Mrs Gs original Technical 
Details document and the one Santander recently provided are significant when considering 
the merits of Mrs Gs complaint. I do not believe either is misleading or lacks the necessary 
key information regarding one-off withdrawals.
There had already been a lengthy discussion about the delayed start date of the investment, 
with a full explanation as to why Santander was entitled to go ahead late  and that it 
ensured Mrs G did not suffer as a result of this. I do not feel Mrs Gs arguments about the 
allegedly misleading start dates of the regular income payments alters the merits of this 
issue. If Mrs G is simply saying that the dates were incorrect for other reasons, I do not 
believe she has shown she has lost out as a result of any errors. Again, I do not feel this 
issue, even if she is right about the date issue, is sufficient to uphold her complaint.
On the withdrawal entitlement issue, I share the investigators view that Santanders 
explanation was satisfactory. I have no reason to assume Mrs G would have taken an additional £13 a month if made explicitly aware that this was a possibility. I therefore dont 
believe there is sufficient, persuasive evidence to clearly conclude that she ended up £9 
worse off as a result of this issue.
As I explained at the outset, my role is to assess whether  on the balance of probabilities  
Santander clearly did something wrong. I am not persuaded that it did so.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2020.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman