DRN-1495814
The complaint
Mr P complains that Saga Services Limited didnt give him a full refund when he cancelled 
his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P changed his car and, after a mix-up, this was later added to his policy as a change of 
vehicle. Mr P then sold this car and cancelled his policy. He was unhappy that Saga didnt 
give him a full refund as it was less than 20 days since the policy amendment. He was also 
unhappy that Saga charged him administration and arrangement fees. Saga refunded the 
arrangement fee and offered Mr P £25 as a gesture of goodwill. But Mr P remained 
unhappy.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought there 
hadnt been a new policy, just a change of vehicle on it. So Mr P wasnt entitled to a full 
refund of premium from the insurer. He also thought Saga was entitled to charge an 
administration fee and that the premium refund was calculated correctly. He thought its offer 
to Mr P was fair and reasonable. 
Mr P replied that he thought Saga should give him a full refund of fees as it had insured the 
wrong car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Looking at the sequence of events, the wrong car was put on cover when the policy was 
taken out. But I cant see that this was Sagas fault. The policy was taken out online. I think 
Mr Ps partner confirmed that the policy details were correct and then the documents, with 
the wrong car, were sent to Mr P. 
When this was corrected, some months later, Saga charged a mid-term adjustment fee of 
£25. Mr P then cancelled his policy, but Saga didnt act on this immediately. The insurer 
gave Mr P a pro-rata refund of premium taking into account his time on cover and Saga 
charged an arrangement fee. I can see that Mr P wants a full refund. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the business has acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Ive looked at Mr Ps policys terms and conditions. The fees and charges are set out on 
page 7. Theres a £25 non-refundable fee for arranging the policy, £25 for any changes, £5 if 
the policy is cancelled within 20 days, and £50 fee for cancellation after 20 days. 
I think these fees and charges are clearly set out and fair and reasonable as they are in 
keeping with what other businesses charge.
As Ive said above, I think it wasnt Sagas fault that the wrong car was insured. I think this 
was an honest mistake, but a change of vehicle was required, and I think Saga was entitled 
to charge £25 for this. If anything untoward had happened in the meantime, I would expect 
the insurer to have provided cover. So I think the policy had run more than 20 days before 
cancellation and Saga was entitled to charge its administration fee and a cancellation fee. 
The insurer provided a pro-rata refund of premium based on the time on cover. I think this is 
clearly set out on page 10 of the policy terms. Our investigator thought the refund was 
correctly calculated. But if Mr P is unhappy with this, he should complain to the policys 
underwriter which sets the premium. I wont consider this further here as its a separate 
business to Saga Services Limited, an insurance intermediary. 
Saga agreed it made an error by not acting on the cancellation instruction immediately. This 
was done 12 days late. In acknowledgement of the error, it offered Mr P £25 compensation 
and it refunded its £25 mid-term adjustment fee. I think thats fair and reasonable as its in 
keeping with what Id require in similar circumstances. I dont require Saga to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman