DRN-4411025
The complaint
Mr K complains about BISL Limited (BISL) who allowed his policy to lapse at renewal, under 
his home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr K said that he held a home insurance policy for many years with BISL. The policy 
automatically renewed each year. BISL said that it is able to automatically renew policies, 
but as Mr Ks payment card had expired, it wrote to him and sent an email, inviting him to 
contact them, so that he could accept the renewal offer. It said that if they hadnt heard from 
him, then the policy would lapse. BISL said that it didnt hear from Mr K and the policy 
lapsed. 
Mr K said that he never received the renewal notice via post. Further, BISL had a system 
whereby it would have alerted Mr K that the payment had failed, but this didnt alert him 
either. He said that BISL sent him an email on 16 April 2023 asking for information and he 
acted on it, by checking that the online policy details were correct, confirming that the auto 
renewal was active, and he believed the policy would be renewed. 
Mr K raised a complaint with BISL, as he felt it was its negligence that caused the payment 
to fail, as BISL ought to have told him that the card had expired. He felt that BISL ought to 
acknowledge its error and pay him compensation for the poor service he experienced. He 
also said that he had to look for alternative cover at a higher premium, due to BISLs error. 
In its final response, BISL maintained its position that it was unable to renew Mr Ks policy 
due to his oversight in not updating his payment details, as he was required to do. It said that 
it had sent over the renewal offer, well in advance of the expiry date of the policy. It said that 
it sent the offer via post and email, to the email address that it had had on file and previously 
used. It confirmed that if it hadnt heard from Mr K by the expiry date, the policy would lapse, 
which is what happened. So, there was nothing further it could do. 
As Mr K was given his referral rights, he referred a complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He agreed with 
BISL, that Mr K had been given the renewal offer. He said that that the renewal failure arose, 
due to BISL having invalid payment details on file. He said that it was Mr Ks responsibility to 
ensure that the payment details on file were up to date, not BISLs. He concluded that BISL 
had complied with its obligations in providing the renewal offer and telling Mr K the date that 
the policy would expire. So, there was nothing further he could reasonably ask it to do. 
BISL accepted the view, Mr K did not. He said that the view failed to consider the actions 
that he took, especially regarding the automatic renewal, which he updated online. He said 
that there was no method for customers to update payment details online, nor was there a 
prompt to do so. That BISL failed to contact him to tell him that the payment details had 
expired. And finally, he said that BISL only contacted him once it had cancelled his policy. 
So, he asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Mr K, but I hope my findings 
go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Ive considered both parties, comments, and the evidence they have provided. I think that 
the main issue of this complaint, is whether BISL had an obligation to tell Mr K that his 
payment method was expiring. 
Ive had a look at what BISLs obligations were and from the evidence, its obligation was to 
issue the renewal quote and to inform Mr K when the policy was expiring. BISL has provided 
evidence to show that on three occasions, it either emailed or posted the renewal notice. I 
understand from Mr K that he said he didnt receive the renewal offer via post. But he did say 
that he received the emailed version. 
Further, BISL had shown that it posted the offers to Mr Ks address, so it wouldnt be fair for 
me to conclude that BISL was at fault for Mr K not receiving the documents. This I think 
would be the responsibility of the postal service.
In any event, Mr K confirmed that he received the emailed documents. He said that he 
responded to BISL and replied with the information it had asked. Namely, that he checked 
that the auto renewal was active and that the policy details were correct. He said that 
nowhere on the form was there a section where customers could update payment details. 
BISL said that on Mr Ks online account, this contained his payment details, and it was his 
responsibility to contact them to update those details. Also, he wouldve been able to access 
his account online, 24/7. It further said, that in Mr Ks welcome pack, it gives further 
information regarding automatic renewals. It stated:
Automatic renewal:  To ensure you continue to be insured after renewal, we reserve the 
right to automatically renew your insurance and any additional products you currently have 
the benefit of. We will contact you before the end of the policy with Our new offer, explaining 
what you need to do. We may automatically renew the policy where We are able to, using 
the payment method that you have provided Us with ***4S3 in order to ensure you remain 
continuously covered. Please note, if you don't advise Us that you don't want your policy to 
renew by the renewal date, we will attempt to take the first payment that is due. If this 
payment is declined, you will be charged a failed payment fee if applicable, please see the 
'Failed payment fee' section above for details. You can ask Us to stop taking payments 
automatically or change your payment method at any lime by contacting Us on 0344 41211 
S3. 
I note that there is a phone number quoted and I agree that it wouldve been Mr Ks 
responsibility to ensure his payment method was up to date. So, I think he couldve phoned 
BISL to do this, as indicated in the automatic renewal information Mr K had been provided 
with.
Mr K also complained that BISL failed to contact him once the payment had failed and had it 
done so, this wouldve alerted him to provide an alternative payment method. Ive reviewed 
the policy terms and conditions and under the continuous payment authority it states:
 inform the policyholder of any payments that are due to be taken. We reserve for 
payments with your bank 2 working days prior to a payment due date and can attempt collection up to 3 times within this 2-day window. We won't attempt any further reservations 
past the payment due date. If We're unable to collect a payment at any point. We will contact 
the policyholder. Failed payments could result in a fee. If applicable, please see the 'Failed 
payment fee' section above for details of the fee. The policy may be cancelled if We don't 
receive payments that are due.
I asked BISL why it hadnt contacted Mr K once the payment had failed as per the policy 
terms. It explained that the renewal offer invited Mr K to contact them to update any details 
that were required, even details that he mightve been unsure about. And as it didnt hear 
from Mr K, the policy lapsed and confirmation of this was sent to him shortly after. 
Ive reviewed the renewal notice and under the section entitled what you need to do now it 
clearly states that payment details should be checked by the policyholder.  It goes on to 
provide information about times its customer service is open, as well as a contact phone 
number. 
Consequently, Im persuaded that BISL provided enough information for Mr K to contact 
them to update his payment details. And as he failed to contact them, I dont agree that BISL 
ought to have made further contact once the payment had failed, given that it had invited Mr 
K to make contact to ensure that he wished to continue with the renewal. Also, I think it 
wouldve been likely, that Mr K wouldve received a new card from his card provider. And 
that ought to have prompted him to update his card details. 
Im aware that Mr K had to obtain cover elsewhere and that the premium he obtained was 
higher. But Im unable to agree that the fault of this lies with BISL, as I think it complied with 
its obligations and it was ultimately Mr Ks responsibility to ensure that his payment details 
were updated. 
I acknowledge Mr K strength of feeling about this complaint and the reason why he referred 
it to our service. I understand that my findings are likely to be a disappointment to Mr K. But, 
in the overall circumstances of this complaint, I havent seen enough evidence to show that 
BISL acted unfairly. Im therefore not going to tell it to do anything further here.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman