DRN-2452778
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Shoosmiths LLP unfairly issued court proceedings in order to recover a 
debt she owed. She wants the proceedings to be withdrawn and any additional costs 
waived. 
What happened
Mrs S tells us that she owes a debt to a business Ill refer to as C in relation to a credit 
card. She says she fell into arrears because of ill health. Mrs S states that the issuing of the 
court claim has now increased her debt still further by over £500. She wants the additional 
costs to be removed. And to be permitted to enter an affordable repayment plan.
Shoosmiths told us that it had been instructed by C to recover the debt. It said that following 
a reply from Mrs S it had granted a holding period as Mrs S had indicated her mortgage 
repayment arrangements may alter. And that she would be able to make a revised offer for a 
payment arrangement. It said it didnt hear back from Mrs S and made one phone call 
attempt to contact her. It said no voice mail facility was available for a message to be left. A 
few days later, after the holding period had elapsed, it said County Court proceedings had 
been commenced. It accepted that more could have been done to contact Mrs S after the 
holding period had ended. Shoosmiths said that the offer which Mrs S eventually made 
would take around ten years to repay. It said the issue of additional costs would be a matter 
for the court to determine.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld but in part only. He 
thought that it was reasonable for Shoosmiths to issue court proceedings to enforce the 
debt. But he said it could have made greater effort to contact Mrs S before doing so. He 
recommended it pay £150 to her for distress and inconvenience.
Shoosmiths accepted this. but Mrs S didnt agree. She felt the court costs should not be 
added to her debt. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an ombudsmans been 
asked to make the final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Mrs S had experienced ill health. And that this has impacted upon her 
financial situation. I understand it would be disappointing to be made the subject of court 
proceedings having been paying off the debt but then having further health related setbacks 
which meant that payments couldnt be maintained.
The issue of the debt itself isnt in dispute. And where a creditor business is aware that a 
customer is in financial difficulty, wed expect it to treat that customer fairly. And show 
forbearance and due consideration.
What each business does in meeting its obligations is dependent upon the individual facts 
and circumstances of each case. Payment arrangements are just one of many potential debt 
solutions.
Having said that, a creditor is also entitled to take reasonable steps to secure its debts.
Our investigators view set out a very detailed timeline of events which I wont repeat as the 
parties have seen it. But in summary it showed that Mrs S owed C over £6,000 which had 
accumulated on a credit card. C passed this over to Shoosmiths who in turn made contact 
with Mrs S.
Mrs S replied and sent some details which resulted in a period of grace being applied. When 
Mrs S didnt get back within the holding period Shoosmiths issued court proceedings after a 
phone call had failed to re-establish contact.
As Shoosmiths has accepted it should have done more to try to contact Mrs S before issuing 
the proceedings, I think the fairest way of looking at this situation is to consider the most 
likely result which would have occurred if it had done so. Ive reached the conclusion that it 
probably wouldnt have led to a different outcome. Ill explain why.
Its clear from the financial information that Mrs S supplied to Shoosmiths that the household 
outgoings exceeded the income. From what I could see there was no imminent likelihood of 
that situation getting any better. In those circumstances its not unreasonable for a business 
to seek to protect its situation.
I understand that Mrs S has admitted the debt in her acknowledgement to the court. But that 
Shoosmiths hasnt yet formally applied for judgment be entered. And Im aware there have 
been some ongoing discussions about whether a formal legal agreement which falls short of 
a County Court Judgment (CCJ) might yet be reached. That wont affect my decision. 
If an agreement is reached then the terms of that agreement will be for the parties to 
determine and would presumably address the issue of costs. If no agreement is reached and 
a CCJ is issued, then the terms of that order (including the issue of costs) are at the 
discretion of the court. This service has no power to interfere with court decisions.
In summary, whilst I express my empathy for the situation in which Mrs S finds herself, I 
dont find it was unreasonable for Shoosmiths to have issued court proceedings. The error it 
did make was in not making greater efforts to resume contact with Mrs S before doing so. To 
that extent I uphold the complaint.
But this did not, in my opinion, alter the course it would have taken. I think the offer of £150 
compensation is a fair and reasonable resolution of this complaint.
Putting things right
Shoosmiths LLP has accepted that it should pay £150 compensation to Mrs S. I find that is a 
fair and reasonable resolution of this complaint. If it hasnt already done so Shoosmiths 
should now pay this amount to Mrs S.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that Im upholding this complaint in part.
Shoosmiths LLP should take the action (if its not already done so) that Ive stipulated in the preceding paragraph.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman