DRN-1868952
The complaint
Miss H complains that it was irresponsible of UK Credit Limited (UKC) to add her as a 
guarantor to a loan taken out by her friend.  
What happened
In June 2018 Miss H signed a Guarantee and Indemnity agreement in respect of a loan of 
£5,000 that had been provided to her friend. The loan was due to be repaid in 50 monthly 
instalments, and by acting as guarantor Miss H agreed to meet those repayments should the 
borrower fail to do so. I understand that Miss H has made some of the repayments on the 
loan to date. A balance remains outstanding on the loan.
I am deciding a separate complaint that has been brought by the borrower against UKC. 
UKC has accepted that it failed to do sufficient checks before it agreed to lend to him. But in 
this decision I will only be considering whether it was reasonable for UKC to accept Miss H 
as a guarantor for the loan.
Miss Hs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He thought that, since 
UKC agreed it shouldnt have provided the loan to the borrower, it was reasonable to 
conclude that it had been unfair for Miss H to be added as the guarantor. So he asked UKC 
to release Miss H from her responsibilities as the guarantor and to pay her some 
compensation.
UKC didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process. If Miss H accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints of this nature on our website and Ive kept this in 
mind while deciding Miss Hs complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time UKC added Miss H as a guarantor required it to carry 
out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay what 
was owed in a sustainable manner should she be required to do so. This assessment is 
sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so UKC had to think about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Miss H. In practice 
this meant that UKC had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Miss H 
undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for UKC to 
simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of 
any repayments on Miss H. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the application. In 
general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are 
guaranteeing.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a guarantor might be indebted for (reflecting the fact that 
the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make 
repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
guarantor vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether UKC did what it needed to before agreeing to 
Miss H acting as guarantor.
I dont have the full details of the checks UKC did before agreeing to Miss H acting as 
guarantor. I have listened carefully to a phone call between the two parties that took place 
before the loan was agreed. From that I note that UKC established Miss Hs income and her 
normal housing costs. And it reviewed her other credit commitments. As a result of those 
checks UKC told Miss H that it would need to reduce the amount it was willing to lend and 
extend the term of the loan to ensure that she would find the repayments affordable if she 
needed to pay them. 
So based on what Ive said above, I must have some concerns that the checks UKC did 
would have shown that Miss H would have found making the repayments to be difficult. That 
doesnt mean I think they were unaffordable  I dont have enough information to reach that 
conclusion. But in reality I dont think the affordability of the repayments matters in my 
consideration of this complaint.
When she was agreeing to act as guarantor for this loan, I think Miss H had a reasonable 
expectation that UKC had done proportionate checks to ensure that the borrower would be 
able to afford his repayments. If UKC had told Miss H that its checks on the borrower were 
insufficient I doubt she would have been as ready to act as guarantor. Effectively she might 
have concluded that UKC was substituting its responsibility to check the borrower could 
afford the repayments with the guarantee she was offering.
UKC has agreed that the checks it did on the borrower before agreeing the loan were 
deficient. It has accepted that loan shouldnt have been offered. So I dont think it was 
reasonable for UKC to have added Miss H as guarantor for this loan, and it needs to pay her 
some compensation.  
Putting things right
As I said earlier Miss H has made a number of repayments on the loan acting as the 
guarantor. Whilst I accept that UKC might not have legally required Miss H to make all those repayments I think it reasonable to conclude that she only made the repayments because of 
her guarantor obligations. So to put things right UKC should;
Refund to Miss H any repayments she has made on this loan.
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded repayments from the date they 
were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
Remove any information recorded on Miss Hs credit file in relation to the loan
Release Miss H from any obligations under the guarantee and indemnity agreement 
and then terminate it
 HM Revenue & Customs requires UKC to take off tax from this interest. UKC must give 
Miss H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Hs complaint and direct UK Credit Limited to put 
things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman