DRN-2490626
The complaint
Mrs and Mr G complain that ReAssure Limited mis-sold a decreasing term life cover policy 
when they took out a new mortgage.
What happened
In 1993, Mrs and Mr G took out a mortgage with a bank I will call W, and the mortgage offer 
included a condition that they should put in place a decreasing term policy. The policy W put 
in place for Mrs and Mr G was for the amount and term of the mortgage. 
Mrs and Mr G complained to W in 2019 and were told ReAssure are now responsible for the 
sale of the policy. Mrs and Mr G then complained to ReAssure and received a final response 
that didnt uphold the complaint. ReAssure said the policy recommended was suitable 
because it was for the amount and term of the mortgage. ReAssure said at the time they 
believed W didnt make taking out a suitable policy a condition of their mortgages.
Mrs and Mr G werent happy with the response from ReAssure and brought their complaint 
to our service.
Our investigator looked at things for Mrs and Mr G and initially thought ReAssure hadnt 
done anything wrong because the policy recommended was suitable for the mortgage. Our 
investigator thought that even though there was some existing cover, including employee 
benefits and some pension provision, these werent guaranteed if their employment status 
changed. Our investigator also considered some other policies in place, but because they 
were for different terms and amounts than the mortgage, he felt ReAssure had 
recommended a suitable policy.
Mrs and Mr G didnt agree with our investigator and provided further evidence to be 
considered. One piece of evidence they sent was the original mortgage offer that confirmed 
the policy W had sold was a condition of the mortgage.
Our investigator asked ReAssure to consider the documents and comments Mrs and Mr G 
provided. ReAssure explained their final response was made on the basis the policy wasnt 
arranged as a condition of the mortgage as they had no record of the mortgage offer. 
ReAssure now say the mortgage offer supports their view the policy hadnt been mis-sold as 
it was included as a condition of the mortgage.
Our investigator considered the further comments and documents from Mrs and Mr G, and 
the comments from ReAssure, and explained that whilst he still thought ReAssure had done 
nothing wrong, because the policy was a condition of the mortgage offer he didnt think 
ReAssure had misled Mrs and Mr G that the policy was compulsory when it wasnt.
Mrs and Mr G didnt agree with our investigator and maintained they had enough alternative 
cover in place, and they asked for an ombudsman to decide their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs and Mr G believe the policy they took out in 1993 was mis-sold because ReAssure 
didnt consider they had other life cover and assets in place that couldve been used to pay 
off the mortgage if either one of them died. I understand Mrs and Mr G will be disappointed 
with my decision, but for much the same reasons as the investigator, I dont think ReAssure 
mis-sold the 1993 policy. I will now explain why.
Mrs and Mr G have provided evidence of several life cover plans, pensions and savings they 
had at the time they took out the mortgage. I appreciate there were employee benefits that 
may have provided some protection on death, and there were other life policies that provided 
an element of life cover and savings, but none of these were suitable to protect the mortgage 
applied for over a 25-year term. In general terms, we wouldnt expect employee benefits to 
be considered suitable as they arent guaranteed and can stop altogether if employment 
ends. And, the life policies Mrs and Mr G highlighted have various terms and sums assured 
that dont align with the mortgage amount or term.
I have seen that over the years, Mrs and Mr G have built up their savings and investments 
and that some of these had reasonable values at the time they took out the mortgage. 
However, the mortgage was arranged on a capital and interest basis and its reasonable for 
me to conclude these savings and investments werent intended to repay the mortgage or 
provide protection. So, I dont think the policy sold by ReAssure was mis-sold, and as it 
provided the level of cover required to protect a repayment mortgage over 25 years on death 
of either of them, I think it was suitable.
I have seen the mortgage offer included a condition that the ReAssure policy be put in place. 
It doesnt say it needed to be assigned, but it did need to be on risk, and it isnt unusual for a 
lender to make this a condition of the borrowing. Mrs and Mr G say that ReAssure told them 
the policy was compulsory, and from what I can see from the mortgage offer, this was 
correct. So, I dont think ReAssure misled Mrs and Mr G in this regard.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman