DRN-1157091
 
Complaint
Ms C complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax failed to update its systems 
correctly when she came to the end of a repayment plan on her credit card.
Background
Ms C has a credit card account with Halifax. She had agreed a repayment plan with Halifax 
which was now completed. Ms C says that when the repayment plan was completed Halifax 
didnt amend the minimum payment amount on her credit card statement. This meant that 
the minimum payment amount on her statement was greater than it shouldve been. 
She complained to Halifax about this and it upheld her complaint. It said that it needed to 
amend its systems to ensure that the correct minimum payment appeared on her 
statements. It also told her not to make any payment that month. It paid her £50 for distress 
and inconvenience and £23 for her expenses.
The following month the statement had still not been corrected. Ms C also got a message 
from Halifax telling her that shed missed a repayment on the card. Ms C complained to 
Halifax about this. Halifax apologised. It said that it was still trying to make the necessary 
amendments to its systems. It also paid Ms C a further £75 by way of compensation and £18 
for her expenses. 
Ms C remained dissatisfied and so she complained to our service. 
Our investigator looked into her complaint. She considered a copy of Ms Cs credit report 
and noted that there was nothing on the report to indicate that there had been a missed 
payment on the credit card. Our investigators view was that Halifax was trying to resolve the 
issue with its systems to amend the minimum monthly payment that appeared on Ms Cs 
credit card statements and that, in the meantime, she hadnt suffered any detriment. Our 
investigator also said that she thought Halifax had provided fair and reasonable 
compensation for what it had done wrong and there was nothing further that she thought it 
should do.  
Ms C disagreed. She raised an issue about a previous complaint she had made. Our 
investigator told her that that complaint had been closed and so we couldnt look into it 
again.
Ms C remains unhappy and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. For mostly the same reasons as our 
investigator I wont be upholding this complaint. At the outset, I think its important to make clear that this decision wont be covering Ms Cs 
concerns about a previous complaint that she made to this service. That issue was 
considered separately before. So, I wont be making any findings in relation to it. Instead I 
shall be dealing only with the problems Ms C says shes had with Halifax fixing the 
information on her credit card statements.   
Halifax agreed with Ms C that the minimum payment on her credit card statement was 
incorrect. I can see that Halifax was trying to resolve this issue with its IT personnel. It took 
longer than wouldve been expected but the reason for this was that it appeared to be an 
unusual circumstance. Specialist staff had to be involved in trying to sort it out. Halifax 
apologised to Ms C and paid her compensation for what had happened. It paid additional 
compensation when the matter wasnt resolved the following month. I dont think it couldve 
done anything more and so I wont be asking it to pay further compensation.
Ive also looked at Ms Cs credit file. I can see that Halifax hasnt recorded a missed 
payment on her credit card. So, I dont think Ms C has suffered any detriment as regards 
that. 
In the circumstances, I agree with our investigator that Halifax has acted fairly and 
reasonably and I dont require it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2020.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman