DRN-1320514
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Gefion Insurance A/S (Gefion) unfairly avoided his motor trade 
insurance policy and kept all his premiums.
All references to Gefion include its agents. I appreciate Mr M has been dealing with two 
other companies but as I think they were both acting on Gefions behalf, certainly when it 
came to avoiding his policy, I am issuing this decision against Gefion. 
What happened
Mr M took out a motor trade insurance policy with Gefion on 1 August 2019. This was done 
though a broker over the telephone. On 5 August 2019 the broker, on Gefions behalf, wrote 
to Mr M to say that it was avoiding (which means it cancelled it from the start as though it 
never existed) his policy with immediate effect and keeping his premiums and any 
administration charges. It said it was doing this because he failed to declare that he had 
been disqualified from being a company director and that one of the companies he had been 
a director of had become insolvent. 
Gefion said that when he bought the policy Mr M was asked whether he had ever been 
made bankrupt or insolvent or had any county court judgments (CCJs) against him and 
shouldve answered yes. It said had he done so, it wouldnt have insured him. Gefion also 
quoted a term in its policy which says that if it becomes aware that its policyholder 
misrepresented or provided fraudulent information it may cancel his/her policy. It also quoted 
another term which says that it can immediately cancel or avoid a policy and keep the 
premium if the misrepresentation is found to be reckless and or malicious.
Mr M didnt agree and complained. He said Gefion never sent him its terms and conditions 
and he wasnt aware of the hidden term which said it could cancel his policy and keep his 
premium if he answered a question incorrectly. He also said he had problems with his 
hearing and that the advisor he had been speaking to when he took the policy out was 
talking very fast and never asked him if he could hear everything. 
Gefion didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint but it returned £70 in administration and direct debit 
fees. It said Mr M was still liable for the outstanding balance of £614.99. It said this was 
owed to the loan provider that his direct debit had been arranged through- as Gefion was 
keeping his premium.
Mr M then complained to us and wanted a full refund as well as compensation for the stress 
he suffered. He said that: 
Gefion deliberately lied to him about how quickly it would get his policy documents to 
him. He said they were emailed to him two days after he took the policy out but went 
to his spam folder.
Gefion has been inconsistent in the reasons it used to cancel the policy. 
Gefion sent him its terms and conditions on 3 August which goes against its 
assertion that it avoided the policy on 1 August. His policy was only live for one hour 
but Gefion wants his premium for the full year. His policy schedule said the policy was temporary (only for 30 days) and not a full 
year. 
 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said the relevant law requires Mr M to make 
a fair presentation of the risk the insurer will be taking on. He didnt think Mr M did so. 
Mr M then asked for an ombudsmans decision as he didnt agree with our investigator. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. 
Mr M took out a commercial motor trade policy. Under the Insurance Act 2015 he has a duty 
to make a fair presentation of the risk to the insurer when taking out a policy. This means 
he has to tell the insurer everything he knows or should know that would influence the 
insurers judgment in deciding whether to insure him (and if so on what terms). Or he has to 
give the insurer enough information to put it on notice that it needs to make further enquiries 
about potentially material circumstances. If he doesnt do this, the insurer is only able to take 
action if it shows hes made whats known as a qualifying breach.  
I have listened to the call that took place when Mr M took out the policy. The advisor asked 
Mr M the following question: 
Have you ever incurred any CCJs, [been] made bankrupt or insolvent? 
Mr M answered no. 
Gefion has provided evidence which shows that Mr M had been disqualified from being a 
director of a company for ten years in January 2018. This decision appears to have been 
linked to a company he was the sole director of which became insolvent in 2015. As far as 
Im aware Mr M doesnt dispute this.
Mr M told us he answered no to the question above because he didnt personally have any 
CCJs or been made bankrupt or insolvent. This may well be the case but, as I said above, 
Mr M has a duty to make a fair presentation of the risk to his insurer. Gefion said if it had 
known about Mr Ms company becoming insolvent and him being disqualified from being a 
director it wouldnt have insured him. So, this information was clearly material to its decision. 
On balance, I also dont think the question the broker asked on Gefions behalf was phrased 
in such a way that it meant (or could be interpreted to mean) that it only wanted to know 
whether Mr M had been personally made bankrupt or insolvent or had CCJs. So, I dont think 
Mr M made a fair presentation of the risk when buying his policy.
The Insurance Act 2015 says that the insurer has a remedy where theres been a breach of 
fair presentation if it wouldnt have provided cover, or would have done so on different terms. 
This is known as a qualifying breach. Gefions shown it wouldnt have covered Mr M if hed 
provided the correct information. So, Im satisfied he made a qualifying breach. 
A qualifying breach is either deliberate or reckless or neither deliberate nor reckless. Bearing 
in mind that Mr M was only disqualified in 2018, he was the sole director of his previous 
business and that the matter seems to have been ongoing since 2015, I think Gefion acted 
fairly and reasonably in saying this was reckless and I wont interfere with this decision.  In these circumstances the Act allows Gefion to avoid the policy and retain the premiums. 
So, Im satisfied Gefions acted in line with that. 
Mr M said he shouldnt be held responsible for not abiding by Gefions terms and conditions 
and that the term Gefion is relying on is onerous. But I dont think this is relevant, even if I 
accepted that Mr M didnt receive the documents at all or not until after his policy was 
cancelled. This is because, as I said above, Mr M has a duty of fair presentation under the 
Act. The remedies Gefion applied in this case are available to it under the Act regardless of 
whether it was in Gefions terms and conditions and regardless of whether Mr M was aware 
of the terms and conditions or not. 
Mr M also said Gefion had been inconsistent in the reasons it gave for avoiding his policy, 
but I didnt think that was the case or that this would affect the outcome of this complaint. 
Both its final responses said Mr M shouldve told it about his previous company, that it was 
cancelling the policy immediately and quoted the same policy term it was relying on.  
Mr M said he has problems with his hearing and that the advisor never asked him if he had 
any such problems. As I said above, I have listened to Mr Ms call and I didnt get the 
impression he was struggling to understand the advisor and I dont think the advisor 
wouldve had any reason to suspect he was struggling to understand him. Mr M had to 
answer a number of questions that didnt simply require a yes or no answer such as 
having to spell his name, provide his payment details etc. I didnt get the impression he 
struggled to understand those.
Mr M also said he didnt receive Gefions terms and conditions until two days after taking the 
policy out and that they went into his spam folder. I didnt think this was deliberate as Mr M 
says or that it was down to Gefion. And I dont think receiving them any sooner wouldve 
changed anything. Mr M said he received them over the weekend and from what Ive seen 
he told the advisor he had spoken to that he needed them by the Monday. 
Mr M said the policy was only valid for 30 days but I think he was referring to the cover note 
that was issued to him which is temporary and stands in the place of an insurance certificate. 
Having listened to the call, I thought it was made clear this was a 12 month policy. 
Mr M said his policy was only valid for one hour. Gefion wrote to Mr M on 5 August to say it 
was cancelling the policy with effect from 1 August i.e. as if the policy never existed. So, I 
dont think it cancelled the policy one hour later. 
For the reasons above I think Gefion acted fairly and reasonable and in line with the relevant 
law.  
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2020.
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman