DRN-4460776
The complaint
Miss A complains that NRAM Limited
Will not accept her offer of full and final settlement of a shortfall debt.
Caused her distress by raising her expectations by telling her it would consider a full and 
final offer and then rejecting it without properly considering her circumstances.
Managed the shortfall debt in a way that has caused her a great deal of confusion.
Sent her a letter intended for another customer.
Did not send her statements for the debt.
What happened
Miss A had two buy-to-let mortgages with NRAM. In 2005, I understand that NRAM took 
possession of both mortgaged properties. The proceeds of the sale of the properties wasnt 
enough to clear the outstanding balances  and Miss A was left with a shortfall to repay.
In 2022, the shortfall debt was over £100,000. Miss A made an offer of £1,500 in full and 
final settlement of the debt. When NRAM rejected that offer, Miss A made another offer of 
£5,000. Again that was rejected by NRAM.
Miss A complains that NRAM has unfairly declined her offers. She said that she had been 
caused financial hardship and distress by the way she has been treated and that it has led to 
her borrowing money from payday lenders to maintain the debt. Despite maintaining 
payments to the debt, NRAM kept recalling the debt and changing the debt collection 
agencies. And when she complained it failed to acknowledge all of the debt collectors it had 
used. In view of everything, she believes that NRAM should forgive the remaining debt.
Miss A also said that NRAM sent her letters meant for someone else and that she hasnt 
been receiving statements  and that payments made in 2010 arent showing on a statement 
she received.
I issued a provisional decision, explaining why I considered NRAMs offer of £150 was a fair 
way to resolve this complaint. My provisional findings, which form part of this decision, were:
When Miss A complained to NRAM, she complained about all of the things set out above.
NRAM responded to those complaints in its final response dated 6 June 2023  and Im
satisfied that Miss A referred those complaint to us in time. So I can consider the complaints
 although I cant consider part of them for another reason, which I will set out below.
Full and final offers
I dont consider it is unreasonable for NRAM or any debt collector it instructs to discuss the
possibility of Miss A making a lump sum payment in full and final settlement of the debt. This
is accepted practice. But it is for NRAM to decide what it is prepared to accept in settlement
of the debt.
The offers that Miss A made were significantly less than the outstanding balance. NRAM
said the offers werent sufficient. Looking at the balance outstanding, I dont consider it was
unreasonable for NRAM to decline those offers  and ultimately it was entitled to use its
discretion to make those decisions.
Miss A has provided evidence that in 2013 a debt collector said NRAM might consider and
offer of £5,000 based on Miss As circumstances. I dont think that could reasonably be
interpreted as a guarantee NRAM would accept such an offer  especially more than ten
years later.
I note what Miss A has said about her circumstances. I appreciate that it would be
distressing to be left repaying a shortfall debt after so many years and I was sorry to hear the
impact that has had on her. But I cant see that NRAM or the debt collectors have treated her
unfairly. The evidence suggests that NRAM and the debt collectors considered Miss As
circumstances and put in place a repayment arrangement based on that. They also said
Miss A should let them know if her circumstances changed.
Based on the evidence available to me I cant see that NRAM unfairly led Miss A to believe it
would accept a full and final settlement offer or that it unfairly declined the offers she made.
Management of the debt
Miss A said she was confused about how the debt was managed. She said NRAM had
instructed three different debt collectors and the debt had been recalled to NRAM. She also
gave us a copy of a letter from NRAM that suggested she had not been in contact with it,
when in fact she had.
Most of the letters and emails Miss A has provided are dated between 2011 and 2015. But
under our rules I cant consider things that happened more than six years ago or where the
person complaining knew (or ought reasonably to have known) they had cause for complaint
more than three years ago
I cant look at how the debt was managed before 21 March 2017  six years before Miss A
complained. Thats because she must have known there was a problem at the time in
question. NRAM has not consented to us considering the complaint and Im satisfied there
werent exceptional circumstances that prevented Miss A complaining in time.
Looking at what happened after March 2017, I cant see any errors by NRAM. Its entitled to
appoint debt collectors to recover the debt and from time to time change the debt collector.
Letter
NRAM accepts that it sent Miss A a letter meant for another customer in error. It has made
an increased offer of £150 for any upset that caused. While I understand Miss A is worried
about the safety of her own personal data, there is no evidence that it has been sent to
anyone else. I think £150 is a fair amount to reflect the worry NRAMs mistake has caused to
her.
Statements
NRAM said it does not send annual statements to Miss A, but it will do so on request. While
quarterly statements are a requirement for regulated mortgages, the shortfall debt here is asresult of unregulated buy-to-let mortgages. So I cant see any requirement for NRAM to send
regular statements to Miss A.
When NRAM sent Miss A statements it omitted payments received in 2010. It included
evidence of the payments received in 2010 in its final response  and I understand it sent
Miss A a statement from that time. I consider that is a fair resolution to that part of the
complaint and that its offer covers any upset and inconvenience caused by this element of
the complaint.
Miss A did not accept my provisional findings. She made a number of points, including:
At the time of taking out the mortgage she didnt have the information that the mortgages 
were unregulated buy-to-lets.
The mortgage shortfall was a result of the flats being sold too cheaply.
She didnt complain about the management of the debt at the time as she was 
experiencing a time of ongoing stress and difficulty due to bereavement and financial 
difficulty. So she wasnt in the right frame of mind to complain.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed everything again  and having done so I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
I cant see that Miss A has complained that she didnt know the mortgages were unregulated 
or that the properties were sold for too little. Shed need to raise those points with NRAM if 
she wants to complain. There might be issues around our time limits if she wanted to refer 
any future complaints to us. But I have not dealt with those matters here  other than to say 
that those points dont make any difference to the outcome of this complaint. 
The only matter I need to deal with is the reasons Miss A has given for not referring her 
complaint about the management of the debt in time. I was very sorry to hear what she has 
been through. Based on what she has said I think that its likely there were exceptional 
circumstances. But for me to consider events before March 2017, I would also need to make 
the finding that those circumstances prevented Miss A from complying with our time limits. 
I dont consider the exceptional circumstances prevented Miss A complying with our time 
limits. I say that because the evidence I have shows that Miss A was able to deal with debt 
collection agencies in respect of the debt at the time in question  and one of Miss As point 
is that she always kept in contact with NRAM. It follows that she was able to manage her 
day-to-day activities. So while I dont doubt what she went through and how hard that was, 
that isnt enough for me to say that her circumstances prevented her complaining in time. 
My final decision
My final decision is that NRAM Limited should pay Miss A £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 Ken Rose
Ombudsman