DRN-2873542
The complaint
Mr C complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc didnt provide clear information about its credit 
card offer. 
What happened
Mr C told us:
Sainsburys advertised its credit card as offering 0% interest on purchases and 
balance transfers for 19 months. He found that attractive, and made an online 
application.
He completed the application and the website displayed a green tick  which he 
thought meant his balance transfer application had been successful.
After his application was accepted, he was surprised to find that the interest rate on 
his purchases would be 0% for only 12 months  and he wasnt able to transfer his 
existing balance at all.
He is now in a position where he has a credit card that he may choose not to use, but 
he has still been credit scored. He would like Sainsburys to correct his credit file, 
because if it had told him he couldnt transfer his balance he wouldnt have applied 
for the Sainsburys card in the first place.
Sainsburys told us:
Its website makes clear that it cannot accept balance transfers from some types of 
cards. It also makes clear that it might offer a 0% interest period for 12 months 
(rather than 19 months) depending on an applicants circumstances.
In Mr Cs case, before he chose to accept the credit agreement its website showed a 
clear and prominent box explaining we cannot accept the transfer requested.
It is satisfied that it did not make any errors with Mr Cs application.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but did not uphold it. Our investigator 
thought Sainsburys had given Mr C clear information before he decided to accept the credit 
card, so he didnt think Sainsburys had done anything wrong.
Mr C did not accept our investigators conclusions. He said he didnt recall seeing the box 
that said he would not be able to transfer the balance from his existing card  and he cant 
say whether the box was displayed to him at the time or added afterwards. He also noted 
that Sainsburys didnt tell our service about the box until after our investigator made 
enquiries.
Mr C is also concerned about the size of the font used to display the information about 
balance transfers. Overall, he didnt think Sainsburys was clear enough about how the credit 
card would operate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to further disappoint Mr C, but there is very little I can add to our investigators 
comments. For the reasons our investigator gave, I dont think Sainsburys has done 
anything wrong.
Its impossible for me to be certain about whether Sainsburys did display the information in 
the box it refers to. It says it did, and it has provided evidence to show that it does display 
the box in these circumstances. Mr C does not remember seeing the box.  
On balance, I do think it more likely than not that the box was displayed to Mr C. I accept 
that Mr C doesnt remember it, but that doesnt mean it wasnt shown. I dont have any 
concerns about the size of the font in the box; the text in the box is of similar size to other 
text used on the website. And I also think the box itself  a red rectangle  gave further 
prominence to the text inside the box. 
Overall, I think Sainsburys did give Mr C clear information before he confirmed that he 
wanted to go ahead with the card. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Sainsburys Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman