The complaint
Ms P says Elevate Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny, irresponsibly lent to her. 
Ms Ps complaint has been brought to this service on her behalf by a claims management 
company. But for ease I shall refer below to all actions being taken by Ms P. 
What happened
This complaint is about six short term loans Sunny provided to Ms P between 
August 2015 and December 2015. All the loans were repayable by six monthly instalments, 
but Ms P repaid some of the loans earlier than planned. On some occasions Ms P had three 
loans outstanding at the same time. Only Loans 1 to 3 have been repaid by Ms P. Sunny 
sold the balances on Loans 4 to 6 to a third party (T). Ms Ps borrowing history is as 
follows. The opening and repayment dates of the loans are shown together with the loan 
amounts.
123/8/2015 17/12/2015 £300.00
227/8/2015 13/11/2015 £150.00
31/09/2015 15/10/2015 £100.00
415/10/2015 Unpaid £400.00
513/11/2015 Unpaid £200.00
617/12/2015 Unpaid £250.00
In its final response letter, Sunny said that it didnt uphold Ms Ps complaint. 
Our adjudicator recommended that Ms Ps complaint should be upheld in part. She said that 
by Loan 6 Ms P was struggling to repay some of her previous loans. Loan 6 was the third 
instance of Ms P borrowing a loan shortly after repaying a previous loan and her 
indebtedness to Sunny didnt significantly reduce throughout her borrowing. The adjudicator 
said that there was a significant risk that Ms P would have been unable to sustainably meet 
the monthly repayments for Loan 6. So she said that Ms Ps complaint about Loan 6 should 
be upheld.
Sunny disagreed with the adjudicators recommendations. It said that Ms P was required to 
use on average 3.41% of her monthly income to make contractual repayment on any Sunny 
DRN-1602051loan. Sunny said that it used the income and expenditure information provided by Ms P and 
information from the credit reference agencies (CRAs) to ensure the amount it agreed to 
lend could be repaid without undue difficulty over the term of the loan. Where there was a 
discrepancy between the credit commitments declared by Ms P and those it saw at the 
CRAs, it used the higher value. It also allowed consumers to hold four concurrent loans with 
it at any time. At the time of Loan 6, Ms Ps monthly disposable income took into account 
any existing monthly repayments she may have had with it and other providers and her 
expenditure. Ms P had a disposable income of £2,201 so it appeared that she had a more 
than sufficient disposable income amount to cover the combined monthly repayments of 
£252.04. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
When Sunny lent to Ms P the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and relevant 
regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). The CONC 
contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms P could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Ms P could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the CONC defines sustainable as being without undue difficulties 
and in particular the consumer should be able to make repayments, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Ps complaint.
Sunny did a number of checks before it lent to Ms P. It asked her for details of her monthly 
income and expenditure. Ms Ps declared income for Loans 1 to 6 ranged from £1,600 to 
£3,100. Ms Ps declared expenditure for Loans 1 to 6 ranged between £825 and £1,316. 
Sunny also said that it had checked Ms Ps credit file before agreeing to the loans. It hasnt 
provided us with the detailed results of its credit checks. But it did note in its Loan Datasheet 
that Ms P wasnt bankrupt or in an individual voluntary arrangement or in a debt 
management plan at the time she took out the loans. But I note that before Loan 1, Sunnys 
Loan Datasheet showed that Ms P had a county court judgement registered against her in 
the previous three months. The Loan Datasheet also showed that Ms P had a defaulted 
account in the four months prior to Loans 4 to 6. I think the county court judgement and 
defaulted accounts should have concerned Sunny and I have referred to these below.
I cant see that weve received a credit report from Ms P. So I cant say whether there was 
any adverse information on the file which I think should have caused additional concerns to 
Sunny. 
As mentioned above, each of Ms Ps loans was repayable by six monthly instalments. So the 
amounts that Ms P needed to repay each time were smaller than if shed taken a normal 
payday loan. But she was also committing to making those repayments over a far longer 
period. In addition Ms P sometimes had a number of loans outstanding at the same time. So 
Ive considered the total amount that Ms P needed to repay to Sunny each month. 
Ms P needed to make monthly loan repayments of around £85 to Sunny for Loan 1. 
Although the loan repayments were relatively modest compared to Ms Ps declared income, I 
think the county court judgement Sunny saw on its credit check should have led the lender to 
conclude that it wasnt safe to lend to Ms P without independently assessing her current 
financial situation. And as Loans 2 and 3 were taken out within nine days of Loan 1, I think 
similar checks should have been made before those loans too for the same reason. This 
was to make sure Ms P was in a position to make the repayments sustainably. As far as I 
can see Sunny didnt do this.
I would normally look at the borrowers bank statements and credit report to see what 
proportionate checks would likely have shown. The adjudicator asked Ms P for a copy of her 
credit report and copies of her bank statements from three months before the loans were 
granted so we could see what better checks would have shown Sunny. It doesnt appear that 
weve received these. So Im not able to say that better checks would have shown Sunny 
that it shouldnt have given Loans 1 to 3 to Ms P.
When Ms P took out Loan 4, Loans 1 and 2 were still outstanding. Although the amount of 
Ms Ps declared disposable income had more than doubled since Loan 3, the loan amount 
was the highest Ms P had borrowed yet and the total monthly repayment had increased 
significantly to £245.76. In addition as Ive said above, Sunnys Loan Datasheet showed that 
Ms P had a defaulted credit account in the four months prior to Loans 4 to 6.  So by the time 
of Loan 4 I don't think it was reasonable for Sunny to rely on the information Ms P was 
providing about her finances and I think it should have taken steps at that time to 
independently verify Ms Ps true financial position. And for much the same reasons I think 
similar checks should have been carried out before Loan 5. But as weve not received copies of Ms Ps bank statements, Im not able to say that better checks would have shown Sunny 
that it shouldnt have given Loans 4 and 5 to Ms P.
But looking at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Ms P I think by Loan 6 the 
point had been reached where the lender should reasonably have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt provide further loans. This was now Ms Ps sixth loan request in just under four 
months. It was the third time she had borrowed on the same day as shed repaid a previous 
loan. I think its likely that Ms P needed to borrow further from Sunny in order to fill a hole in 
her finances that was made by making her loan repayments to Sunny. In addition the total 
monthly repayments and the total amount being borrowed werent significantly decreasing. I 
also note that Ms Ps monthly repayments for Loans 1 and 4 were paid a couple of days late 
on the date she took out Loan 6. So I think its possible that she needed to borrow  Loan 6 in 
order to repay these loans. I think by Loan 6 all this should have indicated to Sunny that Ms 
P was most likely having significant problems managing her money. And I dont think Sunny 
should have given Loan 6 to Ms P.
Ive taken into account the main points raised by Sunny in its response to the adjudicators 
view. 
I note that Sunny said that Ms P was paying an average of 3.41% of her monthly income to 
repay the loans. But I think the percentage of Ms Ps monthly income used to repay the 
loans was far higher than this as Ms P usually had at least two and sometimes three loan 
repayments to make to Sunny.
I note that Sunny had used Ms Ps declared income and expenditure and the credit 
commitments shown at the CRAs to ensure that the loans could be repaid without undue 
difficulty. Sunny also said that at the time of Loan 6 Ms P had more than sufficient 
disposable income to cover her combined monthly repayments. But I think Sunny will (or 
ought to) know from previous decisions (as well as whats set out on our website) that there 
are cases where this service considers the overall lending pattern and not just the 
affordability of each loan. And there will be times when the pattern of lending alone is 
enough to indicate that a consumer is likely to be in financial difficulty  or would otherwise 
be harmed should relending continue. 
And when a consumer borrows numerous loans over a long period of time, its most likely 
that the loans arent being used for their intended purpose of temporary cash flow problems. 
As Sunny will know, the FCA made it clear in a recent letter to CEOs of high cost lending 
firms that a high volume of relending..may be symptomatic of unsustainable lending 
patterns. And I think that is the case here.
So, Im upholding this complaint in part in relation to Loan 6. Sunny should put things right as 
shown below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this complaint 
I order Elevate Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny, to take the following steps:
Sunny should buy back the Loan 6 debt it sold to T if it is able to do so, so it can carry out 
these directions. If Sunny isnt able to buy the Loan 6 debt back then Sunny should liaise 
with T to achieve the results outlined below: 
1. Remove all outstanding interest, fees and charges from the balance on Loan 6.2. Treat any repayments made by Ms P towards Loan 6 as though they had been
repayments of the capital sum borrowed on Loan 6.
3. And if this results in Ms P having made an overpayment then refund that
overpayment with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayment, from the date
the overpayment would have arisen, to the date the refund is made.
4. In the event that there is still an outstanding capital balance on Loan 6 then a positive
and sympathetic view should be taken when seeking to agree an affordable
repayment plan with Ms P.
5. If Sunny is unable or unwilling to take the debt back into its own books, it should
make the refund set out in 3. above to Ms P. It needs to ensure Ms P doesnt pay
any more than the capital balance of the loan and so it may need to liaise with T to
    achieve that.
6. Remove any information recorded on Ms Ps credit file with regard to Loan 6 once
the capital amount of this loan has been repaid (if Sunny buys it back). If Loan 6
has to remain with T, then Sunny is to assist Ms P, so far as its able, to correct her
credit file record once the capital amount of the loan has been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give
Ms P a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one. If Sunny intends
to apply the refunds to reduce any outstanding capital balance, it must do so after deducting
the tax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2020.
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman