DRN-3964326
The complaint
Mr P complains about the charges Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc (t/a Novuna Vehicle 
Solutions) (NVS) applied when he returned a car at the end of his hire agreement.
What happened
Mr P entered into a hire agreement in October 2017. Mr P says prior to handing the car 
back, he paid to have it valeted and he had 4 brand new tyres fitted at a cost of more than 
£400. He says hes shocked with the damage charges that NVS applied when he returned 
the car. Mr P told us:
a third party collected the car and inspected it in July 2022, and it was indicated to 
him that thered be charges of more than £1,200 because of damage that had been 
identified;
he complained to NVS, and it reviewed the charges before agreeing to remove one 
of them; it accepted that repairs to the windscreen had been carried out appropriately 
and it reduced the charges to £973.83. It said this was the amount Mr P needed to 
pay for damage that was outside fair wear and tear;
his principal complaint relates to the charges that have been applied for the carpet 
and the rear bumper and he told us why he thinks they are wrong;
he accepts theres a hole in the carpet; over the 4.5 years hes had the car, his use of 
the clutch has worn a hole in the carpet  this is simply a result of the cars design;
the rear bumper damage wasnt his fault  he was involved in an accident and the 
car was repaired by a garage approved by his insurance company. Mr P says he 
doesnt think the paintwork is substandard and in any event hes not responsible for 
this failure.
the car was almost 5 years old when he returned it, he thought it was in immaculate 
condition and he wasnt expecting any charges. He wants NVS to remove the 
charges and apologise for the stressful period of worry that its caused him.
NVS rejected Mr Ps complaint. It said under the terms of Mr Ps agreement, he needed to 
return the vehicle with no damage outside of fair wear and tear. And it explained that it had 
reviewed the photographs and the report provided by its collection agent, and it was satisfied 
that the identified damage was clearly evidenced and was outside fair wear and tear.
It explained that the third-party collection agent had inspected the car against the industry 
standards set out in the British Vehicle Renting and Leasing Association (BVRLA) guidelines 
and identified issues in a number of areas:
1. Carpet  holed £458.83
2. Rear door R  multiple chips £75.00
3. Front alloy L  spoke damage £65.00
4. Rear door L  dent £60.00
5. Rear bumper  dirt in paint £175.00
6. Bonnet  paint flaking poor repair £140.00
NVS said the charge for a seventh issue  chip in the front windscreen  had been reviewed 
and removed from Mr Ps invoice. It said it accepted that the size of the chip was less than 
10mm and, as a result, was not chargeable.
Mr P disagreed and brought his complaint to this Service. He said hed accept the charge for 
the damaged alloy (3), and hed accept our opinion in respect of charges (2), (4) and (6). But 
he disagreed with the charges for the carpet (1), and the rear bumper (5).
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said he didnt think it should be upheld. He 
explained that the standard for what constitutes fair wear and tear is set out in the British 
Vehicle Renting Leasing Association (BVRLA) guidelines and his role was to decide whether 
the charges applied by NVS were fair and reasonable.
He explained hed reviewed the evidence from the inspection and was satisfied that there 
was sufficient evidence to show that the damage identified exceeds BVRLA fair wear and 
tear guidance, and that the charges had been applied fairly.
Mr P disagrees, so the complaint comes to me to decide. He says he accepts our 
investigators opinion about the charges for the damage to both doors, the bonnet and the 
alloy, but he disputes the fairness of the charges for the carpet and the rear bumper. He 
says the hole in the carpet is simply a result of using the clutch over the time he had the car. 
And he says he cant see the defect in the paint on the rear bumper.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Mr P must keep the vehicle in good 
condition and repair. It goes on to say, You will be responsible to us for any damage 
caused to or deterioration of the Vehicle otherwise than through fair wear and tear as 
indicated in the guidelines issued from time to time by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association (BVRLA). So, Im satisfied that Mr P was responsible for returning the car in 
good condition, and that the cars condition would be assessed against the guidelines issued 
by BVRLA. But the question is whether all the charges applied by NVS are fair and 
reasonable. 
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association (BVLRA) and these are accepted as an industry standard in determining 
whether any damage goes beyond fair wear and tear. So, I have taken these into account 
when deciding what is fair and reasonable for NVS to charge Mr P.
NVS claims there are six areas of damage that it deems to be outside fair wear and tear: 
1. Carpet  holed £458.83
2. Rear door R  multiple chips £75.00
3. Front alloy L  spoke damage £65.00
4. Rear door L  dent £60.00
5. Rear bumper  dirt in paint £175.006. Bonnet  paint flaking poor repair £140.00
I dont need to make a finding in respect of items (2), (3), (4) and (6). This is because Mr P 
accepted the opinion of our investigator in respect of these items. As a result, my findings 
relate to the two disputed charges  the charges for the carpet (1) and the rear bumper (5).
Carpet
The BVRLA guidance says The interior upholstery and trim must be clean and odourless 
with no burns, scratches, tears, dents or staining. Carpets should not have holes. 
I understand the point that Mr P makes about the cause of the hole, but my role is to 
determine whether NVS has applied the charge in accordance with the industry guidelines, 
as it said it would in the hire agreement that Mr P signed. The BVRLA standards in respect 
of car carpets are quite explicit and theres no exclusions listed or detailed.
Both parties accept that theres a hole in the carpet  thats not in dispute. So, Im satisfied 
that the charge NVS asked Mr P to pay in respect of the carpet was applied fairly and in line 
with relevant industry guidance.
Rear bumper
The BVRLA guidance says that customers can arrange to repair areas of damage and 
replace missing equipment and accessories before the vehicle is returned, ensuring that any 
work carried out is done to a professional standard by a repairer who can provide a 
transferable warranty for the work.
In respect of bumpers, paintwork and bodywork, the standard goes on to say that evidence 
of poor repair, such as flaking paint, preparation marks, paint contamination, rippled finish or 
poorly matched paint, is not acceptable.
NVS says there is evidence of specs of dirt in the paintwork on the rear bumper. It goes on 
to say that the inspection resulted in a number of photographs, and this can be seen in the 
photographic evidence not only of the bumper itself, but additionally in the reflections of the 
zebra board. In summary, the paintwork is contaminated.
Ive looked very carefully at the evidence that NVS provided, and Im satisfied that the 
damage highlighted by it is indeed present; put simply, the paintwork on the rear bumper 
appears to have been contaminated and theres evidence of specs of dirt in the paintwork. 
The photograph suggests that the car wasnt, perhaps, cleaned as thoroughly as it couldve 
been, with the result that the poor finish is possibly caused by dirt trapped under the paint. 
So, I think the charge in respect of the front bumper has been applied fairly and in 
accordance with the industry guidelines.
Ive considered what Mr P says about a third party undertaking this work following an 
accident that he was involved in. But, in the absence of a transferrable warranty for the work 
undertaken, its not unfair for NVS to charge Mr P if the quality of the paintwork is deemed to 
be substandard, and therefore damaged. Its also worth noting that the inspection report 
concluded the paint finish on the bonnet was also substandard  flaking paintwork  and 
Mr P seems to accept this. So, it doesnt surprise me that other aspects of the paintwork 
undertaken by the third party are also of a questionable standard.
Given all of the above, Im satisfied that the charges NVS asked Mr P to pay were applied 
fairly and in line with relevant industry guidance.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman