DRN-2817434
The complaint
Miss M says Stagemount Limited trading as Quidmarket lent to her irresponsibly. She says 
that she doesnt think Quidmarket made proper checks for creditworthiness before lending. 
 
What happened
This complaint is about two payday loans Quidmarket provided to Miss M in June and 
November 2020.
loandate 
startedamount 
borrowedmonthly 
instalmentsdate repaid
1 23/03/2020 £300 3 25/06/2020
2 06/07/2020 £350 4 26/11/2020
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought that the checks Quidmarket did were 
proportionate and so it was reasonable to approve these loans. 
Miss M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. She said that if Quidmarket had made 
better checks it wouldve seen that she had a number of other loans and not lent to her. Our 
adjudicator reconsidered the complaint, but his opinion didnt change. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Quidmarket needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss M could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Quidmarket should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ms complaint and Ive explained why below.
For loan 1 Miss M needed to repay around £160 over the following three months. This fell to 
£140 for loan 2, but this had a term of four months. 
Ive seen a record of the information Miss M provided when she completed her loan 
applications. Miss M said she had a monthly income of around £1,300 before taking loan 1 
and £1,450 before taking loan 2 and she had regular monthly outgoings of just over £1,000 
for both loans. So, it wouldve seemed reasonable for Quidmarket to think that the loans 
were affordable for Miss M. 
Miss M doesnt think the lending was right and she feels Quidmarket should have made 
more in-depth checks. Had it done this, she says it wouldve seen she was in financial 
difficulty. But given the amounts borrowed against her income, and that that it was early in 
the lending relationship, I dont think its reasonable to say Quidmarket should have looked 
into her finances in more detail. 
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Quidmarket was made aware of 
any financial problems Miss M mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it 
to investigate her circumstances further. So, I think it was reasonable for Quidmarket to rely 
on the information it obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Quidmarket did for these loans 
were proportionate. And I think its decisions to lend were reasonable. Im not upholding 
Miss Ms complaint about these loans. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman