DRN-3555928
The complaint
Ms R is unhappy that Capital One (Europe) plc defaulted her account.
What happened
Ms R spoke with Capital One as shed come to the end of an agreed payment holiday but 
was still in financial difficulty and couldnt make the minimum monthly payments required on 
her account. Capital One assessed Ms Rs income and expenditure and agreed to accept 
payments of £1 per month moving forwards as a result, although it was explained to Ms R 
that this payment arrangement would also result in the defaulting of her account.
In March 2021, Ms R spoke with Capital One again and said that it hadnt been properly 
explained to her that her account would default, and she asked Capital One to remove the 
default. Ms R made a payment to clear the outstanding arrears on her account, and Capital 
One agreed to remove the default. However, Ms R then continued to make payments to her 
account of £1 per month, which was less than the minimum monthly payments required on 
the account, and so the account fell into arrears again, and was later defaulted again. Miss R 
wasnt happy about this as she felt shed been told that shed be able to continue paying £1 
per month without the account falling into arrears. So, she raised a complaint.
Capital One looked at Ms Rs complaint. They confirmed that because Ms R hadnt made the 
minimum monthly payments the account had fallen into arrears and so they felt that the 
account had been defaulted correctly. However, they apologised to Ms R for one of their 
agents incorrectly advising her that the previously agreed £1 per month payment amount 
would be all that Ms R would need to pay, and they made a payment of £100 to Ms R as 
compensation for any trouble and upset shed incurred because of this. Mr S wasnt satisfied 
with Capital Ones response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that the response Capital One 
had already issued to Ms R, including that the default would remain in place and the 
payment of £100 compensation, already represented a fair and reasonable outcome. Ms R 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im satisfied that the defaulting of Ms Rs account by Capital One was fair, 
and so I wont be asking them to remove the default from Ms Rs credit file as she would like.
When Capital One removed the default from Ms Rs credit file in March 2021, after Ms R had 
made a payment to clear the arrears on her account, it was clearly communicated to her at 
that time that she would need to make at least the minimum monthly payments that would 
become due on the account to avoid the account falling into arrears once again.
But Ms R didnt make the minimum monthly payments required, but instead continued to 
make payments of only £1 per month. This meant that her account did fall into arrears once 
again, and Capital One advised Ms R of this both via the monthly account statements, which 
showed the arrears that were developing on the account, and via ongoing collections letters 
which confirmed that the account was considered as being in arrears and may default.
Ms R may argue that when she spoke with Capital One in April 2021 to get the bank details 
needed to set up a standing order, she was told at that time that she could make payments 
of just £1 per month, in line with her previously agreed plan.
Its not in dispute that Ms R was given that incorrect information at that time. But I dont feel 
that this one instance of incorrect information should overrule the correct information about 
the need to make at least the minimum monthly payments moving forwards on the account 
that Ms R had been given previously, or the subsequent information about her account 
falling into arrears because the minimum monthly payments werent being made that Ms R 
was later presented with, as described above.
Additionally, given that Ms R had been paying £1 per month previously, and that by doing so 
her account had fallen into arrears and been defaulted by Capital One, I feel that it should in 
all reasonableness have been apparent to Ms R that a similar outcome would occur should 
she continue to only make £1 payments towards the account once again.
Ultimately, if a credit account holder cant meet the contractual payment requirements on a 
credit account, for whatever reason, then that account will fall into arrears (with very few 
exceptions). And if that credit account holder doesnt then take the action necessary to clear 
those arrears, then that account can and should be defaulted  because the account holder 
hasnt met the contractual payment requirements that they agreed to meet when taking the 
account, and in doing so they have defaulted on the credit agreement.
I can appreciate that Ms R might be experiencing financial difficulty and might only be able to 
afford £1 per month towards this account. If this is the case then its right that Capital One 
should accept payments of £1 per month from her. But in these circumstances its also the 
case that the account should fairly be defaulted, for the reasons explained above.
Im also satisfied that the £100 compensation that Capital One have already paid to Ms R for 
her being given incorrect information by one of their agents already represents a fair and 
reasonable resolution to that aspect of Ms Rs complaint, and I can confirm that the £100 
compensation amount is commensurate with what I would have instructed Capital One to 
pay Ms R for that specific mistake, had they not already done so.
I realise this wont be the outcome Ms R was wanting, but it follows from all the above that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Capital One to take any further action. I trust 
Ms R will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman