DRN-3964085
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC will not refund all of money he lost as the result of an 
authorised push payment (APP) scam.
Mr B has brought his complaint through a representative, for ease of reading I will refer 
solely to Mr B in this decision.
What happened
In 2021 Mr B contacted company 1 after reading their advert for an investment opportunity. It 
directed him to a broker and he opened a crypto wallet that he used to send three 
international payments totalling £250. After a few weeks it seemed his initial investment had 
increased to £3,000, but as the broker started to pressure him to invest more, he stopped 
communicating with it. In February 2022 his investment appeared to have increased in value 
to £18,000. A new company (company 2) contacted Mr B and told him he needed to pay 
fees and taxes and then the capital would be released by company 1. Mr B then made three 
faster payments of £11,890 in total to company 2 which were moved into his crypto wallet, 
and then on to the scammer.
Mr B says when company 2 called him they had extensive knowledge of his investment via 
company 1 and provided lots of details about an FCA investigation that was ongoing into 
company 1. He was very stressed and overworked at the time and company 2 was very 
professional. Mr B genuinely believed they would be able to help him recover the money he 
had paid to company 1. He was first told he needed to pay £1,970 as a deposit to pass 
money laundering checks, then £3,800 to upgrade his account as the capital owed to him 
exceeded the authorised withdrawal amount. After he made these payments he was told he 
needed to pay the tax owing before the withdrawal. To facilitate this Mr B applied for a 
balance transfer of £6,100 from a credit card he held elsewhere. He spoke to Lloyds at this 
time but told it the money was for a car. He then tried to make one final payment to company 
2 but Lloyds intervened and on this call Mr B accepted it was a scam.
Lloyds refunded the £6,100 from the balance transfer to Mr B, accepting it could have 
probed further when it spoke to him at the time of that transaction and prevented him 
sending that money hed borrowed to the scammers. It also covered the cost of the fee on 
the credit card (£305) and paid £40 to apologise for not intervening more effectively in 
payment three. It did not refund the first two payments saying they were not unusual and it 
would expect account holders to make payments like these from time to time. Similarly it had 
not thought the payments made back in early 2021 were out of the ordinary. Lloyds also 
explained why it could not consider Mr Bs claim under the Contingent Reimbursement 
Model code as the payment journeys meant Lloyds was not the exiting bank. 
Unhappy that Lloyds would not refund the first two February 2022 payments Mr B brought 
his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Bs complaint. She did not think the first payment ought to 
have triggered further checks from Lloyds, she would not classify it as unusual or suspicious. 
She thought the fact Mr B had been told to lie about the purpose of the balance transfer 
ought to have led him to question the third payment request. But more critically she 
concluded that whilst Lloyds ought to have looked into the second payment, it was unlikely it 
would have done anything differently had it done so given Mr B was not transparent about 
the third payment  and was therefore unlikely to have been about the second.  This meant 
she found Lloyds settlement offer to refund the value of the balance transfer and associated 
fee to be fair, and even generous. She concluded that Lloyds explanation that it could not do 
more to recover the funds - as they were paid into an account in his name and he should 
contact the operator of the crypto wallet - to be reasonable. 
Unhappy with this assessment Mr B asked for an ombudsmans review. He said the 
payments of £1,970 and £3,800 were unusual activity on his account and so Lloyds ought to 
have intervened then. He added that he may have initially misled Lloyds as to what the 
payments were for but had the bank made a thorough and probing call to him at the time of 
the first transaction it could have broken the spell of the scam sooner.  He also feels Lloyds 
ought to have attempted an international payment recall.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mr Bs complaint. 
Theres no dispute that Mr B made and authorised the payments. Mr B knew who he was
paying, and the reasons why. At the stage he was making these payments, he believed
they were valid fees and charges that would facilitate the return of his capital from a previous 
investment. I dont dispute Mr B was scammed and he wasnt making payments for the 
reason he thought he was, but I remain satisfied the transactions were authorised under the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017.
Its also accepted that Lloyds has an obligation to follow Mr Bs instructions. So in the
first instance Mr B is presumed liable for his loss. But there are other factors that must be 
taken into account.
To reach my decision I have taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, 
relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. This means I think that Lloyds should have:
been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism.
had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years,
which financial institutions are generally more familiar with than the average
customer.
in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, taken
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the
possibility of financial harm.
In this case I think Lloyds ought to have taken additional steps before processing the second 
payment of £3,800. I say this as it rapidly followed the first payment of £1,970 and the total 
payments of that combined value on the same date were out of character for Mr Bs account. 
I disagree with Mr Bs argument that the first payment ought to have triggered more checks  it was not of unusually high value. Equally it was not an account Mr B used frequently so 
there was no clearly defined pattern of expenditure. A deposit had been made of £2,000 the 
previous day from a family member and so it seemed like planned expenditure. Also this was 
the same pattern at the start of the scam in 2021 when both Mr B and the same family 
member had made a deposit prior to Mr B sending the money to company 1. Mr B had not 
contacted Lloyds with any concerns about those transactions. 
This means I need to consider what would most likely have happened had Lloyds called Mr 
B to discuss the second payment. Mr B argues an earlier intervention would have opened 
his eyes sooner to the scam. But I am not persuaded this is a fair and reasonable 
conclusion. At the time of the balance transfer to fund the third payment Lloyds spoke to     
Mr B twice and it asked him to visit a branch for identification verification. Mr B plausibly 
explained his main bank account was with another provider and didnt often use this 
account. Mr B told Lloyds he needed the balance transfer funds to purchase a car. This 
meant, Lloyds says, it did not warn Mr B about investment scams. So based on the available 
evidence, as Mr B wasnt truthful about the third payment, I dont think he would have been 
about the second. This means I think its most likely that Lloyds would not have prevented 
the second payment had the conversation happened one transaction earlier. On balance I 
think Mr B would still have made the second payment as he did not have concerns about 
company 2 at this stage and he thought the payment request was plausible. 
It follows I am not instructing Lloyds to refund any more monies to Mr B. Whilst it does not 
change the outcome, I agree that Lloyds ought to have probed further about the third 
payment. I say this as I can see from its fraud notes that Mr B told it at that time that he used 
the account at times for crypto investments so this could have been a trigger for Lloyds to 
warn him about investment scams. However, as Lloyds has already refunded that payment 
in full, I will not comment any further on this.
And this does not change my findings about the likely outcome had a call and/or branch 
interview been triggered for the second payment. I find it is most likely Mr B would have 
proceeded given the position of that payment in the overall scam; what the scammers had 
explained it was needed for; and the fact he still concluded the subsequent payment request 
was credible despite the significant increase in value.
Mr B is also unhappy Lloyds did not do more to try to recover the funds once he 
acknowledged he was the victim of a scam. Lloyds has explained that as the money was 
passed to the scammers by the operator of Mr Bs crypto wallet, he would need to ask them 
to try to recover the funds. But also, as Mr B knew there were no funds left in his crypto 
wallet, there would have been no way for Lloyds to successfully recall the funds.
I am sorry Mr B has been the victim of this somewhat complex APP scam, but in the round I 
find Lloyds response to his complaint to be fair and reasonable.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman