DRN-3579444
The complaint
Mrs A has complained after Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAM) 
restricted access to her online account. She says this meant she was unable to trade and 
caused her a loss. 
Mrs A is represented with this complaint, but for ease I have referred to all actions and 
comments as those of Mrs A. 
What happened
In March 2022, Mrs A was attempting to sell shares from her HLAM trading account. She 
tried to do this through her husbands account, which was linked. She says she was then 
directed to log in to her own account online. 
HLAM say that several pieces of security information were entered incorrectly when Mrs A 
tried to log in and so her account was blocked. A PIN was automatically sent to her in the 
post that day, which she would need to restore access. 
Mrs A says she called HLAM to sell the shares instead but was told this wasnt possible as 
her account was blocked. Mrs A was unhappy and complained to HLAM. She requested that 
all shares in her account be transferred to her husband. 
HLAM maintained that the correct procedure had been followed when account access was 
blocked and that they hadnt done anything wrong. They confirmed when the shares had 
been transferred and said that the account hadnt been blocked due to any previous        
anti-money laundering (AML) checks. 
Mrs A remained unhappy and brought her complaint to our service for an independent 
review. She said that she didnt feel the correct procedure had been followed when her 
account was blocked and she felt she should have been able to trade online. She was also 
unhappy with how long it took HLAM to transfer her shares after she had given a written 
request. Our investigator looked into it but thought that HLAM had acted fairly. She said that 
the evidence had shown that the account had been blocked correctly and Mrs A had been 
given the correct options to trade. She also felt that Mrs As subsequent written requests 
were actioned in a timely manner. 
As no agreement was reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs A said she was attempting to trade through her husbands HLAM app but was directed 
to log in to her own online account. Whilst Mrs A has said she was able to trade through her 
husbands linked account in the past, I dont believe this was the case. HLAM have provided 
evidence to show there was only access to view Mrs As holdings, not place any trades. 
Mrs A then attempted to log in to her online account, but was blocked from doing so. Mrs A 
is concerned that this was due to previous AML checks that she had to go through. 
However, HLAM have shown that these checks were completed and I am satisfied that they 
didnt impact the restrictions. Instead, HLAM have said that Mrs As account was locked after 
she provided incorrect details on three occasions before entering second stage security 
question answers incorrectly on five occasions. HLAM have provided details and times of 
this. I am satisfied account access was restricted correctly and HLAM acted fairly here. 
At this stage HLAM have shown that it is their process to send a PIN to customers, so they 
can restore access. Mrs A instead wanted to place her trade over the phone and feels she 
should have been allowed to. However, HLAM have said that this wasnt possible as the 
online access that was restricted meant she couldnt complete telephone security to be able 
to trade. I think this is reasonable and HLAM acted fairly here. They did give Mrs A the 
opportunity to send her signed request in writing, which she later did. 
Mrs A feels her written request to transfer shares was then not dealt with in a timely manner. 
However, having considered the letters and the dealing times, I dont agree. The initial letter 
only mentioned one group of shares and was received by HLAM on 31 March 2022 and 
dealt with on 1 April 2022. Mrs As request to transfer the second group of shares was only 
mentioned in her letter dated 2 April 2022. HLAM only received this on 19 April 2022. I am 
unsure why there was such a delay but HLAM have provided a post stamped confirmation of 
the date they received this request. It was then dealt with the next day on 20 April 2022. I 
believe that HLAM dealt with these requests fairly and in a timely manner after receipt. 
In summary, I think that Mrs As account access was restricted fairly and in line with HLAMs 
security process. Unfortunately, this meant she was unable to use the blocked security 
information to trade over the phone, but I think HLAM also acted fairly here. I also think they 
have shown that they actioned Mrs As written requests in a timely manner. 
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman