DRN-3458462
The complaint
Mrs C and Ms J have complained that Santander UK Plc delayed acting on Ms Js 
instructions to transfer £30,000 overseas  which meant she lost the opportunity to buy the 
property she wanted to.
What happened
Mrs C had Ms J have a joint account with Santander, which Ms J used for the transactions 
shes complained about.  So Ive only referred to Ms J throughout my decision.
In autumn 2021, Ms J found a property overseas which she decided to buy for her 
retirement.  The deposit she needed (£30,000) was invested with Santander.  So she 
instructed them to sell her investments and transfer the proceeds to her current account, 
from where shed transfer them overseas for the purchase.  
Ms J says she stressed to Santander that time was of the essence.  She was told by 
Santander staff the transfer should take no more than four working days.
Once the investment proceeds were in her current account, Ms J contacted Santander to 
give them the information they needed to make the transfer.  And she explained to them 
that, because of the type of account she held overseas, it was necessary to send the funds 
via an intermediary.  But the staff at Santander told her they didnt need this information, just 
the final destination.
Ms J was trying to make this transfer while travelling back to the UK.  Due to travel 
restrictions then in force, she had to quarantine in the USA.  But she phoned Santander 
regularly to try and push the transfer through, even though she had to buy extra phone 
coverage to do so.
The transfer was made before Ms J returned to the UK.  But, on checking when she 
returned, she found the money hadnt reached its destination.  When she reported this to 
Santander, they submitted a trace for her, but told her they couldnt give her a definite 
timescale for when they might trace her money.  Miss J told our investigator that, overall, the 
process took about eight weeks to complete, rather than the four day time she was initially 
given.
Ms J complained to Santander on two occasions, first about the delays in actioning the 
transfer and later about the fact her funds couldnt be traced.  
In response to the first complaint, Santander said that Ms Js request was initially declined 
because they couldnt contact her on the telephone number held on their system  so they 
couldnt complete security checks.  And, while they were satisfied theyd not done anything 
wrong, Santander put Ms J in contact with their international team to progress the transfer 
while she was still in the USA.
In relation to the second complaint, Santander explained theyd not declined to take the 
payment details Ms J offered  but they did need to make extra checks before processing 
the payment.  Ms J provided what they needed, and the payment was processed.  And they 
said theyd applied a trace to find where the payment had gone  but they couldnt say when 
theyd get that information.
Ms J wasnt satisfied with Santanders reply and brought her complaint to us.  Our 
investigator considered it and decided Santander didnt need to do any more to resolve it.  
He was satisfied Santander had followed their processes in dealing with Ms J and hadnt 
done anything wrong  so he couldnt say they should compensate her for the losses Ms J 
says she suffered.
Ms J didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding the complaint.  Ill explain why.
Its clear from everything Ive looked at that Ms J had an extremely frustrating and upsetting 
experience.  Im sorry that happened to her.  But  as our investigator explained  I can only 
decide Santander should do more to resolve her complaint if Im satisfied that frustration is 
the result of them doing something wrong.  
And Ive seen Ms J has made some complaints I cant make a decision about.  Shes said 
Santander staff were rude.  But theres no recordings of the calls available for me to look at 
that.  
All banks are required to have checks in place to ensure that the instructions they receive 
are genuinely from the account holder.  Santander has such checks in place  as Id expect.  
Their terms and conditions say:
Our fraud detection systems may highlight unusual spending patterns.  We may call you, 
write to you or send you an SMS if there are unusual payments in or out of your account.
I think its fair to say the payment Ms J wanted to make was likely to fall into that category.  
So I think it was fair for Santander to try and contact her, using her registered details, to 
verify the payment.
I appreciate Ms J was out of the UK at that time and this led to difficulties in dealing with 
verification.  But I cant say thats Santanders fault.  And its not reasonable for me to say 
they should have set them aside in this case.  
And, in any event, while I understand Ms J wanted the money moved very quickly, I dont 
think there was a delay on Santanders part, such that they should compensate her.  Ive 
seen Ms J gave first gave instructions to make the transfer on Friday, 16 September.  It was 
made on Wednesday, 22 September  four working days later.  Bearing in mind the need to 
make security checks, communicate with Ms J when she was in the USA and get extra 
information from her in writing to send the money, I dont think thats unreasonable.
Ive also thought about Ms Js complaint that her money wasnt received as expected.  I 
understand its extremely worrying for anyone to transfer a large sum of money, only for it to 
go missing.  But, again, I can only say Santander should compensate Ms J for this if Im satisfied it went 
astray as a result of something they did wrong.  Without that, I cant hold them responsible 
for what became of the money after it left them.
I can see why Ms J has doubts, because she offered information to Santander that they 
didnt take from her.  But Ive seen no evidence that information was needed  or that the 
lack of it led to the payment going astray.  So, while Im sorry Ms J found herself in the 
position she did, I cant say that was Santanders fault.  So Im not asking them to do any 
more to resolve her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Cs and Ms Js complaint about 
Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Ms J to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman