DRN-4309747
The complaint
Mr C complains about his mortgage with UCB Home Loans Corporation Ltd. Hes concerned 
about the impact of a payment deferral and whether UCB re-calculated his payments 
accurately, including whether it has fairly charged the interest rate.
What happened
Mr C has two buy to let mortgages with UCB. In 2020 he asked UCB to apply coronavirus 
payment deferrals to his accounts. UCB agreed a three month deferral, ending in July 2020. 
Mr C requested a further three months, and again UCB agreed  taking the deferral to six 
months in total, ending in October 2020.
In October 2020 UCB wrote to Mr C to say that both his mortgages were in arrears. It 
accepts that this was an error  it hadnt recorded the second deferral period correctly on its 
systems, so his loans were wrongly treated as being in arrears rather than an agreed 
deferral for the period August to October 2020. It said the mortgages were already in arrears 
before the payment deferrals began, but the arrears should not have been treated as 
increasing while the deferrals were in place. It said it would correct the entries it had made 
on Mr Cs credit file and paid him £250 compensation.
UCB then re-calculated Mr Cs monthly payments. Mr C was surprised that the monthly 
payment on one of his accounts had reduced despite the deferral, and questioned this with 
UCB. Mr C also questioned why the interest rate on his mortgages had not reduced despite 
reductions to the Bank of England base rate in March 2020.
UCB explained that the last time the monthly payments had been calculated, his mortgage 
balance was higher than the original amount borrowed, so it had put that part of the balance 
on repayment terms. But by October 2020 the balance had reduced to below the original 
borrowing, so the entire balance was put back on interest only terms. UCB said it would 
carry out a further calculation at the end of 2020 to factor in the deferred payments, and 
Mr Cs mortgage payment would increase at that point. UCB also said that the interest rate 
was correct  although Mr Cs mortgages were on variable rates, the rates were not linked to 
the Bank of England base rate.
Mr C wasnt happy, and brought his complaint to us. He also said hed understood  and 
been led to believe  that the interest rate on his mortgages would track base rate 
throughout their terms. 
Our investigator said we could only consider the complaint about the interest rate in respect 
of interest charged since 1 September 2018, since Mr C had previously complained about 
this several times and hadnt referred his complaints to us within the time limits allowed for in 
UCBs responses. The most recent response prior to this complaint was sent on 31 August 
2018, and so his complaint about the fairness of the interest rate before that point is out of 
time. But in considering the fairness of the interest rate since September 2018, its 
necessary to consider all the circumstances of the complaint, including things that happened 
before then to the extent they influence the fairness of what was charged during the period in 
time. And she said we could consider the complaint about the issues arising from the 
payment deferral in 2020, since that part of the complaint had been made in time.
I issued a jurisdiction decision agreeing with the investigator. Another investigator then 
considered the merits of Mr Cs complaint. He said UCB had charged interest in line with 
Mr Cs mortgage agreements and the interest rate hed been charged wasnt unfair. And he 
said that UCB had made a fair offer to put right the problems Mr C had experienced at the 
end of his payment deferrals. 
Mr C didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He said that the 
mortgage offers said that when his initial fixed rate ended, the interest would typically be no 
more than 2% above the Bank of England base rate, but this hadnt happened.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reminded myself of what I said in my earlier jurisdiction decision. Nothing that has 
happened since has led me to revise my findings, and so in this decision I will only be 
considering the fairness of interest charged since 1 September 2018  taking into account, 
where appropriate, things that happened before that date where they impact the fairness of 
interest charged since then, as part of all the circumstances of the complaint. Ill also 
consider the fairness of what happened at the end of the payment deferrals.
Mr C has two mortgages. One was taken out in 2006, and was on a two year fixed rate until 
2008, followed by a two year tracker rate until 2010. From 2010 it reverted to the Loyalty 
Investment Flexible Variable Rate (LIFVR). The other mortgage was on a three year fixed 
rate from 2007 to 2010, and thereafter the Investment Flexible Variable Rate (IFVR).
The LIFVR and the IFVR are reversionary rates UCB applies to its buy to let mortgages. 
Although the rates are slightly different, they have changed in the same way at the same 
times since 2010.
The mortgage terms and conditions say:
We may change the interest rate applicable to the debt at any time except during any 
fixed rate period under the offer document giving you three days written notice of our 
intention to do so.
We will only change the interest rate for one or more of the following reasons:
(i) To respond to changes or anticipated changes in law, regulation or codes of 
practice, or to Court or Ombudsmans decisions [sic];
(ii) To ensure we meet all the requirements of the Financial Services Authority, 
any other regulators, and any relevant monetary authority;
(iii) To reflect a change in the way the property is used or occupied in accordance 
with condition 14 (vii)
(iv) To act upon our legitimate commercial interests, including but not limited to:(a) Changes in prevailing market rates;
(b) Costs associated with specific changes in relevant market conditions 
including technological changes and changes in services or facilities 
provided;
(c) To reflect a change in the credit risk relating to the loan.
(v) If we vary the interest rate for any other reason, we will notify you at least 30 
days in advance and waive any early repayment charge payable on your 
mortgage for 60 days starting on the date of the notice we send to you, to 
allow you to repay your mortgage without charge.
Theres nothing in the terms and conditions which says that either the LIFVR or the IFVR are 
linked to or track the Bank of England base rate. The terms say that UCB may change the 
interest rate to take account of changes in market rates; they dont say it must change the 
rate to reflect changes to base rate.
The mortgage offers dont say that the LIFVR or IFVR will track the Bank of England base 
rate either. Mr C has pointed to the product switch offer he received when taking out a 
tracker rate on one of the mortgages in 2008. That offer says:
Your loan will be on:
Loyalty 2 Year Enterprise ERC Free Tracker. A tracker rate which is variable and will 
be 0.94% above the Bank of England base rate unless the Bank of England base 
rate is 2.75% or less in which case the Tracker Rate will be 2.75% plus 0.94%. The 
Tracker Rate will apply from completion until 2 years from the end of the month in 
which you take the loan (the Benefit Period), after which our Loyalty Investment 
Flexible Variable Rate, currently 6.89%, will apply for the remainder of the term. Any 
variation to the Tracker or Loyalty Investment Flexible Variable Rate as a result of the 
change in the Bank of England base rate will take place on the first day of the 
following month.
I think this says that Mr Cs mortgage will be on a rate which tracks the Bank of England 
base rate (subject to a minimum of 2.75% and a margin on 0.94%) for two years. And after 
that it will be on a variable rate which does not track the base rate. 
I dont think Mr C can reasonably have understood that that LIFVR would be no more than 
2% above base rate  because
There is no mention of a margin of 2% over base rate anywhere in the offer. The 
tracker rate was at a margin of 0.94%, not 2%.
The direct relationship with base rate is only during the two year tracker period
The offer says the LIFVR was currently 6.89% - which is substantially more than 2% 
above what base rate was at this time. So the gap between base rate and the LIFVR 
was not 2% even at the time Mr C agreed to this rate. 
The offer does say that any variation to the LIFVR as a result of changes to base rate will 
take effect the following month. But that applies if UCB makes a change to the LIFVR 
following a change in base rate  it does not require it to do so at all, let alone to track base 
rate by 2%.The mortgage offer on the other mortgage simply says
A fixed rate of 6.14% will apply for 3 years from completion (the Benefit Period) after 
which our Investment Flexible Variable Rate, currently 8.04%, will apply for the 
remainder of the term.
There is no mention of the Bank of England base rate at all, either in connection with the 
initial fixed rate or the IFVR. And at 8.04%, the IFVR was more than 2% above base rate at 
the time Mr C took the mortgage out.
That means that, from 2010, neither of Mr Cs mortgages were linked to base rate and there 
was no obligation on UCB to charge no more than 2%. In charging Mr C the IFVR and 
LIFVR at more than 2% above base rate from 1 September 2018, therefore, UCB has not 
acted unfairly.
Ive also thought about changes UCB did make to the IFVR and LIFVR  including historic 
changes, since Mr Cs mortgages were taken out. Thats because the fairness of the LIFVR 
and IFVR since September 2018 isnt the result only of decisions UCB made during that 
period, but also potentially the result of decisions it made earlier. In doing so, Ive considered 
the information UCB has provided to us about its reasons for varying the LIFVR and IFVR in 
the way it did and the mortgage conditions applicable, alongside external reference rates 
such as Bank of England base rate, and wider economic conditions. Ive also kept in mind 
the law, including the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999  though as 
buy to let mortgages these are not consumer contracts.
Having done so, I dont think UCB varied the LIFVR or IFVR in a way it wasnt permitted to 
do. They were varied for reasons allowed under the mortgage conditions, and where they 
didnt vary in line with Bank of England base rate changes, UCB has provided details of its 
funding costs and how those costs informed its decisions to vary the rate. This includes the 
period where the rates fell  but not to the same extent as base rate  between 2007 and 
2009, as well as when they were increased in 2010. All of those instances are before the 
rates became applicable to Mr Cs mortgages, but nevertheless impacted the level of the 
LIFVR and IFVR he reverted to in 2010.
Nothing in the mortgage terms and conditions, or Mr Cs mortgage offers, says they were 
linked to base rate, or that UCB would have to change at the same time or to the same 
extent as base rate. In changing the LIFVR and IFVR, UCB acted within the terms and 
conditions. Im therefore satisfied that the level of the LIFVR and IFVR applicable from 
September 2018 was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
I have also borne in mind that while Mr Cs mortgages were subject to the LIFVR and IFVR, 
there were no early repayment charges, for example  so he could have re-mortgaged 
elsewhere or asked UCB about any fixed or tracker rates it was offering without having to 
pay an early repayment charge. In practice, I dont think Mr C would have been able to move 
elsewhere, or take new interest rates with UCB, because his mortgages were in arrears from 
October 2010 onwards  but that wouldnt have been something either party could have 
predicted would be the case when he took the mortgages out.
Mr C also complains that UCB didnt reduce the LIFVR or IFVR following the reductions to 
the Bank of England base rate at the start of the coronavirus pandemic in 2020. UCB has 
explained that it did reduce the interest rates on its residential mortgages, but not its buy to 
let mortgages. Thats because its costs  and therefore the interest rates it charges  arent 
directly linked to base rate. Around this time, because of the impact of the pandemic, its own 
costs were impacted in such a way that it wasnt able to pass the base rate reductions on to 
all customers, so it prioritised those on residential rather than buy to let mortgages. I dont think that was unreasonable. As Ive explained, theres nothing in either the terms and 
conditions or the mortgage offers that links Mr Cs mortgages to base rate. The terms and 
conditions give UCB the right to change the interest rate  but only in certain circumstances 
 but they dont require it to do so. I dont therefore think that UCB treated Mr C unfairly by 
not reducing the LIFVR and IFVR when base rate reduced in March 2020.
Finally, I turn to the impact of the mistakes UCB made at the end of Mr Cs payment 
deferrals in October 2020. It accepts it ought to have ensured that the deferrals were 
recorded on its systems so that the missed payments were not treated as increasing the 
existing arrears  and it should not therefore have sent him the arrears letters it did while he 
was on the deferral. 
UCB has apologised to Mr C for this. It has paid him £250 compensation. And it has 
amended his credit files so that they reflect what should have happened  that his 
mortgages were on a payment deferral and the existing arrears were not increasing. Im 
satisfied thats a fair and reasonable way to put things right. It ensures that he is not in a 
worse position than he would have been had it handled the deferrals correctly, and fairly 
compensates him for the impact and upset of receiving incorrect arrears letters and having 
to contact UCB to get things put right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint because Im satisfied UCB Home 
Loans Corporation Ltd has already made a fair and reasonable offer to resolve things. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023. 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman