DRN-1932869
The complaint
Mr K complains about the service he received from Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax.  
He would like a full written explanation for its failures, costs and compensation of £250 for 
the distress he has been caused.
Halifax has said it has offered a gesture of goodwill  but does not accept the poor service 
Mr K complains of.
What happened
Mr K complained to Halifax about several issues in relation to the service he had received 
and some transactions which he did not recognise.  Halifax responded by way of a final 
response in June 2019. It explained some delays had been caused  but that was because 
Mr K had asked for it to communicate in writing only.  It did not think it had done anything 
else wrong.
In December 2019, Mr K brought his complaint to this service.  By this date, Halifax had 
resolved some of the issues he had complained of, but he asked us to look into the 
following:
-a declined transaction whilst he was attempting to make a booking with an online 
agent  B
-a declined transaction which he attempted to make whilst abroad
-two transactions he did not recognise  one for just over £19, the other for £33
-and an ATM withdrawal where Mr K says the cash was not dispensed
Our investigator considered Mr Ks complaint  but thought Halifax had acted fairly and he 
didnt think he could ask it to do anymore.  In summary, our investigator said the following to 
Mr K:
-the evidence from Halifax did no show a declined transaction to B
-the block on the transaction made whilst Mr K was abroad was a security measure
-the two transactions had since been refunded and he didnt think Halifax needed to 
do anymore
-the disputed ATM transaction had also been refunded
Mr K responded to the investigators view by sending us a screenshot of an email from B 
suggesting a transaction had been blocked.  The author of the email said it might have been 
as a result of Mr Ks bank.  The email was undated.
The matter was then passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should point out to Mr K that it is a matter for me, as the ombudsman, to decide whether I 
have sufficient information upon which to make a final decision.  I have thought carefully 
about whether I think I am missing something and have concluded that I am not.
I think the investigator has dealt with Mr Ks point clearly and succinctly and Im not sure 
there is much more that I can helpfully add.
Im pleased to see that where Mr K has disputed transactions and an ATM withdrawal, these 
amounts have been refunded to him.  This is despite the transaction for £33 having been 
carried out using Mr Ks genuine card and PIN.  I cant fairly ask Halifax to do anymore.
With regards the declined transaction to B, Im afraid the evidence from Halifax does not 
show an attempted and declined transaction.  And Im not sure the screenshot from Mr K 
takes me any further.  This email is undated and makes no reference to when the 
transaction was declined.  In the circumstances, I placed very little weight on it when arriving 
at my decision.
The declined transaction whilst Mr K was abroad is supported by the evidence.  This was a 
security measure and I am pleased to see Halifaxs systems picked up on unusual activity.  
Im sorry if this caused Mr K any inconvenience but such security measures are there to 
protect customers.  The procedure for unblocking the account involved Mr K having to 
contact Halifax  not the other way around. So, I cant see it did anything wrong in not 
immediately removing the block.
In the circumstances, and for the reasons given, I have seen nothing to suggest Halifax has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in how it dealt with Mr Ks complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman