DRN-3257828
The complaint
Mrs M has complained about the way Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance (BPF)) has dealt with a claim she made under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (s.75).
What happened
In 2014 Mrs M entered into an agreement for the supply and installation of a solar panel 
system from a company called Smart Save Solutions (Smart Save). The system was paid 
for by a loan arranged with BPF over a 10-year term.
Mrs M says she was told by Smart Save that the financial benefits generated by the solar 
panels would cover the cost of the loan  effectively making it self-funding. Those benefits 
would come in the form of energy bill savings and Feed-in Tariff (FiT) payments from 
selling excess energy back to the grid.  But the system hasnt performed as Mrs M was 
expecting.
Under s.75 a finance company can be held responsible for misrepresentations or breaches 
of contract to the same extent as the supplier of goods or services. 
BPF contacted Mrs M and other customers in early 2020.  It had identified potential issues 
with some of the sales practices and loans arranged by Smart Save  and it asked for Mrs 
Ms feedback and some of her sales documentation so that it could undertake a review.
Once the review was completed BPF wrote to Mrs M and made her an offer of compensation 
to make the system self-funding.  It used methodology provided by an industry expert and 
calculated that over the 10-year loan term the financial benefit generated by the system 
would be £5,491.73.  So, to put things right it took account of what Mrs M had paid towards 
the loan to date and offered different ways to restructure everything so that she wouldnt pay 
more than the calculated benefit over 10 years.
Mrs M referred her complaint to this Service as she felt not all her concerns were addressed, 
and she wants the whole agreement to be unwound and to be compensated for all money 
paid with interest and damages.
One of our investigators reviewed everything and recommended the complaint should not be 
upheld.  He said BPFs offer was fair as it would put Mrs M in the position she would have 
been if the system had self-funded. He also explained that the way in which the offer was 
calculated was in line with what our Service would recommend.
BPF responded stating that Mrs M had accepted the offer and payment of a refund had been 
processed to her in September 2020  and so it considers the matter closed.
Mrs M provided a detailed response to our investigator. She explained that the acceptance 
of BPFs offer was done provisionally and on the basis it would be without prejudice to any 
rights to refer the complaint for review by this Service. 
Ive reviewed Mrs Ms response in full, but have summarised what I consider to be the key 
issues below:
When Mrs M signed the purchase contract in 2014 it was on the basis that there was 
a 14-day cooling off period.  She sent an email to cancel the agreement within those 
14 days.
Mrs M didnt want to proceed with the purchase and installation of the system 
irrespective of whether or not the panels were self-funding.
Engineers from Smart Save illegally entered Mrs Ms property and installed the 
panels to the roof of her home despite the cancellation request.
Smart Save confirmed it had received the cancellation request from Mrs M, but as 
the system was already being fitted, she was coerced into accepting the installation 
against her will.
Mrs M did not know which regulatory authority to contact about the underhand 
business practices conducted by Smart Save.
BPF knew there were problems with Smart Save following an investigation by the 
solar panel industry supervisory body, Renewable Energy Consumer Code (RECC) 
in 2015.  But BPF failed to tell customers until 5 years later in 2020.
Mrs M believes that BPF deliberately didnt consumers in order that it may continue 
to profit from loan arranged by Smart Save.
BPF has not met its obligations to treat customers fairly and its approach to only 
mitigate losses doesnt address the full extent of the problem. 
The actions of Smart Save were criminal activities as it effectively trespassed and 
caused criminal damage by installing the solar panels without authorisation.
The credit agreement should be rescinded, and all monies returned with 8% interest 
and compensation for pain and suffering of having to maintain payments for a mis-
sold loan.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has now been passed to me to review 
everything afresh and make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Ive reached broadly the same conclusion as the investigator 
 and Ill explain why.
For there to be a valid claim under s.75, an appropriate debtor-creditor-supplier relationship 
must exist.  Im satisfied that exists here, and as BPF has accepted the claim and made and 
an offer to Mrs M, I wont expand further. 
So, the key issues for me to decide are:What action should be taken in relation to Mrs Ms cancellation within the cooling off 
period.
Whether BPFs self-funding offer is fair and reasonable.
Cancellation within the cooling off period
Mrs M has explained that she never wanted to proceed with the purchase of the solar panels 
at all  and had requested cancellation of her order within the cooling off period.
I have no reason to dispute Mrs Ms recollection, but Ive seen no contemporaneous 
evidence to support that.  BPF says it cannot locate any evidence of a cancellation request, 
and that it hadnt been been made aware of this being an issue in the six years between the 
loan term beginning and the first contact it had with Mrs M.
I know Mrs M feels strongly about having made a cancellation request and the resulting 
trespass by Smart Saves engineers to install the panels. I also note she says Smart Save 
coerced her into proceeding, and she didnt know which regulatory authority to contact.
Whilst I dont want to be insensitive to the distress and frustration this would likely have 
caused Mrs M, I cant reasonably ignore the fact that she never acted upon those concerns 
until she was prompted some six years later.  Although I appreciate she may not have 
known who to contact about her concerns, I think she could have reasonably sought advice 
and raised her concerns had she been adamant that she didnt want the solar panel system.
So overall, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to ask BPF to do anything further in 
relation to this point.
Self-funding offer
Theres no dispute that Smart Save marketed one of the key benefits of a solar panel system 
being that it would generate financial benefits and be self-funding.  
BPF has already accepted that representation and so the issue for me to decide is whether 
the way in which it calculated compensation to put things right is fair and reasonable.
Mrs M accepted BPFs offer provisionally whilst progressing her wider concerns to this 
Service  so I wont repeat the specific details of the calculation here as shes already 
familiar with it.  Ive reviewed how BPF has calculated the loss and what would be required 
to make the system self-funding.  Im satisfied its followed the methodology of an industry 
expert, which is also the approach our Service would usually recommend in similar 
complaints.
So, Im satisfied the offer previously made to Mrs M by BPF (and which has implemented) is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Summary
As explained above, Im satisfied the offer BPF made to Mrs M is fair and reasonable  and 
although I appreciate Mrs M would like the system to be uninstalled, I dont feel thats 
proportionate to whats required to put things right.
Im aware that Mrs M has also raised concerns about the wider actions of BPF in reviewing 
the business introduced by Smart Save.  Those are more thematic issues which are matters for the financial regulator  whereas my remit is to consider the impact on Mrs Ms complaint 
specifically.  And I dont feel its materially central to the outcome in this case.
I realise Mrs M may be disappointed with my conclusions about some of the concerns shes 
raised, but I must assure her that Ive considered everything impartially, afresh and in full.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint against Clydesdale Financial 
Services Limited (trading as Barclays Partner Finance)  as Im satisfied the offer it has 
already made is a fair and reasonable way of putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Ross Hammond
Ombudsman