DRN-2889659
The complaint
Mr S complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited wouldnt accept he was the 
victim of identity theft and continued to report adverse information about him.
What happened
Mr S says that two applications for accounts with Shop Direct in 2017 were made by a 
fraudster. He says he wrote to Shop Direct about it then, but it didnt do anything until after 
hed contacted this service. He says he had a perfect credit score before this, and it was 
then ruined which has affected the cost of other credit for him.
Shop Direct issued a final response about his complaint in July 2020 saying that both 
accounts had been declined at the time after initial checks. It had now looked into this further 
and accepted that the applications werent completed by Mr S. It had asked in May 2020 that 
the information be deleted by credit reference agencies. And it apologised for the length of 
time it had taken for the information to be removed but that it had to investigate this.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld and Mr S paid £250 in 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him. Mr S had provided a copy 
of a letter dated 25 November 2017 to Shop Direct saying he had been the victim of identity 
theft and wanted the adverse entries removed. This was only dated three days after the first 
application and Shop Direct said it wouldnt be showing on his credit record by then. And it 
had no record of receiving this. But it did have a record of him contacting it in April 2019 and 
it hadnt asked that the entries be removed until May 2020.
Mr S said that he buys and rents properties and had to take our mortgages with a higher rate 
as a result. He has shown an application to a financial business was declined. But it wasnt 
possible to say that the information recorded by Shop Direct was the deciding factor. And he 
didnt have any information to support his claim for compensation in the region of £25,000. 
Shop Direct said it agreed to pay compensation of £250. Mr S didnt agree. He said he 
wanted an apology and for Shop Direct to take responsibility for what it had done and then 
he could discuss appropriate compensation. Given the time that had passed he no longer 
had evidence to support the loss. He had taken legal advice and he said he wouldnt be 
providing any further information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Mr S has been the victim of identity theft. There were applications 
made on 21 November 2017 and 22 December 2017. Shop Direct says that the applications 
were declined after further checks and that these accounts were never able to be used by a 
fraudster.
Mr S has provided a copy of a letter about this dated 25 November 2017. I cant resolve how 
he knew about the identity theft so close to the first application and Shop Direct says it didnt 
receive the letter. But he would reasonably be aware it hadnt then taken any action.
He has provided an extract of what one credit reference agency had recorded. This shows 
an account at Shop Direct with a credit limit of £1,000 open from November 2017 to July 
2018. The status of the account moved from OK to dormant and then settled and closed 
over this period. 
I appreciate that false applications for credit and the reporting of credit facilities could have 
an impact on Mr S credit score. I dont know the details of what other credit he had access 
to at the time. But hes shown that his credit score was in the very poor range in a report of 
January 2018.
Mr S hasnt provided evidence of the specific impact on any mortgages he had since then. 
He has shown one application for an account was declined. Im unable to determine that the 
information reported by Shop Direct was the reason for any specific issues. And even if I 
could do so I havent seen that he had a quantifiable financial loss.
Putting things right
I dont doubt Mr S frustration at what happened and even on Shop Directs version of events 
the period of over a year before this was addressed. I wont for the reasons Ive given be 
asking it to take full responsibility for any financial impact as I havent seen evidence to 
support this as Ive explained. And I think Mr S has had a reasonable opportunity to provide 
this. I will though award compensation for the trouble and upset he has been caused and I 
think that £250 is the fair amount to reflect this here.
I know Mr S will be disappointed by the outcome and if he doesnt accept my decision he 
remains free to pursue this matter in court subject to any relevant time limits.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Shop Direct Finance Company 
Limited to pay Mr S £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman