DRN-3358337
The complaint
Mr C says Petrus Financial Services (PFS), taken over by Quilter Financial Services Ltd 
(Quilter) in 2019, serviced his Pensions arrangements (a Personal Pension and a Self-
Invested Personal Pension/SIPP  the PENSIONS). He says, upon its takeover, Quilter 
ought to have identified that overpayments were being made into the PENSIONS cash 
account(s) and ought to have rectified that, but it failed to do both and it was left to him to 
notice the problem around March 2021. The matter was corrected in April 2021. He holds 
Quilter responsible for lost growth on the overpaid cash account deposits during the relevant 
period.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the matter and agreed that Quilter can reasonably be 
held responsible for it. In the main, he said:
Quilters takeover of PFS in June 2019 did not include previous liabilities, so it was 
responsible for servicing the PENSIONS only from then onwards. Its service included 
annual reviews. However, in the context of the takeover it ought reasonably to have 
conducted a review, as the incoming servicing firm at the time, to ensure the 
PENSIONS were suitable for Mr C. Quilter conducted such a review, but the adviser 
appears to have focused on a recommendation to transfer the SIPP to another 
provider  which Mr C did not follow. Thereafter, no meeting was held until March 
2021. Then Mr C noticed the cash account overpayments.
Quilter should have noticed the cash account overpayments in the course of its 
review in 2019. It says Mr C should have noticed them earlier, as they were present 
on the PENSIONS statements, but this information was not so easily accessible in 
the statements and he had been assured by his previous PFS adviser that the cash 
account deposits were required to cover charges/fees. As such, it is not reasonable 
to say Mr C should have noticed the overpayments earlier.
The overpaid cash would have been better used, for investments in the SIPP, by the 
discretionary managers (DM) Mr C had appointed to manage its investments. The 
overpayments were noticed late and, until then, the overpaid cash was not used for 
such a purpose. Quilter was responsible for that and it should pay Mr C 
compensation accordingly. 
The investigator initially considered the use of a market-based benchmark for the calculation 
of lost growth (of the overpaid cash), but he considered both parties comments on this. They 
agreed on the use of the PENSIONS/SIPPs investments/portfolio as a natural benchmark, 
because that would have been where the cash went had it not been overpaid, over time, into 
the cash account(s). The investigator reflected this in his revised findings. However, the 
parties differed on and disputed other aspects of his findings.
Quilters point about the redress benchmark appears to have been made in the event that 
the case remains upheld, but it has also been made without prejudice to its primary view that 
the case should not be upheld. It says Mr C refused to engage with its adviser on his transfer 
recommendation and in terms of continuing with its service thereafter, so it is unfair to find 
fault with Quilter in the matter; that it is implausible Mr C would not have been able to notice, 
and would not have noticed, the statements information about the cash account in 2019 
(even before Quilters takeover in June that year); and, also without prejudice to its primary 
position, that there ought to be an end date to the calculation of redress, that it should be 16 
April 2021 when the excess deposited cash was retrieved and passed to the DM for 
investment.
The investigator was not persuaded by Quilters arguments on fault, for the same reasons he 
had previously explained, and he considered that any lost growth related to the excess cash 
deposits during the relevant period would have an ongoing effect to date, so redress should 
be calculated to the date of settlement (without an earlier end date).
Mr C disputed the redress calculation start date used by the investigator  which was the 
date in October 2019 on which Quilter issued its review recommendation. He says Quilter 
took over servicing of his account in June 2019 and cannot reasonably be given an 
allowance of four months in terms of when it should have conducted the review (and 
identified and corrected the cash account overpayments). He considers that the start date 
should be set soon after the June 2019 takeover. In response, the investigator retained the 
view that the October 2019 recommendation date is a fair start date, especially as there was 
no promise of a review recommendation within a specific timeframe and given that Quilter 
needed a reasonable period of time to consider Mr Cs circumstances and the pension 
transfer that it recommended.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Quilter disputes liability in this case. On balance, I am not persuaded that it is justified to do 
so. I am mindful that Mr C had a firm (that is, PFS and then Quilter) to provide professional 
advisory servicing to the PENSIONS and a firm to provide active discretionary management 
of the PENSIONS/SIPPs investments (that is, the DM). In this context, I do not expect him 
to have undertaken a hand-on approach with the PENSIONS, their suitability and/or the 
SIPPs investments management. These were matters he reasonably left in professional 
hands and he paid fees for the professional services received in that respect. 
If there is evidence that Mr C noticed and was aware of the cash account overpayments 
earlier than 2021 but did not highlight that until 2021, that is a different matter and could be a 
matter for further consideration. However, I have seen no such evidence. Instead, Quilters 
argument is that he ought to have noticed and become aware of the overpayments earlier 
than 2021. For the reasons given above, and on balance, I disagree. There is also merit in 
the investigators observation that this information was probably not easily accessible for him 
(Mr C) in the statements, hence the probable reason why he did not identify it until late. 
Especially, I consider, in the context set above where he does not appear to have had a 
hands-on approach with the PENSIONS and where that was reasonable because he had 
engaged professionals, at his expense, to undertake that hands-on approach on his behalf. 
This is not a generic finding that a client with an adviser and a discretionary investment 
manager need not pay attention to investment statements, but it is a finding that in Mr Cs 
case these arrangements added to the reasons why he probably did not notice the cash 
overpayments in the statements.
Quilters other argument is that its review and recommendation (of a transfer) was frustrated by a lack of engagement from Mr C. Its transfer recommendation is irrelevant to the specific 
matter (about the cash account overpayments) in the present complaint. As the investigator 
said, the overpayments ought reasonably to have been identified by Quilter during the 
review. Fees and charges are important elements in investments and pensions, so I cannot 
envisage a basis on which Quilter could justify not checking over fees/charges and fee 
payment arrangements in the PENSIONS, within its advisory servicing remit and as part of 
the review. That would have been enough to identify the overpayments. Its transfer 
recommendation had no impact on this consideration, and vice versa. It continued to service 
the PENSIONS into 2021  including up to Mr Cs discovery of the overpayments in this year 
 so, contrary to what it seems to have suggested, there does not appear to have been a 
disruption (or threat of that) in the continuation of service from 2019 onwards.
Overall and on balance, I am persuaded that Quilter conducted a review of the PENSIONS 
in 2019 as it should have, but it was wrong not to have identified and corrected the cash 
account overpayments that already existed at the time; and it ought reasonably to have done 
so within the review.
It is not disputed that the cash account served the sole purpose of ensuring access to cash 
required to meet the fees and charges associated with the PENSIONS. I have not seen 
evidence that cash was to be held arbitrarily or for any other reason. Instead, there is 
evidence that Mr C expected the rest of his PENSIONS/SIPPs value to be under the DMs 
active and discretionary investment management. It follows from this that, as the parties and 
the investigator have said and agree, the portfolio of investments as managed by the DM is 
an appropriate and natural benchmark to use in determining how the cash overpaid into the 
cash account would have performed but for the overpayment, and in determining redress in 
this case. 
Setting an artificial end date would be wrong because the portfolio continues to date and has 
not been encashed. Available evidence  based on documentation, shared with us by Mr C, 
on the DMs management of the investments  is that cash that should have been invested 
earlier than the correction (on 16 April 2021) would have had performance that continues, on 
a complete/comprehensive basis (not one limited to 16 April 2021), to date broadly in line 
with how the relevant portfolio has performed and been managed to date. Quilters 
suggestion of an artificial end date is therefore unfair.
I understand Mr Cs dispute over the start date. However, on balance and based on the facts 
of his case, I consider it reasonable to use the date (in October 2019) on which Quilter 
issued its review recommendation to him. Quilter took over the service to his PENSIONS in 
June 2019; I have not seen evidence that PFS prior liabilities were expressly novated to 
Quilter (as would have been the case in order for them to pass) so Quilters responsibility in 
the present complaint cannot reasonably pre-date the takeover; Mr C met with Quilter in 
August 2019 for what appears to have been a handover; both sides met again on 23 
October 2019 during which the PENSIONS appear to have already been reviewed and the 
SIPPs portfolio was discussed; and Mr C appears to have referred to a financial planning 
document from Quilter that followed in December 2019.
To its credit, Quilter appears to have taken a reasonable and considered approach to the 
serious matter of reviewing the PENSIONS upon its takeover. The introduction/handover 
meeting was not unreasonable in the circumstances, given that Mr C was previously with 
PFS for a considerable period of time, and the review appears to have been done (and was 
discussed) within two months thereafter. The review, as a whole, is what should be 
considered. Quilters wrongdoing was/is its failure to identify and correct the cash account 
overpayments as part of the review, but the review was not limited to that (or to 
fees/charges) only. It covered the PENSIONS as a whole, hence the resulting SIPP transfer 
recommendation. Overall, on balance and in the circumstances of Mr Cs case, I am not quite persuaded that it was unreasonable for Quilter to have a handover meeting with him 
within two months of taking over and then to complete its review within the two months that 
followed. I am also particularly mindful that both parties knew the DM was actively managing 
the relevant investments, so they were not neglected during this period.
For the above reasons, I consider it reasonable to use the meeting on 23 October 2019 as 
when Quilter ought to have identified the cash account overpayment, brought it to Mr Cs 
attention and corrected it (whereby, thereafter, no further overpayments would have 
happened and the total of any excess/overpayment in the cash account(s) at the time would 
have been made available to the DM for investments)  so 23 October 2019 is the redress 
calculation start date. 
Putting things right
The total excess cash is defined as follows  
The specific total amount of cash overpaid in deposits into Mr Cs PENSIONS/SIPPs cash 
account(s) (which ever the relevant and precise overpayments were made into during the 
period in question) and sitting in the cash account as of 23 October 2019, plus the total of all 
subsequent overpaid deposits into that account(s) from this date (23 October 2019) and up 
to April 2021.
Quilter must calculate the total excess cash.
My aim is to put Mr C as close as possible to the position he would now be in but for the total 
excess cash having been uninvested between 23 October 2019 and April 2021, and in the 
context of the ongoing effect of that (to date) as I addressed in the previous section. I 
consider that the compensation exercise that I order Quilter to conduct below serves to 
achieve this. Mr C is ordered to engage meaningfully and co-operatively with Quilter to 
provide it with all information and documentation, relevant to its calculation and payment of 
compensation (including calculation of the total excess cash), which it does not already 
have.
What must Quilter do?
To compensate Mr C fairly, Quilter must do the following:
Compare the performance of the total excess cash with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value the difference must be paid to 
him in compensation. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
Pay any interest set out below. Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If 
Quilter is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from the 
interest, it must tell Mr C the deduction amount and give him a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, for him to reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs 
if appropriate.
Pay the compensation into Mr Cs pension plan, to increase its value by the amount 
of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. The compensation should not be paid into his 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. If the 
compensation (and interest) cannot be paid into his pension plan, pay it directly to 
him. Had it been possible to pay it into the plan, it would have provided a taxable 
income, so the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should be 
calculated using his actual or expected marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement 
age. For example, if he was or is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. If he took or 
would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 
75% of the compensation.
Provide the calculation of the compensation to Mr C in a clear and simple format. 
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom 
(start date)to     
(end date)additional 
interest
  The 
Total 
Excess 
CashStill 
Exists/
Undefi
nedMr Cs SIPP 
Investment Portfolio 
as managed by the 
DM 23 October 
2019Date of 
settlementnot applicable
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what the investment/total excess cash would have been worth at the end date had it 
produced a return using the benchmark. The calculation of performance, the benchmark 
comparison exercise and the calculation of compensation must reflect the fact that the total 
excess cash began with the specific total amount of cash overpaid in deposits into Mr Cs 
PENSIONS/SIPPs cash account(s)  as of 23 October 2019 and continued to build over 
time on the basis of all subsequent overpaid deposits into that account(s) from this date (23 
October 2019) and up to April 2021. The calculations and exercise must reflect 
performance(s) in the context of each increase in the size of the total excess cash over the 
relevant time. Furthermore, any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the 
investment/total excess cash should be deducted from the fair value at the point it was 
actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there 
are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, I will accept if Quilter 
totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
compensation limit
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000 or £355,000 (depending on when the
complaint event occurred and when the complaint was referred to us) plus any interest that I
consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds the compensation limit the respondent
firm may be asked to pay the balance. Payment of such balance is not part of my 
determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and it is unlikely that a
complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such balance. A complainant
may therefore want to consider getting independent legal advice in this respect before
deciding whether to accept the decision. In Mr Cs case, the complaint event occurred after 1 April 2019 (it happened after June 
2019) and the complaint was referred to us after 1 April 2020 (it was referred to us in 2021), 
so the applicable compensation limit would be £355,000.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Cs complaint and I order Quilter Financial 
Services Ltd to calculate and pay him compensation as set out above, and to provide him 
with a calculation of the compensation in a clear and simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman