DRN-1872482
The complaint
Miss M complains about the customer service she experienced from National Westminster 
Bank Plc (NatWest) when trying to withdraw money in branch.
What happened
Miss M went into a NatWest branch to withdraw over £3,000 cash from her account.
The NatWest representative asked her a number of questions, including her reason for 
withdrawing the funds. Miss M didn't want to discuss this as she felt it was a personal matter. 
She said the money was for her sister but wasn't prepared to say anything more. 
Miss M was kept waiting while a queue formed behind her. She says she knows one of 
customers in the queue and recognised several others. The branch is in a village where    
Miss Ms family has lived for several generations and where everyone is known to one 
another.
After some time, a police officer arrived and Miss M was escorted into a room with him and 
the NatWest employee. The police officer asked Miss M why she wanted to withdraw the 
money. Miss M didnt feel she should have to disclose this. She said it was for her sister but 
wouldnt answer further questions about what it was for. 
Miss M says that while she was being questioned, she noticed the door was open and was 
concerned about customers in the queue hearing what was going on. She asked for it to be 
closed but it was only closed slightly and left ajar.
A couple of days later Miss M went into another NatWest branch and was able to withdraw 
the amount of money she wanted without any problems
Miss M says she felt humiliated by her experience in the village branch. She was concerned 
for both her personal and professional reputation. So, she complained to NatWest.
NatWest said it sympathised with Miss Ms situation. But it was satisfied its member of staff 
had acted correctly as she was trying to ensure Miss Ms account and funds stayed safe and 
secure. NatWest hadnt intended to cause Miss M any inconvenience or stress. 
Miss M remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into her concerns but didnt think her complaint should be upheld. She thought 
NatWest had acted fairly and reasonably. 
She said the member of staff had concerns that Miss M might have been a victim of a scam, 
so shed followed banking protocol by alerting the police. Although the door of the meeting 
room had been left ajar, she didnt think customers would have been able to hear the 
conversation because the room was in an area that could only have been accessed by staff.
Miss M disagreed with our investigators view. She said it wasnt correct to say that the 
internal door was left ajar, it was the door to the public that was left open. The meeting room 
was in a public area, not a staff area. She said she believed NatWest had breached her rights of privacy and slandered her reputation. She didnt believe it was protecting her 
interests, but its own. She also sent us a diagram shed drawn to show where the meeting 
room was situated in relation to the public area. 
As Miss M has disagreed with our investigators opinion, her complaint has been passed to 
me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulations require NatWest to pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly.
I appreciate Miss M felt uncomfortable when the NatWest representative questioned her 
about her reasons for withdrawing the money. But NatWest has shown us that there were 
several things alerting the NatWest employee to the possibility of Miss M being a victim of a 
scam. Fortunately, this turned out not to be the case. 
I can understand Miss Ms reluctance to divulge why she wanted to take out the cash. But 
this meant the NatWest employee wasnt able to establish that Miss M wasnt being 
scammed or coerced into removing the funds. NatWest has shown us that its member of 
staff was following internal guidance and banking protocol which says to call the police in 
this type of situation. So, I think NatWest acted reasonably in doing so.  
Miss M says when she was taken into a room to be questioned by the police, a door was left 
open. She believes it was deliberately left open, inviting customers in the queue to listen to 
their conversation. Her diagram shows the meeting room right next to a queue of customers 
with only one door, which was open.
The NatWest employee who was present at the time says the interview room door was 
open, but this room is behind the pass door to the banking hall which was closed. She says 
customers could not hear what was being discussed in the room. 
The branch manager says the interview room Miss M was in is at the end of the counter 
through a pass door. The interview room door was ajar, but the pass door was definitely 
closed. The door to the public area was not left ajar. From a security point of view, they 
would not do that. The area is accessed via a code that only staff have access to. There is 
also another pass door between that and the staff area. All the interview rooms at this 
particular branch are behind pass doors.
I know Miss M strongly believes there was only one door between the room she was 
interviewed in and the public area, and that this door was left open. But the staff who work at 
the branch say there were two doors and one of them would have been closed for security 
reasons.
Ive carefully considered what Miss M has said, but on balance Im more persuaded by what 
the bank staff have said because they work at the branch and would be more familiar with its 
layout. Im also mindful that this was a stressful situation for Miss M so she might not 
remember things clearly. This means that I dont think the conversation between Miss M and 
the police officer is likely have been overheard by customers in the queue. It follows, that Im 
not persuaded that NatWest breached Miss Ms privacy rights.I appreciate Miss M felt embarrassed by what had happened. But scams are becoming 
increasingly common and more sophisticated. And Im satisfied that NatWest was trying to 
protect Miss Ms interests by preventing her from becoming a victim of a potential scam. 
Overall I think its acted fairly and reasonably. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman