DRN-2861491
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line Insurance (UKI) 
withdrew the rent guarantee cover provided for under their Landlords Insurance. They would 
like the cover reinstated and for the policy to operate as intended. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs K rent out a property and have Landlords Insurance provided by UKI through 
Direct Line (Direct Line being a brand and trading name, for ease Ill refer to UKI 
throughout). Mr and Mrs K opted to include rent guarantee as part of their insurance at an 
additional cost.
Mr and Mrs K say they were notified by email on 26 March 2020 that due to the Covid-19 
situation rent guarantee cover had been withdrawn. The email explained that following a 
government announcement about possession proceedings, the legal mechanism to take a 
rent guarantee claim forward was removed and so no new rent guarantee claims would be 
paid for the next three months. 
Mr and Mrs K complained about the rent guarantee cover being withdrawn. A final response 
was issued explaining that the government announcement meant that all ongoing housing 
possession action as being suspended and that suspension would last for 90 days  but 
could extend beyond that. It also provided further information on different scenarios and help 
that could be provided.  
Mr and Mrs K asked us to consider to consider their complaint as they didnt think it was fair 
to withdraw cover at a time when it was likely needed. They also questioned the need for a 
legal mechanism if a tenant defaulted. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, she was satisfied that during the 
suspension of possession proceedings it wouldnt have been possible to take forward claims 
as they were contingent on a claim for possession already being accepted  prospects for 
which couldnt be assessed due to the suspension and the possibility of different pre-action 
protocols being put in place. She also explained claims could still have been made, albeit 
they would be held in abeyance until court action resumed and they would be paid 
retrospectively. She therefore didnt find cover had been withdrawn and didnt recommend 
UKI take any further action. 
Mr and Mrs K have asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. In summary, they 
dont believe UKI made it clear to them that claims could still be made and paid 
retrospectively; this wasnt in the FAQs nor was it explained during calls they had with UKI.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs K feel that their rent guarantee cover was withdrawn. I have 
therefore considered their policy terms and conditions and the communication from UKI to 
establish if that is what happened. 
The rent guarantee part of the policy (see section 8 Legal Expenses, K) is contingent on a 
claim being accepted under the repossession part of the policy (J)  which required all 
statutory and contractual notices be correctly served. So something more than a tenant 
simply being in default was required, as initially argued by Mr and Mrs K. But during the 
government suspension all such action was placed on hold. Therefore it wasnt possible 
during the suspension for the policy to operate in the way intended. 
I think it was a positive step for UKI to proactively contact its policyholders to warn them of 
what the government suspension might mean for potential claims under the rent guarantee 
part of the policy. And I note the message refers to no new rent guarantee claims will be 
paid for the next three months; this doesnt say indefinitely, and I dont agree this means 
cover was withdrawn  the message explains this is for three months, so cover wasnt 
withdrawn, it was limited for a period of time. 
And when responding to Mr and Mrs Ks complaint it was explained that:

For claims where the prospects have not yet been determined, it is now impossible to 
assess them until the government issues the remaining elements of its advice, 
including the pre-action protocols. Therefore these claims should continue to be 
notified but are placed on hold until they can be assessed. [my emphasis]
Im not persuaded the initial message sent to Mr and Mrs K indicated that rent guarantee 
claims would never be paid. And it seems to me that the final response ought to have 
cleared up any confusion. It explained to them that claims should still be notified (albeit they 
would be placed on hold). Im therefore satisfied UKI did explain that cover was still provided 
under the policy for rent guarantee and that claims should still be notified. This explanation 
was sent a short time later, in April 2020, just a matter of days after the initial message. 
I do accept neither the final response nor the FAQs explain that claims can be backdated to 
when any arrears first arose. And I accept Mr and Mrs K were unlikely to have been told that 
in any call during March and April 2020. Thats because it isnt clear that was a decision UKI 
had yet made  particularly as it wasnt known what provisions the government would put in 
place, if any, when the suspension was lifted. It has nevertheless informed us that should 
claims have arisen during the relevant period, then they would be backdated. I consider this 
to be a fair approach to take should it have been necessary for Mr and Mrs K to make a 
claim. 
Mr and Mrs K were in the fortunate position of not needing to make a claim during the period 
in question (the suspension was lifted in September 2020). I understand they have recently 
begun to experience difficulties with their tenant when looking for alternative cover as they 
would need to re-referenced. Im sorry to hear of these difficulties, but I dont think I could 
fairly hold UKI responsible for any tenants non-cooperation in meeting policy conditions; 
thats a matter between Mr and Mrs K and the tenant. 
Overall, Im satisfied that the rent guarantee cover wasnt withdrawn; claims could still be 
made during the initial three-month period and be subsequently progressed once the 
suspension was lifted. And claims would be backdated where applicable. It follows that I 
dont require UKI to take any action in relation to this complaint. 
My final decisionFor the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman