DRN-1316866
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Birmingham Midshires, mis-sold a
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out the mortgage with Birmingham Midshires in 1999. At around the 
same time, they bought a PPI policy. The policy covered the mortgage repayments if 
Mr or Mrs S had been off work sick or lost their job for more than 30 days.
Mr and Mrs S think the policy was mis-sold.
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 15 October 2019. I explained that, based on 
what I'd seen so far, I didn't think Mr and Mrs S's complaint should be upheld. But I said I'd 
consider anything Mr and Mrs S or Bank of Scotland sent me by 15 November 2019.
Neither Bank of Scotland nor Mr and Mrs S have sent me anything further to consider. I've 
looked at the complaint again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ss case.
In my provisional decision, I said I didn't think the policy was mis-sold. I said:
I've first considered whether Mr and Mrs S knew they had a choice about buying the 
policy. Mr and Mrs S say they can't remember the conversations that took place at the 
time, but they're sure they wouldn't have knowingly opted for PPI on the finance. So 
I've thought about this alongside the other information I have about the policy.
Because of the time that's passed, Bank of Scotland don't have any paperwork from 
when the policy was sold. But I don't think that's unreasonable give the policy started 
in 1999, nearly 20 years ago - and ended in 2004. I wouldn't expect Bank of Scotland 
to keep the paperwork indefinitely.
But Bank of Scotland has sent me contact notes from when the policy was active. I 
see that Mr and Mrs S phoned Bank of Scotland several times to discuss the 
insurance. In 2001 Mr and Mrs S called the business to check how the benefit was 
split between Mr S and Mrs S - and after being told 75% of the benefit covered Mr S 
and 25% covered Mrs S, told the business they were happy with this.
I also see that the mortgage was redeemed in 2002, and the policy was cancelled. In 
2003 Mr and Mrs S contacted the business to complain that the PPI had been 
cancelled - and arranged for it to be reinstated.Taken together, I think Mr and Mrs S knew they'd been sold a policy. I think they 
wanted it. And so I'm not satisfied that Mr and Mrs S didn't opt for the insurance when 
it was taken out.
Bank of Scotland says it would have advised Mr and Mrs S to buy the policy. So it had 
to make sure it was right for them. I think it was. Mr and Mrs S don't appear to have 
been affected by any of the main things the policy didn't cover. Though they would 
have received some sick pay from their employer, this policy would have paid out for 
longer - and so I think Mr and Mrs S had a need for the cover.
It's possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr and Mrs S may not have been 
as clear as it should have been. But Mr and Mrs S appear to have wanted this type of 
cover. And it looks like it would have been useful to them if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I don't think better information about the PPI would 
have put them off taking out the cover.
I've thought about everything else Mr and Mrs S have said. But they don't change my 
conclusions.
As neither Mr and Mrs S or Bank of Scotland have sent me anything further to consider, I 
reach the same conclusions for the same reasons.
My final decision
I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2020.
Edward Hardman
Ombudsman