DRN-3188369
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) has turned 
down their claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mr and Mrs H were members of a holiday club (the Club) that operated as a timeshare. 
After they had paid to join the Club, they were able to stay at a holiday property every year 
so long as they paid their annual maintenance fee. The management fees were collected by 
a different business (Business W) that looked after the day to day running of the Club on 
behalf of its members.
In 2017 the Club said that the agreement in place for Business W to manage the scheme 
came to an end, but there was a dispute about that. The Club appointed a new business to 
manage the scheme and collect the management fees, but it also wrote out to the Club 
members to explain what was going on. It explained that there was a dispute, but members 
should pay their management fees to the Club and not to Business W. But it also told 
members that Business W had taken possession of the club properties and were demanding 
payment from members before allowing them to use their holiday accommodation. The Club 
told its members to pay the fees to Business W and then claim them back from their credit 
card provider using s.75 CCA.
In September 2017, Mr and Mrs H paid their annual maintenance fees for 2018 to the Club. 
But when they went on holiday in February 2018 they were billed again by Business W. They 
paid the invoice as presented (€852.02) using Mr Hs Nationwide credit card and then shortly 
afterwards made a claim to Nationwide under s.75 CCA. Although the complaint was 
brought to our service by both Mr and Mrs H, as the credit card was in Mr Hs name only it 
will be for him to accept or reject any final decision.
Nationwide didnt accept the claim. It said s.75 CCA covered cases where there has been a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services that were paid 
for using credit. Here Nationwide thought Mr and Mrs H had paid Business W to gain access 
to their holiday accommodation, but it couldnt see that Business W had breached any 
contract nor made any actionable misrepresentations. Unhappy with the response, Mr and 
Mrs H brought their complaint to our service.
 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and thought it should be upheld. They 
thought Business W had misrepresented its authority to collect maintenance fees, that it 
would carry out maintenance to the property and that it could prevent Mr and Mrs H from 
using their holiday accommodation. They thought it was on this basis that Mr H paid 
Business W to carry out timeshare maintenance services and they wouldnt have done so 
but for the misrepresentations. Given that, they recommended that the complaint was 
upheld.
Nationwide disagreed. It said it didnt think there was any contract in place between Mr and 
Mrs H and Business W. It thought any duplicate payment made to Business W was made in 
error or under duress as Business W threatened not to let them have access to their holiday 
accommodation, rather than to form a contract.
As Nationwide didnt agree with the investigators view, the complaint was passed to me for 
a decision. Having considered all of the available evidence and arguments I came to a 
different view to our investigator and I didnt think Mr and Mrs Hs complaint should be 
upheld.
I noted that Mr and Mrs H brought a complaint under s.75 CCA. That provision reads:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) 
or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against 
the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a 
like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and 
severally liable to the debtor.
Mr and Mrs H thought they were able to make such a claim, following the advice they 
received from the Club. So I considered whether there were all of the things in place that 
mean they could make that claim.
For s.75 CCA to apply to Mr and Mrs Hs claim, it needs to be shown that there is a debtor- 
creditor-supplier agreement in place. So I thought it was important to set out what Mr and 
Mrs H agreed to, with which business and whether they had any cause of action against 
those businesses for a breach of contract or misrepresentation. After I did that, I then looked 
at whether that was something Nationwide needed to consider given the relationships 
between the parties. 
Mr and Mrs H had an agreement with the Club. In short, they bought a right to use specific 
holiday properties and in exchange they paid to join the Club and also had to pay an annual 
maintenance fee. But the Club wrote to Mr and Mrs H in 2017 to say that its maintenance 
was no longer being supplied by Business W and so they paid their maintenance fees to the 
Club directly. So I thought by 2018, Mr and Mrs H knew that anything paid to Business W 
was not paid under their timeshare agreement with the Club. But they did pay Business W 
directly, so there was the right type of relationship in place such that Nationwide could be 
liable for any breach of contract or misrepresentation made by Business W. So I needed to 
consider whether there was any other contract in place that was breached by Business W or 
any action for misrepresentation that could be brought against Business W.
 
The claim for breach of contract
Nationwide said that Mr and Mrs H didnt have a contact with Business W, so therefore it 
couldnt have breached any agreement.
I looked at the invoice from Business W that Mr and Mrs H signed. It had at the top the logo 
of the Club and Business W described itself as THE ADMINISTRATOR. There were three 
maintenance fees due, each for a week long period of occupation of a holiday property that 
corresponded with what Mr and Mrs H were entitled to use. Mr and Mrs H also signed a 
declaration at the bottom of the form that read:
I accept that any other previous payment(s) made with any other entity is nor for the 
services in relation to the Maintenance Fee of the unit(s)/week(s)/Year noted above.
I recognise and accept that I will not request any refund for any of the charges paid
even if I have paid in advance to any other entity. Any request for a refund should 
be claimed against the other entity.I saw that the Club told its members that it was aware they could be asked to sign such a 
declaration, but they had taken legal advice that this didnt stop a s.75 CCA claim being 
made.
Although the invoice said it was for maintenance fees, I didnt think either Business W nor Mr 
and Mrs H thought thats what the payment was for. By this point, Business Ws agreement 
with the Club had ended and Business W had accepted that during the course of ongoing 
legal proceedings between itself and the Club. So Business W must have known it wasnt 
going to perform the maintenance under its previous agreement with the Club when it took 
payment from Mr H. Similarly, Mr and Mrs H had been told by the Club that Business W 
werent going to be doing future maintenance, but that they should pay the bill and then 
claim it back. So I didnt think they paid anything expecting Business W to undertake 
maintenance work or thinking this satisfied their obligations to the Club (I noted that any past 
maintenance undertaken by Business W was done under an agreement with the Club, not 
with Mr and Mrs H directly). So despite what the invoice said, I didnt think Mr and Mrs H 
thought they were paying for any maintenance fee obligation above what theyd already paid 
the Club for. As I didnt think Mr and Mrs H, nor Business W, really believed what was said 
on the face of the invoice, I didnt think there was any contract in place for Business W to 
undertake any maintenance work or to discharge Mr and Mrs Hs obligations under their 
agreement with the Club.
Nationwide said that Mr and Mrs H were already entitled to use their holiday 
accommodation, so they couldnt have entered an agreement with Business W to gain 
access. It said this was actually a payment made under duress and not actually for any 
services from Business W. I thought it was possible that Nationwide were right, or it was 
possible Mr and Mrs H entered into an agreement to get access to their holiday 
accommodation, but I said I didnt need to make a finding on that point. I said that as either 
there was no agreement with Business W, and therefore no breach of contract, or there was 
an agreement for Mr and Mrs H to gain access to their holiday accommodation, which was 
granted and again there was no breach of that contract. It followed, there was no breach of 
contact for which Nationwide could be jointly liable.
The claim for misrepresentation
Mr and Mrs H would have a claim against Business W, and a like claim against Nationwide, 
if they could show that Business W made an untrue statement of fact or law that induced 
them to entering into an agreement and they lost out as a result. So even if Mr and Mrs H 
entered into an agreement when Mr H used his credit card, it would have to be shown that 
they did so relying on what Business W said. Having looked at the evidence, I didnt think 
that happened.
Mr and Mrs H said that they paid Business W based on what they had been told by the Club 
and at the time of the payment they intended to claim it back under s.75 CCA. So I thought 
they knew what Business W had told them about its right to charge them something wasnt 
true and I didnt think they were relying on Business Ws representations when making the 
payment. I noted that Mr H made the s.75 CCA claim shortly after the payment was made 
and he didnt say that he was misled by Business W. It followed I didnt think Mr H had any 
claim against Business W, and therefore Nationwide, for misrepresentation.
Conclusion
In conclusion, I didnt think Mr and Mrs H had a valid claim against Nationwide under s.75 
CCA. It followed that I thought it acted fairly in turning down the claim.But I did say that from the evidence I saw, it was plain that something had gone wrong for Mr 
and Mrs H and they paid twice for their maintenance fees. I thought it was possible that Mr 
and Mrs H had a different type of claim against Business W or the Club, but that was beyond 
the scope of my decision. 
Nationwide responded to my provisional decision to say it had nothing further to add.
Mr and Mrs H didnt respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive not been given any new evidence or arguments to consider, I have no reason to 
depart from my provisional findings. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr and 
Mrs H, but for the reasons set out above, I dont think Nationwide are responsible to pay 
back the extra fees paid.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint against Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman