DRN-2019618
The complaint
Ms A says that she did not receive visits from a Provident agent regularly at times. This 
made it harder to repay her loans.  
She also says that Provident Personal Credit Limited lent to her irresponsibly. Ive looked at 
this part of her complaint separately. 
What happened
This complaint is about three home collected loans Provident provided to Ms A between 
October 2014 and December 2014.
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedweekly 
termdate ended
1 14/10/2014 £200 14 17/12/2014
2 13/12/2014 £2,016 84 outstanding
3 13/12/2014 £200 63 outstanding
An adjudicator looked into Ms As complaint about having difficulty arranging to see a 
Provident agent. The adjudicator didnt uphold this part of Ms As complaint
Ms A disagreed with the adjudicators opinions about this part of her complaint. As no 
agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Ms A has said that she requested an agent come to her home but Provident was unable to 
arrange this. She said this contributed to her repayment problems. 
Provident has provided some information that shows it did contact Ms A over the period she 
is complaining about. It did this both by telephone and it also called at her house a number 
of times. It was unable to speak to her at these times. 
Provident has said that the last payment Ms A made was in November 2015. Due to the 
repayment problems Ms As accounts were transferred to its central collections team. And 
going forward Ms A made some payments over the telephone using a card. So, Ms A was 
able to make repayments to her loans even though she may not have had face to face 
contact with a Provident agent.
So, Im not persuaded that, even if Ms A was unable to have a face to face meeting with a 
Provident representative, this would have caused her any detriment. This is because she 
was able to make her loan repayments another way. And, overall, I havent seen anything 
that persuades me that Provident handled the collection of her repayments unfairly. 
So Im not persuaded to uphold her complaint about her premium collections. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms As complaint about the administration of 
her loan repayments. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2020.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman