DRN-3818309
The complaint
Mr R complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc restricted and closed his account without notice. 
They also recorded negative information on his credit file and hed like this removed.
What happened
Mr R had an account with HSBC. On 18 November 2020 HSBC restricted Mr Rs access to 
his account. And after review they closed his account without notice on 21 January 2021. 
Mr R was above his credit limit at the time of the account restriction by £29.79, and in total 
owed HSBC just over £1,000. And from 13 November 2020 onwards HSBC reported 
negative information to Mr Rs credit file regarding this.
Mr R made contact with HSBC in November 2020 regarding the account restriction and 
asked how to make payment towards his debt  but HSBC advised this wasnt possible. On 
27 January 2021 Mr R made a further attempt to repay his balance. But, HSBC advised 
Mr R that he could only make payments in branch. Mr R says he was unable to do so 
because of the pandemic, and only after being offered an alternative method of payment on 
9 April 2021 was he able to clear the balance. Which he did on 12 April 2021. 
Mr R brought his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into his complaint, but they didnt think HSBC needed to do 
anything further. Overall, they thought the bank acted fairly in restricting and closing his 
account without notice. 
Mr R didnt agree. In response he said he understood HSBCs reasons for closing his 
account, but he didnt think it was fair theyd recorded negative information about him on his 
credit file. As he wasnt able to make payments until January 2021 and that was in branch 
during the pandemic.
As Mr R didnt accept our investigators thoughts its been passed to me to decide.
On picking up Mr Rs complaint I asked HSBC some further questions about his overdraft 
and whether he could make repayments during from November 2020 to April 2021. And 
having done so I explained to HSBC I didnt think theyd acted fairly in preventing Mr R 
making payments and then only allowing payments in branch. I thought they should pay 
£100 compensation and remove the negative information recorded against Mr R. HSBC 
didnt reply. 
I issued my provisional decision on 28 September 2022 which outlined the above, and gave 
both parties two weeks to reply. Neither Mr R or HSBC responded to my provisional 
decision so Ive reviewed my conclusions below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said:
Account restriction and closure
Ive considered Mr Rs account restriction and closure first. And Im satisfied HSBC followed 
the terms and conditions of Mr Rs account when restricting it and choosing to carry out an 
immediate closure. However, looking at the evidence HSBC had I think the review should 
have been completed much sooner - and Mr R's account closed within 30 days of the 
review. Rather than over 60 days. I've considered the impact on Mr R from this, and as he 
didn't have any funds in the account I'm satisfied he wasn't caused any significant detriment 
- so I won't be asking HSBC to compensate him for this.
Mr Rs credit file
I've moved on to consider the reporting of the negative information on Mr Rs credit file. I 
appreciate that Mr R was over his overdraft limit by £29.79. And it was reasonable for HSBC 
to ask Mr R to pay this. However, between 18 November 2020 and January 2021 Mr R 
wasn't able to make payments to clear the overdraft. Mr R was then advised of the 
opportunity to make payments in branch  but this was during the pandemic. Mr R didn't 
then make any further contact with HSBC, or attempt to pay the overdraft until April 2021.
But, in the circumstances of the pandemic, and Mr R being advised the only way for him to 
pay was via his local branch, I understand his concerns. And I dont think HSBCs reasons 
for failing to provide an alternative method of payment, which they did on 9 April 2021, were 
fair. I can see that Mr R cleared the debt in full on 12 April 2021, which leads me to conclude 
he would have likely done so sooner if hed been given the opportunity.
In summary, Im not satisfied the negative information HSBC recorded against Mr R for 
being over his overdraft limit between November 2020 and April 2021 is fair. When 
considering he wasnt able to make payments, and then only via an option not suitable due 
to the pandemic. I think the anxiety caused by debt repayment letters and the worry of 
negative information on his credit file caused Mr R some distress, and £100 is appropriate 
compensation for this.
As neither party responded to my provisional decision I see no reason to change my 
conclusions. 
Putting things right
As Ive outlined above I dont think HSBC should have recorded negative against Mr R for 
being over his overdraft limit. And this caused him anxiety. I think £100 compensation is fair 
redress for this.
My final decision
My final decision is I direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Rs credit file
Pay Mr R £100 compensation for the distress caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 Jeff Burch
Ombudsman