DRN-2099818
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) acted unfairly and 
unreasonably by declining their claim under a travel insurance policy. They want the claim 
paid.
What happened
Mr and Mrs N had an annual travel insurance policy with URV, covering world wide travel 
and cruises. They were booked to go on a cruise to parts of Asia as a package holiday, 
starting 19 February 2020 for about three weeks. Mrs N became anxious and said that she 
was afraid she would die or not be allowed back into the UK. She said that the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office (FCO) had said no unnecessary travel should be made to some of 
the countries they were due to visit in early February. A GP advised on 10 February 2020 
that she was unfit to travel and prescribed tablets to lower Mrs Ns heart rate and the 
practice issued two medical certificates on the request of URV.
Mr and Mrs N told the travel provider about the situation and that they wouldnt go from 7 
February 2020 onwards, but they were treated as no shows, rather than cancellations. A 
£156 refund was paid and the cruise proceeded as planned. Mr and Mrs N claimed under 
the travel insurance policy. The claim was declined as URV said Mr and Mrs N didnt go on 
holiday due to fear of the Covid-19 epidemic/pandemic and Mrs Ns anxiety and symptoms 
were caused by this. Mr and Mrs N also made a claim for a refund from their credit card 
provider, but without success, and a second unsuccessful claim to URV with another 
medical certificate.
Mr and Mrs N complained to URV. It said when Mr and Mrs N made their first claim on 8 
February 2020, they said that they werent travelling because the World Health Organisation 
(WHO) had advised against it and that if necessary, they would go and get a GP note as 
the worry was making Mrs N ill. URV explained that the policy didnt cover cancellation due 
to fear of an epidemic or pandemic and said so in the terms and conditions. It would cover 
cancellation if the FCO forbade all travel, but this hadnt happened. 
Mrs Ns response was that her GP had advised against travel (though this was after shed 
made a claim to URV); URV said that Mrs N had told it she hadnt received treatment for 
stress or anxiety in the last ten years, but was stressed due to personal issues with Mr N, 
which he had confirmed in writing and over the phone. URV added that Mr N had told it that 
Mrs N wanted to cancel due to fear of Covid-19, and this caused the stress. URV said the 
claim wasnt covered and the policy didnt cover disinclination to travel. It was satisfied that 
the evidence and Mrs Ns own account showed that she tried to cancel and claim before 
seeing a doctor.
Mr and Mrs N complained to us. URV sent evidence that Mr N had confirmed in writing that 
the main reason for cancellation was personal problems, but said Covid-19 hadnt helped 
and caused Mrs N to be so afraid, she was too ill to go on holiday. 
The investigators view was that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. The policy didnt cover 
cancellations in these circumstances in her view. The investigator pointed out that the FCO 
didnt advise against travel on cruises until 12 March 2020 or against all but essential travel 
until 17 March 2020. The WHO advice relied upon by Mr and Mrs N didnt advise against 
travel. Having considered all the evidence, the investigator noted Mr and Mrs N had by their 
own admission been trying to cancel due to fear of Covid-19, which was excluded from 
cover. There was no advice not to travel at the time.
The investigator went on to consider the issue of Mrs Ns health. While the doctors had 
confirmed Mrs Ns anxiety, they hadnt explained why Mrs N was unfit to travel. Mrs N had 
told URV that she was worried about going on the trip before seeing the GP. The 
investigator thought that it was a reasonable conclusion for URV to draw that Mrs Ns anxiety 
was connected to her disinclination to travel, which again was excluded from cover. 
The investigator pointed out that while the policy said claims wouldnt be paid if an insured 
person travelled against medical advice, but the GP hadnt said Mrs N was advised against 
travel. The doctors had confirmed the reason for cancellation was anxiety, but there was no 
evidence or information why Mrs N shouldnt travel due to this. She thought that URV had a 
reasonable basis to say the medical evidence didnt show Mrs N couldnt travel and wouldnt 
have been able to decline a claim on this basis if she had travelled.
Mr and Mrs N disagreed. They said URV mis-led them when they first called and said they 
could claim due to health reasons and the pandemic. They also felt URV had bullied them. 
They said that the FCO, not the WHO, had advised against non-essential travel and the 
doctors had issued medical certificates. Mrs N confirmed that she had been unwell due to 
personal issues, but the pandemic made matters worse.
The investigator explained that the FCO didnt advise against non-essential travel until 17 
March 2020 and Covid-19 wasnt declared a pandemic until 11 March 2020. She listened to 
the calls between Mrs N and URV. She noted that Mrs N initially never said her health was 
the reason she was cancelling the trip, but it was due to fear of Covid-19. Mrs N was told if 
the FCO advised against travel, the claim should be covered but the adviser couldnt give a 
guarantee  the claim would need to be assessed. The investigator didnt think URV had 
mis-led Mrs N and noticed that the initial claim again only mentioned the virus, and not her 
health.
The investigator also didnt agree that URV had bullied Mrs N. She said that Mrs N didnt 
answer its questions correctly and the discrepancies in the information she was giving URV 
were pointed out to her. The investigator noted that the GP records didnt support Mrs Ns 
version of events and she only challenged this when her claim was declined. The 
investigator felt Mrs Ns account was inconsistent and said that the holiday was cancelled 
because of her fear of Covid-19, which wasnt covered by the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When I refer to URV, Im also referring to its agents. The relevant rules and industry 
guidelines say that URV has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And it 
shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The policy
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, as insurance polices only cover 
specific events and not every possible eventuality. In Mr and Mrs Ns case, the policy specifically says it doesnt cover disclination to travel due 
to fear of an epidemic or pandemic, and will cover cancellations due to FCO advice against 
all by essential travel (or all travel) due to an epidemic or pandemic. It does say that it wont 
cover claims if someone travels against medical advice, but will cover claims if a doctor says 
the illness was so severe it necessarily and reasonably prevented travel. Theres no real 
dispute between the parties about the terms and conditions of the policy. The dispute really 
boils down to the facts and URVs view of what has happened.
The cancellation
The evidence from Mr and Mrs N shows that they decided as early as 7 February 2020 they 
werent going on the holiday. This is when they told the travel provider that they werent 
going due to fear of Covid-19. The next day, Mrs N contacted URV. Ive listened to the call. 
At no point did she say her health was the reason for a claim. Mrs N said, as confirmed in 
the first claim form, that it was fear of Covid-19 why she wouldnt travel and that the 
government had advised against travel in the countries they were due to visit. The same 
information is recorded in the GP notes of 10 February 2020. 
I dont think URV acted unfairly or unreasonably in concluding that Mrs N was cancelling due 
to fear of Covid-19 when the claim was first made. It is not correct that there was 
government advice against travel as Mrs N claims. The WHO advice on which Mrs N relied 
doesnt say non-essential travel shouldnt be made, and it declared a pandemic on 11 March 
2020. The FCO didnt advise against cruises for the elderly and vulnerable until 12 March 
and its world wide advice against non-essential travel wasnt until 17 March. These events 
are long after Mr and Mrs N decided not to go on the holiday and couldnt be the reason for 
cancellation.
That leaves fear of Covid-19. This isnt a reason to cancel the holiday covered by the policy 
for the reasons set out above. And Mr N confirmed over the phone and in writing that in his 
view Mrs N didnt want to go due to their personal problems, though the pandemic 
understandably didnt help matters. Mrs N accepted the same when challenged by URV. The 
policy doesnt cover cancellations due to personal issues either.
The medical evidence
Interestingly, Mrs N said if the claim wasnt accepted, shed get a note from a doctor and 
theres no dispute she hadnt seen one by 8 February 2020 when the claim was made. She 
made a second claim on this basis and got two doctors to send medical certificates.
Given Mr and Mrs N decided before seeing any doctor to cancel, and made the claim initially 
on the basis that Mrs N was afraid of Covid-19, Im not persuaded the health reason later 
relied upon was the real cause of the cancellation. Im further of that view because Mrs N 
plainly did get the medical evidence to rely on for a second claim in the hope of success and 
because of the evidence set out above about the personal issue and her fear of Covid-19.
The medical certificates do say Mrs N is anxious, but not why. Theyre quite oddly phrased 
by both doctors  neither have said in writing Mrs N was unfit to travel as her anxiety 
necessarily and reasonably prevented travel. They both say she wont travel due to 
anxiety. I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for URV to form the view that the medical 
evidence doesnt support Mrs Ns claim that she was unfit for travel, particularly considering 
the wider evidence and the inconsistencies with her account. URV has not seen the excerpt 
of the GP records that I have, and I note that the inconsistencies with Mrs Ns account are 
recorded there.Mrs Ns anxiety undoubtedly existed, but Im not persuaded that the evidence supports her 
position that she was unfit to travel or that it wasnt caused by her personal issues or fear of 
Covid-19. Even her recent emails to the investigator accepts the anxiety arose from these 
issues. I dont think URVs similar conclusion is unfair or unreasonable as its based on the 
evidence before it from Mr and Mrs N.
While this service doesnt deal with hypothetical situations, had Mr and Mrs N travelled 
despite Mrs Ns anxiety, I think its unlikely URV wouldve been able to exclude any claim on 
this basis as theres no medical evidence Mrs N was unfit to travel and was advised not to 
do so (even in her medical notes).
Did URV act fairly and reasonably?
While the policy doesnt cover Mr and Mrs Ns claim, I thought about whether URV acted 
fairly and reasonably in refusing to make any payment. I think that it has. Mrs N has been 
inconsistent in her accounts of what happened and the policy does say it wont cover 
cancellations due to fear of an epidemic or pandemic. The government advice on which she 
relies doesnt say non-essential travel at that time wasnt advised and the cruise occurred 
without curtailment or cancellation.
I also listened to the calls complained of by Mrs N in her response to the investigators view. 
For the reasons given by the investigator, I dont think URV mis-led or bullied Mrs N. Its 
reasonable to challenge someone about the inconsistencies of their account, and URV did 
so politely.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Mrs N to accept or reject my decision 
before 17 February 2021.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman