DRN-3869595
The complaint
Mrs G says that ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) is responsible for the poor administration and 
management of her personal pension. Coupled with ineffective handling and communication, 
she says this has led to her financial detriment, inconvenience and distress.
Mr G found himself in a similar position. And he has brought a separate complaint.
What happened
Its important context that Mrs Gs problems appear to have begun around the time of the 
transfer of the traditional insurance-based savings, pensions, life and with profits policies of 
Legal & General (L&G) to ReAssure. The proposal had been underway for a few years 
before being finalised in the High Court with an effective legal transfer date of 7 September 
2020.
So, Im mindful of the operational challenges ReAssure faced when taking on a significant 
element of L&Gs book. But these are matters between the businesses concerned. The 
agreement reached wouldve required due diligence, one aspect of which wouldve been to 
ensure no harm to customers. Its not something Mrs G shouldve been impacted by or 
worried about.
Mrs G had a stakeholder pension plan with L&G. This was part of the transfer of business to 
ReAssure. So, it took on responsibility for her plan and became accountable for any acts or 
omissions in relation to this.
On 3 September 2020 Mrs G contacted L&G with instructions to make certain switches to 
the funds in each of her pension plans. She says she was informed this could take a week or 
so post transfer of business to ReAssure, but that it would be executed at prices for that day. 
It seems from this point onwards, and over a couple of years, Mrs G experienced many 
problems.
Mrs G first brought her complaint to this Service in December 2020. But since this time 
further issues have arisen, some have been resolved, some are outstanding and some have 
become complicated because of attempted corrective action and poor communication about 
these. So, this has been a dynamic complaint, with many twists and turns.
The Investigator has set out the background to Mrs Gs complaint in some detail in the views 
he issued on 23 December 2021 and 27 July 2022. Neither party has challenged the broad 
thrust of what he set out.
To summarise, the scope of Mrs Gs extant concerns about ReAssure, which Im considering 
in this decision are:
- The failure to properly execute her instructions to switch between holdings within her 
pension plan. This included inaction, delays, incorrect apportionment and incorrect 
fund selection. The period in question spans requests made between September and 
December 2020, but with the effect being felt beyond this time horizon, for example 
through loss of investment opportunity. Further, communications about any remedial 
action taken were slow and lacking in necessary detail to provide the appropriate 
assurance the right corrective action had been taken.
- A delay in applying an employer contribution of £38,800 to Mrs Gs pension plan, 
which was made on 2 March 2021, but which didnt appear in her pension cash fund 
until 23 April 2021. She says this resulted in a lost investment opportunity.
- A delay in the switch of her pension plan away from ReAssure to another provider. 
Her request was issued in November 2020, but this wasnt given effect until August 
2022.
While Im not addressing directly some of the complaint points Mrs G has raised during her 
journey with this Service, such as problems with her subject access requests to ReAssure 
and her access to its online portal, Im aware of the issues raised and how these contributed 
to her overall frustration and worry about what was happening to her retirement funds.
Mrs G has also set out in some detail the practical and emotional impact on her and her 
husband of the catalogue of problems shes experienced since ReAssure took on 
responsibility for her pension plan. And she seeks acknowledgement of such through a 
substantial award of compensation.
It is my understanding that ReAssure has accepted responsibility for many of the failings set 
out, including:
- Problems with executing Mrs Gs switching instructions.
- A delay in endorsing the employer contribution made to her policy from 16 March 
until 25 April 2021.
- The impact of the delay on applying her employer pension contribution in March 2021 
and the overlooking of her financial advisers request for information about 
requirements for switching, on progress with moving to a different provider.
ReAssure has made some attempts to provide redress for Mrs G, for example in relation to 
its earlier switching errors. It has also provided her with several payments for the trouble and 
upset caused.
Id observe that in trying to deal with and resolve Mrs Gs complaints, it has often been slow 
and its communications about what it accepted and what it didnt have lacked clarity, as 
have any remedies applied. In some instances its corrective action appears to have muddied 
the waters further.
In his view from July 2022 the Investigator upheld Mrs Gs complaint. He required ReAssure 
to remodel her pension plan such that her original instructions had been executed 
effectively. He also allowed for certain assumptions about how her funds wouldve been 
invested had they not been stuck in cash as a result of problems arising with Reassure.
The Investigator also made provision that the employer contribution should have been 
invested rather than sitting in cash. He required ReAssure to meet its undertaking to carry 
out a loss assessment following its role in the delay of the switch of her pension to another 
provider. And to make a further award to her for the trouble and upset its failings had 
caused.
ReAssure accepted the Investigators first view which was issued in December 2021. It didnt 
respond to his follow-up letter of July 2022, which covered a broader set of Mrs Gs 
complaint points.Mrs G was broadly content with the Investigators findings and conclusions, but she 
challenged aspects of the redress proposed. 
Because both parties couldnt agree with the Investigators view, Mrs Gs complaint has 
been passed to me to review afresh. I issued provisional decisions in November and 
December 2022 to try to arrive at an agreed position on redress. This is my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mrs Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by ReAssure for Mrs G. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for 
businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in 
the FCA Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like ReAssure. As 
such, I need to have regard to them in deciding Mrs Gs complaint.
The accounts of both parties havent always been consistent. Both have provided notes 
contemporaneous with the events complained about. Ideally, copies of the recorded calls 
couldve been listened to in order to confirm which set of notes were more accurate. 
However, the key call recordings havent been provided by ReAssure.
I think the Investigators reasoning was sound when he concluded, on balance that:
the call notes provided by Mr G will be used to inform my outcome and redress. I have 
made this decision based on the fact that both call notes from ReAssure and Mr G are time 
stamped  ReAssures being their own internal call notes and Mr G completing notes 
immediately after each call and emailing them to himself in order to provide an accurate 
audit trail and timeline. I have also considered the fact that the call notes provided by ReAssure were not actioned properly in any case and as such their accuracy in recording 
the funds switches requested must be questioned.
This is important in terms of some of the detail of aspects of the redress required, for 
example what should be accepted in terms of the switch instructions she provided. As both 
parties appear to agree in broad terms about the background and the things that have gone 
awry, my aim is to keep matters simple and to focus on what would be fair and reasonable 
redress in this case.
Putting things right
While the redress Ive decided is unlikely to be perfectly satisfactory to either party, Im sure 
both will appreciate redress isnt often a scientific matter. And Im conscious of the need to 
avoid the benefit of hindsight.
Nevertheless, I believe what Ive provided for is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Addressing each of the areas for redress already identified in turn, Ive now decided how 
ReAssure Limited needs to put things right.
The disputed switches
The Investigator recommended Mrs Gs pension plan be remodelled such that her original 
instructions from 3 September 2020 and subsequently on 11 November 2020 had been 
actioned correctly. And that from 14 December 2020 her funds should follow the 
performance of the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index.
Mrs G agreed with the first two steps proposed by the Investigator but she argued the 
proposed index didnt fairly represent her established pattern of investment behaviour. She 
provided a summary analysis of the funds shed invested in previously, including the 
propensity for investment in funds with a high risk rating.
Regarding the length of indexation, Mr G told this Service:
for my wifes policyshe (or more accurately, we) took back investment control of her 
policy with fund switching instructions (into the three favoured equity funds) on 03/05/2021 
and again on 12/11/2021 (back into the cash fund) 
Mrs G also considered the indexation should run from 14 December 2020 until 3 May 2021. 
And from this date an assumption that subsequent switches required by her in May and 
November 2021 were effected.
Heres what Ive concluded.
There is agreement between the parties that Mrs Gs original instructions in September and 
November 2020 werent executed properly. So, these first two steps of remodelling shouldnt 
be contentious.
Ive thought carefully about what was happening to Mrs Gs pension plans. She said the 
move to cash she instigated on 14 December 2020 was requested only in order to simplify 
matters given the various fund switch issues she was facing. It was an attempt to gain clarity 
about the status of her pension funds. She says had there been no issues, the switch to 
cash wouldnt have happened.
This service would typically expect a consumer to mitigate their losses. So, theres an 
argument Mrs G shouldve taken action to move her funds from cash and to have invested. However, theres a clear pattern of her instructions not being followed, being delayed, or 
being applied incorrectly. And, like the Investigator, I dont consider it reasonable to have 
expected her to have given further investment instructions to ReAssure at a time where she 
had several contested requests still outstanding.
So, Ive concluded its reasonable in the circumstances to ignore Mrs Gs instruction from 14 
December 2020 to move all her funds into cash. Not to do so wouldnt provide for placing her 
back into the position shed have been in now without ReAssures errors.
I find some merit in Mrs Gs argument, based on the evidence shes provided about her 
investment behaviours since 2017, that the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return 
Index doesnt provide the best fit for her. I think her proposed alternative index  FTSE UK 
Private Investor Ultra Growth Index is a better fit.
However, Im not persuaded this would be appropriate for 100% of her funds. I say this 
because her own analysis suggests over time broadly 25% of her pot has been in cash 
funds. 
So, Im requiring ReAssure Limited to conduct a third step to remodelling Mrs Gs pension 
plans that assumes from 14 December (a) 75% of her funds benefitted from the performance 
of the FTSE UK Private Investor Ultra Growth Index; and (b) the residual 25% wouldve 
mirrored the performance of the L&G cash fund.
This doesnt mean Mrs G would have invested her money in the way Ive set out. Rather, I 
consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return she couldve 
obtained from investments suited to her risk attitude and investment approach.
Turning to the period of indexation. I think its appropriate for this to run from 14 December 
2020 until 3 May 2021, after which her subsequent switching instructions kick-in.
In responding to my provisional decision Mrs G asked:
Bearing in mind that my complaint in part arose because of ReAssures misinterpretation of 
instructions, I would like [the ombudsmans] final decision to explicitly clarify and/or 
prescribe:
Which of the following happens after the end of the indexation period on 03/05/2021?
(a) Is the compensatory amount (excluding that for the delayed transfer) to at this point be 
calculated from the difference between the remodelled and actual policy values on 
03/05/2021, with interest then applied until the date of settlement, or
(b) Does the remodelling continue until the policy transfer date of 11/08/2022 (this is the date 
of ReAssures confirmatory letter to me) with the compensatory amount (excluding that for 
the delayed transfer) calculated from the difference between the remodelled and policy 
transfer values on 11/08/2022, again with interest then applied until the date of settlement?
I do think the compensation figures arrived at for the disputed switches and employer 
contribution need to attract some investment return between 4 May 2021 and when her 
policy transferred in August 2022. Effectively then, a step four. Given that Ive already 
accepted Mrs Gs switching instructions were followed by ReAssure Limited from 3 May 
2021, it follows the benchmark used here should be the actual performance and mix of her 
funds over the relevant period.
ReAssure Limited will then need to conduct a fifth step, which uplifts any loss calculated 
between the date of transfer of her pension policy to another provider and the date of settlement. I think the most straight-forward approach here will be to add 8% annual simple 
interest for this period.
As the Investigator noted, given the number of switches involved, the amount of 
documentation on file and the contradictory nature of some of this documentation it may be 
the case that some of the redress set out here has already been provided for by ReAssure.
So, in carrying out these calculations ReAssure can take into account any redress for these 
matters it has previously paid into Mrs Gs funds. And the consequential effects this will have 
had on her position over time. Mrs G wouldnt expect to benefit from double redress in 
relation to the same issues.
However, confirmation of each step will be required for Mrs G in order that she is able to 
ratify the movements on her pension for her own peace of mind.
The employer pension contribution
Mrs Gs pension plan shouldve received the employer contribution of £38,800 by 16 March 
2021. As we know, it didnt appear online until 23 April 2021. And for reasons already 
established previously, it sat in cash while she tried to resolve the various outstanding issues 
with her pension plans.
In line with the redress recommendations above, ReAssure Limited should apply the same 
methodology as for the switching problems. From 16 March 2021 until 3 May 2021, assume 
(a) 75% of this sum benefitted from the performance of the FTSE UK Private Investor Ultra 
Growth Index; and (b) the residual 25% wouldve mirrored the performance of the L&G cash 
fund.
From 4 May 2021 any loss calculated should also be subject to the subsequent adjustments 
at steps four and five already set out for the methodology proposed for the disputed switches 
above.
The delay in transferring Mrs Gs pension funds to another provider
Given ReAssures acceptance that it contributed to a delay to the transfer of Mrs Gs pension 
plans to another provider, it should honour the commitment it gave in its letter of 24 
September 2021 to Mr G to carry out a loss assessment.
Approach to any loss calculated
If there is a loss, ReAssure Limited should pay into Mrs Gs pension plan, to increase its 
value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. Its payment should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. It shouldnt pay the compensation into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance (Mrs G has made 
reference to her Annual Allowance in this regard).
If ReAssure is unable to pay the compensation into Mrs Gs pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it wouldve provided a 
taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax 
to HMRC, so Mrs G wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid. 
The notional allowance should be calculated using her actual or expected marginal rate of 
tax at her selected retirement age.Its reasonable to assume that Mrs G is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mrs G would have been able 
to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, 
resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
ReAssure Limited should provide the details of the calculation to Mrs G in a clear, simple 
format including information on all dates and fund prices used.
I understand why Mrs G has asked me to require that ReAssure should assign her a named 
senior individual and provide their contact details. Shes experienced a multitude of problems 
with the firms handling and her confidence is low that matters will otherwise effectively be 
brought to a close.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs G on this point. Its not the role of this Service to interfere in 
operational matters. Im sure ReAssure will now want to grip this matter. Its been a costly 
affair for it, as well as Mrs G.
Subject to it receiving any information it requires from her/her financial adviser in good time, 
then I would expect ReAssure will be able to provide closure within 28 working days of it 
receiving notice shes accepted my final decision. Indeed, given the award of interest Ive 
made until settlement, it is in ReAssures interest to put matters straight as soon as possible.
Distress and inconvenience
When Im considering a complaint like Mrs Gs I think about whether its fair to award 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. This isnt intended to fine or punish a 
business  which is the job of the regulator. But when somethings gone wrong, recognition 
of the emotional and practical impact can make a real difference.
Were all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and in our dealings with other 
people, businesses and organisations. When thinking about compensation, I need to decide 
that the impact of ReAssures actions was greater than just a minor inconvenience or upset. 
Its clear to me that this was the case here.
ReAssure should pay Mrs G an additional £500, on top of the payments it had already made 
for trouble and upset (as at July 2022) for the distress and inconvenience it has caused 
through the things it got wrong in dealing with her pension plans over an extended period of 
time.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mrs Gs complaint and require ReAssure 
Limited to put matters right in the way Ive directed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman