DRN-3503750
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complained that Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd (Accredited) didnt fairly 
settle their claim under their home insurance policy and they were unhappy with the service 
provided.
What happened
Following a small gas leak at their property, Mr and Mrs G made a claim on their policy for 
the trace and access costs in finding the leak and for other costs related to remedying the 
situation.
Mr and Mrs G were unhappy as Accredited at one point offered a £1,000 cash settlement 
towards fixing the leak (in lieu of trace and access costs covered by the policy). However, 
this was rescinded when Accredited realised Mr and Mrs G had reached the cover limit on 
the policy, which resulted them having to pay around £500 in costs themselves.
Mr and Mrs G were disappointed with the general customer service provided. They said the 
poor communication and subsequent delays this caused to the claim was particularly 
stressful given their specific circumstances. Accredited felt their service couldve been better 
and apologised and it paid £100 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience it 
caused.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She thought Accredited settled the 
claim fairly in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. And whilst she recognised 
some failing in the service offered, she thought Accredited had been fair in the £100 
compensation paid. Mr and Mrs G disagreed, so the complaint has been referred to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Accredited decided to rescind its offer of a £1,000 cash settlement and refused to reimburse 
the additional costs Mr and Mrs G incurred as it said Mr and Mrs G had already reached the 
limit on the policy pay out. I have checked the terms and conditions to understand what Mr 
and Mrs G were entitled to receive in benefit from their policy. 
Page 34 of the policy states:
Finding a leak: we will pay for costs incurred up to a maximum sum insured of £1,000 per 
incident, including the necessary cost of removing any part of your home, to find the source 
of a leak:
 of domestic heating oil, water or gas from the fixed central heating, gas or water system in
your home
 from the underground service pipes to the home for which you are legally responsible
provided that the leak occurs during the period of insurance.
We will not pay for the cost of any damage to your household heating or water system itself.
I think the policy is clear that Accrediteds liability is capped at £1,000 for finding the leak and 
its not liable for any costs in fixing the household heating system. I see Accredited initially 
offered Mr and Mrs G a £1,000 cash settlement, which was the limit on the policy for finding 
a leak. I can see this was a genuine offer as it thought this was the best outcome for Mr and 
Mrs G at the time for resolving the claim. However, when it came to settling the claim, 
Accredited realised it had made an error in offering the £1,000 settlement as it had already 
incurred over £1,000 in visiting site and doing some preliminary trace and access work.
I appreciate this wouldve been frustrating for Mr and Mrs G as they thought they would be 
receiving a £1,000 cash settlement which wouldve covered them for the costs they incurred. 
However, I think Accredited made a simple mistake as it hadnt yet received the full report 
with the costs through from its contractor. When it realised, it informed Mr and Mrs G 
immediately about the mistake and said it wouldnt be possible to cover some of the claim 
due to the policy limit in place. I dont think Accredited has caused Mr and Mrs G any 
additional financial hardship because of this mistake, as it has simply put them in the 
position they shouldve been in had the policy been properly applied in the first place.
Mr and Mrs G thought the costs incurred by the initial site visit were excessive and the policy 
limit shouldnt have been breached. However, Accredited have provided evidence that it paid 
for specialist contractors to carry out the works and these rates were the commercial rates it 
had to pay. Therefore, if these costs were higher than the policy limit, I dont think Accredited 
were unreasonable in not accepting other costs Mr and Mrs G may have incurred.
I can see the actual costs Accredited incurred came in higher than the policy limit, so I think 
theyve been reasonable by not asking Mr and Mrs G to pay towards these additional costs. I 
think its likely it absorbed these costs as a gesture of goodwill. I think this is reasonable.
Mr and Mrs G were unhappy with communication issues and delays with the claim. I can see 
there has been some avoidable delays with the claim, but I dont think these were significant. 
With any claim, there will be a normal level of inconvenience for any policyholder, but its not 
reasonable to hold the insurer to account for this. I think its reasonable for Accredited to be 
allowed some time to properly validate the claim. I can see there were some difficulties in the 
two parties making contact, but I can see Accredited did make reasonable efforts. It has 
apologised for the communication error in respect to the claim limit. I think the £100 
compensation Accredited has paid is fair for the distress and inconvenience it caused when 
looking at the overall claim.
So, whilst I appreciate the leak was unfortunate and at a bad time for Mr and Mrs G, I think 
with the compensation Accredited has paid and by covering the claim up to the policy limit, I 
think it has acted fairly. So, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint, I dont require Accredited Insurance 
(Europe) Ltd to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman