DRN-1436598
The complaint
Mrs G says AXA France IARD mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Mrs G took out in 2003. 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. AXA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Gs case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Gs complaint because AXA has been unable to show that it 
made it clear to Mrs G that she had a choice about buying the policy, or that she chose to 
take it. 
Ive taken into account AXAs comments, including what it said about how it wouldve 
provided documents about the policy after the sale and that Mrs G couldve cancelled the 
policy if she hadnt agreed to take it. But I still think I should uphold the complaint. In this 
case the onus is on AXA to show that Mrs G was given a real choice about buying the PPI 
and that she chose to do so. And AXA has been unable to do that. 
Putting things right
AXA should put Mrs G in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI
AXA should find out how much Mrs G would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added. 
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs G owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs G made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for the 
claim from the amount it owes her. 
AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs G would have owed 
when she closed her account from when sheclosed it until she get[s] the refund. The interest 
rate should be 8% a year. If  when AXA works out what Mrs G would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs G 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs G paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs G wouldve 
owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
AXA should tell Mrs G what its done to work out the above.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give Mrs 
G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Gs complaint. AXA France IARD should put 
things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman