DRN-2082594
 
The complaint
Mrs H and Mr H complain about the way Santander UK Plc handled matters when they were 
victims of a fraud.
What happened
In July 2019 it appears that someone was able to open a sole account in Mr H's name, 
without his knowledge or authority. Three transfers, totalling £9,000, were made to the new 
account from Mr and Mrs H's joint account. The bank sent text alerts about the transfers to 
Mrs H, and she called Santander to say neither she nor Mr H had made them.
Mrs H had to call several times because of unreliable phone signals and each time had to 
repeat herself. Even when she was able to complete the call, Mrs H says that the bank gave 
no assurance that the money would be returned. And she was very concerned about the 
possibility of further fraud, since the joint account included information about other accounts 
held with other banks, which she then had to contact as well.
Mrs H also discussed CIFAS registration with Santander (which can provide a degree of 
protection against further fraud), and again there were problems with the call. Having offered 
to initiate this for Mr and Mrs H, the bank said that only certain people could do that, so there 
would be a delay.
Because the third party who had opened the new account had changed Mr H's address on 
the bank's systems, he then had to contact credit reference agencies to have that address 
removed. 
Santander agreed to refund the missing money in full, but didn't tell Mr and Mrs H it had 
done so. They didn't notice until some time later because they believed the blocks placed on 
the account would prevent them from using online banking.
Santander agreed that it hadn't handled the case as well as it might have done. In particular, 
it accepted that it could have been more proactive after the initial contact and that call 
handlers could have expressed more empathy. It acknowledged too that it should have 
contacted Mr and Mrs H when it made the refund. It apologised and offered compensation of 
£250. Mr and Mrs H didn't accept that offer and referred the case to this service.
One of our investigators considered what had happened, but concluded that Santander's 
offer of compensation was fair in all the circumstances. Mr and Mrs H said they didn't think it 
properly reflected the stress they'd suffered; they asked that an ombudsman review the 
case.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator's conclusions, and for similar reasons.  
I don't of course under-estimate the stress and anxiety that Mr and Mrs H have suffered 
here. That is unfortunately a consequence of being targeted by fraudsters, even where, as in 
this case, no financial loss results. But what I have to consider is whether Santander's 
handling of their case added unnecessarily to that stress and, if so, whether the offer of £250 
in compensation is fair in the circumstances.
Santander acknowledged that there were areas in which it could have done better - in 
particular in the way it communicated to Mr and Mrs H what it was doing about the case. 
But there were also a number of difficulties which weren't the fault of Santander - for 
example, the initial difficulties in maintaining a phone connection. And, whilst I can see why 
Mr and Mrs H would have liked reassurance that their money would be refunded, that 
depended on what the bank's investigation found about how the fraud took place. 
In my view, the offer of £250 doesn't reflect the stress that Mr and Mrs H have suffered 
overall, but I think it does reflect the extent to which Santander has added to that stress in 
the way it handled matters. I don't intend to ask it to increase its offer, but simply leave it to 
Mr and Mrs H to decide whether or not they want to accept it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't require Santander UK Plc to do anything more to resolve Mr 
and Mrs H's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 September 2020.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman