DRN-3131450
The complaint
Mr T complains Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI) 
with a credit card in 2001
What happened
It looks as though Mr T initially complained to Capital One about the sale of PPI in 
September 2012. Capital One issued a final response letter in respect of that complaint on 3 
January 2013. That letter told Mr T that he needed to complain to this service within six 
months of the date on that letter if he didnt accept Capital Ones response to the complaint. 
Mr T appears to have instructed his current representatives in or around August 2017, and a 
further complaint was made to Capital One. Capital One issued a further reply on 13 
September 2017. It said it had already issued a final response letter about the mis-sale and 
so that matter wasnt considered again. But Capital One did offer to pay back to Mr T the 
amount of commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium. It did this 
because it didnt tell Mr T about the high level of commission and profit share he would pay, 
and that failure to disclose was unfair.
Those representing Mr T then referred the complaint to this service on 5 March 2018. The 
grounds of complaint were that PPI had been mis-sold and that the offer Capital One made 
in respect of commission was unfair. 
Capital One didnt agree we could look at a complaint about how the PPI was sold because 
it said the complaint was referred to us too late.   
Our adjudicator looked at all of this but didnt think we could help with Mr Ts complaint about 
how this policy was sold. And they thought Capital Ones offer payment was a fair way to 
resolve the complaint
Mr Ts representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. They argued that Capital 
Ones letter of 13 September 2017 constituted the final response, and so the complaint was 
in time. 
As the matter could not be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that, 
unless a business agrees, I cant look into a complaint if its been referred to us more than 
six months after the business sends the consumer its final response letter. This provision is 
set out in Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(1), and it can be found online in the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys handbook. In this case Capital One hasnt given its consent for us to 
look at the complaint. 
Capital One sent its final response on 3 January 2013. So Mr T had until 3 July 2013 to refer 
the complaint to us. But this wasnt done until September 2017. So the complaint was 
referred four years out of time under the rules I have to apply.
I can look into complaints referred outside the usual time limits where Im satisfied the failure 
to comply with the time limits was because of exceptional circumstances. I appreciate it was 
argued on Mr Ts behalf that the letter of 13 September 2017 was the final response. But Im 
satisfied that the letter sent to Mr T on 3 January 2013 was a valid final response letter. The 
later correspondence does not change that, nor does it extend the time limit. 
So, Im sorry that were unable to help Mr T with the complaint about how this policy was 
sold.
non-disclosure of commission
But I have considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including whether the 
failure to disclose resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act, and if so, what would amount to fair compensation to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Capital One should have disclosed the commission it received 
and that Capital Ones offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the 
unfairness caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Capital One didnt tell Mr T about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this 
case. So I have taken into account: 
the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the 
non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment 
in Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose 
commission gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected 
commission and profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and
the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship 
between Capital One and Mr T was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act because Capital One didnt disclose the high levels of commission and 
profit share in this case. 
With all of this in mind, I dont think Capital One acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mr T because it failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider, in all the circumstances, what amounts to fair compensation to 
remedy the unfairness I have identified.
Mr Ts representative made a number of submissions about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipIn summary, it was argued Mr T should get back all the money he paid for the policy 
because: Capital One failed to tell Mr T about the high commission and profit-share rates 
paid; the low claims ratio; and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. It was further argued 
that these things meant the policy was poor value, and I should find that Mr T wouldnt have 
taken out the policy had they known about the level of commission. The representative 
submitted that Mr T should receive a refund of all the premiums he paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
the Supreme Courts judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether 
the consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
a court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy 
the unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow 
that a court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or 
conclude that a consumer would not have purchased the policy had the 
commission been disclosed; and
the FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to 
merge the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and 
guidance about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI 
complaints) and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy 
caused by it should be considered at step 2.
I have taken into account the relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance. At this stage, 
my role as an ombudsman is to determine what would represent fair compensation to 
remedy the unfairness caused by Capital One not disclosing the high level of commission to 
Mr T before the policy was sold.
So, taking into account: 
The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by 
the consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus 
interest in order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the 
level of commission; and
refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, 
in my view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 
140B of the Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; 
I am not, as Mr Ts representative suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Capital Ones failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above. I think it was fair for Capital One to calculate compensation in line 
with the FCAs guidance and return some of the money Mr T paid for the PPI policy. I 
consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. 
So I am satisfied that Capital Ones offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the 
commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated 
interest where applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the 
circumstances.
My final decisionIm unable to consider Mr Ts complaint about how the policy was sold, because it was 
referred to us too late and Im not persuaded the failure to comply with the time limits was 
because of exceptional circumstances.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided Capital One 
(Europe) plc should pay Mr T an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share paid 
in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable) if it hasnt 
already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman