DRN-2861922
The complaint
Mr G says Morses Club PLC lent to him irresponsibly. He says that he was in a debt spiral 
and so he couldnt afford the short-term loans. He says that Morses should have made 
better checks into his financial circumstances, found out about this and not lent to him.  
  
What happened
This complaint is about seven home collected loans Morses provided to Mr G between 
September 2013 and August 2017.
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedTerm 
(weeks)date ended
1 09/09/2013 £100 20 14/12/2016
2 23/11/2016 £300 33 31/05/2017
3 14/12/2016 £100 20 05/04/2017
4 05/04/2017 £100 20 16/08/2017
5 05/04/2017 £150 33 outstanding
6 31/05/2017 £300 33 outstanding
7 16/08/2017 £100 20 outstanding
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He didnt think that Morses did anything 
wrong when it approved loans 1 to 3. He thought it was evident Mr G was having problems 
managing his money by loan 4. And the lending pattern itself had become harmful by loan 6. 
Morses agreed with our adjudicator. It calculated compensation on the basis that our 
adjudicator recommended. However, because Mr G still owed some of the capital he 
borrowed on the final three loans, the compensation resulted in him owing less to Morses, 
rather than being paid an amount of compensation.
Mr G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. He said that as the adjudicator had said that 
the loans shouldnt have been approved then he shouldnt need to repay the capital he 
borrowed. And he should receive monetary compensation. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending  including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. Broadly 
speaking, this all means that Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice, this means it should have carried out proportionate checks to make 
sure Mr G could repay his loans in a sustainable manner. Additionally, there may come a 
point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that the 
lending was unsustainable.
Applying this to the circumstances of this particular complaint, I have reached the same 
outcome as our adjudicator, for essentially the same reasons. Ive decided to uphold Mr Gs 
complaint in part and Ive explained why below.
Mr G didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion not to uphold loans 1 to 3. Because of 
this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. And, for the 
avoidance of doubt, I agree that that Morses wasnt acting incorrectly when it approved 
these loans. But, they are something I will take into account when considering the other 
loans he took.
Our adjudicator thought proportionate checks for loans 4 and 5 wouldve likely shown Mr G 
couldnt have repaid them in a sustainable manner. I have independently reviewed the 
evidence of Mr Gs income, expenditure and the pattern of lending so far. Having done this, 
Ive come to the same conclusion. And, as Morses has agreed with this, there is now no 
dispute that Morses shouldnt have approved these loans. 
Ive also considered the pattern of lending up to loan 6 and I think the lending history and 
pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that further lending would likely be 
unsustainable. So, I think Morses was irresponsible to continue lending after this point. 
Again, this is now not in dispute because Morses accepted the adjudicators assessment. 
Ive considered the points Mr G made in response to the adjudicators view. Ive considered 
if the compensation is fair for the errors its now been established that Morses made. 
The purpose of any compensation should be to put Mr G (as far as possible) back in the 
position he would be in had Morses not approved these loans. But in cases of irresponsible 
lending that isnt always possible. This is because a consumer has been given a loan and 
had benefit of the money. 
The approach this service takes is that Mr G he should be refunded any interest and charges 
(plus interest) he paid on the lending as he wouldnt have paid these. Because he is out of 
pocket by this sum.  But he should repay the capital he borrowed as he wouldnt have 
received this - if Morses hadnt lent irresponsibly.
So, I think the method of compensation agreed by Morses and the adjudicator 
recommended is fair as it essentially, as far as possible, puts Mr G back into the position he 
wouldve been in had these loans not been granted. That is a refund of any additional costs 
above the capital but also, its reasonable for the capital that he borrowed that needs to be 
repaid. I havent seen enough to make me think I should depart from our well-established 
approach to compensation on this case. 
If Mr G accepts this decision then Morses should implement compensation on this basis. 
  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mr G from loan 4, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr G may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr G in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr G would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Mr G loans 4 to 7.
If Morses has sold the outstanding debts Morses should buy these back if it is able to do so 
and then take the following steps. If Morses is not able to buy the debts back then Morses 
should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr G towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything 
it has already refunded.
B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr G 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr G originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr G as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr G having made 
overpayments then Morses should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. Morses should then refund the amounts calculated in A and 
B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus should be paid to Mr G. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then Morses should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr G. Morses shouldnt 
pursue outstanding balances made up of principal Morses has already written-off.
E) Morses should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Gs credit file in relation 
to loans 4 and 5. The overall pattern of Mr Gs borrowing for loans 6 and 7 means any 
information recorded about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from 
Mr Gs credit file. Morses does not have to remove outstanding loans 6 and 7 from Mr Gs 
credit file until these have been repaid, but Morses should still remove any adverse 
information recorded about these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted, if they ask for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Morses Club PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman