DRN-3707006
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Rs complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) relates to the service they 
received when making an application for a loan with HSBC.
What happened
Mr R called HSBC in February enquiring about a loan. He acknowledges that although a 
number of advisors told him it would be much easier to make an application online, he was 
also told that he could make the application over the telephone. He says he felt pressured 
into making the application online and questions HSBCs motives for doing so. 
Mr and Mrs R went ahead with an application online but found the process to be time 
consuming and complicated. Mr R has complained that when he was using the online 
application it produced error messages leading him to believe it as not working properly. He 
says advisors he spoke to said they had to work around problems in the online process to 
ensure it worked, and that on one occasion it had been suggested to him he was using the 
wrong internet browser.
Mr R said he spent more than 15 hours trying to make the online application and by the time 
he was able to submit it, the rate he was seeking had increased by 0.2%. That, he says, will 
cost him a substantial amount of money over the five-year period of the loan he eventually 
took out. Mr and Mrs R feel HSBC should honour the original interest rate for the loan which 
was 1.46%.
HSBC say that during the call on 7 February Mr R was told, amongst other things, that the 
loan rates could change at any time, and on 16 February they did. HSBC have said that Mr 
and Mrs R didnt submit their application until 19 February, and as they knew the rates could 
change, HSBC didnt think it had acted unfairly in refusing to give them a loan at the lower 
interest rate. 
HSBC did however accept that there had been an error in processing Mr and Mrs Rs 
application, as they were unable to select the option that they were paying off one of their 
mortgages, and that had led to Mr R having to contact HSBC a number of times. Although 
HSBC did help Mr R and he was able to submit the application, it was then done so on the 
basis that it was for new lending. That had resulted in HSBCs underwriter being unable to 
approve the application and Mr and Mrs R being directed to discuss their application with a 
Mortgage Advisor. In the light of this, HSBC offered Mr and Mrs R £300 in compensation.
Mr and Mrs R were unhappy with HSBCs final response and so approached this service to 
see if we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that although there 
had been poor service in respect of the assistance given in making the online application, 
HSBC had not been unfair otherwise. As such they thought the amount of compensation 
HSBC offered was enough to put things right. 
Mr and Mrs R didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What is clear from the evidence provided by both HSBC and Mr and Mrs R is that on 
7 February Mr and Mrs R could have secured the loan they wanted at a rate of 1.46%. It was 
also made clear to Mr R that he had the option of applying online or over the telephone. It is 
accepted that the rate changed on 16 February and Mr and Mrs R didnt apply until after that 
time. 
Quite obviously HSBC are entitled to review and change their interest rates as and when 
they wish, and that is not something I can interfere with. In fairness I dont think Mr and Mrs 
R dispute that general principle. The issue in this complaint is whether HSBC should be held 
to the lower rate which was available on 7 February. 
I do empathise with Mr and Mrs R since had they proceeded with their telephone application 
on 7 February in all probability they might well have obtained the more favourable rate for 
their loan. However, ultimately the choice of whether to proceed by telephone or online was 
theirs and they elected to proceed with the online application. Indeed thereafter, up until the 
rate changed on 16 February, Mr and Mrs R could have gone back to HSBC and asked to 
proceed over the telephone. So, whilst Mr R may have felt pressure when he called on 
7 February to move to making an online application, it was open to him, on reflection after 
the call, and when he was experiencing difficulties, to revert to making a telephone 
application, if at that time that was what he wanted to do. This is a fundamentally important 
point because as Mr and Mrs R were on notice that the rates could change at any time, it 
was open to them to get rid of the risk of a rate rise by making a telephone application. 
But I have also listened to the call recording for 16 February and it was clear at that time 
Mr R was undecided as to what he actually wanted. He ran through a hypothetical example 
with an HSBC advisor saying at one point he might want to change the rate and increase the 
borrowing amount but then that he didnt know what he wanted and his thoughts were just 
conceptual although he might like to change from variable to fixed rate and increase the 
amount borrowed. What this very clearly demonstrates is that on that day, the day the rate 
actually changed, Mr R hadnt decided what product he wanted. So as Mr and Mrs R hadnt 
reached a decision as to what product they wanted, and thus hadnt made any application, 
any problems with the online application cannot have contributed to their missing out on the 
better interest rate, because by that time the rates had changed.
HSBC have accepted that it made errors in the processing of the online application and for 
that reason HSBC offered £300 in compensation. Ive given this some further thought to 
assess whether that offer was fair and reasonable. When this service considers what an 
appropriate level of compensation might be, we consider a variety of factors, including the 
trouble, upset, distress and inconvenience that may have been caused. We categorise 
awards and examples of these can be found on our website. 
What is important to remember is that there is no set figure, since the facts of each case are 
different, and ultimately it is an exercise of judgement, looking at all the circumstances of the 
case and coming to a figure which feels fair, when set against the effect upon the 
complainant of any particular service failures. In this case I have not agreed with Mr and Mrs 
R that HSBC were at fault in their losing the fixed rate loan at 1.46%, but I do agree that the 
service they received in relation to the online application fell short. The offer of £300 was made in that respect and I think that is very reasonable and so I will not be asking HSBC to 
do anything further.
So, although Mr and Mrs R will probably be disappointed with my decision, and whilst HSBC 
have indeed made errors, I cant say HSBC has subsequently acted unfairly or unreasonably 
here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman