DRN-4433077
The complaint
Mrs F complains about Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G)s handling of a claim on 
an insurance policy for a kitchen appliance.
Mrs F is represented in her complaint by a third party but, for simplicity, Ill refer mainly to 
Mrs F in my decision.
What happened
Mrs F took out a D&G insurance policy in February 2019 covering breakdown and accidental 
damage to a tumble dryer. In September 2022, the dryer suffered a serious malfunction, and 
Mrs F made a claim on her insurance. In summary:
12 September. Mrs F reported a fault with her dryer to the manufacturer. 
21 September. An engineer visited Mrs Fs home to fix the dryer. Mrs F used the 
dryer later that day and it caught fire. The fire brigade attended, put out the fire, and 
moved the dryer outside for safety. Mrs F told D&G about this. She explained that the 
dryer was in a communal area and wasnt secure.
26 September. The manufacturer agreed to replace the dryer in exchange for the old 
one.
28 September. The dryer was stolen from outside Mrs Fs home. Mrs F notified D&G 
and the manufacturer.
29 September. The manufacturer withdrew its offer to replace the broken dryer 
because it was unable to collect and inspect it.
29 September. Mrs F bought a replacement.
24 October to 3 November. Mrs Fs representative asked the manufacturer to pay for 
the replacement dryer. The manufacturer refused and referred her to D&G.
3 November. Mrs Fs representative contacted D&G.
9 November. D&G agreed to pay a cash settlement for the replacement dryer. 
On 22 November, Mrs F  through her representative  contacted D&G when she didnt 
receive the settlement. When D&G didnt respond to further emails, she referred her 
complaint to this service. She wants D&G to honour its offer to refund the cost of her 
replacement dryer.
Our investigator recommended that Mrs Fs complaint be upheld in part. He was satisfied 
that D&G was liable for a replacement dryer. He thought it should refund Mrs F the cost of a 
like-for-like replacement (£289), plus delivery costs. He also thought D&G should pay Mrs F 
£100 to apologise for the delay in settling her claim.
D&G disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to review.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 25 October 2023. I said Id reached 
broadly the same conclusions as our investigator but for slightly different reasons and set out 
my findings as follows:
I think its important to note that Mrs F has spoken to both the manufacturer and D&G about 
her broken dryer. For the avoidance of doubt, I can only consider the actions and 
responsibilities of the insurer (D&G) because thats the business that comes under this 
services jurisdiction. 
Our investigator concluded that the engineers repair caused the fire. Im not convinced 
thats right. Its obvious the dryer was damaged before the engineer tried to fix it. Theres no 
evidence showing what caused the malfunction and the manufacturer couldnt inspect the 
dryer because it was stolen from outside Mrs Fs home. So I accept D&Gs argument that 
there could be another explanation for the fire. 
However, I dont think I need to determine what caused the fire. Based on Mrs Fs account  
which D&G says it accepts  the dryer caught fire when she was using it. I think most people 
would agree this suggests some sort of mechanical or electrical breakdown. Mrs Fs policy 
covers her for breakdown after the manufacturers guarantee. Under the policy terms, D&G 
should arrange a replacement or pay the cost of a replacement appliance.
I havent seen the original manufacturers guarantee, but Ive assumed it had expired for two 
main reasons:
1. Typically, manufacturer guarantees are for one or two years. Mrs F bought her dryer 
in February 2019, more than three and a half years before it broke down.
2. D&G hasnt argued that the breakdown term doesnt apply. Its November 2022 
assessment of Mrs Fs claim concluded: Customers appliance was not left in good 
working order on 21/09/22 and is covered for replacement if their appliance is 
beyond repair. [emphasis added]
Instead, D&G has argued that Mrs F was not entitled to a replacement under the terms of 
her plan as the exchange offered by [the manufacturer] was due to a recall, this is explicitly 
not covered under the plan terms. It referred to the relevant policy exclusion: We shall not 
be liable for replacement or recall of the appliance (or any part) by a supplier or the 
manufacturer.
In my opinion, thats a misinterpretation of what happened here. Mrs Fs dryer wasnt 
recalled by the manufacturer. It caught fire due to a mechanical or electrical breakdown and, 
as a result, was damaged beyond repair. The manufacturer wanted to collect it to investigate 
why this happened. Thats a completely different situation to a product recall. And, as Ive 
said, this argument contradicts D&Gs initial assessment in November 2022. 
D&G phoned Mrs F on 9 November and told her it would pay a cash settlement. Ive listened 
to this call. The key exchange is as follows:
D&G: What Im going to do is pass the claim through to our Product Replacement 
Team for you.
Mrs F: The thing is weve actually bought a new machine.
D&G: I thought that might have been the case, to be fair. Once weve passed the 
claim though to Product Replacement they can look into a cash settlement for you 
rather than actually supplying a physical machine.
Mrs F: That would be lovely thanks.
D&G: Not a problem. Now theyll aim to get in contact with you within around 48 
working hours [sic] and thats normally via email. Is that ok?
Mrs F: Yes thats perfectly fine.D&G:  Ok now Im going to put the authorisation on here that were going to do a 
cash settlement for you, but it may be an automated write-off that goes through 
where you get replacement offers. If that is the case I just ask that you pop onto the 
live chat thats on the link, ask them to just have a look at the notes on your file, and 
theyll see the cash settlement is on there and theyll process it for you through that 
live chat.
Mrs F: Ok thats lovely. Thank you.
D&Gs letter to Mrs F the same day said: were pleased that we were able to find a 
solution and we hope that youre happy with the outcome we agreed. It didnt set out exactly 
what that solution was and what would happen next. I think it would have been helpful if 
D&G had done this. 
Im satisfied that D&G told Mrs F it would contact her to arrange the cash settlement. The 
evidence Ive seen shows it didnt email her, didnt send her a link to the live chat, and didnt 
contact her again before her representative chased a response on 22 November. 
D&G told us: the cash settlement was authorised but I cannot see where the customer 
has spoken to our Product Replacement Team and any payment was discussed. But that 
isnt what it told Mrs F. It told her its Product Replacement Team would contact her to 
arrange the cash settlement. And when Mrs Fs representative chased D&G for an update 
on 22 November, it simply replied: I can confirm that I have investigated a complaint on 
behalf of [Mrs F] and we have come to an outcome that [Mrs F] has accepted.
I think there were three key failings by D&G. First, it didnt settle the claim as promised. 
Second, it didnt explain the settlement offer to Mrs Fs representative when she asked for an 
update in November 2022. Third, it didnt reply to Mrs Fs representatives emails after 22 
November. 
I also think D&G could have paid the cash settlement directly into Mrs Fs bank account, as 
Ive seen it do for other claims, rather than suggest Mrs F use the live chat function on its 
website. Indeed, it told us it could arrange this kind of transfer in its email to our investigator 
on 31 January 2023.
To put things right, I think D&G should honour its original offer to refund the cost of Mrs Fs 
replacement dryer. Mrs F has provided a receipt showing that on 29 September 2022 she 
paid £479 for a new dryer, plus £20 for delivery.
D&G says Mrs Fs new dryer is a substantial upgrade on what she was entitled to under 
her policy. It told us it would have offered her a cash settlement based on a replacement 
dryer costing £289. While D&G hasnt explained why Mrs Fs new dryer is a substantial 
upgrade on her old one, Ive found a similar make and model to her old machine costing 
around £300. So I understand why D&G thinks it shouldnt have to cover the full cost.
Ive thought carefully about this and how much D&G should refund. Normally, Id order it to 
refund the cost of a like-for-like replacement, plus delivery  as per the policy terms  and 
pay additional compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience its handling of the 
claim caused Mrs F. 
However, in this case I think a fair resolution would be to ask D&G to refund Mrs F the full 
cost of her new dryer  rather than the cost of a like-for-like replacement  plus interest from 
the date of its original offer. I dont intend to make any other order or award.Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs F told us, through her representative, that she was happy with my provisional decision.
D&G didnt accept my provisional decision, although it made a new offer. In summary:
It disagreed with my finding that this wasnt a product recall. It said the manufacturer 
recalled that particular machine as unsafe.
It provided a screenshot showing it emailed Mrs F on 9 and 11 November 2022, as 
well as copies of the emails it says were sent on those days. The first email included 
a link to the live chat function on its website. 
It provided some more detail about why Mrs Fs new dryer was an upgrade on her 
old one.
It accepted that its case handler could have done better when Mrs Fs representative 
contacted it in November 2022 (there is an argument that the case handler could 
have explained what needed to be done in more detail or she could have processed 
the settlement herself).
D&G offered to cover the full cost of Mrs Fs new dryer (£479) but doesnt think it should pay 
the cost of delivery or interest. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought very carefully about D&Gs response, but it doesnt change my findings. Ill 
explain why.
In my opinion, D&Gs suggestion that this was a product recall by the manufacturer is wrong 
for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision: Mrs Fs dryer wasnt recalled by the 
manufacturer. It caught fire due to a mechanical or electrical breakdown and, as a result, 
was damaged beyond repair. The manufacturer wanted to collect it to investigate why this 
happened. Thats a completely different situation to a product recall.
Mrs F clearly didnt receive the emails D&G says it sent her, otherwise thered be no reason 
for her representative to ask for an update on 22 November. More importantly, when her 
representative asked for this update, D&G simply replied that it had agreed an outcome with 
Mrs F. It didnt mention that it had sent her any emails or explain how Mrs F could get her 
refund. If it had done this, I think its likely the matter would have been resolved immediately. 
D&G acknowledged this in its response to my provisional decision.
Finally, D&G didnt explain why it shouldnt pay either delivery or interest. However, Mrs Fs 
policy says D&G will pay for the delivery of any replacement machine. So I think it should 
refund the £20 delivery charge. Also, this service typically asks a business to pay interest 
from the date the customer should have had their money. In this case, I think D&G should 
have refunded Mrs F on or around 9 November 2022. So I think its fair to add interest from 
that date.
I said in my provisional decision that I thought there were three key failings by D&G: First, it 
didnt settle the claim as promised. Second, it didnt explain the settlement offer to Mrs Fs 
representative when she asked for an update in November 2022. Third, it didnt reply to Mrs 
Fs representatives emails after 22 November. D&Gs response hasnt changed my mind 
on this. D&G has offered to refund the full cost of Mrs Fs new dryer. Im glad its agreed to do this. 
But, for the reasons set out above, I think it should also pay the cost of delivery and pay 
interest on the refund. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint for the same reasons set out in my 
provisional decision. I order Domestic & General Insurance Plc to:
Refund Mrs F the full cost of her new tumble dryer, plus delivery, as set out in the 29 
September 2022 receipt (£499).
Add interest to this amount at 8% simple per year from 9 November 2022 to the date 
of settlement*.
*If D&G considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mrs F how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs F a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman