DRN-2920263
The complaint
Mr W complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with
Blue Motor Finance Ltd (BMF).  
What happened
I provided my provisional decision on this complaint in June 2021. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
Mr W has been represented by a family member but for ease, and because Mr W is named
on the finance agreement, I will refer to him throughout this decision.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I currently agree with the investigators opinion but the redress Im suggesting is a little
different. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr W acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then BMF, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include
things like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr W. The car here was
about six years old and had already completed about 44,409 miles so I think a reasonable
person would expect there to be some wear and tear. But I dont think they would consider
the significant engine issues Mr W experienced to be related to wear and tear.
Mr W first reported a problem with the engine on his car within a month of supply. The
relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to
assume it was present at the point of supply, when BMF were responsible for its quality,
unless they can demonstrate otherwise. I dont think BMF have supplied sufficient evidence
that the engine fault wasnt present when Mr W took receipt of the car. Hed only completed
about 500 miles in it at that point, so I think it was most likely to have been present at the
inception of the finance agreement.
The relevant legislation allows a business one opportunity to repair a car in those
circumstances. BMF attempted to repair the vehicle in September 2019 but I dont think that
repair was successful as Mr W had to return the car for the same issue in November 2019
when a timing chain kit was fitted.
I think its likely Mr W did ask the dealership to allow him to reject the car at that point as I
can see that around the time of collection he also made the request to BMF. Im not
persuaded he accepted the repairs to his car, and I think BMF should therefore have allowed
him to reject the vehicle.
And, even if Im wrong about that, the relevant legislation explains that when we consider if a
car has been of satisfactory quality we should consider whether it has proven to be suitably
durable. I dont think a reasonable person would consider a six-year-old car with this mileage
to have been suitably durable if it required a new engine after only about 50,000 miles. So, I
think this is further evidence that the car was not of satisfactory quality and that BMF should
allow Mr W to reject it.
BMF have suggested the engine damage could have been caused by the remapping Mr W
had done to the car. Im not persuaded that is the case because Mr W has explained the car
was remapped in February 2020 but the issues he complained about happened before that
and indeed the first report of engine problems was made only 20 days after Mr W had taken
receipt of the car.
Putting things right
I agree with some of the actions the investigator proposed but I think Mr W should be
refunded more payments for his loss of use of the car, and I wanted to provide clarity about
the refund of any consequential losses.
BMF should collect the car at no cost to Mr W and they should end the finance agreement.
Theyll need to refund any deposit Mr W has paid and, as hes been deprived of that money,
they will need to add interest to that refund.
Ive seen that Mr W was still driving his car until 27 March 2020 when it was taken to a
garage. It hasnt been driven since, so I think BMF should refund any finance Mr W has paid
since 27 March 2020. Its also not fair for Mr W to have been paying finance instalments 
when his car was being
repaired. Ive reviewed the evidence that has been provided and it would appear Mr W was
without his car sporadically, and in total for about three to four months before it broke in
March 2020. When he was able to drive it, I think his enjoyment would have been marred by
concerns of reoccurring issues. Overall, I think it would be fair for BMF to refund a further
four monthly instalments for the period from inception of the finance agreement until 27
March 2020 in respect of the lack of use and loss of enjoyment Mr W experienced prior to
the final breakdown.Its clear Mr W has been inconvenienced by these issues. Hes had to take the car for repair
on several occasions and hes also had to escalate his complaint to this service when I think
it could have been resolved earlier. In those circumstances BMF should pay him £150
compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced.
Mr W has claimed that he incurred some costs as a consequence of the faults he
experienced with his unsatisfactory car. It wasnt his fault the car couldnt be fixed, and I
dont think it was possible to remove the car from the garage, where it had been taken for
investigation, as the engine had been removed. So, I think BMF should refund any costs he
incurred for storage and costs to have the car towed. They should also refund any costs
Mr W can evidence that show repair costs he may have paid in respect of the faults he was
experiencing.
But I dont think it would be fair to ask BMF to refund the road tax and insurance costs Mr W
paid or any costs associated with him purchasing another vehicle. It was always necessary
for the car to be insured and taxed and it was Mr Ws choice to fund another car.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell Blue
Motor Finance Ltd to:
allow Mr W to reject the car and to collect it at no cost to Mr W;
end the finance agreement at no further cost to Mr W;
refund any deposit and add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to
the date of settlement;
refund all monthly instalments paid since 27 March 2020;
refund four monthly instalments for the period from inception to March 2020 in
respect of the loss of use and enjoyment Mr W experienced during that period. Add
8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mr W £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused;
refund any storage costs, costs to refit the engine and any demonstrably associated
repair costs Mr W can provide receipts for and add 8% simple interest per year from
the date of payment to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ws credit file in relation to
this issue. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BMF didnt provide any further information but Mr W, through his representative, did. 
Mr W provided evidence that he had paid a £200 cash deposit and also provided a receipt, 
dated 22 January 2021 for the recovery of his car; the diagnosis of the problem; the removal 
of the engine and the storage costs that had been levied (and discounted) by the garage. 
The total cost was £1,670.
Mr W also provided receipts for breakdown cover hed obtained and a receipt that 
demonstrated there was a 15-month warranty on the car that was also financed through the 
agreement with BMF. He wanted me to consider refunding those costs.   
Putting things rightIve considered the information provided by Mr W.
I explained in my provisional decision that I thought it would be fair for BMF to refund any 
storage costs, costs to refit the engine and any demonstrably associated repair costs Mr W 
can provide receipts for. I think the receipt dated 22 January 2021 does that and provides 
clarity on what that refund should be.
Im not persuaded that BMF should refund the breakdown cover or any portion of it as I think 
that was a cost that Mr W would have incurred regardless of whether the car was of 
satisfactory quality. 
Mr W had the benefit of warranty cover for the first 15 months and Im not persuaded that he 
wasnt able to benefit from that cover as a result of the failings with his car. So, I am not 
persuaded that cost, or any part of it, should be refunded.
I have not been persuaded to change my provisional decision, but the information provided 
by Mr W has helped me to provide more clarity and Ive included that in the decision I have 
set out below.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Blue Motor Finance Ltd to:
allow Mr W to reject the car and to collect it at no cost to Mr W;
end the finance agreement at no further cost to Mr W;
refund the £200 deposit and add 8% simple interest per year from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement;
refund all monthly instalments paid since 27 March 2020;
refund four monthly instalments for the period from inception to March 2020 in
respect of the loss of use and enjoyment Mr W experienced during that period. Add
8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mr W £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused;
refund the invoice of £1,670.00 Mr W paid, dated 22 January 2021, to cover storage 
costs, costs to refit the engine, diagnosis and vehicle recovery. Add 8% simple 
interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ws credit file in relation to
this issue.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman