DRN-1840328
The complaint
Mr E and Mrs E complain that Barclays Bank UK Plc (trading as First Plus) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in connection with a loan in 2000.
What happened
Mr E and Mrs E complained the PPI was mis-sold with the loan. They complained to 
Barclays. 
Barclays told us it did not sell the loan and PPI to Mr E and Mrs E. First Plus may have had 
an involvement in the lending. But in this case, Barclays said the loan and PPI were sold by 
a third party, not First Plus. The third party was another company Ill refer to as Company M. 
Barclays concluded it was not responsible for the PPI sale (through First Plus) and so did not 
have to look at Mr Es and Mrs Es mis-sale complaint.
Our adjudicator agreed that Barclays was not responsible for looking at the PPI mis-sale 
complaint. Mr E and Mrs E did not respond to our adjudicators view, so I am looking at the 
case again. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first thing I need to decide is whether Barclays is responsible for the sale of the PPI 
policy to Mr E and Mrs E. If I decide it is, then I can decide whether the sale happened as it 
should have done. If I dont think Barclays was responsible for the sale of the policy, then 
this Service will not be looking any further at this complaint against Barclays.
In this case, I am going to say Barclays is not responsible for the PPI sale so this Service will 
not be taking this particular complaint any further against Barclays. I know this will disappoint 
Mr E and Mrs E, so I will explain why.
Barclays told us it did not sell the loan and PPI to Mr E and Mrs E, so I looked carefully at 
the documents which were created at around the time of the sale to see what most likely 
happened in 2000.
I have seen a copy of Mr Es and Mrs Es loan application which has the branding and logo 
of Company M - all clearly shown at the top of the form. I can also see that Mr E and Mrs E 
ticked a box for PPI joint cover on the loan application, so I can reasonably assume that the 
loan and PPI were sold at the same time. I think its more likely that the loan and PPI were 
sold by a third party and not by Barclays (through First Plus.)
Taking everything into account, I dont think Barclays sold the PPI to Mr E and Mrs E. And as 
I dont think Barclays was responsible for the PPI sale, it follows that it does not have to look 
at this PPI mis-sale complaint.I am sorry to disappoint Mr E and Mrs E, but this Service cannot take this particular 
complaint any further against Barclays.
My final decision
My decision is that Barclays Bank UK Plc is not responsible for this PPI sale, so it does not 
have to look at this PPI mis-sale complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman