DRN-3627314
The complaint
Mr M complains AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) caused further damage to his car, that was 
unrelated to his accident, whilst it was in its care.
There are several parties and representatives of AXA involved throughout the complaint but 
for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to AXA.
What happened
Mr Ms car was involved in an accident and he made a claim on his motor insurance policy.
AXA accepted his claim and the car was classed as a category N total loss. The fault was 
that of the third party. Category N write-offs are vehicles that have suffered non-structural 
damage and can be repaired to a roadworthy condition and put back into use.
AXA settled Mr Ms claim. Mr M decided to retain the salvage of his damaged car plus a 
cash payment in settlement of his claim. 
When AXA returned the car, Mr M said there was further damage to the front of the car that 
was not there before the accident. The car was returned to AXAs storage partner for this to 
be investigated.
AXA disagreed with Mr M and said there was no further damage other than that caused by 
the accident and general wear and tear due to the age of the vehicle (almost 17 years old). It 
declined Mr Ms claim for the cost of the alleged additional damage.
As Mr M was not happy with AXA, he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. They looked into the case and said after 
reviewing the images of the car they were satisfied there was no change in the condition of 
the car other than dirt being present.
As Mr M is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M said the additional damage to the car was a damaged tyre, a cracked wing mirror and 
scratches to the front passenger side of the car.
I have considered the images submitted by both Mr M and by AXA. 
There are a number of images that show the front of the car when it was collected by AXAs 
storage partners and also after it had been in storage.
I have carefully looked at, and compared, the damage that is visible in all the images and 
found: 
the wing mirror appears to have a crack in it in all the images.
The tyre was flat when it was collected by AXAs storage partners. 
The paint chips and scratches to the front of the car do not look like new damage. 
The latest images show the car has become covered in dirt and dust.
Ive also considered the accident report and this says the primary damage to Mr Ms car was 
side damage and the secondary damage being Minor scratches and dents.
After careful consideration I think that the damage shown in the images provided are most 
likely to be wear and tear of the car due to its age.
Therefore based on the images and report I have reviewed, Ive seen no evidence that the 
damage to the front part of Mr Ms salvaged car were caused during its time in storage. Or 
that it is additional to the damage caused in the accident.
Therefore, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint and do not require AXA to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman