DRN-2679951
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S, Miss S and Mr M (the owners) have complained about their let property 
insurer; U K Insurance Limited (UKI) as, due to underinsurance, it has settled their claim for 
flood damage proportionately. They also believe it delayed their claim, causing their tenants 
to leave.
What happened
There was a flood at a property owned by the complainants. UKI accepted their claim but 
during the loss adjusters first visit in November 2019, it was identified that the property was 
underinsured by 25.3%. UKI said it would dry the property for the owners, but asked they 
present quotes for the cost of reinstatement work.
There was some difficulty in finding a contractor to do the work for the price the loss adjuster 
felt was reasonable. But an estimate provided in January 2020 was agreed, with stripping 
and drying being completed in early February and the reinstatement concluded by early 
March 2019. 
UKI looked at the total cost of the drying and reinstatement work  £3,579.05. It said that 
due to the underinsurance it was only liable for 74.7% of that  £2,675.93. From there the 
owners owed it the cost it had incurred to dry the property (£479.05), and the £200 policy 
excess. This left it paying them £1,996.86 in settlement of the claim. 
The owners said the excess should be deducted before the adjustment was made for 
underinsurance, and also that theyd not been told what value UKI expected to be set for the 
sum insured. UKI didnt agree and felt it wasnt liable to advise what the sum should be.  
The owners also said that UKI had delayed the claim and that, as a result, following the 
repairs completing, their tenant had left. UKI didnt think it had caused any delays and noted 
it had settled for rent lost to the owners due to a rent reduction agreed with the tenants to 
account for disruption during the repairs. It didnt think it owed anything more.
To answer the complaint our investigator felt it was necessary to consider what the owners 
had been asked about the sum insured when arranging the policy. He felt UKI hadnt asked 
a clear enough question to fairly allow it to settle the claim based on average due to 
underinsurance. But he felt the excess had been applied correctly and that there hadnt been 
any delays by UKI. Which all meant that whilst he felt UKI should pay the outstanding claim 
costs to the owners, plus interest*, he didnt think it had to pay to compensate them for lost 
rent or upset.
UKI wasnt convinced we should look at what happened at the point of sale in respect of this 
complaint which it felt turned on policy terms. But it said it asked at the point of sale about 
the rebuild cost for the property, and whilst its explanatory detail about this was contained 
in a link the prospective policyholder didnt have to open or read, it felt the question was 
clear. It also said the content of the question was of little importance given the arranged 
policy was a commercial one (meaning the owners could reasonably have been expected to 
know this important information without prompt from it). 
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not uncommon for this service to treat some policyholders of commercial insurance 
policies (which this is because it is for a let property) as akin to consumers. Ive seen no 
good reason not to do this here. Where a consumers claim is affected by underinsurance 
and a proportionate settlement from an insurer is imposed, in deciding whether that action in 
respect of the claim was fair and reasonable, well often want to know what the consumer 
was asked at the point of sale. Whether the insurer was clear about what it intended the 
basis for the policy cover to be goes to determining whether its actions in respect of the 
claim were fair and reasonable.
I understand that UKI thinks the clarity of its sales question wasnt affected by its use of a 
pop-up box to contain information. But this service has long held that questions which rely on 
information contained in a pop-up box to further inform the consumer about what is being 
asked of them, are not clear. Here the question makes reference to the sum insured 
equating to the rebuild cost of the property. But it is only in the pop-up box that UKI explains 
what costs it expects to be taken into account in determining the rebuild sum, and that the 
consumer can get a calculation in this respect if they dont know what it might be. 
I understand that the owners felt the rebuild sum would likely be similar to the price theyd 
paid for the property  this isnt an unreasonable thing for a property purchaser to think. And 
UKIs question didnt alert them to the fact that the market value and rebuild price might be 
vastly different. But if theyd seen the content of the pop-up box, I think theyd have taken 
action to obtain an accurate rebuild price. Having taken everything into account, Im satisfied 
it was not fair or reasonable, in the circumstances here, for UKI to settle the claim 
proportionately due to underinsurance. 
I know the owners had concerns about how the excess was applied. However, in upholding 
their complaint regarding UKIs overall application of underinsurance, their concerns about 
the excess and the difference this would have made to any proportionate settlement made 
by UKI, fall away. As Im to going to require UKI to pay the owners the amount it previously 
deducted in respect of the underinsurance, and as the excess was applied to the settlement 
amount to be paid by UKI after it had adjusted the claim costs to account for the 
underinsurance, the excess wont need to be paid again.
I appreciate that this was a difficult time for the owners, not least as their tenant was 
unhappy with the state of the property. However, it was always up to UKI to choose how to 
settle the claim and I think it did progress it reasonably. I see it settled for rent lost during the 
period of repairs. Whilst the owners say the tenant left following the repairs due to the 
disruption theyd suffered, I see they also say it was due to fear of flooding occurring again. 
Particularly as Im not persuaded that UKI is responsible for unreasonably delaying the 
claim, I cant fairly say it should compensate the owners for any upset or financial loss. 
 
Putting things rightI require UKI to pay the owners (Mr and Mrs S, Miss S and Mr M) the sum it previously 
deducted from the claim costs as a result of the underinsurance, plus interest* on the sum 
now due, from the date its previous settlement was paid until this further settlement is made.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. If UKI considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from any interest due to the owners, it should tell them how much its taken off. It 
should also give the owners a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out above 
at putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M, Miss S, 
Mrs S and Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 13 May 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman