DRN-2207045
The complaint
Mr C complains about a personal loan provided to him by Loans 2 Go limited, (L2G) which 
he says was unaffordable.
What happened
L2G provided Mr C with a loan of £700 on 14 December 2018. The loan was to be repaid 
over 78 weekly instalments of £36.60. If Mr C made each payment when it was due, hed 
pay £2854.80 in total. Mr C has to date, not repaid this loan.
Mr C says the loan was very easy to obtain but he was dependant on credit. He says all of 
his wages were taken to cover loan repayments. He says the loan was unaffordable and 
shouldnt have been given to him.
In its final response letter L2G said that Mr C had declared his income as £1,620 but it 
verified that he received a monthly average income of £1524.27. L2G said that Mr C 
declared his expenditure to be £768 but it calculated his expenditure to total £1356 
following its review of Mr Cs credit report and it had also added 10% as a buffer for any 
fluctuations in Mr Cs monthly expenditure. This left a disposable income of £168.27. After 
monthly loan payments of £158.60, this left a disposable income of around £10. L2G 
concluded that Mr C had enough disposable income to afford the contractual repayments.
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and recommended that it be not upheld. She said 
that in her opinion L2G didnt carry out proportionate checks and should have gone further 
with finding out if Mr C could afford the loan. But she was unable to conclude whether the 
loan was affordable or not, if L2G had carried out further checks. This is because Mr C has 
been unable to provide further information about this and in particular hasnt been able to 
provide bank statements from when he took out the loan.
Mr C, through his representative, did not agree with the adjudicators view. His 
representative has said, that although Mr C has been unable to provide bank statements 
from the time, that the loan was still unaffordable as Mr C only had disposable income of 
around £10 based on what L2G had verified what Mr Cs income and expenditure to be. So, 
it thinks L2G shouldnt have given the loan based on what it had in front of it.
As this complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has come to me, an ombudsman, 
to review and resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When L2G lent to Mr C the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC).
L2G was entering a regulated credit agreement. So, it had to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of Mr Cs creditworthiness before it entered the agreement. This means that 
L2G had to consider both the risk to it that Mr C wouldnt make the repayments under the 
agreement when due, and the risk to Mr C of not being able to make these repayments. In 
particular, L2G had to consider Mr Cs ability to make repayments under the agreement as 
they fell due over the life of the agreement, without Mr C having to borrow to meet the 
repayments, without failing to make any other repayment he had a contractual or statutory 
duty to make, and without the repayments having a significant adverse effect on his 
financial situation.
The rules also said that  unless it was so obvious that the consumer could make the 
repayments that further checks were disproportionate  L2G needed to take reasonable 
steps to determine the amount, or make a reasonable estimate, of Mr Cs current income. 
It also had to take reasonable steps to determine the amount, or make a reasonable 
estimate of, Mr Cs current non-discretionary expenditure. Whilst it is down to the lender to 
decide what specific checks it wishes to carry out these should be reasonable and 
proportionate to the type and amount of credit being provided, the length of the term, the 
frequency and amount of the repayments and the total cost of the credit.
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to 
the consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, 
Id expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit is likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make repayments 
for an extended period).
Finally, the rules list unfair business practices. In particular, the rules say a lender mustnt 
accept an application for credit where it knows or has reasonable cause to suspect that the 
borrower has not been truthful in completing the application in relation to information 
relevant to the creditworthiness assessment. This would arise where the information 
supplied by a borrower is clearly inconsistent with other information of which the lender is 
aware.
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Cs case, Ive considered 
the following questions:
- Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr 
Cs loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in 
a sustainable way? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks 
have shown?
- Did L2G make a fair lending decision?
As set out above, L2G gathered some information from Mr C about his income 
and expenses before it agreed the loan. It also carried out a credit check.
As Ive already mentioned, Ive seen how L2G asked about Mr Cs financial 
circumstances by checking his credit file and verifying his income. But Im not satisfied 
that these checks went far enough. I say that because:The loan was over a term of 78 weeks and L2G needed to ensure the 
repayments were sustainable over that relatively long period of time;
L2Gs analysis showed discrepancies between its checks and Mr Cs declared 
income and credit expenditure;
The discrepancy between Mr Cs declared expenditure (£768) and what it had 
calculated it to be (£1356) was significantly wide. There was a difference of £586 
in what Mr C had declared and what it found out, albeit it had included its own 
buffer amount.
For the above reasons, I consider L2Gs checks should have included a full review of Mr 
Cs financial circumstances, including further verification of his income and expenditure so it 
could ensure that the loan repayments were affordable.
I need to think about what L2G would have seen if it had carried out proportionate checks. 
Our adjudicator asked Mr C to provide his bank statements from around the time he 
applied for the loan. Im not suggesting here that this is the check that L2G should have 
done. But I think looking at his bank statements would give me the best picture of what the 
lender should have seen.
Mr C has not been able to provide our service with bank statements from before and around 
when he took out the loan though. So, I havent been able to see what L2G would have most 
likely seen if it had carried out further checks. So, because of this, I am unable to safely 
conclude that Mr C was given a loan that was unaffordable for him. 
Mr Cs representatives have said that based on the information L2G had in front of it, they 
shouldnt have provided the loan to him. I have been able to see the results of the credit 
check L2G carried out, and although I can see an outstanding payday loan with another 
lender and that Mr C had utilised all of the credit available to him, I havent seen enough 
that would indicate that the amount of debt he had, or how he was managing it, should 
have led it to decline the loan.
Mr Cs representatives also add that based on their calculations, taking out the loan would 
have left Mr C with around £10 a month in disposable income. But I can see that L2G 
included an amount for contingency in its calculations so I dont think the amount of 
disposable income left after Mr C made his loan repayments would have been of concern. 
But as Ive said above, I do think the discrepancy between the information Mr C provided 
and what L2G saw in its credit checks ought to have suggested better checks. And Ive not 
been able to see what better checks would have shown L2G, so on this occasion I havent 
been able to draw any conclusions about this, other than I cant say that the loan was 
unaffordable for Mr C.
So, for the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I am not upholding Mr Cs complaint for the reasons set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman