DRN-1191286
 
complaint
Mr and Mrs D say Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy to be used with their mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs D took out a PPI policy in 2005. They paid a monthly amount for the policy and it 
would have covered Mr D if he lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ds case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. I explain why below.
Ive considered whether Nationwide gained the consent of Mr and Mrs D for the PPI and 
whether it made it clear that the policy was optional. Mr and Mrs D acknowledge buying the 
policy. Ive not seen anything that clearly shows Nationwide didnt make Mr and Mrs D aware 
they were taking the PPI or that it was optional. And in this case Ive noted that Mr and Mr D 
had the mortgage since 1992 without cover and that they declined the cover when taking 
their further advance in 2005. It seems they took the cover a couple of months later in 2005. 
So I think that, on balance, Mr and Mrs D wouldnt have taken the policy thinking they had to, 
as they already had the credit before deciding to take the cover. 
Mr and Mrs D and Nationwide agree that Nationwide didnt recommend the policy to them. 
This means that Nationwide didnt have to check if the PPI was right for them, instead it had 
to provide enough information for them to decide whether they wanted to take it out. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time it seems Mr 
D was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions 
from or limits to the PPI cover. Ive considered that Mr D had good sick pay and maybe thats 
why they took cover for unemployment only. So whilst Mr Had some good sick pay, and it 
seems he would have been given 6 months notice in the event of redundancy, I note that Mr 
and Mrs D havent declared that they had many other means they could have relied on in 
that eventuality. This policy could have paid out for up to 24 months after the waiting period. 
So thinking about all of that and the potentially serious consequences of defaulting on a loan 
secured on your home, I think the policy would have been useful to them if something went wrong. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put them off taking out 
the cover.
Mr and Mrs D say they wouldnt have bought the policy had they understood they couldnt 
have claimed during the time they were receiving pay from his employer. But as this is a very 
standard term in this kind of insurance and as this policy is designed to pay the mortgage 
during a period in which the insured is receiving no pay at all, I dont think this would have 
put Mr and Mrs D off the policy had they received better information about it at the time. 
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint about Nationwide 
Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Ms D to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 February 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman