DRN-3273168
The complaint
S Ltd, represented by Mr S, complained because HSBC UK Bank plc refused to refund a 
withdrawal of £24,530.
What happened
On 30 December 2020, Mrs S went to an HSBC branch. She transferred £24,530 from S 
Ltds account to her personal HSBC account, and from there to another bank.
As soon as Mr S found out, on 5 January 2021, he complained to HSBC. He explained that 
he and Mrs S were getting divorced, and he told HSBC that Mrs S had been removed as an 
officer of S Ltd in November 2018. He wanted HSBC to recall the payment. HSBC charged S 
Ltd £25 for the attempted recall, and sent the request to the other bank. 
Mr S provided HSBC with a copy of a letter dated 8 November 2018, which he said hed 
taken into a branch at the time. This letter notified HSBC that Mrs S had been removed as 
an officer from S Ltd, and had surrendered her bank card and cheque book. It said she was 
no longer allowed to transact payments or act on behalf of the business. So Mr S told HSBC 
that it shouldnt have let Mrs S withdraw the money.
In its final response, HSBC said that it had never received a letter about a dispute.  And if it 
had done, it would have asked Mr S to complete a new Bank Mandate form. It said that Mrs 
S was still listed as a signatory on S Ltds account, and shed provided identification to make 
the payment. At the time of the final response, HSBC was still waiting for an update about 
the recall, from the beneficiary bank.
Mr S, for S Limited, complained to this service. He said that the £24,530 withdrawal had 
represented more than 90% of the money held by S Ltd, and it had, in effect, closed the 
business. He thought the date of the fraud, just before the new year, had been chosen 
deliberately so it extended the time before S Ltd found out.
Mr S also said that the funds had come from a Bounce Back Loan, which couldnt be used 
for personal purposes. So he thought HSBC had breached the terms of the Bounce Back 
Loan by allowing Mrs S to transfer the money to a personal account.
Our investigator didnt uphold S Ltds complaint. He checked HSBCs contact notes, and saw 
nothing to show that HSBC had received Mr Ss 2018 letter. He believed that if it had done, it 
would have sent Mr S a Bank Mandate form to complete. The investigator also thought that 
once Mr S had sent his 2018 letter to HSBC, he might have expected some contact from the 
bank, to ensure the action hed requested had been carried out.
Mr S, for S Ltd, wasnt satisfied. He sent a long letter of objection to the investigators view, 
saying it was clear that HSBC had probably acted unlawfully. Mr S told the investigator to 
provide him with a number of documents within seven days, including:
- Evidence that Bounce Back Loans could be used for personal purposes, because the 
investigator hadnt commented on that;
- Internal HSBC guidance allowing staff to override the governments rules on Bounce 
Back Loans;
- Confirmation that the investigator had personally interviewed staff at the branch 
where Mr S said staff had told him theyd received his 2018 letter;
- Evidence to show that Mr S had any obligation to follow up sending his 2018 letter;
- Evidence that the investigator was aware of systemic failures within HSBC  which 
Mr S had seen reported in the press;
- Confirmation that the investigator had personally interviewed staff and managers at 
the branch where Mrs S had withdrawn the money;
- Mr S believed that staff at the withdrawal branch were acquaintances of Mrs S, so 
HSBC was liable for its staffs actions;
- Explanation why HSBCs branch staff hadnt been sceptical about the withdrawal as 
it took place on 30 December; was divorce related; and the withdrawal took place 
at a different branch from the one where the account was held;
- Confirmation that the investigator had seen a copy of the Court Order which Mr S 
believed Mrs S had taken to the branch. Mr S also wanted a copy of this in order to 
pass to the police.
Mr S repeated that he wanted a refund, plus compensation as he said HSBC hadnt acted on 
his first complaint; hadnt provided an update on the recall of funds that hed been charged 
£25 for; and there had been clear negligence.
The investigator replied to Mr S, explaining that as a service, we can decide what 
information is enough to carry out an investigation and get to the right answer. In this case 
there was a mandate with Mrs S's name on it, and Companies House was showed her as a 
Director. Based on that information alone, there was no reason for HSBC to question Mrs 
S's withdrawal. The investigator said that he understood Mr Ss point about Bounce Back 
Loans not being used for personal purposes, but that wasnt for HSBC to monitor, but for S 
Ltd as the business receiving the loan.
S Ltds complaint was referred to me for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive set out above, Mr S has raised multiple points in his submissions to the service. Ive 
understood all of those and considered all hes said and sent us, but in reaching my decision 
here Ive focused on what I think is vital to my conclusions. Id also point out that this service 
is a quick and informal alternative to the legal process in terms of disputes with financial 
businesses. As the investigator explained, we can decide what information is enough to 
carry out an investigation and get to the right answer. So I have not pursued all the matters 
which Mr S told the investigator to carry out for him  where I dont think thats necessary in 
order to reach a balanced and impartial decision on the crux of the complaint here.
Mr S also told us that hes contacted the police, and that Mr and Mrs S are divorcing. Its not 
for this service to comment on police or court action. Its clear that Mr S is already pursuing 
that aspect of things legally and its not for this service to become involved with that.
My decision is about whether or not HSBC acted incorrectly when it processed the £24,530 
withdrawal in December 2020.Ive seen HSBCs record of correspondence with S Ltd over the years and there is no record 
of the letter in 2018 which Mr S sent to this service. HSBC says that if it had received any 
such letter, it would have sent a form for S Ltd to complete. So in the absence of any 
evidence to show otherwise, I accept that HSBC didnt receive this or any similar such letter, 
and therefore hadnt had any instruction to remove Mrs S from S Ltds account. 
Mr S has argued that he didnt have any obligation to check that the instruction had been 
carried out. But the point is that it would have been precautionary, in such an important 
matter. I find it very surprising that Mr S might have sent any such letter - but then not 
followed it up to check with HSBC that it had been carried out. As it stands, theres no record 
of this letter being sent or received and no record that Mr S ever chased a response  which 
persuades me its more likely than not that HSBC never received an instruction in the way 
Mr S says here.
This is supported by information on the Companies House register. This doesnt show that 
Mrs S was removed as a director in 2018. It shows that Mrs S was still a Director of S Ltd 
until 12 January 2021.
So at the time of the withdrawal in December 2020, Mrs S was still a signatory for S Ltd on 
its account with HSBC. And she was still a director of S Ltd. So I find that HSBC did nothing 
contrary to the withdrawal instruction on S Ltds account when it permitted Mrs S to carry out 
the withdrawal.
Ive also considered S Ltds argument that HSBC hadnt acted on Mr Ss first complaint, and 
hadnt provided an update on the recall of funds that hed been charged £25 for. Mr S 
complained on 5 January 2021, and HSBC investigated and issued its final response on 13 
January 2021. This is well within the eight weeks timescale for banks to reply to a complaint. 
And I accept what HSBC said in that letter, that at that time it hadnt yet had a response from 
the other bank about the attempted payment recall. The information Ive seen shows thats 
the case.
Finally, I havent seen anything to suggest that it was HSBCs responsibility to ensure that S 
Ltd had to use the Bounce Back Loan here in a particular way.  S Ltd was given the money 
and so it was for it as a company to act within the rules of the scheme regarding the use of 
the loan. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S Ltd to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman