DRN-2013062
 
The complaint
Ms R complains Advantage Insurance Company Limited has unfairly declined a claim she 
made on a motor insurance policy she is a named driver on.
What happened
Ms R is a named driver on her sisters motor insurance policy along with three other named 
drivers. She was involved in a small accident when driving her husbands car. She says at 
slow moving pace she hit the car in front. She called Advantage and was told only damage 
to the third-party vehicle was covered. When later calling to start the claims process, she 
was informed she didnt have cover at all as she wasnt insured for driving other vehicles. 
Ms R complained as she didnt think the terms were clear and believed cover was provided 
under the policy for her to drive other cars. Advantage stood by its decision to decline the 
claim; it was satisfied the terms clearly showed that cover wasnt provided in the 
circumstances. But it agreed she had been given incorrect information during the first call. It 
apologised and offered £40 compensation. 
Our investigator concluded Advantage had fairly resolved the complaint. She was satisfied 
the terms set out that Ms R wasnt covered for driving other cars and she found the 
compensation offered fair. 
Ms R has asked for the matter to be referred to the ombudsman. In summary, she argues:
She doesnt believe £40 for the incorrect information being given on the first call 
sufficient compensation for the error. 
The insurance certificate is the record of cover and this is what she relied on. The 
insurance certificate shows her name in the same section as the policy holder and 
driving other cars is in the same box. 
There is ambiguity in the wording such that the terms should be interpreted in her 
favour. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure both Ms R and Advantage that although I have only summarised the 
background and arguments above, I have read and considered everything provided. I can 
only uphold Ms Rs complaint if I find Advantage has unfairly or unreasonably declined the 
claim, or not in accordance with the policy terms and conditions. 
The starting point for any complaint about a declined claim is the contract between the 
parties  here that contract is made up of the policy document, setting out the terms and 
conditions, and the certificate of motor insurance setting out the cover provided. Ms R is also 
subject to those terms as a named driver under the policy. 
The insurance certificate sets out at the top that All mentions of you or your refer to  the 
policy holder, Ms Rs sister. Further down that certificate is section 5. Persons or classes of 
person entitled to drive:
Ms R
Party 2
Party 3
Party 4
Cover is provided only if the person driving:
Holds a valid licence
Isnt disqualified from holding or obtaining a valid licence
Driving other cars:
Youre also covered to drive someone elses car if:
You have the owners permission
Its not owned by you or under a hire purchase or lease agreement
Its covered by another insurance policy.
Other conditions apply  please see your car policy document for details. 
Ms R has sought to draw a distinction between you and your being defined as the policy 
holder and You and Youre in the section under driving other cars. She argues the lower 
case you hasnt been used so as to include all names expressly stated within section 5. I 
disagree  both the you and youre in this section appear at the beginning of a sentence 
and so, in accordance with accepted grammar, would be capitalised  the same way the 
start of any other sentence would be. Im not persuaded this means the terms are 
ambiguous and so should be construed in favour of Ms R.  
Ms R also argues an upper case Youre seems to intentionally differ to the definition of you 
given at the top of the certificate and appears to any reasonable reader to intentionally be 
used to refer to the list of named drivers above.  I have considered this carefully, but Im not 
persuaded by her argument. Punctuation in insurance policies can be very important as it 
can sometimes change the meaning of a sentence to something that was never intended. 
But Im not persuaded the use of the contracted word youre means the definition given at 
the top of the certificate doesnt apply. Contractions are simply the combining of words, in 
this case you and are to youre. And as Ms R acknowledges the certificate defines you 
as the policy holder. Im not persuaded there is any ambiguity in the definition which means 
youre should be read to include named drivers. 
I accept the named drivers appear in the same box as the information about driving other 
cars. Ive already found above that the definitions given on the certificate set out that its only 
the policy holder that is covered to drive other cars. I dont find that fact information about 
named drivers and who can drive other cars is found in the same box mean Ms R is 
covered. Indeed, if it was intended that the named drivers and the policy holder were all 
covered to drive other cars, I question the need for a separate section in bold; it simply 
wouldnt have been necessary.   
Ms R has also referred to the policy document, in particular section 3. In its final response 
Advantage referred to this section excluding vehicles owned by a partner and so cover 
wasnt provided. Ms R argues if this section and exclusion apply to her then it must be conceded that she does have cover for driving other cars contrary to what Advantage has 
said about the certificate of motor insurance. 
Section 3 of the policy document says:
Driving other cars
Your Insurer will provide this cover, under section 3, if you are driving another private 
car as long as:
Your Certificate of Motor Insurance shows that cover is included
The other car is not a hire, courtesy or rental car, is not owned by you or your 
Partner nor obtained by your or your Partner under a hire purchase or lease 
agreement
The car hasnt been lent to you by your employer or business partner
The owner has given you permission to drive the car
Theres a valid insurance policy in force for the car youre using
Youre not covered by any other insurance policy to drive it

In the meaning of words section, its explained that where words or phrases begin with a 
capital letter, they will have the meaning given. You/your is defined as the person named as 
the Vehicle Policyholder on the schedule of insurance. The policy holder is Ms Rs sister. 
Having considered Ms Rs arguments I take her point. To suggest she isnt covered because 
she was driving her husbands car (one of the persons meeting the definition of Partner 
within the policy) would indicate that she is covered for driving other cars. But Im not 
persuaded that what Advantage has written in its final response overrides what the actual 
terms of the policy provide cover for. And I dont think I could fairly ignore that this cover is 
only provided if the Certificate of Motor Insurance shows it is included. I have found above it 
was only included for the policyholder not the named driver. So Im not persuaded section 3 
applies to Ms R.
For the sake of completeness, if Ms R is right about being covered to drive other cars, and I 
dont find she is, then the aforementioned exclusion would apply. That means Ms R wouldnt 
be covered for the event claimed for, in any event. 
I have considered Ms Rs submissions carefully. But I find she doesnt have cover under the 
policy for the event she is claiming for. Im satisfied the documentation is clear enough that 
only the policy holder is insured to drive other cars. As Ms R isnt the policy holder but a 
named driver, Im not persuaded Advantage as declined the claim unfairly. 
I know Ms R will be disappointed with this outcome. And I empathise with the situation in 
which she finds herself. It must be particularly worrying to be personally pursued for any 
damage or injury to the third party.  But as I dont find Advantage declined the claim unfairly 
then I wont be asking it to do anything in relation to that. 
Finally, I turn to the information given during the initial call.  Advantage accepts Ms R was 
incorrectly told she was covered. However, that was rectified in the next call she had with it. 
As the investigator explained, where something has gone wrong, we ask the business to put 
the complainant in the position they would have been in had things gone right. It seem to me 
Ms R would have known sooner that cover wasnt provided had things happened as they 
should. Im not persuaded, nor have I been provided with any persuasive evidence, that the 
impact of the incorrect information has caused anything other than a loss of expectation. Its 
right Ms R is compensated for any distress and inconvenience that wrong information caused. I find £40 to be a fair reflection of that impact. Advantage should pay this to Ms R if 
it hasnt already done so. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I find Advantage Insurance Company Limited has already offered a 
fair resolution to this complaint. I require it to pay Ms R £40 if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2020. 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman