DRN-2665288
The complaint
Mr G complains that AXA France IARD ("AXA") mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy attached to a store card that Mr G took out in August 
2002. It was sold in store and covered him for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA, as the insurer, should accept responsibility for the 
complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr G disagreed 
saying, in summary, that:
He was made redundant in September 2002 but didnt make a claim  showing that he 
didnt realise he had the PPI.
He was put on the spot in a store in front of other customers so felt pressured to take the 
policy.
Any commission paid should be refunded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr G's case.
As this happened many years ago, I cant be sure exactly what happened, so I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
After careful consideration, Ive decided not to uphold Mr G's complaint and Ill explain why.
AXA had to make Mr G aware that the PPI was optional and get his consent before adding 
PPI. Ive taken into account what Mr G says about the sale taking place in a store and that 
he felt pressured. I accept he may have been strongly encouraged to buy the PPI. But I cant 
fairly uphold this complaint solely based on Mr Gs recollections of what happened around 
18 years ago, particularly as Ive not been told clearly about anything specific the business 
did or said which amounted to unreasonable pressure. 
I've seen a copy of the application form Mr G signed. Looking at this it has a separate 
section headed "Protecting your Account". The form does not specifically say that PPI is 
optional, but I consider it is reasonably clear, from the need to sign  separately from the 
main application - that it was not a requirement of applying for the credit card. The form, and 
the section about PPI, was quite brief, so I think Mr G would have had time to read this, even 
though he was in a store.
So, overall and on balance, I think AXA did enough to make it clear to Mr G that he had a 
choice about taking PPI. And that he chose to take it.
AXA didn't recommend the PPI to Mr G, so it didn't have to check if it was suitable for him. 
But it did have to make sure Mr G got the information he needed to decide if it was right for 
him.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mr G about the PPI wasn't as clear as it should have 
been. But, based on what Ive seen of Mr Gs circumstances at the time, it doesn't look like 
he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. As he could have 
benefited from everything the policy offered, I dont think having better information about 
these things wouldve affected his decision take out PPI.
Mr G told us he was made redundant around a month after he took out the policy. But 
I havent seen anything to show that he was aware of this when he took the policy, so I dont 
find this would have affected his decision at the point of sale.
He also said he didnt make a claim on the policy when he was made redundant. There 
could be a number of reasons for this, and it doesnt change what I think is likely to have 
happened at the point of sale.
The PPI would have covered his payments for up to 12 months. It also covered him if hed 
become unemployed. So it could have been a useful benefit for him in his circumstances 
and given him peace of mind that his payments would be covered. So, again, receiving 
clearer information would not, on balance, have changed what happened here.
Finally, it also looks like the PPI was affordable and he could have cancelled it at any time.
Overall, I dont think Mr G has lost out because of anything that AXA might have done
wrong.
Mr G says any commission should be refunded. But, as our adjudicator set out in her view of 
the complaint, the FCA rules about commission apply to lenders and this complaint is 
against the insurer. So Im unable to consider that here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman