DRN-4341111
The complaint
Mr U complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc took the final balloon payment under his 
finance agreement despite him saying that he wanted to extend the agreement.
What happened
In March 2019 Mr U was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with 
Santander. The cash price of the car was £57,834. Mr U made an advance payment of 
£21,000 and the balance was financed over 37 months by 36 monthly payments of £242 
with an optional final balloon payment of £33,301.13 if he wanted to keep the car.
In February 2022 Santander wrote to Mr U explaining that the agreement was coming to an 
end and setting out his options. The three options were:
Retain the car and pay the final balloon payment of £33,301.13
Return the car
Renew the car
Santander said that if Mr U wanted to retain the car, the final balloon payment would be 
taken on 29 April 2022. It asked Mr U to complete a form indicating which option he wanted.
In March 2022 Mr U called Santander to discuss his options. He says that during the call he 
asked whether he could extend the agreement and that he was advised he could extend it 
for another year.
Following the call, Mr U sent the form back to Santander having selected option 1 (retain the 
car and pay the balloon payment). He made a handwritten note on the form as follows:
as per the conversation over the phone with your representative, I may extend the contract 
for one more year with the present monthly pay of £242.
Santander received the form from Mr U on 11 March 2022.
On 29 April 2022 Santander took the final balloon payment of £33,301.13 from Mr Us 
account. Mr U subsequently contacted Santander to complain and said hed made it clear 
that he wanted to extend the agreement.
Santander said it had listened to the telephone call with Mr U dated 7 March 2022 and that 
no arrangements had been made to extend the agreement.
Mr U remained unhappy and complained to this service. He wants Santander to refund the 
balloon payment and extend the agreement for one year.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They said there was no evidence that 
Santander had agreed to extend the agreement and that Mr U had selected the option which 
said he would retain the car and make the balloon payment. The investigator said that Mr 
Us handwritten note on the form didnt make it clear that he wanted to extend the 
agreement.
Mr U didnt agree. He was unhappy that Santander hadnt provided the call recording dated 
7 March 2022 and said hed made it clear on the form that he wanted to extend the 
agreement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr U has said that during the call dated 7 March 2022 Santander agreed to extend the 
agreement by one year.
In its final response to Mr U, Santander said it had listened to the call and had found no 
indication that the agreement had been extended.
This service asked Santander for the call recording, but Santander was unable to provide it. 
It said that it only retains calls for a period of 6 months and was no longer able to locate this 
call. Santander confirmed to this service that it had listed to the call in May 2022 when Mr U 
made his complaint and said that Mr U had been taken through the available options. 
Santander said that during the call, Mr U had asked to extend the agreement for a period of 
more than 6 months and had been advised that this wasnt possible.
I understand that Mr U feels frustrated that the call recording is no longer available. 
However, although I cant be certain of exactly what was discussed during the call, I dont 
think its likely that an agreement was reached to extend the agreement. If such an 
agreement had been reached, I think Santander would have sent paperwork to Mr U to 
confirm this, because an extension of the agreement would represent a change to the 
existing contractual agreement.
Ive taken account of what Mr U has said about his handwritten note on the options form. 
Hes said he made his intention to extend the agreement clear. Im not persuaded that this is 
the case because the wording used by Mr U isnt clear. He wrote .I may extend the 
contract (my emphasis added). This suggests that Mr U was considering extending the 
agreement but it doesnt amount to a definite statement of intention. And even if Mr U had 
been clearer about his wish to extend the agreement, theres still no evidence that 
Santander agreed to do so.
Taking everything into consideration, Im unable to uphold this complaint. I havent seen 
enough evidence to persuade me that Santander agreed to extend the agreement for 
another year. So, I cant say that Santander made an error when it put into effect the option 
which Mr U had selected, which was to retain the car and pay the balloon payment.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman