DRN-3285080
The complaint
Mrs A has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) charged her excessive 
amounts for her overdraft when she was in financial difficulty. Mrs A says she has been 
living in her overdraft for over ten years and she thinks Barclays should not have kept on 
adding charges when this was the case. 
What happened
Barclays has said that our service is unable to consider this complaint about any charges 
applied before 16 March 2015. This is because it says that Mrs A complained too late for us 
to look at these charges. 
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and she agreed that Mrs A had complained 
too late in respect of any charges applied before 16 March 2015. But she thought that 
Barclays was acting unfairly when it continued to add overdraft charges after this date. She 
said the account should be reworked so it is in the position it would have been had any 
charges not been applied after this date. 
Barclays had already indicated that it thought some of the charges should be removed after 
this date. So, it agreed to the redress the adjudicator recommended. 
Mrs A disagreed with the adjudicators conclusions about whether we could look at the 
charges applied before 16 March 2015. She didnt disagree with the adjudicators view that 
the charges after this time should be refunded. 
So, the matter has been passed to me. an ombudsman, to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Should Barclays have applied overdraft charges after 16 March 2015? 
Mrs A, and Barclays, now agree with our adjudicators opinion that Barclays shouldnt have 
applied overdraft charges after 16 March 2015. Because of this, I dont think there is any 
ongoing disagreement about this part of Mrs As complaint. So, I wont comment in detail 
about this. 
I will say that I agree that Barclays shouldnt have added overdraft charges after this time for 
the same reasons the adjudicator said. And I have included the compensation which 
Barclays will need to do in my putting things right section which can be found at the end of 
this decision. 
Why I cant look into this complaint about the charges applied before 16 March 2015
This part of decision will only address whether our service is able to consider the complaint 
about the charges incurred by Mrs A before 16 March 2015. It wont address whether or not 
Barclays should have provided, or continued to provide, an overdraft to Mrs A at this time.
Ive considered all of the available evidence and arguments provided by Mrs A and Barclays 
to decide whether we are able to look at this part of Mrs As complaint.
The rules which I must apply say that - where a business doesnt agree our service can 
consider a complaint - I cant look at a complaint thats made more than six years after when 
whats being complained about happened. Or, if later, more than three years from when the 
person complaining knew, or should really have known, they had reason to complain.
Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R can be found at the website:
www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/2/8.html or a copy can be provided on request.
Ms A has complained about the overdraft charges that have been applied to her account 
over the last ten years. She says that she has rarely been in credit over this time. She thinks 
that Barclays shouldve seen she was in difficulty and stopped applying the charges. 
The first time that I can see that Mrs A complained about her overdraft charges was in March 
2021. So, its clear that Mrs A has complained much more than six years after what she is 
complaining about happened, for the charges made before 16 March 2015. 
But Mrs A might still have complained in time, if she did so within three years of when she 
either knew, or should really have known, that she had a reason to complain. So, I have 
considered whether she should really have known she had cause to complain more than 
three years prior to March 2021.
Essentially, she says that the fees and charges caused her problems and negatively affected 
her finances right from when they started to be added. So, I think its reasonable to say that 
Mrs A should have been aware that the fees and charges may have been causing her 
problems when they were applied. And that these charges may have been too high (Im not 
saying that they were here). So, I think Mrs A had enough information to complain about the 
charges before 16 March 2015 when they were added to the account. 
We can look at complaints that have been made too late if the delay was because of 
exceptional circumstances. Mrs A hasnt provided any exceptional circumstances. And its 
been established that she hasnt made an earlier complaint. 
I appreciate that this will come as a disappointment to Mrs A. But my powers as an 
ombudsman only exist because of the rules that are in place, so I have to follow them. And I 
cant set them aside, even if Mrs A feels strongly that the charges before March 2015 were 
too high. So, I cant look at her complaint about the charges made before this date. 
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs As complaint for Barclays to put things right by:
Reworking Mrs As current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it after 16 March 2015 are removed.
AndIf an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Barclays should contact Mrs A to arrange a suitable repayment plan, 
Mrs A is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with Barclays to reach 
a suitable agreement. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information 
on Mrs As credit file, Barclays should reflect what would have been recorded had 
it started the process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in 16 March 
2015. Barclays can also reduce Mrs As overdraft limit by the amount of refund if 
it considers it appropriate to do so, as long as doing so wouldnt leave Mrs A over 
their limit.
Or
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mrs A along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then 
Barclays should remove any adverse information from Mrs As credit file. 
Barclays can also reduce Mrs As overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it 
considers it appropriate to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must 
give Mrs A a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, it is my decision that this service cannot 
consider Mrs As complaint about her overdraft charges before 16 March 2015 as she 
complained too late.
Im upholding Mrs As complaint about the charges made after 16 March 2015. Barclays 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman