DRN-3080885
The complaint
Mr S complains that Monzo Bank Ltd failed to refund several transactions he didnt 
recognise.
What happened
Mr S was working abroad and contacted Monzo to report that hed made several errors 
when sending payments to different merchants who transfer money. Mr S explained to 
Monzo that hed input the wrong details and the merchants had sent his funds to the wrong 
people. Mr S asked Monzo to conduct chargeback requests for these payments and quoted 
S.75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 .
Monzo looked into the situation and initially thought they might have chargeback rights to 
make a claim on Mr Ss behalf, but this later turned out to be incorrect. Monzo told Mr S that 
because the transactions had been successfully made to the merchants, there was no 
possibility of a successful chargeback request.
Mr S then told Monzo that the transactions were unauthorised and that his account had been 
hacked. He explained that some months earlier his phone had been stolen with his cards 
and that there was no security on his phone to stop other people from accessing it. Monzo 
didnt have any report of this and their data showed that only one phone was using the 
account during this period, which was the same one that Mr S was still using to 
communicate with them about the disputed transactions.
Mr S said that someone else was using his phone and impersonating him when contacting 
Monzo. He later made further claims about other unauthorised transactions, some of these 
were eventually refunded to Mr S.
Mr S then made two further claims for unrecognised transactions made at Automated Teller 
Machines (ATMs) and told Monzo that hed written all his security details down and left them 
on the dashboard of his car which a former employee had access to and used to make these 
withdrawals. Monzo declined to refund Mr S because they thought hed either made them 
himself or allowed someone else to use his details by the way hed handled his security 
information. Mr S denied that hed allowed anyone else to use his details. Mr S continued to 
make claims about transactions he was disputing and Monzo declined them. Mr S made a 
complaint about the way Monzo had dealt with his claims. Monzo issued their final response, 
accepting that theyd given Mr S poor service when dealing with the chargeback information 
and credited him £75. Monzo declined to offer a refund relating to any of the other claims 
made by Mr S and advised Mr S that his account was to be closed.
Mr S then received two merchant refunds and Monzo sent the balance to Mr S at a different 
account after deducting a duplicate merchant refund. Mr S then brought his complaint to our 
service for an independent review. He stated that five transactions were unauthorised. Also, 
that someone had impersonated him on the chat with Monzo and made the chargeback 
requests without his knowledge. Mr S confirmed hed received two merchant refunds.
Our investigator thought that Mr Ss version of events werent consistent and didnt uphold 
the complaint. He thought that it was reasonable for Monzo not to pursue a chargeback or 
refund Mr S. Mr S disagreed and asked for a further review of the outstanding transactions 
to the money exchange merchants. He argued that because hed had some refunds, this 
was proof that the other claims should be refunded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome. Our investigators report gave a detailed version of the 
events, so I wont repeat them here unless I feel its relevant to Mr Ss complaint.
Mr S referenced the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (S.75) when he asked for a chargeback. 
Chargebacks are a process run by the payment scheme, in this case Mastercard, and are 
available for both debit and credit card payments. S.75 claims relate only to certain credit 
payments  and because these transactions were made with debit cards, S.75 wasnt 
relevant.
Mr S has made several different claims to Monzo about the transactions to the money 
transfer merchants  he first told them that hed made them in error by giving the merchant 
the wrong details and then changed this to saying the transactions were unauthorised. He 
then made further claims about other transactions. Mr S has claimed that someone took his 
phone and impersonated him regarding the conversations related to the chargebacks, which 
is why theres two different versions. The crux of this complaint is whether Monzo can hold 
Mr S liable for the transactions.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that Monzo can hold Mr S liable for the disputed payments if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that he made them or authorised them. 
Authorisation is made up of two parts. Authentication and consent. Authentication is usually 
referred to as the technical evidence and in this case, Monzo have supplied evidence that 
shows the transactions were made using the correct credentials through the Mastercard 
system. Im satisfied the evidence shows the disputed transaction was authenticated.
Consent refers to the way in which Monzo and Mr S agreed to operate the account to allow 
Monzo to make payments on Mr Ss behalf. For example, Monzos terms and conditions set 
out that if a payment is made using the card details, then Monzo accept that the instruction 
to make the payment is authorised by the account holder. So, because these payments used 
Mr Ss debit card details to make the payments, Im satisfied that consent was given and the 
disputed transactions were authorised. But, there are exceptions where it wouldnt be 
appropriate for Monzo to hold Mr S responsible, for example if his card was used without his 
permission.
Firstly, Ill deal with the loss of Mr Ss phone and cards and the compromise of Mr Ss 
account. About a month after the disputed transactions were made, Mr S told Monzo that his 
phone and his card was stolen prior to the disputed transactions taking place. It was this that 
led to the impersonation during the chats with Monzo. Mr S was abroad at the time and 
appeared to be running a business  he told our service that hed needed to write down the security information related to his accounts because he had a lot of information to 
remember. He also said that hed left all his security details on the dashboard of his car, 
which was available for an employee to use. 
Monzo looked into the audit data about the use of Mr Ss phone , which showed that a 
consistent device had been registered to his account during the period that Mr S said his 
phone was stolen and the disputed transactions took place. There were no other devices 
registered so I dont think that Mr Ss account was hacked  because this would show up 
differently on the audit data as a secondary device  which wasnt the case here.
Mr S said that the phone that was stolen had been replaced and his old phone had 
unsecured notes with his account passwords and PIN contained in it. But, Monzos data 
shows that the same phone was used throughout this period and they asked Mr S to confirm 
his identity which he did by sending a photo of himself with his driving licence. These 
matched the original documents when Mr S opened his account and were sent from the 
same phone that Mr S said was stolen. Theres also no indication that Mr S reported his 
phone stolen to the authorities or told Monzo about it at the time. Ive no reason to doubt the 
information shown in the audit which leads me to believe that I dont think there was another 
phone.
Because I dont think the phone was stolen, I think Mr S was more than likely the person 
who originally told Monzo that hed made the payments in error, rather than someone else 
impersonating him. It also doesnt make sense to me that if someone other than Mr S had 
access to his phone, why they would attempt to engage in lengthy chats with Monzo and the 
merchants to obtain refunds for an account that they had taken control of. That person 
wouldnt know when the phone would be reported stolen and would more than likely have 
wanted to utilise their access to the phone to empty the account as soon as possible, which 
didnt happen here. 
The three payments Mr S went on to complain about are spaced out over a number of 
weeks. When looking at the account history, there are a number of transactions that Mr S 
hasnt disputed from when his phone was stolen. These undisputed ones used both Mr Ss 
card and the faster payment system that can only be used through his phone on the Monzo 
app. So, it would appear that Mr S had his phone and card during this period to make 
legitimate transactions.
There were also incoming transfers, one of which funded the third disputed payment which 
was received only a few hours before the outbound payment was made. This would indicate 
that the user of the account knew funds were being transferred and once they arrived they 
were soon sent back out again through one of the money exchange merchants.
It would only be possible for someone else to have been responsible for the disputed 
transactions if they were able to remove both the card and the phone on multiple occasions 
without Mr S realising. But that isnt the testimony that Mr S has given  hes told Monzo and 
our service that they were stolen. Overall, I think its more likely than not that Mr S had his 
phone and made these payments himself.
Mr S argued that because he received refunds from some of the merchants, thats evidence 
that he should get all the other refunds. I dont know the reason why other refunds were 
made by the merchants, but this complaint is about whether Monzo can hold Mr S liable for 
the transactions and not what happened with the merchants. 
Because Ive made a finding that I think it was Mr S using his phone to ask Monzo for 
refunds using the chargeback system, it follows that I think it was Mr S who more than likely 
authorised the transactions, even if he made an error when he entered details for the merchants accounts. Once he asked Monzo to send the money and the funds reached the 
merchants, that stage of the transaction was complete and Monzos involvement was over. 
The problem appears to be when the merchants sent the money to the accounts that Mr S 
has said was a mistake.
Because the transactions were successfully sent to the merchants by Monzo, they didnt 
have any realistic chance of requesting the funds back through the chargeback system. I 
think it was reasonable for Monzo to decline the chargeback request by Mr S. They did 
accept that they gave Mr S an indication early on that they could make a chargeback 
request, but this was corrected and they credited Mr S £75 for this error which I think is a 
reasonable amount and I wont be asking them to increase this.
Taking everything into account, I think it was more likely than not that Mr S authorised the 
payments and its reasonable for Monzo to hold him liable for them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman