DRN-2858248
The complaint
Mr T complains about a success fee SN Marketing Services Limited trading as My PPI 
Refund (MPR) charged him for a payment protection insurance (PPI) claim. He says he 
didnt give MPR authority to pursue a claim about PPI on his credit card.
What happened
In August 2019, Mr T instructed MPR to represent him in a claim for mis-sold PPI against a 
lender. Following this, the lender paid Mr T a settlement for mis-sold PPI and MPR invoiced 
him for its fee.
Mr T made a complaint to MPR. He said he only gave MPR authority to approach the lender 
about PPI on a loan account. He didnt think MPR was entitled to commission on the 
compensation the lender had paid him for PPI on his credit card account.
MPR said the letter of authority (LOA) Mr T had signed gave it authority to pursue PPI claims 
on any accounts Mr T held with the lender. It said the lender had corresponded with MPR 
through the whole process of the claim.
Mr T remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into Mr Ts concerns but didnt think his complaint should be upheld. He said he hadnt found 
evidence to suggest MPR had done anything wrong. He didnt think the lender would have 
investigated a claim for PPI on Mr Ts credit card if MPR hadnt raised the claim about his 
loan. He thought it was reasonable for MPR to receive a fee for the claim.
Mr T disagreed with our investigators view. He didnt think MPR had made it clear that it 
would look at all aspects of (the lenders) business. He said the lender noted they had found 
out he was owed PPI on his credit card because MPR had reached out to them about the 
loan. So, his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
When Mr T engaged MPRs services in August 2019, he appears to have digitally signed a 
LOA agreeing to MPRs terms and conditions which say its fee is 20% +VAT (24%) of the 
redress which we obtain for you as a result of a successful claim.
On the LOA for this particular lender, I can see that box for loan is marked, while the other 
account types (including credit card) have been left blank.
I appreciate Mr T hadnt requested that PPI be considered for his credit card when he gave 
MPR authority to represent him. But he also doesnt appear to have made a PPI claim 
directly to the lender. 
Mr T has acknowledged that the lender checked if he had PPI on other products after MPR 
submitted his claim for the loan. The lender sent a copy of their offer letter to MPR, so they 
appear to have recognised it as Mr Ts representative. 
I understand Mr T feels the information on the LOA was unclear. But I cant see that Mr T 
has lost out because of anything MPR has done. The Financial Conduct Authoritys deadline 
for claims for mis-sold PPI was 29 August 2019. This was only two weeks after Mr T 
engaged MPRs services. 
Having considered everything, I dont think Mr T would likely have received any settlement 
from the lender, if it wasnt for MPR. Mr T agreed to pay 20% (+VAT) of redress MPR 
obtained for him. So, I think its fair for MPR to charge Mr T its success fee for the 
compensation he received for PPI on his credit card.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman