DRN-2614911
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Santander UK Plc, (trading as Abbey National, (Abbey)), 
mis- sold them a payment protection insurance, (PPI), policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out a personal loan with Abbey in 2003 during a meeting. At the 
same time Mr S took out a PPI policy.
Our adjudicator recommend that Mr and Mrs Ss complaint should be upheld. 
Because Abbey didnt agree with this view, the matter was passed to me to decide.
On 20 January 2021 I issued a provisional decision in which I provisionally found 
that Abbey had done nothing wrong and hence concluded that there was nothing I 
required it to put right.
As neither party commented on my provisional decision or gave us any further 
information, I see no reason to deviate from it
Because the sale was so long ago, Abbey no longer has copies of Mr and Mrs S actual 
loan application form or agreement. And businesses are not required to keep documents 
for such a long period. But Abbey has sent us samples of the form and agreement that it 
says were in use at the time. And I have no reason to conclude that these were not used 
in Mr and Mrs S case. And Ive referred to these in making my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website. Ive 
followed this in making my decision in this case.
My provisional decision is not to uphold this complaint. I explain why below.
I think that Mr and Mrs S knew that the policy was optional and that they chose to take it 
out. I say this because the sample loan application form has a section in it dealing with 
PPI. This has two equally prominent boxes in it. One to be ticked to request the insurance, 
and the other to say that its not required. And, as PPI was added to their account, Im 
satisfied that it was the first mentioned box that was ticked on Mr and Mrs S form. Even if 
it was Abbeys representative who completed the form for Mr and Mrs S, I have no reason 
to conclude that it was not in accordance with their wishes. And I think its likely they 
would have had the opportunity to read through the form before signing it.
Abbey recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs S. This means that it had to take 
reasonable steps to ensure that it was suitable for them. I dont know what steps Abbey 
took, but in any event, Im satisfied that it was suitable. I say this because, knowing what I 
do about Mr and Mrs S circumstances at the time and the terms and conditions of their 
policy:
Mr S was eligible for the PPI;
Mr S wasnt caught by any of the policys main restrictions and limitations  
such as those affecting someone with a pre-existing medical condition. I 
understand that Mrs S had such a condition, but as she wasnt covered under 
the policy, that made no difference to its suitability;
Mr and Mrs S have told us that Mr S didnt have any sick pay entitlement from 
his employer. And that they didnt have any other insurance or savings to help 
them meet their monthly loan repayments had Mr S not been working. But, 
following a successful claim, the policy would have paid Mr and Mrs S monthly 
loan repayments. In in the case of his becoming involuntarily unemployed, these 
would have been paid for up to 12 months. And, in the case of his being off work 
because of accident or sickness, they would have been paid until the earlier of 
his return to work or the loan being repaid. These payments would have been in 
addition to any statutory sick pay or redundancy package Mr S might have 
received. So I think that the PPI could have been of use to Mr and Mrs S;
The terms of the policy were that it would only cover the person named first 
on the loan agreement. And it was the case that Mr S was the sole insured. 
But I havent seen anything to suggest that this was unreasonable;
The policy was competitively priced by reference to other similar policies 
available in the market at the time. And I havent seen anything to suggest that 
the premiums were unaffordable for Mr and Mrs S. And, in any event, had Mr 
and Mrs S later thought that they couldnt afford or no longer wanted the PPI, 
as it was paid for monthly, they could have cancelled it at any time without 
further cost.
As Ive mentioned above, the sample loan agreement showed the monthly PPI premiums 
that were payable. But It might well be that Abbey didnt give Mr and Mrs S all the other 
information that it ought to have about the insurance so that they could make an 
informed decision whether they wanted to take it or not. But, from what Ive concluded 
above, it seems that they wanted this type of cover and I dont think that better 
information would have changed Mr and Mrs S mind and stopped them taking the policy.
So I find that Mr and Mrs S havent lost out because of anything Abbey did wrong 
during the sales process. So theres nothing I require it to put right.My final decision
For the reasons set out above my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman