DRN-2599532
The complaint
Miss R says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy. Miss R opened the credit card account with 
Lloyds (which was trading at the time as TSB) in 1994. Lloyds no longer has a record of 
when or how Miss R took out the PPI, but its likely that it was added to the card when she 
took it out. Miss R says she applied for the credit card at a branch of the bank.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Rs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Rs complaint.
Lloyds no longer has a copy of Miss Rs application for the credit card or PPI. I think 
thats understandable, given how long ago the sale took place. Where the evidence is 
incomplete or inconclusive, I need to decide what I thinks most likely based on the 
information I have.
Lloyds has provided a copy of the type of credit card application form that was used for 
credit card sales in its branches at the time. It includes equally prominent options to take 
or decline PPI. I think its likely, on balance, that Miss R ticked the box on the credit card 
application form to say that she wanted to take PPI. And if she took out the policy at 
some point after she opened the credit card account, I think its unlikely shed have 
thought that the PPI was compulsory. So overall, I think Lloyds made Miss R aware that 
the PPI was optional and that she chose to take it  although I can understand why she 
may no longer remember this, so long after the event.
If Lloyds recommended the policy to Miss R, it had a responsibility to make sure that it 
was suitable for her. Miss R says Lloyds didnt recommend the PPI or give her advice 
about it. Even if thats the case, Lloyds still had a duty to give Miss R enough information 
to enable her to decide whether the policy was right for her. But it doesnt look as if the 
policy was unsuitable for Miss R, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the 
time. And Im not convinced that shed have decided against taking the cover if Lloyds 
had given her clearer information. Ill explain why.
Miss Rs told us shed have been entitled to little, if any, sick pay from her employer at 
the time, and shes not sure if shed have been entitled to redundancy pay. So I think she 
could have struggled quite quickly to keep up with her monthly payments if shed been 
off sick, or if shed lost her job. The PPI policy would have paid 10% of the outstanding 
balance on Miss Rs credit card for up to 12 months per successful claim for accident, 
sickness or unemployment.
Ive borne in mind that Miss Rs told us that if the worse came to the worst, she could 
have sold her car. But I cant be sure that she could have done this quickly or easily, or 
how much shed have got for the car. And given that Miss R would have received little or 
no pay from her employer if shed been off sick, and isnt sure what, if any redundancy 
pay shed have been entitled to, I cant be confident that she could have lived on the 
proceeds of sale of her car for long.
I acknowledge that Miss Rs also mentioned that her family would have helped her 
financially if necessary. But circumstances can change, and I cant be sure Miss Rs 
family would have been in a position to help if the need had arisen. So taking everything 
into account, I think the PPI could have been useful for Miss R, at what could have been 
a difficult time
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Miss R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Ive explained that Im satisfied that Miss R chose to take out the 
policy, so she appears to have wanted this type of cover, even if shes understandably 
forgotten that now, so many years later. Based on what shes told us about her 
circumstances at the time, she wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy didnt 
cover. The policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. And since Miss R 
was paying for it monthly, she could have cancelled it at any time without further cost if 
her circumstances changed, or if she decided she no longer wanted the cover.
So taking everything into account, I think its unlikely Miss R would have made a different 
decision about the PPI if better information had been provided. On balance, I think shed 
still have taken out the policy.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman