DRN-2259391
The complaint
Mr G complains that Ald Automotive Limited (ALD) provided him with a car which wasnt of 
satisfactory quality and that it hasnt done enough to put things right.
What happened
In December 2019 Mr G took a new car from ALD under a three-year consumer hire 
agreement.   
In early March 2020 Mr G experienced problems with the car. He contacted the dealership, 
which concluded that the cam belt and tensioner needed replacing. It agreed to carry out 
repairs and to provide Mr G with a courtesy car in the meantime.
Because of Covid-19 there was a delay in obtaining replacement parts and in completing the 
repairs. In addition, a further replacement part was required, but that issue only came to light 
at a late stage. The car was returned to Mr G in early July. 
On collecting the car, however, Mr G noticed discolouring to the wheel trim and, a little later, 
a crack in the windscreen. The dealership said that the discolouring might be due to the car 
being kept under trees. It agreed to clean and polish the car. It didnt accept responsibility for 
the crack in the windscreen. 
Mr G referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. He 
initially thought that ALD should pay Mr G £100 in compensation and pay him a further 
£64.80 to cover his additional costs of insuring the courtesy car. He also thought Mr G 
should be entitled to reject the car. 
ALD accepted that it should pay compensation and cover the additional insurance costs. It 
didnt accept however that Mr G should be allowed to reject the car and end the hire 
agreement. On review, the investigator accepted that; he recommended that the complaint 
be resolved with a total payment to Mr G of £164.80. Mr G didnt think that adequately 
reflected what had happened and asked that an ombudsman review the case.          
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
ALD was obliged to provide Mr G with a car which was of satisfactory quality. It didnt do that 
and, because it didnt, a number of remedies were available. They included carrying out 
satisfactory repairs. Although those repairs took longer than they usually would have done, 
they did rectify the problems that Mr G had reported. 
As far as car windscreen is concerned, I think it likely that any damage was caused by an 
impact, rather than because of any defect. In the absence of any evidence about how that 
happened, I dont believe I can fairly say that ALD or the dealership was responsible. 
Since the car has been repaired, I dont believe it would be fair now to allow Mr G to reject it. 
I do think however that he should receive some compensation for the trouble hes been put 
to. In considering whats reasonable, I note that Mr G was provided with a courtesy car; and, 
whilst the repairs took longer than usual, that wasnt because of any error on the part of ALD 
or the dealership. In the circumstances, I think that the investigators suggestion of £100  
whilst towards the lower end of what we might usually award in similar circumstances  is 
reasonable. I also agree that ALD should meet Mr Gs additional insurance costs.         
Putting things right
Whilst ALD has agreed to the investigators revised recommendations, I will make a formal 
award, so that Mr G can enforce it, should that be necessary.  
My final decision
My final decision is that, to resolve Mr Gs complaint, Ald Automotive Limited should (to the 
extent it hasnt already done so) pay Mr G £64.80 in respect of his additional insurance 
premiums and £100 in recognition of the inconvenience to which hes been put. Under the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or reject my 
decision before 4 December 2020. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman