DRN-3158014
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy his unit-linked whole of life policy lapsed without value. He complains 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has not acted in line with the original policy terms and 
conditions, and failed to advise him that his policy may lapse.  
What happened
Mr S took out a flexible unit-linked whole of life policy in December 1996 with a firm thats 
since been acquired by Aviva. The policy was sold by an independent financial adviser 
(IFA). The policy provided a £150,000 sum assured, payable on death or earlier diagnosis 
with a listed critical illness. 
Mr S took out the policy on a limited premium basis. This meant he only paid premiums for 
the first 11 years. His last premium was paid on 9 December 2007, at which point the policy 
became paid up. Mr S believed that his premium contributions paid to that point would 
guarantee his policy for his whole life. 
Mr S was disappointed when he received a letter from Aviva in April 2019 informing him his 
policy had lapsed without value. Aviva explained that the policy had changed to paid up 
status when Mr S stopped paying his premiums. It explained that since then, in accordance 
with the terms and conditions, it had cancelled units each month to pay for the cost of life 
cover but they had now run out. 
Mr S complained to Aviva, and then to our service. He said hed been led to believe that his 
policy would last throughout his whole life. He said Aviva had not warned him that his policy 
may lapse, and he said he hadnt been given an option to pay further premiums to maintain 
his cover.   
Our investigator considered Mr Ss complaint but didnt uphold it. She was satisfied that 
Aviva had followed the terms of the contract as agreed at the point of sale. She was also 
persuaded it was most likely that Mr S and/or his financial adviser, who helped Mr S bring 
the complaint, had received annual statements showing the policy performance. She also 
noted that Aviva had written to Mr Ss financial adviser in 2007 explaining that the policy 
hadnt achieved the growth that was originally forecast and so the policy was no longer 
expected to last for the rest of Mr Ss life. 
Mr S disagreed and asked that his complaint be considered by an Ombudsman for a final 
decision. He said the policy illustration set out that premiums would stop after 10 years. He 
said the policy should not have become paid up after this time. He said the letter Aviva said 
was sent to his financial adviser was never received. He also suggested that there should be 
different terms and conditions that applied whether premiums were payable for life or if 
vanishing premiums/ limited premium were selected. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before explaining my decision on this complaint, I should highlight that I have considered 
whether this complaint was brought within the applicable time limit rules. These rules are 
detailed in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules. Under 
DISP 2.8.2, it explains that a complaint must be brought to us within six years of the event 
being complained about, or, if later, within three years of when the consumer was aware, or 
ought reasonably to have been aware, they had cause to complain. But there is an exception 
to this rule if the respondent business consents to us considering the complaint after the time 
limits have expired. 
Given the timeline of events, it would appear on the face of it that this complaint was brought 
to us too late. The policy Mr S is complaining about was sold in 1996, which is more than six 
years before the complaint was raised. And Ive been provided with a copy of a letter sent to 
Mr Ss financial adviser in 2007 warning that, unless changes were made, the policy was not 
expected to last throughout Mr Ss lifetime. As this runs to the heart of Mr Ss complaint, I 
consider he ought reasonably to have been aware he had cause for complaint at the point 
his financial adviser received the letter, which was more than three years ago. But Aviva has 
consented to us considering the complaint, even though the time limits have expired.
Ive therefore proceeded to consider the merits of this complaint and, having carefully 
considered the evidence available, Ive decided not to uphold it for largely the same reasons 
as our investigator. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr S as this was not the 
answer he was hoping for. But having carefully considered everything weve been provided I 
cant say Aviva has failed to follow the policy terms or has acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards him. 
Did Aviva follow the appropriate policy terms?
Mr S has suggested that Aviva hasnt followed the appropriate policy terms in relation to his 
chosen policy. But I disagree. His policy schedule specifies that the relevant policy 
provisions are detailed in the New Flexible Cover Plan Policy (June 1996) (the terms and 
conditions), a copy of which Ive been provided with. So, Im satisfied that Aviva has been 
applying the appropriate rules to Mr Ss policy. 
Should the policy have lapsed without value? 
As a whole of life policy, the policy was primarily designed so that premiums would be paid 
throughout Mr Ss life, or until a claim was made. Section 2 of the terms and conditions 
explain Premiums are payable at the frequency and for the period shown in the schedule. 
Mr Ss schedule shows premiums were payable monthly and The last premium falls due on 
the due date immediately preceding (a) the death of the life assured or (b) admittance of the 
Critical Illness Benefit claim.
But correspondence from the time of the sale confirms that the policy offered flexibility in the 
form of a limited premium option. A letter dated 16 December 1996, explained: 
The Flexible Cover Plan you have taken out with is an extremely flexible contract which is 
capable of being adjusted to allow for changes in your circumstances as necessary.
One of the options under the contract is to make it paid up at a future date. 
In that event, no further premiums would be payable, but the sum assured would continue. 
Units would be cancelled each month to pay for the cost of the life cover in that month. How 
long the plan would last would depend on the rate of growth in the value of units both before the plan is paid-up and afterwards. The premium on the above mentioned policy has been 
chosen such that, assuming units grow at 9% or greater over the period of the plan and the 
plan is made paid-up after ten years it will then maintain itself for the rest of your life with no 
further premiums payable.
 
This demonstrates, as Mr S recalls, that he had the option to stop paying premiums early in 
the hope the investment growth would maintain the cost of the insurance throughout the 
remainder of his life. It was predicted in 1996 that paying 10 years worth of premiums would 
be enough to maintain the policy for the rest of his life. But crucially this wasnt guaranteed. 
It was made clear that how long the policy lasted depended on the rate of growth of the 
underlying investment. The prediction that the policy would last through Mr Ss life was 
based on a growth rate of 9% or more. Unfortunately, these growth rates havent been 
achieved during the life of the policy and as such the units were used up more quickly than 
anticipated to cover the ongoing cost of life cover.
Aviva wrote to Mr S in April 2019 to explain that the policy was converted to paid-up when 
Mr S stopped paying premiums in 2007. It explained that units were then cancelled each 
month to cover the life cover and administration costs. It explained the units had now run out 
and there was no value left in the policy, so it had been cancelled. 
While Mr S has disputed that his policy should have been paid-up, Im satisfied that Aviva 
acted in line with the terms and conditions. Section 2.2 explains what happens if premiums 
stop being paid:
2.2(b) if units are at that time allocated to the policy, the policy will be made paid-up 
immediately. This means that no further premiums will be payable or accepted by [Aviva].
Once the policy has become paid-up, the terms and conditions set out that the accrued 
units would be used to meet the ongoing cost of cover (section 2.2.(b)(ii)). Section 2.3 further 
explained that once the Bid Value of the units was insufficient to meet the ongoing cost of 
cover and administration fees, the policy would lapse without value. 
Having looked carefully at the terms and conditions, along with what Aviva has told us, Im 
satisfied that it followed the terms and conditions when it made the policy paid up, and later 
when it lapsed without value. 
Did Aviva make Mr S aware his policy was at risk of lapsing without value?
Aviva says that Mr S was sent an annual valuation statement each year which would have 
outlined that the value of units was declining each year. Mr S says he never received these 
statements and Aviva has been unable to provide copies of the statements it says were sent.
Where the available evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I must make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than not to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. Having done so, I think on balance, its more likely the statements were sent.
Aviva has been able to demonstrate that it had Mr Ss contact address correctly recorded on 
its systems. The policy booklet also sets out that Each year you will receive a statement 
showing the number of Units allocated to your policy. As such, I accept it was most likely a 
standard procedure for statements to be sent out. And had Mr S or his financial adviser not 
received any since 1996 Id have expected to see them question this prior to 2019, when 
they were notified the policy had lapsed. Significantly, Aviva has also been able to provide a copy of a letter dated 
14 November 2007, addressed to Mr S but sent care of his financial adviser. This refers to a 
query having been received from the financial adviser and confirms that a statement is 
enclosed. Whilst I appreciate the financial adviser denies receiving this, I must take into 
account that it was correctly addressed and most likely sent. I cannot hold Aviva responsible 
if it wasnt received. And given that it seems contact was initiated by the financial adviser, I 
would have expected to see the financial adviser chase a response if it hadnt been 
received. 
The letter explains that the investment growth had been lower than originally forecast, and 
as such the policy was no longer expected to last throughout Mr Ss whole life. It explained 
that a revised forecast, assuming future growth of 6%, would maintain the policy until 
approximately August 2019. The letter also set out a couple of options available to Mr S if he 
wanted the policy to last longer. It was explained that he could continue to pay premiums 
until such time as the policy could support his chosen level of cover throughout his life; pay 
no further premiums and reduce the level of cover provided so that it would continue 
throughout his life; or some combination of the two actions. Theres been no suggestion that 
any changes were made to the policy after Aviva sent this letter.
Given the content of this letter, I consider that Aviva did enough to notify Mr S, and/or his 
financial adviser, that his policy was at risk of lapsing early if no action was taken. I cant say 
Aviva is responsible if this information was not acted on. 
In summary, while I appreciate Mr S is understandably upset to learn that his cover has 
ended sooner than hed hoped, I havent found Aviva has treated him unfairly or 
unreasonably. The evidence doesnt support that he was misled by Aviva (or its 
predecessor) about how the policy operated. Nor was it guaranteed that cover would last 
throughout his life, although I accept that was hoped for. Im satisfied that Mr S was advised 
he could make changes to his premiums before the policy became paid up, but when he 
didnt take up that option it was lost, because the terms and conditions explain that no 
premiums will be accepted after the policy becomes paid up.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold this complaint and I make no award 
against Aviva Life & Pensions. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman