DRN-3257081
The complaint
Mr U is unhappy that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited didnt offer him support 
when he was experiencing financial difficulty and unable to keep up with the payments that 
were due on his account. Mr U is also unhappy that, despite reasonable efforts, he was 
unable to contact Home Retail during this time, and that Home Retail defaulted his account 
and then sold the account to a debt purchasing company.
What happened
In early 2020, Mr U fell into arrears on his Home Retail account. In March 2020, Mr U spoke 
with Home Retail and made a promise to clear the arrears on his account by the end of that 
month. Mr U didnt make the arrears payment hed promised to make, and so Home Retail 
began default proceedings against him, issuing a default notice in early April 2020. Mr U 
didnt make the payment necessary to clear the arrears in the time given by the default 
notice, so Home Retail defaulted his account.
Mr U wasnt happy about this, and he felt that Home Retail hadnt provided him with the 
support they should have provided, having been made aware by him of the difficult financial 
circumstances he was facing at that time. Mr U also wasnt happy that, when he tried to 
telephone Home Retail to make arrangements to prevent the account being defaulted, he 
wasnt able to get through. So, he raised a complaint.
Home Retail looked at Mr Us complaint. But they noted that they hadnt received any 
payment towards the account since December 2019, and so they felt that the account had 
been defaulted for non-payment fairly. Home Retail also noted that they only had one record 
of Mr U attempting to contact them during this time, but that Mr U had ended the call before 
it could be connected to an agent. In consideration of these points, Home Retail didnt 
uphold Mr Us complaint.
Mr U wasnt satisfied with Home Retails response, so he referred his complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that Home Retail 
hadnt acted unfairly towards Mr U in how it had managed Mr Us account, and so they also 
didnt uphold Mr Us complaint.
Mr U remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In their respective correspondence with this service, Mr U and Home Retail have described 
versions of events that differ considerably. For instance, Mr U states that he spoke with 
Home Retail on several occasions in the early part of 2020 and kept them updated as to his 
financial circumstances at that time. Conversely, Home Retail have stated they only have 
record of one instance of Mr U contacting them during this time, which took place in March 
2020, at which time Mr U made a promise to clear the arrears on his account by the end of 
that month.
In circumstances such as this, where the testimonies of both parties differ, it can be the case 
that I have to decide, if possible, what is most likely to have happened, given all of the 
information available to me. However, it can also be the case that my making such a 
determination isnt necessary, for instance when I feel that the same outcome was likely to 
have occurred regardless of which version of events actually took place. And I feel that this 
is the case in this instance. 
I say this because of the amount of arrears that had accrued on Mr Us account by March 
2020. Home Retail have confirmed that the last payment that they received from Mr U was 
on 9 December 2019, which means that by the time Mr U called Home Retail on 13 March 
2020, his account was already at least three months in arrears.
Furthermore, when Mr U subsequently didnt clear the arrears on his account by the end of 
March 2020 as hed stated that he would do, and when Home Retail then began default 
proceedings against him, issuing the default notice to Mr U on 5 April 2020, Mr Us account 
was approaching four months in arrears. And I dont feel that it was unreasonable for Home 
Retail to have begun default proceedings with Mr Us account being in such a significant 
state of arrears at that time.
Mr U has confirmed in his correspondence with this service that the money he had intended 
to use to clear the Home Retail arrears was no longer available, and so it seems that 
regardless of whether Mr U had spoken with Home Retail or not at that time, he wouldnt 
have been able to make a payment towards the account, and so default proceedings would 
reasonably have commenced against the account. 
Im aware that Mr U feels that Home Retail should have provided him with some form of 
financial support given the financial difficulties he was facing and the unprecedented social 
circumstances surrounding the Covid-19 pandemic that was emerging globally at that time. 
But Home Retail dont have any record of Mr U requesting such support, and had it been the 
case that Mr U did request such support then I feel its important to acknowledge that its 
unlikely that this support would have prevented or delayed the defaulting of the account. 
I say this because while the support that it would have been expected that Home Retail 
would have offered would have removed the obligation for Mr U to make a payment, and 
would have stopped Home Retail chasing such payment, it wouldnt have prevented the 
arrears growing on the account to the point where defaulting the account became a 
reasonable option.
Indeed, its almost always considered irresponsible for a business such as Home Retail to 
allow a customers account to fall into continuing and increasing arrears over a sustained 
period of time, such that the customer falls further and further into debt. Rather, where a 
customers account does fall into significant arrears because of a prolonged period of non-
payment, as was the case in this instance, the defaulting the account  which thereby 
freezing the balance outstanding on the account so that the customer doesnt continue to fall 
further and further into debt  is in many cases considered to be the responsible course of 
action for a business to take. And, given that Mr U has confirmed that he wasnt able to 
make a payment towards the account at that time, I feel that this was the case in this 
instance. 
In his correspondence with this service, Mr U has also referenced support he feels that he 
should have been entitled to that was put into place specifically as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. And it was the case that in April 2020, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
published temporary guidance regarding the provision of three-month payment holidays to 
eligible consumers who were experiencing difficulty meeting the payments due on their 
credit accounts because of financial difficulties brought about by the impact of Covid-19. 
However, not all consumers were eligible to receive these three-month payment plans, and 
the FCA explained that the purpose of the guidance was to protect consumers who had 
been able to meet the repayments on their credit accounts without incident until that time, 
but who were at risk of incurring adverse reporting for missed or late payments on their 
credit files solely as a result of the impact of Covid-19. 
In this instance, I dont feel that Mr U met the eligibility criteria for these FCA prescribed 
payment holidays, and I say this because Mr U had already fallen into arrears on his account 
having not made a payment towards the account since December 2019, which was before 
the Covid-19 pandemic emerged, and so I dont feel that it can be reasonably stated that Mr 
U was experiencing financial difficulty solely as a result of the impact of Covid-19. As such, I 
dont feel that Home Retail treated Mr U unfairly by not offering him this form of support. 
Ultimately, while I cant say for certain what took place in regard to Mr U trying to contact 
Home Retail, I feel that the key point of this complaint is that Mr U hadnt made a payment 
towards the account for nearly five months at the time that the account was defaulted by 
Home Retail on 3 May 2020  and I dont feel that the defaulting of an account under these 
circumstances is unfair or unreasonable, for the reasons explained above.
And, while Home Retail dont have record of Mr U trying to contact them on multiple 
occasions as he states that he did, they do have a record of Mr U dialling their automated 
telephone system on 28 April 2020 and attempting to make a payment which unfortunately 
failed, but which strengthens my conviction that regardless of Mr Us good intent, he wasnt 
able to make a payment towards the account at that time so as to clear the arears and 
prevent the account being reasonably defaulted on the basis of non-payment.
All of which means I find it very difficult to conclude that Home Retail have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here in how theyve managed Mr Us account, including how they defaulted 
the account for non-payment and then sold the account to a debt purchasing company 
following that default  a course of action which is not uncommon in such circumstances and 
which I note is permitted by the account terms and conditions.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr U was wanting here, but it follows that I wont 
be upholding this complaint or instructing Home Retail to take any further action at this time. 
I hope that Mr U will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final 
decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman