DRN-4463597
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax changed her surname on her 
accounts and notified other companies in their wider group who also did the same.
What happened
Mrs Js husband spoke to Halifax regarding his joint home insurance policy with Mrs J to 
check items were covered and to renew the policy. He informed Halifax on a webchat that 
Mrs J was married. Mrs J says that Halifax changed her surname to her married name on 
her Halifax credit card and that a bank account and credit card she held in their wider group 
had the name changed on those accounts also. Mrs J says that she had not spoken to 
Halifax herself, they had not seen a marriage certificate and she didnt want to change her 
name on her other accounts. She says that Halifaxs website confirms that she would 
normally have to present a marriage certificate to do this. Mrs J made a complaint to Halifax.
Halifax did not uphold Mrs Js complaint, but they said they enclosed a cheque for £20 as a 
gesture of goodwill. They said that they received a change of name for her when her home 
insurance was renewed. They said that when they receive a change of name, this 
information is provided across their wider banking group and their records are updated, and 
this process is confirmed in their data privacy notice. Mrs J brought her complaint to our 
service. 
Halifax contacted our investigator and they said that they should not have changed Mrs Js 
name across her products without verification, and they asked her to extend their sincere 
apologies to Mrs J. They said they would like to offer an additional £50 compensation for any 
distress and inconvenience this caused her. 
Our investigator said that what happened would have been frustrating for Mrs J to deal with 
and it would have caused her inconvenience, especially given that Halifax initially didnt 
admit they made a mistake in the first place. But she said that the compensation of £70 is in 
line with what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. Mrs J asked for 
an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must make Mrs J aware that Im only able to consider the impact of what Halifax have done 
as part of this complaint, and not what other companies in Halifaxs wider group have done. 
Mrs J may want to make a separate complaint directly to any other companies involved if 
she feels they have let her down.
Halifax have admitted that they should not have changed Mrs Js name without verification. 
So therefore I need to decide whether a total of £70 compensation is fair for the impact of 
their error. And Im not satisfied that it is proportionate for what happened here, and Ill 
explain why.
Mrs J was not aware that her name was being changed on her Halifax credit card. So it 
would have been distressing to receive a new credit card in her married name when she had 
not asked for the name to be changed and she had not provided Halifax a wedding 
certificate  nor did they ask her for one. So this wouldve been distressing for Mrs J who 
would need then to contact Halifax to see why they had sent her a new card out in her 
married name. 
It also would be distressing for Mrs Js accounts in Halifaxs wider group to be changed also. 
While I cant look into actions of the other companies in the wider group as part of this 
complaint, I can say that if Halifax would have followed their procedures in requiring 
verification in order to process the name change, then since they did not have the marriage 
certificate, then Halifax would not have shared a name change with these companies without 
verification. So Halifaxs actions here had a further impact on the distress and inconvenience 
that Mrs J suffered. 
Mrs J had been told multiple times by Halifax that they had done nothing wrong, but it was 
only after she brought her complaint to our service that Halifax have admitted that they 
shouldnt have changed the name without verification. So Mrs J was inconvenienced by 
having to keep communicating with Halifax where this could have potentially been avoided if 
she was told the correct information initially and she didnt have to visit their website to 
confirm what she suspected initially.
So Im persuaded the impact of Halifaxs actions in changing the name warrant more 
compensation than £70. Mrs J has told us she now has a credit card in a name different to 
her standard identification and the change in name has already caused her issues which 
shes had to take time to rectify. So Im persuaded that an extra £200 on top of the £70 that 
Halifax offered is more proportionate to recognise the impact of the error on Mrs J and the 
distress and inconvenience caused. So it follows I intend to ask Halifax to put things right for 
Mrs J.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Halifax accepted the provisional decision. Mrs J responded and she said she does 
not have very much more to say other than to point out that this is still causing her problems 
as recently she needed to provide her bank statement and her identification did not match 
this which meant further questions were raised, but luckily it has now been resolved. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mrs J has said about this still causing her problems. And I can 
sympathise with her for what happened here. Because if Halifax hadnt of changed the name 
on her account, then what she described that recently happened wouldnt have happened. 
But Im satisfied that the compensation awarded recognises the impact of what happened 
here for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, and this is why I was persuaded an 
extra £200 was proportionate here. 
In summary, Mrs Js response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision. If Mrs J is disappointed, I hope she 
understands my reasons.
 Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to uphold this complaint. I said I intend to ask Bank 
of Scotland plc trading as Halifax to pay Mrs J £270 (less anything they have already paid 
her) for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax should pay Mrs J £270 (less 
anything they have already paid her) for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman