DRN-3248316
The complaint
Mr A complains that Heritage Pensions Limited failed to carry out due diligence checks when 
accepting his application for a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). He says that it didnt 
carry out appropriate checks on the advisor who recommended the transaction, or on the 
investment to be held in the SIPP.
What happened
The parties
Heritage Pensions Limited
Heritage is a regulated SIPP provider and administrator. It is authorised, in relation to SIPPs, 
to arrange (bring about) deals in investments, deal in investments as principal, establish, 
operate or wind up a pension scheme and make arrangements with a view to transactions in 
investments.  It was not authorised to give investment advice.
The adviser
Mr A says he was advised by a man I will call Mr D.  Mr D was an appointed representative 
of a well-known financial advice firm I will refer to as Mr Ds Principal or the Principal.
Mr D was an appointed representative of the Principal for some time before the events in this 
complaint until March 2012.
In brief, only persons (which includes companies) authorised by the regulator may give 
regulated investment advice.  An exception to this general rule is that an authorised person 
may appoint representatives to act for it and the authorised person must take responsibility 
for the activities it authorises the representative to carry out.  In this relationship the 
authorised person is called the principal.  
Mr D was therefore authorised by his Principal to carry on the activities it authorised him to 
carry out. The Principal firm is not an independent financial adviser. It advises on and deals 
in a limited range of investments. There is no direct relationship between the Principal and 
Heritage.  
The introducer
In 2010 Mr D set up a separate business I will call Mr Ds company.  This was set up by 
Mr D to act as an introducer for unregulated investments.
Mr A signed an introducers agreement with Mr Ds company in March 2011 recording that it 
was to introduce Mr A to a proposed purchase of a property which was part of a hotel in 
St Lucia.  It went on to say that the company or its owner or directors did not act as Mr As 
financial adviser but as agent for the seller of the property, Harlequin.
The investment
Harlequin Property
The Harlequin group of companies was involved in the development and distribution of 
overseas property investments and resorts, primarily based in the Caribbean and promoted 
by a UK registered company.
The developments failed and funds invested were not always used as intended. A number of 
Harlequin entities are now in insolvency, with some senior figures involved with those 
companies facing prosecution.
Mr Ds investment was in an off-plan property on the Marquis Estate development in St Lucia 
priced at £125,000.  Mr D paid £33,000 from his SIPP in April 2011 which was a first 
payment with the balance to be paid by stages as the building work progressed.  The target 
completion date was December 2013.
The relationship between Mr D and Heritage
Heritage has explained things as follows:
Mr D was introduced to it in September 2009 by an adviser with whom it had an 
established business relationship.
Mr D said he had been granted permission by the Principal to use his own 
preferred SIPP provider to write low volume high quality business.
It conducted the appropriate due diligence on Mr D and agreed to allow him to 
introduce business to it.
In July 2010 Mr D provided Heritage with information about the Harlequin investment. 
He explained this could be of interest to a number of his existing clients.
Heritage undertook their own due diligence on the investment and allowed it into 
the SIPP.
In October 2010 Mr D said he intended to operate as an appointed representative of 
the Principal to give regulated advice. He had also set up his company to promote 
the Harlequin investment to his clients.
Heritage understood Mr D, acting on behalf of his company would introduce the 
Harlequin investment. If clients liked the idea, Mr D would give regulated advice on 
behalf of the Principal.
In October 2010 Heritage asked Mr D to sign new terms of business and to provide 
more information to complete an Introducer Profile. 
What happened
In 2011 Mr A wanted to remortgage.  A family member recommended an adviser with the 
Principal and he saw that adviser for mortgage advice.  Mr A says he also saw Mr D with 
that adviser.  
Mr A says soon after, in March 2011, Mr D came to his home to talk with him about his 
pension and persuaded him to transfer his existing personal pension (which was not with the 
Principal) to a SIPP with Heritage in order to invest in a Harlequin investment.Mr A says everything was done at that single meeting where he signed all the various forms 
Mr D asked him to.
Mr D applied to open a SIPP and transfer his existing personal pension to it.  And he applied 
to invest in the Harlequin investment in his SIPP.  He agreed to pay a deposit of £33,000 for 
the property (which was slightly less than the usual contractual 30% deposit which would 
have been £37,500) with the remainder of the purchase price to be paid by stages as the 
property was built.
The various forms and letters signed by Mr A included:
The Heritage SIPP application form.  This included: 
oa supplemental deed that was signed by Mr A and witnessed by Mr D, 
oa confirmation of identity section completed by Mr D who referred to himself 
as a financial adviser with the Principal and gave its FSA registration number, 
othe financial adviser details in an Appendix which names Mr D of the 
Principal.  
The introducer agreement with Mr Ds company referred to above.
A letter of understanding relating to the Harlequin investment.
A Heritage form entitled Harlequin Property Appropriateness Test.
The SIPP was opened in March 2011 and almost £38,000 was transferred in from Mr As 
existing personal pension.  In early April £33,000 was paid to Harlequin from the SIPP.
As mentioned above, later Harlequin got into difficulties and so far as I am aware the 
property Mr D agreed to buy has not been built and it looks like Mr A has lost his money.
The complaint against the Principal
Mr A complained to the Principal about the advice Mr D had given.
As I understand it, a number of other clients of Mr D who he introduced to Heritage to invest 
in Harlequin also complained to the Principal about Mr Ds advice and it settled those 
complaints.  However it did not agree to settle Mr As complaint.  As I understand it, the 
Principal said Mr D was not authorised by it to advise on Mr As existing personal pension, 
SIPPs with Heritage or investments with Harlequin.
Mr A complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service about the Principal and that 
complaint was not upheld. 
Mr A then complained to Heritage.
Our investigation
The complaint about Heritage was referred to the ombudsman service and one of our 
investigators looked into it.  He thought the complaint should be upheld.  He made a number 
of points including:
Mr D was not an agent for Heritage and so it is not responsible for his acts and 
omissions.
Heritage was not responsible for giving Mr A investment advice.Heritage did however have an obligation to think about the quality of the business it 
accepted.
Where appropriate it could have refused to accept business referred to it without 
giving investment advice.
Heritage made checks on Mr D.  It accepted what Mr D said when he told it that the 
Principal had agreed to him using his own SIPP provider.
Heritage did however know that the Principal had a different SIPP provider on its 
panel of approved providers.  And that it would be highly unusual for a principal with 
a limited panel to allow its appointed representative to recommend a competitors 
product.  So it wasnt reasonable to take what Mr D said at face value.  Heritage 
should have made further enquiries.
Heritage was aware Mr D had set up his unregulated company to receive 
commissions for any introductions made to Harlequin.  This should have given 
Heritage cause for concern.
Heritage dealt with Mr D on the basis of him calling into its office to hand in 
documents and give oral explanations of the business he was introducing.  If it had, 
for example, asked to see copies of his recommendation reports it would have 
realised he was rarely if ever giving regulated investment advice in relation to 
Heritage and Harlequin and that he was not acting in the way he told Heritage he 
would.  This should have given Heritage significant cause for concern. 
Business from Mr D constituted nearly 14% of its total new business between 
October 2010 and March 2012.  And 95% of that business involved non-mainstream 
investments which the investigator said he assumed was mainly Harlequin.
Mr Ds business model which involved an unregulated introducer and 
recommendations into a high-risk esoteric investment, should have alerted 
Heritage to the risk of consumer detriment.
The investment into Harlequin would generally, and reasonably at the time, have 
been regarded as complex and higher risk. This doesnt make them unsuitable for a 
SIPP.  But they would generally be considered unsuitable for most retail investors. 
This means there was a high likelihood of unsuitability if the consumers were 
buying those investments without individual advice about the investment as in the 
process set up by Mr D.
In Mr As case the investment involved buying a property for £125,000 and his 
investment from the SIPP was a deposit of £33,000. Mr A would have needed to 
find further funds or obtain finance at a later date to complete the investment once 
built and this increased risk of consumer detriment.
While the investments may have been suitable for SIPPs the process that led to 
the investment in those investments was flawed and involved a considerable risk 
of consumer detriment. 
Heritage should not have accepted Mr As application.  If it had not it is more likely 
than not that he would not have invested in Harlequin at all.  And so its fair and 
reasonable that Heritage compensate Mr A for the losses he has suffered.   Mr A agrees.  Heritage does not.  It has made a number of points including:
Both Mr D and Mr A represented to Heritage that Mr A had received regulated 
advice on the pension switch to Heritage and the investment in Harlequin from 
Mr D acting for the Principal.  It was reasonable for it to rely on those assurances 
and not consider that any advice was being given on an unregulated basis.
Mr A signed an appropriateness test form used when a client wanted to instruct 
Heritage to invest in a complex investment and had not sought advice from an 
authorised financial adviser.  Mr A also signed a letter of understanding which 
identified many of the risks associated with the Harlequin investment.
It was fair and reasonable for Heritage to rely on the assurances and declarations 
it had received.
Heritage did not breach any regulatory requirement in accepting Mr As investment 
and allowing him to invest in Harlequin.  Or by not requesting copies of any 
suitability letters from Mr D.
Even if Heritage had refused Mr As transfer he would have transferred his 
pension to another SIPP provider and invested in Heritage in any event.
Culpability for the losses suffered by Mr A in relation to Harlequin lies with Mr D 
and his Principal.
More generally Heritage says it is an execution only SIPP provider and that the ombudsman 
service wrongly treats the supposed obligation on Heritage as an execution only provider to 
decline to do business with an introducer as not entailing any suitability assessment or 
advice.  It is impossible to separate this supposed obligation from the making of such an 
assessment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, Ive 
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
Relevant considerations
The Principles
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance to my decision.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). And, I consider that the Principles relevant to this complaint include Principle 2, 
3 and 6 which say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due skill, 
care and diligence.Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to organise 
and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management 
systems
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly. 
Ive carefully considered the relevant law and what this says about the application of the 
FCAs Principles. In R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority [2011] 
EWHC 999 (Admin) (BBA) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the specific 
rules are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The specific rules do not 
supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They are but specific applications of 
them to the particular requirement they cover. The general notion that the specific rules can 
exhaust the application of the Principles is inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the 
Principles to augment specific rules.
And at paragraph 77 of BBA, Ouseley J said:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman 
to reach a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what 
would be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even if no Principles had 
been produced by the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory 
duty without having regard to the sort of high level Principles which find expression in 
the Principles, whoever formulated them. They are of the essence of what is fair and 
reasonable, subject to the argument about their relationship to specific rules.
In R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] 
EWHC 2878) (BBSAL), Berkeley Burke brought a judicial review claim challenging the 
decision of an ombudsman who had upheld a consumers complaint against it. The 
ombudsman considered the FCA Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time. 
He concluded that it was fair and reasonable for Berkeley Burke to have undertaken due 
diligence in respect of the investment before allowing it into the SIPP wrapper, and that if it 
had done so, it would have refused to accept the investment. The ombudsman found 
Berkeley Burke had therefore not complied with its regulatory obligations and had not 
treated its client fairly.
Jacobs J, having set out some paragraphs of the BBA judgment including paragraph 162 
set out above, said (at paragraph 104 of BBSAL):
These passages explain the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA 
correctly submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles is not merely 
to cater for new or unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA shows that they 
are, and indeed were always intended to be, of general application. The aim of the 
Principles- based regulation described by Ouseley J. was precisely not to attempt to 
formulate a code covering all possible circumstances, but instead to impose general 
duties such as those set out in Principles 2 and 6.
The BBSAL judgment also considers section 228 of Financial Services & Markets Act 2000 
(FSMA) and the approach an ombudsman is to take when deciding a complaint. The 
judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL upheld the lawfulness of the approach taken by the 
ombudsman in that complaint, which I have described above, and included the Principles 
and good industry practice at the relevant time as relevant considerations that were required to be taken into account.
Ive considered the High Court decision in Adams v Options SIPP. Since that decision the 
Court of Appeal has handed down its judgment following its consideration of Mr Adams 
appeal. Ive taken both judgments into account when making this decision.
Ive considered whether the judgments mean that the Principles should not be taken into 
account in deciding this case and I find that they dont. In the high court judgment, Adams v 
Options SIPP, HHJ Dight did not consider the application of the Principles and they didnt 
form part of the pleadings submitted by Mr Adams. The Court of Appeal judgment gave no 
consideration to the application of the Principles either. So, Adams v Options SIPP says 
nothing about the application of the FCAs Principles to the ombudsmans consideration of 
a complaint.
As outlined above, Ouseley J in the BBA case held that it would be a breach of statutory 
duty if I were to reach a view on a complaint without taking the Principles into account in 
deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. And, Jacobs J 
adopted a similar approach to the application of the Principles in BBSAL. I am therefore 
satisfied that the FCAs Principles are a relevant consideration that I must take into 
account when deciding this complaint.
COBS 2.1.1R 
The rule says: 
A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
I acknowledge that COBS 2.1.1R overlaps with certain of the Principles, and that this rule 
was considered by HHJ Dight in the Adams v Options SIPP case. Mr Adams pleaded that 
Options SIPP owed him a duty to comply with COBS 2.1.1R, a breach of which, he argued, 
was actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of FSMA (the COBS claim). HHJ Dight rejected 
this claim and found that Options SIPP had complied with the best interests rule on the facts 
of the Adams case.  
The Court of Appeal rejected Mr Adams appeal against HHJ Dights dismissal of the COBS 
claim on the basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was radically different 
to that found in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of Mr Adams appeal did 
not so much represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight had dismissed the 
COBS claim, but rather was an attempt to put forward an entirely new case. 
Overall, I am satisfied that COBS 2.1.1R remains a relevant consideration  but that it needs 
to be considered alongside the remainder of the relevant considerations, and within the 
factual context of Mr As case.   
I note that there are significant differences between the breaches of COBS 2.1.1R alleged by 
Mr Adams and from the issues in Mr As complaint.  The breaches were summarised in 
paragraph 120 of the Court of Appeal judgment. In particular, as HHJ Dight noted, he was 
not asked to consider the question of due diligence before Options SIPP agreed to accept 
the store pods investment into its SIPP. The facts of the case were also different.  
So I have considered COBS 2.1.1R - alongside the remainder of the relevant considerations, 
and within the factual context of Mr As case, including Heritages role in the transaction.  
However, I think it is important to emphasise that I must determine this complaint by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
And, in doing that, I am required to take into account relevant considerations which include: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
This is a clear and relevant point of difference between this complaint and the judgments in 
Adams v Options SIPP. That was a legal claim which was defined by the formal pleadings in 
Mr Adams statement of case.  
The regulatory publications
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) has issued a number of publications which 
remind SIPP operators of their obligations and set out how they might achieve the 
outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
The 2009 and 2012 thematic review reports.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance.
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
I have considered those publications but will only refer to the 2009 Thematic Review in 
detail. 
The 2009 Thematic Review Report
The 2009 report included the following statement:
We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, are 
bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers and treat them fairly) insofar as they are obliged to ensure the 
fair treatment of their customers. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a member of a pension 
scheme is a client for COBS purposes, and Customer in terms of Principle 6 includes 
clients. It is the responsibility of SIPP operators to continuously analyse the individual 
risks to themselves and their clients, with reference to the six TCF consumer outcomes.
We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP 
advice given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP operators 
cannot absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would expect them to have 
procedures and controls, and to be gathering and analysing management information, 
enabling them to identify possible instances of financial crime and consumer detriment such 
as unsuitable SIPPs. Such instances could then be addressed in an appropriate way, for 
example by contacting the member to confirm the position, or by contacting the firm giving 
advice and asking for clarification. Moreover, while they are not responsible for the advice, 
there is a reputational risk to SIPP operators that facilitate the SIPPs that are unsuitable or 
detrimental to clients.
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and inadequate to 
the extent that they had not identified obvious potential instances of poor advice and/or 
potential financial crime. Depending on the facts and circumstances of individual cases, we 
may take enforcement action against SIPP operators who do not safeguard their clients 
interests in this respect, with reference to Principle 3 of the Principles for Business (a firm 
must take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with 
adequate risk management systems)The following are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, taken 
from examples of good practice that we observed and suggestions we have made to 
firms:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that 
advise clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the 
appropriate permissions to give the advice they are providing to the firms clients, 
and that they do not appear on the FSA website listing warning notices.
Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships, and 
clarifying respective responsibilities, with intermediaries introducing SIPP 
business.
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP 
investment) and size of investments recommended by intermediaries that give 
advice and introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable SIPPs can 
be identified.
Being able to identify anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large 
transactions or more esoteric investments such as unquoted shares, together 
with the intermediary that introduced the business. This would enable the firm to 
seek appropriate clarification, e.g. from the client or their adviser, if it is 
concerned about the suitability of what was recommended.
Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by the 
intermediary giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible for advice, 
having this information would enhance the firms understanding of its clients, 
making the facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed 
disclaimers taking responsibility for their investment decisions, and gathering and 
analyzing data regarding the aggregate volume of such business.
Identifying instances of clients waiving their cancellation rights, and the reasons 
for this.
Ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets 
is through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are 
correctly drawn-up and legally enforceable).
Ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both at point of 
purchase and subsequently.
Ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous investors 
have received income if expected, or that any investment providers are credit 
worthy etc.
I acknowledge that the 2009 and 2012 reports and the Dear CEO letter are not formal 
guidance (whereas the 2013 finalised guidance is). However, the fact that the reports 
and Dear CEO letter didnt constitute formal guidance doesnt mean their importance 
should be underestimated. They provide a reminder that the Principles for Businesses 
apply and are an indication for the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it is 
treating its customers fairly and produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that 
respect, the publications which set out the regulators expectations of what SIPP operators 
should be doing also go some way to indicate what I consider amounts to good industry 
practice at the time, and I am therefore satisfied it is appropriate to take them into account.Like the ombudsman in the BBSAL case, I dont think the fact that the publications (other 
than the 2009 Thematic Review Report) post-date the events that are the subject of this 
complaint mean that the examples of good industry practice they provide were not good 
practice at the time of the events. The later publications were published after the events 
subject to this complaint, but the Principles that underpin them existed throughout, as did 
the obligation to act in accordance with those Principles.
It is also clear from the text of the 2009 and 2012 reports (and the Dear CEO letter 
published in 2014) that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have incorporated the 
recommended good industry practices into the conduct of their business already. So, 
whilst the regulators comments suggest some industry participants understanding of how 
the standards shaped what was expected of SIPP operators changed over time, it is clear 
the standards themselves had not changed.
It is important to bear in mind that the reports, Dear CEO letter and guidance gave non- 
exhaustive examples of good industry practice. They did not say the suggestions given 
were the limit of what a SIPP operator should do. As the annex to the Dear CEO letter 
notes, what should be done to meet regulatory obligations will depend on the 
circumstances.
Its also important to keep in mind the judgments in Adams v Options did not consider the 
regulatory publications in the context of considering what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances bearing in mind various matters including the Principles (as part of the 
regulators rules) or good industry practice.
Overall, in determining this complaint I need to consider whether Heritage complied with its 
regulatory obligations as set out by the Principles to act with due skill, care and diligence, to 
take reasonable care to organise its business affairs responsibly and effectively, to pay due 
regards to the interests of its customers (in this case Mr A), to treat them fairly, and to act 
honestly, fairly and professionally. And, in doing that, Im looking to the Principles and the 
publications listed above to provide an indication of what Heritage could have done to 
comply with its regulatory obligations and duties.
The role of Mr D  and why Heritage should not have done business with him
It is Heritages understanding that Mr D had a duel role in relation to Mr As SIPP.  Mr D 
was an appointed representative of his Principal.  In that capacity he gave Mr A advice to 
transfer his existing personal pension to a SIPP with Heritage.
Mr D acting on behalf of his company he was also an introducer for Harlequin.  And in that 
capacity Mr D introduced Mr A to his Harlequin investment made in his SIPP.
Heritage understood this to be Mr Ds way of operating by the time of Mr As application.  
And it had entered into an Introducer Agreement with Mr D acting for his Principal in order 
to accept business from Mr D.
Heritage should not have agreed to do business with Mr A in this way.
Heritage is a regulated a business.  It is an execution only SIPP operator.  And it was 
under a regulatory obligation to conduct its business, in that limited non-advisory capacity, 
with due skill, care and diligence.  
In 2009 the regulator gave this example of good industry practice:Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that advise 
clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the appropriate 
permissions to give the advice they are providing to the firms clients, and that 
they do not appear on the FSA website listing warning notices.
Heritage should have had a reasonable understanding of the need for those giving 
regulated advice to be regulated.  It should reasonably have understood the appointed 
representative/principal relationship.  It should have understood that the appointed 
representatives regulated status relies entirely on its principal  it is not free to do 
whatever it wants to do independently.   
And Heritage should reasonably have understood the Principals business model in this 
case  because it was a large and well-known firm.  And because it thought it was doing 
business with one of its representatives so it should have found out if it did not already 
know.
Heritage should have known that the Principal is a firm that offers advice on only a 
restricted range of products. It should have understood that the Principal had no 
relationship with it.  And it should have understood that it was inherently implausible that it 
would have allowed one of its representatives to choose to do business with it rather than 
the SIPP operator on its panel.
It was not fair and reasonable to just take Mr Ds word on this point.  It is no answer to 
suggest that he could be relied on because he was a regulated individual.  It should have 
checked with the Principal. 
Heritage should have realised that there was a real risk that Mr D was acting in a way that 
had not been approved by the Principal which is a point that goes to Mr Ds reliability and 
integrity.  It should also have realised that if Mr D was giving investment advice that went 
beyond the boundaries of what was authorised by the Principal the advice would not be 
authorised.  Heritage should have realised that if things were not as Mr D said there was a 
real risk of harm to its customers and to it.  
Further it knew that Mr D was hoping to introduce investors for the purpose of investing in 
Harlequin  an investment that would be considered high risk and not suitable for the 
pensions of most retail investors.  So it also knew there was a real risk of consumer harm if 
Mr D was acting inappropriately.
There is no evidence that the Principal did in fact authorise Mr D to do business with 
Heritage and it has refused to accept responsibility for the advice Mr D gave to Mr A.  (It 
may have accepted responsibility in other cases but that is likely to be because the 
pensions other consumers switched out of were pensions Mr D was authorised to advise 
on.)
If Heritage had checked with the Principal, it would have discovered that Mr D was not 
authorised to do business with it.  And in turn it would have refused to accept any business 
from Mr D.  Heritage could and should have refused Mr As application without going 
beyond its normal contractual role and regulatory permissions and giving him advice on the 
suitability of the investment for him.
Heritage should not have accepted Mr As application for a SIPP and transferred his 
existing personal pension to it.  And this means it would not have made the investment to 
Harlequin for Mr A because he would have had no SIPP to make the investment from.Did Heritages failings cause Mr As loss?
Heritage has said that Mr D and the Principal caused Mr As loss.
As I understand it a complaint about the Principal has not been upheld and I have no 
jurisdiction over Mr D.  In this decision Ive looked at Heritages separate role and 
responsibilities, and Ive found that it failed to meet those responsibilities. So, I need to 
consider what Mr A would have done if that had not happened.
I cannot see that there is any evidence that Mr A was motivated to open his SIPP and invest 
in Heritage because of, for example, an incentive payment as in the Adams v Options SIPP 
case.  I acknowledge that Mr A had some relations who invested in the same way but as I 
understand it they were also clients of Mr D.  In my view, there is nothing to indicate that 
Mr A would have moved his pension if he had not been encouraged to do so by Mr D.  And 
Mr D only acted in that way because Heritage agreed to accept the business he referred to 
it.
Mr A had a relatively small pension pot and I do not consider it likely that he would have 
been advised to move his pension by Mr D acting on behalf of his Principal appropriately 
advising on its approved products. I consider it unlikely Mr D would have opened a SIPP and 
transferred his pension to it without getting advice.  And I consider that any other regulated 
financial adviser acting reasonably would have advised Mr A that investing his pension in the 
Harlequin investment was not suitable for him and would have advised him against it.  I say 
this notwithstanding the fact that Mr A received warnings about the risk of the investment 
with Harlequin.  Risk warnings are not the same as being advised that the investment is 
unsuitable and that is what reasonable advice to Mr A from a regulated adviser would have 
been.  I consider it more likely than not that Mr A would have accepted such advice and that 
he would not have insisted on investing in Harlequin against that advice.
I therefore consider it unlikely that Mr A would have suffered the same loss if Heritage had 
refused to accept his application because it had decided not to accept business from Mr D. 
In conclusion
It is my view that in the light of what Heritage knew, or ought to have known, about Mr D 
and his Principal before it received Mr As application, it didnt comply with good industry 
practice, act with due skill, care and diligence, organise and control its affairs responsibly, 
or treat Mr A fairly by accepting his application. And I think  that, in not doing  so, it 
allowed  him to be put at significant  risk of detriment.
For the avoidance  of doubt,  Im not saying  that Heritage  should  have  assessed  the 
suitability  of the investment  or the SIPP  for Mr A. I accept  that Heritage  had no 
obligation  to give advice  to Mr A, or otherwise  ensure  the suitability  of a pension  
product  or investment  for him. My finding  is not that Heritage  should  have  concluded  
that the investment  or SIPP  was not suitable  for Mr A. Rather  it is that Heritage  did 
not meet  its regulatory  obligations,  or treat Mr A fairly,  by accepting  his application  for 
a SIPP  introduced  by Mr D.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr A should be put as closely as possible into the position he would 
reasonably be in if things had not gone wrong. In my view that means comparing Mr As 
present position to the position he would be in if he had not moved his existing personal 
pension.It is therefore my view that Heritage should put things right as follows:
Heritage should calculate fair compensation by comparing the value of Mr As pension, if he 
had not transferred, with the current value of his SIPP. In summary:
1. Obtain the notional transfer value of Mr As previous pension plan, if it had not 
been transferred to the SIPP.
2. Obtain the actual transfer value of Mr Ds SIPP, including any outstanding charges.
3. Pay a commercial value to buy the Harlequin investment (or treat it as having a 
zero value in the above calculations  see below).
4. Pay an amount into Mr As SIPP so that the transfer value is increased to equal the 
value calculated in (1). This payment should take account of any available tax relief 
and the effect of charges. It should also take account of interest as set out below.
5. If the SIPP needs to be kept open only as a result of the Harlequin investment and 
used only or substantially to hold that asset, then any future SIPP fees should be 
waived until the SIPP can be closed.  
6. Heritage should also refund to Mr A any fees or charges he has paid from money 
other than the money originally transferred in form his personal pension together 
with 8 % simple interest per year from the date the fee or charge was paid until 
the date of this decision.
7. Pay Mr A £500 for the distress and inconvenience the avoidable problems with 
his pension will have caused him.
If there are any difficulties in obtaining a notional valuation of the previous pension, then 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income Total Return Index should be used instead. That is a 
reasonable proxy for the type of return that could have been achieved if suitable funds had 
been chosen taking account of Mr As likely attitude to risk.
If Heritage is unwilling or unable to purchase the investment the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil for the purposes of the above calculation. And Heritage may ask Mr A to 
provide an undertaking to account to it for the net amount of any payment the SIPP may 
receive from the investment. That undertaking should allow for the effect of any tax and 
charges on the amount Mr A may receive from the investments and any eventual sums he 
would be able to access from the SIPP. Heritage will need to meet any costs in drawing up 
the undertaking.
If Heritage is unable to pay the total amount (other in steps 6 and 7 above) into Mr As 
SIPP it should pay the compensation as a lump sum to Mr A. But had it been possible to 
pay into the SIPP it would have provided a taxable income. So the total amount should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr As marginal rate of tax at retirement. 
For example, if Mr A is a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, the notional allowance would 
equate to a reduction in the total amount equivalent to the current basic rate of tax. 
However, if Mr A would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the notional allowance 
should be applied to 75% of the total amount.The compensation resulting from this loss assessment must be paid to Mr A or into his 
SIPP within 28 days of the date Heritage receives notification of his acceptance of this final 
decision. Interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement if the compensation is 
not paid within 28 days.
My final decision
I uphold Mr As complaint against Heritage Pensions Limited and direct it to pay fair 
compensation and interest on it as set out above
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Philip Roberts
Ombudsman