DRN-3744836
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mrs and Mr B took out with Nottingham Building Society 
(NBS) to fund a self-build project. The lending was issued in stages, as the build progressed. 
The initial interest rate reflected the self-build status, the intention being that once the 
property was complete, and all funds released, the mortgage could be switched to a 
residential mortgage rate. Mrs and Mr B think both of those steps should have happened 
sooner than they did.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mrs and Mr B and NBS. Im also 
aware that the investigator issued a response to the complaint, which has been shared with 
Mrs and Mr B and NBS, and so I dont need to repeat all the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mrs and Mr B being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary and then focus on 
giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive 
ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
The underlying dispute arises from a disagreement over when the final release of funds was 
made, and when Mrs and Mr B should have been eligible for a residential interest rate. In 
essence, NBS says it agreed to release the final tranche of funds and switch to a residential 
rate as a concession, before the necessary documentation confirming completion had been 
issued; that was in early 2022. Mrs and Mr B say that under the schedule provided by a third 
party intermediary (which Ill refer to here as BL) the stage at which the release of funds 
and rate switch of rate should have taken place was completed in June 2021, when the 
project had reached what is termed second fix. They want the residential rate back-dated 
to reflect that.
When Mrs and Mr B referred the complaint to us, our investigator thought NBS had acted 
fairly. Mrs and Mr B asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the following conclusions.
The starting point here isnt the schedule provided by BL; its the mortgage contract 
Mrs and Mr B entered into with NBS. The terms of that contract were set out in the mortgage 
offer and accompanying documentation, and Im satisfied NBS made it sufficiently clear what 
documentation needed to have been issued in order for the final release of funds to be 
made, making the mortgage eligible for a residential rate. Im also satisfied that those 
documents had not been issued when NBS agreed to release the final funds and switch the 
mortgage to a residential rate. It follows from this that NBS wasnt obliged to do either of 
those things when it did, never mind several months earlier as Mrs and Mr B claim. It did so 
as a concession, not to remedy a mistake.
I agree that the release stages set out in the mortgage offer are worded differently from 
those set out by BL. However, as Ive already said, the mortgage offer is the definitive 
document, as that forms the contract between borrower and lender. BL may have been 
chosen by NBS to act as intermediary in managing the release, but that doesnt make it 
NBS agent here. Its an independent entity acting as a packager.
Ill make one other observation, for completeness; Mrs and Mr B made the mortgage 
application to NBS through another intermediary, a broker firm Ill refer to here as BMS. 
Incidentally, BMS was Mrs and Mr Bs agent. Its role was to act for Mrs and Mr B by 
ensuring the mortgage it had recommended was suitable for their needs, and for ensuring 
they had read and understood the terms of the offer.  In the event Mrs and Mr B were in any 
way unsure about when money would be released, it was open to them to alert BMS, and for 
BMS to address any questions clearly and accurately, having first checked with NBS if it 
needed to. In order that theres no ambiguity, I imply no criticism of BMS in that observation, 
and none should be inferred. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. This decision concludes this services 
consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration 
or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman