DRN-3506210
The complaint
Mr I complains about the value Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) put on his car.
What happened
Mr I had motor insurance underwritten by Ageas. His car was involved in an accident and 
Ageas decided it couldnt be economically repaired. Ageas offered Mr I £13,330 to settle his 
claim, which it said was the market value of his car.
Mr I wasnt happy with this and complained to Ageas as he said this wasnt enough to 
replace the car. Ageas said it had used the industry recognised guide books to come up with 
the valuation and was unable to increase it.
Mr I wasnt happy with this response and complained to this service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. He said hed obtained his own valuations via the three trade guides 
this service uses and Ageas valuation was within the range of these three amounts.
Mr I wasnt happy with our investigators response and so the complaint has been passed to 
me. Mr I wants Ageas to pay him an additional £1,225 making a total of £14,555 which he 
says is what it will cost him to replace his car with a similar one.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold Mr Is complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Is insurance policy booklet with Ageas said: 
If your car is very badly damaged or unsafe to drive and it is decided that it does not make 
financial sense to repair it, your car will be declared a total loss - many people call this a 
write off". 
Once an engineer has inspected and assessed the market value of the car, your insurer will 
send you an offer of payment to cover the market value of the car
Please note
The market value of your car provides you with sufficient funds to replace your car with one 
of a similar age, mileage and condition.
Our service has a standard approach to this type of complaint. In most cases, we assess the 
market value as the price which the consumer would have had to pay for a comparable 
vehicle across the various markets, immediately before the time of the damage or loss.
Assessing the value of a used vehicle isnt an exact science. We generally find the 
valuations given in motor trade guides the most persuasive. These guides are based on 
extensive nationwide research of likely selling prices, using advertised and auction prices.
We dont provide a valuation for the settlement of the claim as thats the insurers role, but 
we determine a valuation so we can say whether or not the insurer has treated the consumer 
fairly. We would usually say a valuation is fair and reasonable if it is within the range of 
values in the guides.
Ageas said the valuations it obtained were £13,330 and £12,271. It put the market value of 
Mr Is car as the highest of these valuations. 
Our investigator obtained valuations as at the date the car was damaged. He sent 
information to the guides including the make and model of the car and its mileage. The three 
valuations he obtained were £12,250, £13,330 and £14,754. So Ageas valuation is firmly 
within the range of valuations obtained.
Mr I has provided some adverts for similar cars which he says show that Ageas valuation 
was too low. We dont usually find advertisements for similar vehicles on their own very 
persuasive, but we do consider them, as they could indicate a problem with the guide 
values. However, vehicles may often be sold for less than the advertised price, especially 
with private sales. And differences in things like mileage, year of registration, model and type 
can significantly affect the value. I dont think that Mr I has provided sufficiently detailed 
information to suggest there might be a problem with the trade guides. And several of the 
adverts are from some months after his car was involved in the accident, and second-hand 
car prices can change a lot in a short period of time.
Mr I says he paid £14,555 to replace the car. However this was also some months after the 
date of the accident. 
Taking all this into account, I think that Ageas market valuation was fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold Mr Is complaint. So I wont be asking Ageas 
Insurance Limited to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman