DRN-3817505
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with the settlement amount Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited 
(AIG) offered for their damaged ring.
Mr and Mrs S had home insurance with AIG in joint names but, for ease of reading and 
because he brought the complaint, Ill refer mainly to Mr S throughout my decision.
What happened
Mr S made a claim under his home insurance policy for Mrs Ss damaged diamond ring. The 
ring was listed in the policy as a specified item, valued at £3,530. AIG accepted the claim.
After inspecting the ring, AIGs repairer confirmed that it would cost around £10,000 to repair 
the damage, so it was underinsured. The options made available to Mr S were:
AIG to pay up to the policy limit for its repairer to repair the ring meaning Mr S would 
need to contribute around £6,000 to replace the centre diamond.
Cash settle the claim up to the policy limit, less AIGs discount, and return the ring to 
Mr S unrepaired. The cash settlement would be £2,365.10 and AIG confirmed it 
would waive the £350 policy excess because the ring was underinsured.
Replace the side diamond, repair the rest of the ring, but leave the damaged centre 
diamond in place. This repair was valued at £740. 
Mr S was unhappy with AIGs offers. He said AIG should settle the claim for the specified 
item value because the policy conditions didnt say anything about applying a discount.
AIG issued a final response letter in September 2022 repeating its offers, so Mr S brought 
his complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought AIGs offers were fair and reasonable. She said the policy provided 
for repair or replacement only up to the amount for which AIG could restore the ring within 
the policy limit.
Mr S didnt agree. He said some of the figures quoted werent correct, and he said the ring 
was damaged beyond repair, so AIG should cash settle to the full value stated in the policy 
documents.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise this will be disappointing to Mr and Mrs S, Ive decided not to uphold their 
complaint. Ill explain.
The issue is that Mr S thinks AIG should cash settle the claim for the full insured value 
without taking off any discount.
The fact that the ring was insured for less than its value does not appear to be in dispute. 
But perhaps the simplest way to explain my decision is to look at what wouldve happened 
with the claim if the ring was insured to its full value. 
If Mr S had insured the ring for its full value of around £10,000 and AIG offered to repair or 
replace, the discount AIG got wouldnt have mattered to him. Thats because hed have got a 
replacement or repaired ring having only needed to pay the policy excess. 
If Mr S chose a cash settlement instead of allowing AIG to repair or replace, its offer 
wouldve been based on what it wouldve cost AIG to repair or replace. So, the discount 
wouldve mattered then. For example, if AIG got a 25% discount, its cash settlement offer 
wouldve been £7,500, less the policy excess. So, Mr S would never have been offered a 
cash settlement amount up to the policy limit. 
Thinking about the actual policy limit, if the ring had been valued at £3,530 as stated, the 
same principles would apply. So, AIG would never have paid the full amount if Mr S chose 
the cash settlement over an offered repair or replacement. But he wouldve received a 
replacement or repair to the full value of the policy, less the excess.
Simply put, AIG can pay a cash settlement equal to its cost to repair or replace where Mr S 
chooses to have a cash settlement instead.
AIGs limit of liability is the amount for which Mr S insured the ring, and AIG is still entitled to 
apply the principles to the underinsured value. Theres no reason why Mr S should benefit 
from the policy to a greater extent than he would if hed insured the ring for its full value.
Ill move on to look at the individual issues key to the complaint.
The ring setting was described as being damaged beyond repair. I havent seen the letter Mr 
S refers to from early August, but I have no reason to doubt his summary of the contents. 
AIGs repairer has given details of the repairs it could offer to the ring  not the diamonds  
so I take that to mean the diamonds are beyond repair.
Mr S made comment about the difference between repair and replacement, and he said AIG 
shouldve based its cash settlement offer on replacement. Looking at AIGs offers, Ive broken them down to identify what AIG is offering for the 
different aspects of the ring.
It valued the repair of the ring at over £10,000. The description of the repair, though, 
included replacement of the two damaged diamonds.
The cost to repair the ring without replacing the centre diamond was £740. This 
indicates to me that the centre diamond was the main value of the ring, likely over 
£9,000.
AIG offered to repair the ring excluding the centre diamond. The cost to AIG is 
irrelevant here because Mr S wouldnt pay anything if he accepted that offer. The ring 
would be returned to him with a damaged centre diamond.
Looking now at the policy, it says:
We will decide to either: 
repair the item 
restore the item (for example, use professional cleaners for carpets) 
pay the cost of repairing the item 
replace the item as new, or 
pay in cash or vouchers up to the amount we could repair, restore or replace the 
item for. 
AIG made offers to repair, replace or cash settle, and I dont think theres any dispute that 
the type of offer made is in line with the policy. The dispute is about the amount offered.
Mr S focuses on the cash settlement offer which he believes should reflect the full amount 
insured, that is £3,530. If AIG had made an offer to cash settle without making any other 
offer, then Id have expected it to offer what it would cost Mr S to repair or replace the item 
up to the policy limit. But AIG offered to complete a repair with or without replacement of the 
centre diamond, so there was no reason AIG needed to offer more than it wouldve cost it to 
complete the insured element of the claim.
It's clear that the ring wasn't insured to its full value, so AIG would never have been liable for 
the full cost of repair or replacement. The same is true of the cash settlement.
I can understand why Mr S thinks AIG should cash settle up to the policy limit without 
discount. He says its not a term in the policy that a discount will apply, so AIGs offer isnt 
fair. But I dont agree. The policy states that AIG would pay in cash up to the amount we 
could repair, restore or replace the item for. AIG gets a discounted price from its 
repairer/supplier so the amount it would pay as stated in the policy is a discounted rate. The 
fact that the policy doesnt expressly state that the offer would be up to the discounted 
amount is irrelevant because AIG has set out the limitation on what it will pay to cash settle.
So, if Mr S accepted any of the other offers AIG made, the cost to AIG would be its 
discounted rate but the benefit to Mr S would be the non-discounted amount. This is 
evidenced with AIGs offer to repair the ring, leaving the centre diamond, at a cost of £740. 
AIG would only pay £495.80, which is its discounted rate, but Mr S would benefit from 
repairs worth £740.
If Mr S accepted the cash settlement, hed be able to have those same repairs done, but 
they would cost him £740.I note AIG offered settlements waiving the policy excess. When AIG accepted the claim, the 
policy excess wouldve been payable regardless of whether the ring was underinsured or 
not. Theres no reason for AIG to waive the excess, but I think it was helpful, in the 
circumstances, that it did. I think that was a fair offer. 
Overall, I can understand that Mr S will be disappointed because the cash settlement offer is 
much lower than the value of the ring. But Im afraid the offer is lower simply because Mr S 
didnt insure the ring for its correct value. So, the offer is fair and reasonable based on the 
amount Mr S insured the ring for and its in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. I 
see no reason to require anything more of AIG.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 January 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman