DRN-3700361
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy with the way UK Insurance Limited (trading as Direct Line) handled his 
claim after a car accident. He complains that they:
Didnt repair his vehicle to a satisfactory standard,
Immediately recorded this as a fault incident - causing his insurance premiums to 
increase,
Took over three years to bring the matter to court, and
Failed to put forward all the relevant evidence, resulting in Mr N being held liable for 
the accident.
What happened
On 16 March 2018 Mr N was involved in a car accident with a third party. He made a claim 
to Direct Line to get things put right under his car insurance policy.
As both parties denied liability, the case ended up in court on 18 March 2021. The judge 
decided in favour of the third party - meaning Mr N was held liable for the accident. 
Mr N complained to Direct Line that theyd lost the case because they hadnt put forward all 
the available evidence. He also complained to P, the firm of legal representatives appointed 
by Direct Line. P responded on 31 March 2021. 
Direct Line sent their final response to Mr Ns complaint on 27 April 2021. They didnt accept 
the case was affected by their failure to provide information showing the third party was 
making a personal injury claim. They acknowledged they hadnt pursued a copy of the police 
report or copies of the photos Mr N had taken at the scene of the accident. Although they 
didnt accept this made any difference to the outcome of the case, they awarded Mr N £80 
for the upset and inconvenience caused. 
Mr N remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to us. But our investigator didnt 
uphold Mr Ns complaint. He said he thought Direct Line had handled the claim in a 
reasonable way and within a reasonable amount of time. He didnt think a different outcome 
wouldve been reached if more evidence had been presented to the court. And he was 
satisfied that a fault was recorded on Mr Ns insurance report, in line with the judges verdict. 
Mr N asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. He provided further information 
and comments in response to the investigators view, which Ill summarise:
Direct Line should have recorded this as a non-fault incident until the court case was 
decided.
Direct Line didnt progress the claim within a reasonable time frame  theyd 
acknowledged this in their correspondence. If the court hearing had happened 
sooner witnesses wouldve had a better recollection of events, so theyd have been 
more convincing.
Both Direct Line and P shouldve acted on instructions from Mr N, as the person who 
would be impacted by the courts decision. 
Direct Line shouldve presented a copy of the police report, expert evidence about 
the damage to the vehicles, and information showing the third party was rushing. 
Their failure to collate and present this material affected the judges decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision, saying:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate Mr Ns frustration at the length of time this matter has been going on. But 
having reviewed each aspect of his complaint in more detail, I think its important to start 
by explaining the limitations on what I can look into for him. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) set out rules about what this service can and cant 
consider. Theyre called the Dispute Resolution: Complaint Rules (DISP rules) - they can 
be found on the FCAs website. There are two parts of the DISP rules that are relevant 
here.
DISP Rule 2.8.2 says I cant consider a complaint thats been referred to us more than six 
months after the date the business sent their final response. There are exceptions to this. 
I can consider a complaint that was referred to us too late if the business agrees, or if Im 
satisfied that exceptional circumstances prevented it being brought to us within the time 
limit.
This means I need to consider when Direct Line sent their final response to each one of 
the concerns Mr N raised with them, to make sure hes referred these complaints to us in 
time. Direct Line havent agreed that I can look at any aspects of Mr Ns complaint that 
were referred to us too late. So if any aspect of his complaint was brought to us outside 
the time limit, Ill be considering whether this was due to exceptional circumstances.
DISP 3.3.4A goes on to say there are some circumstances in which I may decide to 
dismiss a complaint, or part of a complaint, without considering its merits. This includes 
where I consider dealing with the complaint would seriously impair the effective operation 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Examples are given within the rules of when this might apply. One of the examples given 
is where the subject matter of the complaint has previously been considered by our 
service - unless new evidence has since become available which I think is likely to affect 
the outcome. So Ill also be looking to see whether weve looked into any of these 
complaints before. 
Repairs to Mr Ns car
Ive seen evidence showing our service responded to Mr N in December 2019, upholding 
a complaint hed brought to us about the repairs Direct Line carried out to his car. Direct 
Line have provided a copy of their claim notes, confirming they carried out the actions we 
recommended to put things right. 
I havent seen any new evidence about this, so I wont be looking into it again. The time taken to bring the matter to court
I appreciate our investigator previously gave a view on this aspect of Mr Ns complaint. 
But having requested more information from both parties about this issue, its become 
clear that it isnt something our service has power to investigate. Ill explain why. 
Having thoroughly reviewed the evidence provided by both parties, Ive seen Mr N has 
complained more than once about lack of progress with his claim. This issue formed part 
of complaints he made in August 2018 and July 2019. 
Ive seen a copy of Direct Lines most recent letter of response to Mr N about this, dated 
11 March 2021. I note this was the week before the court hearing. Direct Line agreed that 
theyd made errors and hadnt progressed the claim as quickly as they shouldve done. 
They said theyd sent Mr N £250 by bank transfer to support their apology for the poor 
service hed received. They explained that, if he wished to take the complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, he needed to do so within six months of the date of their 
letter. 
So, if Mr N wasnt satisfied with the way Direct Line had dealt with his complaint about the 
lack of progress with his claim, he needed to refer that complaint to our service by 11 
September 2021. When Mr N contacted us on 26 October 2021, this aspect of his 
complaint was outside the six-month time limit.
Mr N has told us he was unable to refer his complaint to us sooner due to a medical 
condition which required surgery. He says he wasnt fit enough to be able to escalate this 
matter during the long recovery period after the operation. Hes provided evidence from 
his doctor, which Ive considered carefully. 
The doctor confirms Mr N was in hospital between 14 and 30 June 2021. He goes on to 
say Mr N was advised of a two-month recovery period following his discharge from 
hospital, during which time he should refrain from work and only undergo limited activities 
at home. 
I appreciate Mr N has been through a difficult time due to his medical condition. But Im 
not persuaded that this prevented him referring his complaint to us within the six-month 
time limit. Referring a complaint to our service is a relatively simple process that can be 
done by phone or email. Taking everything into account, Im satisfied Mr N couldve done 
this by 11 September 2021.
For these reasons, I find that I cant consider this part of Mr Ns complaint because it was 
referred to us outside the time limits set out in DISP 2.8.2.
Failure to put forward evidence needed in court
The terms on which Direct Line agreed to provide insurance cover to Mr N are set out in 
their policy booklet. Ive read this carefully. The general conditions section makes it clear 
that Direct Line are entitled to take over and carry out the negotiation, defence or 
settlement of a claim made against Mr N. So I wouldnt expect Direct Line to take 
instructions from Mr N as to how the defence of the claim should be handled. 
The policy terms gave Direct Line the right to appoint legal representatives, P, to handle 
the claim made by the third party driver. I wont be looking into the way P handled the 
case  thats something Mr N would need to take up with the Legal Ombudsman Service. 
My role here is limited to considering whether any error(s) made by Direct Line had an 
impact on the outcome of the case. I note Direct Line accept they hadnt pursued a copy of the police report or Mr Ns photos 
of the scene of the accident. Mr N says Direct Line should also have provided P with 
information about a personal injury claim being made by the third party. Ive seen 
evidence confirming P was provided with the photos for the court hearing, so Im satisfied 
Direct Lines failure to request them didnt adversely affect the trial. I can see Mr N feels 
strongly that being able to show the police report and personal injury claim to the court 
wouldve assisted his credibility - and undermined the credibility of the other party.
Ive given careful thought to the point Mr N has made. But Im not persuaded that the 
outcome wouldve been different if Direct Line had collated and passed on those extra 
pieces of information. I say this because the file notes Ive seen show both parties had a 
witness willing to testify that the other driver was at fault. And that the judge attached little 
weight to the evidence given by any of the witnesses - preferring instead to make his 
decision based on the damage to the two vehicles. 
I can understand that Direct Lines failure to gather all the available evidence added to the 
stress and inconvenience Mr N was experiencing at the time. Direct Line have paid Mr N 
£80 compensation for this, which I consider to be fair and reasonable. So I dont intend to 
direct them to do anything more to resolve this complaint. 
Recording of a fault incident on Mr Ns insurance record
Direct Lines claim notes show Mr N complained in August 2018 about the recording of 
the fault incident - and the effect this was having on his insurance premiums. Direct Line 
have provided a copy of their final letter of response to Mr N, which is dated 10 
September 2018. 
Mr N says he doesnt want our service to look into his complaint from 2018. He says 
Direct Line had advised him the incident would be logged as a fault claim, but hed get 
refunds from his insurers for the difference in his insurance premiums if he won his case. 
He says the result of the court case means this now isnt possible.
I appreciate how frustrating this situation must be for Mr N. But as the court held Mr N to 
be liable for the incident, I consider this to be correctly recorded on his insurance record. 
So I wouldnt expect Direct Line to do anything more here. 
I said I didnt intend to uphold the complaint, but I invited both parties to send me any further 
information or comments theyd like me to consider before making my final decision. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Direct Line didnt respond. 
Mr N didnt agree with my provisional decision. He provided a detailed written response, as 
well as further clarification by phone. Ill summarise the main points he made:
His complaint was not simply that Direct Line had failed to put forward all the relevant 
evidence, but that theyd failed to collate, maintain, disclose and follow up an 
appropriate investigation relevant to the legal proceedings, leading to a lack of 
preparation and evidence in court in order to successfully defend the claim. And this 
resulted in Mr N being held liable for the accident.
Hed also complained that two of his three witnesses werent told to attend court 
initially  and were only told they were required at the last minute, after hed 
challenged this. The witness who did attend hadnt been contacted for three years, other than a 
phone call to take a statement. No preparation or support was given prior to the 
hearing. 
The Judge made a decision based on the damage to the vehicles. An expert should 
have been called to ensure the correct evidence was given.
The police report was a key factor, which was important to support his own credibility. 
Mr N felt his exceptional circumstances hadnt been properly considered. Hed 
provided medical evidence confirming he was incapacitated for at least three months. 
Prior to surgery he was not well and already on medication, resulting in time off work 
and inability to undertake any work that would impact his health. For one month he 
was in hospital. For a further two months he was mostly in bed, and unable to sit and 
work at a computer due to the impact of the operation and medication he was taking. 
Following the two months recovery, he was still not 100%, so worked a phased return 
to work with reasonable adjustments made. Hed continued on medication for a 
number of months. As a result, he wasnt in a position to submit the complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service within the six-month deadline. He felt that he 
shouldnt be treated less fairly than others due to his medical condition and disability. 
Mr N was unable to provide copies of fit notes issued by his doctor. The originals 
were sent to his employer, who no longer retained them. But didnt feel they were 
relevant because the doctors letter provided greater detail. 
Although the policy states Direct Line can carry out the defence of a claim made 
against him, it doesnt state the policyholder has no right of involvement in this. Hed 
asked to postpone the hearing to allow missing information to be collated and all 
witnesses to be present, but they refused. 
Direct Line had confirmed that they still hold the information relevant to this 
complaint. But even if they didnt, Mr N believed his complaint should be considered 
due to the medical evidence hed provided.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to reassure Mr N that Ive carefully considered all the information and comments hes 
provided. Having done so, Im not persuaded that I should depart from my provisional 
decision, so I adopt that reasoning here. 
I appreciate Mr N will be disappointed with this decision, so Ill expand on some issues to 
help explain my reasoning. Ive focussed my comments on what I think is relevant. If I 
havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think 
is the right outcome. 
Mr N says Direct Line failed to collate, maintain, disclose and follow up an appropriate 
investigation that was relevant to his defence. I realise he feels very strongly that the police 
report was key to his credibility. But in the absence of any new evidence about this, I see no 
reason to change my decision. 
I find the policy booklet to make it clear that Direct Line are entitled to take over and carry 
out the negotiation, defence or settlement of a claim made against Mr N. Im not persuaded 
that Direct Line should have taken instructions from Mr N about the handling of the case. I explained in my provisional decision that I wouldnt look into the way P handled the legal 
proceedings  thats something Mr N would need to take up with the Legal Ombudsman 
Service. So I wont comment on which witnesses P decided to call to give evidence, how 
much notice they were given, whether they were appropriately prepared for the experience 
of giving evidence in Court, whether expert evidence was needed, or whether the hearing 
should have been postponed to allow additional evidence to be gathered. 
Im grateful to Mr N for taking the time to provide further information about his personal 
circumstances. I can see hes been through a difficult time. I want to reassure him that Ive 
given very careful consideration to the information hes shared about his medical condition 
and recovery period, to make sure Im satisfied he hasnt been treated less favourably than 
others.
The time limit for referring this matter to our service ended on 11 September 2021. The 
doctors evidence confirms Mr N was in hospital between 14 and 30 June 2021. So, I 
wouldnt expect Mr N to have been able to refer this aspect of his complaint to us before the 
end of June 2021. 
The doctors evidence goes on to say that, after his discharge from hospital, Mr N was 
advised of a two-month recovery period, during which time he should refrain from work and 
only undergo limited activities at home. Mr N has told us that he wasnt able to contact our 
service during this period, because he was unable to sit and work at a desk due to the 
impact of the operation and medication he was taking. 
Ive seen no additional medical evidence to confirm whether Mr N would have been able to 
contact our service during the two-month recovery period referenced in the doctors letter. 
But in any event, this letter only covers the period to the end of August 2021. Mr N has told 
us that he then began a phased return to work, with reasonable adjustments made by his 
employer. I havent seen any evidence to confirm what adjustments were required. 
I consider referring a complaint to our service to be a relatively simple process that can be 
done by phone or email. Ive seen no supporting medical evidence to show Mr N wouldnt 
have been able to do this before 11 September 2021.
For these reasons, Im not persuaded that exceptional circumstances prevented Mr N 
referring his complaint to our service within the six-month time limit. I remain of the view that 
I cant consider his complaint about the time taken to bring the matter to Court, because it 
was brought to us too late.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman