DRN-2853857
The complaint
Ms R complains that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) was irresponsible to lend 
her money she couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
This complaint is about loans Mr Lender provided to Ms R as follows: 
loan         start date date repaid instalmentsloan 
amounthighest 
instalment 
amount
103/01/2017 30/03/2017 3 £200.00 £109.86
211/04/2017 30/06/2017 3 £200.00 £100.81
306/07/2017 29/09/2017 3 £200.00 £101.87
422/11/2017 28/02/2018 3 £200.00 £121.38
      Break in loan chain      - 196 days 
512/09/2018 30/04/2019 6 £400.00 £151.78
603/05/2019 30/09/2019 3 £200.00 £108.78
730/09/2019 12 £750.00 £163.60
Ms R complained that these loans were unaffordable for her. She said that the repayments 
put her into debt so she had needed to keep borrowing from Mr Lender and from other 
payday lenders. 
When she complained to Mr Lender it didnt uphold her complaint but it made a goodwill 
offer to wipe out the outstanding balance she had on loan 7 so that she wouldnt have to pay 
anything more. 
Ms R didnt feel that this offer went far enough to put things right so she brought her 
complaint to us. Our adjudicator upheld the complaint in part. He felt he hadnt seen enough 
to say it was unfair for Mr Lender to have provided loans 1, 2 and 5 to Ms R, but explained 
why he thought that loans 3 and 4 and loans 6 and 7 shouldnt have been lent. And our 
adjudicator set out the steps he said Mr Lender should take to put things right. 
Mr Lender didnt accept our adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. In summary, Mr Lender mainly said it carried out a proper affordability 
assessment each time it provided a loan to Ms R and relied on its credit checks in support of 
its lending decisions.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms R 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Ms R could sustainably repay her loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make 
their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Rs complaint.
 As far as I can see, Ms R is happy to accept what our adjudicator said with respect to not 
upholding her complaint about loans 1 and 2. So I dont think I need to say more about 
loans 1 and 2 except to say that I agree with our adjudicator about these loans.  
But, unlike our adjudicator, I dont think its fair and reasonable to uphold Ms Rs complaint 
about loan 3. Our adjudicator felt that if Mr Lender had done proportionate checks it would 
most likely have seen information showing that Ms R was borrowing from multiple other 
payday lenders. And in these circumstances, our adjudicator said Mr Lender ought to have 
realised it was unlikely Ms R wouldve been able to sustainably repay this loan or loan 4.Mr Lender gathered information about Ms Rs income and expenditure and worked out that 
the loan shouldve been affordable for her. It said the credit checks it carried out didnt show 
anything concerning and it took into account that Ms R had said she was already spending 
£491 other credit  which wouldve seemed reasonable given what Mr Lenders credit 
checks appeared to show. 
I dont think Ms Rs payment record on the first two loans wouldve given Mr Lender any 
reason to think she had struggled to make the repayments  and the loan repayments she 
signed up to make on loan 3 were very similar to the amount shed paid for loan 2. Overall, 
I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Mr Lender to ask Ms R for the amount of 
information that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing 
this loan. So Im not planning on upholding Ms Rs complaint about loan 3.
When Ms R applied for loan 4, I think this should have prompted Mr Lender to look further 
into her circumstances as she was now taking out her fourth loan in a row without any 
significant gaps in lending and the loan amounts werent decreasing. Given that Mr Lender 
was aware she was using other credit, I think Mr Lender shouldve asked more searching 
questions about her spending on other short term loans to ensure it had a proper 
understanding of the reasons for her use of credit.
Mr Lender hasnt shown me it did this. So I cant fairly say that it carried out a proportionate 
check before agreeing to lend Ms R loan 4. 
Ms R has provided her credit file and bank statements so Ive looked through these to see 
what Mr Lender was likely to have found out. To be clear, Im not suggesting the lender 
should have done this. But, in the absence of other evidence, I think these give a reasonable 
picture of Ms Rs finances at the time. And had Mr Lender looked in more depth at Ms Rs 
finances it would likely have seen, as our adjudicator said, that she was facing serious 
problems managing her money. I think it would have learnt that Ms R already had multiple  
loans outstanding with other short term lenders when she took out loan 4. In the previous 
month or so she had paid more than £800 towards other high cost loans  significantly more 
than the declared £300 spending on other credit that Mr Lender had noted in the information 
it had gathered. This extra spending alone was more than the total disposable income that 
Mr Lenders limited checking suggested Ms R had available.    
This means I dont think it was reasonable for Mr Lender to have concluded that it was likely 
Ms R would be able sustainably to repay loan 4. So it shouldnt have provided this loan  
and Im planning to uphold Ms Rs complaint about loan 4.
After paying loan 4 at the end of February 2018, Ms R didnt ask Mr Lender for any more 
loans until September 2018. That gap in lending seems long enough to me for Mr Lender 
reasonably to think that Ms R mightve put her finances in order during this period. This 
meant that when her borrowing started again, and Ms R applied for loan 5, she was 
effectively starting over. 
So it was fair for Mr Lender to treat this as a new chain of borrowing and assess her lending 
requests accordingly.
Although Ms R asked to borrow twice the loan amount she had taken when shed arranged 
her earlier loans, I dont think this was a sufficient reason to think that Mr Lender needed to 
do more checks than it did. The loan still looked like it should be affordable for Ms R 
according to the information that Mr Lender had gathered and I think its lending decision was 
reasonable in all the circumstances. As Ms R hasnt objected to us not upholding it I dont 
think I need say more about this loan. 
In the event, Ms R asked to defer her monthly repayments on loan 5 twice. I think this 
potentially suggested problems managing her money and so Mr Lender shouldve made 
some additional enquiries to satisfy itself that loan 6 would be sustainably affordable for Ms R. I think a proportionate check required Mr Lender to obtain more information about her 
other borrowing. Had it done so, I think Mr Lender wouldve likely found out that Ms R was 
still borrowing from multiple other high cost lenders. Ive seen information (that I think Mr 
Lender shouldve found out if it had done proportionate checks) which shows Ms R was 
making repayments to at least six other high cost lenders around the time she applied for 
loan 6. So I think Mr Lender shouldve realised that it shouldnt have been providing loan 6 to 
Ms R as it was unclear how it could be sustainably affordable for her.    
I also agree with our adjudicator that Mr Lender was wrong to provide loan 7 to Ms R. She 
applied on the same day that she paid loan 6 to borrow £750, her largest single loan to date. 
These were worrying signs that her financial situation wasnt improving. I think that Mr 
Lender shouldnt have provided loan 7 to Ms R without a more thorough check of her 
financial circumstances to see if the loan really was sustainably affordable for her. 
If Mr Lender had asked more probing questions, and taken steps to verify the information 
she had declared, it shouldve found out that Ms R had a long established record of 
borrowing significant amounts on other payday loans  suggesting that shed become 
dependent on this sort of credit and she wasnt using these high cost loans as intended to 
cover a temporary shortfall or an unexpected one off cost. 
So I dont think it was reasonable for Mr Lender to conclude that it was likely Ms R would be 
able to repay loan 7 in a sustainable manner. And Mr Lender shouldnt have provided loan 7 
to Ms R. 
This means, overall, Im upholding the complaint about loans 4,6 and 7.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Ms R has made no further comment.
Mr Lender said (in brief sumary) that:
it carried out credit checks before agreeing loans 4, 6 and 7 which showed no 
information of concern so it had no reason to request any addiitonal information
the loan amounts didnt increase between loans 1-4 and there was always a 
minimum gap of a week between lending with nearly 2 months gap between loans 3 
and 4
Ms R first used the option to defer her payments on loan 5 and it was reasonable to 
assume that she was opting to repay the increased amount of her loan flexibly.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Ive taken carefully into account everything thats been said in response to my provisional 
decision. Mr Lender hasnt provided me with any new information that changes what I think 
about this case. Whilst I appreciate that Mr Lenders credit checks, looked at in isolation, 
may have appeared not to give rise to any particular concern, the information shown directly 
contradicted other information shown in the notes it made for each of these loans. In particular, although Mr Lender had noted no outstanding advances against income were 
flagged up on its checks, it had also recorded in its loan notes that it took into consideration 
other short term loans that Ms R had said she was repaying - which is clearly at odds with 
the information shown on its credit checks. And I think Mr Lender will already be aware that 
a lenders checks might reveal only a small portion of a borrowers credit file, or some data 
might be missing or anonymised or not up to date. So I think that in these circumstances, a 
proportionate check wouldve required Mr Lender to seek further clarification and do more to 
check Ms Rs other credit commitments before providing loans 4,6 and 7.
For the reasons I set out at more length in my provisional decision, I dont think the gaps in-
between loans 1-4 were long enough to be significant and its fair to say that Ms R was more 
or less continuously indebted to Mr Lender throughout 2017 after starting loan 1 in January, 
save for a clear month in October, she was paying a Mr Lender loan every month all year. 
And whilst I accept that the option to defer payments might be a useful account feature, 
I dont think borrowers who can afford to make a repayment would be likely to choose to add 
to the loan costs by deferring a payment without good reason. In the circumstances here 
I think it was a potential indication of money problems that shouldve prompted more in-
depth checks, bearing in mind it seems Ms R had told Mr Lender she was already paying 
£400 towards other short term loans when she asked for loan 6. And had Mr Lender done 
what I consider wouldve been proportionate checking, its likely it wouldve realised that the 
extent of Ms Rs money problems meant she was unlikely to be able to sustainably repay 
loans 4,6 and 7. So it shouldnt have provided them.   
 I appreciate that Mr Lender takes a different view to me. I hope that setting things out as Ive 
done helps explain how Ive come to my view.
I still think its fair to uphold this complaint for the reasons I explained more fully in my 
provisional decision.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mr Lender should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened if it hadnt provided lending to Ms R, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Ms R may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, she may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to) have treated an application which may or may not have been the same is now 
impossible to reconstruct accurately. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and 
substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Ms R in a compliant 
way at this time. 
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Ms R would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair now to reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.If Mr Lender has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back before doing what I have 
outlined below. If Mr Lender isnt able to buy the debt back then it should liaise with the new 
debt owner to achieve the following: 
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Ms R towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything it 
has already refunded.
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms R which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Ms R originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld outstanding 
loans and treat any repayments made by Ms R as though they had been 
repayments of the principal. If this results in Ms R having made overpayments then 
these should be refunded with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, 
from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is 
settled. Mr Lender should then refund the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" and 
move to step "E".
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" 
should be used to repay any balance remaining. If this results in a surplus then the 
surplus should be paid to Ms R. However if there is still an outstanding balance then 
Mr Lender should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Ms R. 
E. Remove all adverse entries from Ms Rs credit file for loans 4, 6 and 7. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Ms R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint about loans 4,6 and 7 and direct PDL Finance Limited (trading as 
Mr Lender) to take the steps I've set out above to put things right for Ms R.  Under the rules 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or reject my 
decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman