DRN-3043330
The complaint
Mr P, on behalf of Mrs P, complains about investment advice and ongoing service she 
received from Skipton Building Society.
What happened
Mrs P received investment advice from Skipton in 2015. At the time she was 76 years old, 
retired, had no dependants or outstanding liabilities. She was receiving annual income of 
around £18,700 from her pension and existing investments. She had around £114,000 in 
cash-based accounts and around £248,000 in investments.
It was recorded that her objectives were to achieve capital growth, improve tax efficiency 
and to move to an ongoing service where she would be provided with performance 
monitoring, regular reports, annual ISA help and under-performance help. Her attitude to risk 
(ATR) was recorded as being medium-low and it was noted that she was an experienced 
investor. 
The adviser recommended that she encash her existing investments and reinvest the 
proceeds in a less risky portfolio. Mrs P accepted the recommendation and the proposed 
investments were put in place.
In 2020 Mr P complained to Skipton on Mrs Ps behalf and said, in summary:
Mrs P was disappointed in the performance of her investments
Shed paid high fees to achieve a poor return overall
Shed had little contact from Skipton since May 2018 regarding her portfolio
Skipton didnt uphold the complaint, so Mr P brought it to this service where it was 
considered by one of our investigators. The investigator looked into the concerns that had 
been raised but didnt believe the complaint should be upheld. 
She thought that given Mrs Ps circumstances and investment experience, the 
recommendation wasnt unsuitable or unaffordable. And she noted that by moving the 
investments to a more balanced portfolio it lowered Mrs Ps risk exposure to medium-low 
across all her investments, rather than leaving her with some of the higher risk funds she 
was previously exposed to. 
She appreciated the concerns raised about the cost of the ongoing service Mrs P received 
and the actual service that she received from 2018, after her adviser left Skipton. But she 
thought the costs were made clear to Mrs P in 2015 when she first signed up to the ongoing 
service. And she was satisfied that Skipton made reasonable efforts to contact Mrs P after 
her adviser had left, in addition to monitoring her investments and keeping them under 
review to make sure they continued to meet Mrs Ps requirements.
Mr P disagreed with her findings and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint and 
make a decision. He asked for the ombudsman to consider the following points:
The manner in which Skipton have dealt with a lady approaching her mid 80s - whilst 
they maintained her investments were low to medium risk - he had an independent 
advisers assessment that they were medium to high
The time lapse between the original adviser leaving Skipton and another contacting 
her - almost a year  didnt sit well given the size of her investments and needed 
explanation
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive firstly considered the suitability of the recommendation in 2015. The documents from the 
time say that Mrs P was unhappy with her adviser. Hed taken over from an adviser shed 
had for a number of years and she felt that she never heard from him and any 
communication she was receiving didnt make sense, so she was ill informed. 
Shed approached Skipton for advice and wanted to invest for capital growth with an aim of 
achieving a return of 4% per year. Her ATR was recorded as being medium-low and she 
was noted as being an experienced investor, having held a variety of equity-based 
investments for over 10 years.
The adviser from Skipton reviewed Mrs Ps circumstances and thought that she should 
reduce the level of risk she was taking on several of her existing investments.  The adviser 
noted that Mrs P held a number of single asset funds invested across Equities, Fixed 
Interest, Property and Cash. However, Mrs P wanted to invest in a portfolio of multi-asset 
funds which all benefited from the fund manager rebalancing the assets within each fund 
based on market conditions. Mrs P felt that in the long run this would provide her with more 
stable and consistent returns than her existing holdings.
The adviser recommended that Mrs P move to the Cofunds MII portfolio in the following 
proportions:
F&C Multi Manager Navigator Distribution - 22%
HSBC Open Global Return - 23%
Invesco Perpetual Distribution - 10%
Premier Multi-Asset Distribution - 23%
Schroder MM Diversity - 22%
Taking what we know about Mrs Ps circumstances and objectives into account, I dont think 
Ive seen enough to persuade me that the investment advice given here was unsuitable. I 
take the points made about Mrs Ps age but although she was 76 years old at the time she 
received the advice, this didnt automatically mean that she wasnt able to take a risk with 
some of her money. 
The documentation from the time shows that her primary goal was to try and achieve a 
return of 4% per year. Its noted that the adviser discussed less risky products with Mrs P 
such fixed rate bonds, but Mrs P didnt want to go ahead with those products as they didnt 
provide the return she wanted. The adviser also discussed reducing Mrs Ps ATR to low, but 
Mrs P didnt want to reduce her risk to this level as she thought it would hamper her chances 
of consistently achieving her target. 
So, I think the fact find and rejection of the advisers proposal of lower risk products clearly 
shows Mrs P had expressed a willingness to take some risk, in the hope of better returns. The suitability report clearly explained what the different levels of risk meant and where Mrs 
Ps portfolio sat on the risk spectrum. 
The answers Mrs P gave to the questions used to gauge her risk profile indicate that she 
had a good understanding of the relationship between risk and reward. And they also show 
that she was willing to take some risk over the medium to long term in order to achieve her 
goals. Overall, Im satisfied that Skipton explained the risk these investments posed to Mrs 
Ps money, and that this was a level of risk she was willing to take in order to achieve her 
objectives.
I appreciate Mr Ps comments that the funds that were recommended had a risk level of 
medium to high as opposed to the medium to low level that was recorded. It isnt the role of 
this service to risk rate funds, but as part of my assessment of whether the advice was 
suitable, Ive considered if the funds met Mrs Ps needs and objectives.
Broadly speaking, I can see that across the five funds, roughly around 55% was invested in 
equities (around half of that being in UK equities and most of the remainder being invested in 
US or European equities), around 35% invested in fixed income products and the remainder 
in other areas. 
Taken as a whole, Im not persuaded that the portfolio - with its focus on large UK, US and 
European companies shares and investment grade UK, US and European bonds - exposed 
Mrs P to more risk than she was willing to accept. As noted above, Mrs P wanted a level of 
capital growth which couldnt be achieved without taking some risk. She was prepared to 
accept some risk in the hope that she would benefit from greater returns and I think the 
portfolio the adviser recommended was in line with this.
Ive considered the fees Mrs P incurred from the recommendation. While its evident that the 
new portfolio had higher charges and fees than her previous investment, the 
recommendation letter shows that the adviser clearly set out the information about the costs 
and benefits associated with the portfolio. 
It documented that the charges were higher and explained how much more the new portfolio 
would have to grow by each year - compared to the previous holdings - to cover the cost of 
the new fees. Taking everything into account, I think the adviser ensured that Mrs P was in a 
fully informed position about the costs of the new portfolio and the impact the fees and 
charges would have on its performance.
Ive then considered the level of service Mrs P received from Skipton. Mr Ps main concern 
regarding this area is around the lack of communication Mrs P received when her original 
adviser left Skipton. From what Ive seen Mrs Ps last review meeting with her adviser was in 
2018. Her adviser then left Skipton in early 2019, Skipton wrote to her and called her in May 
2019 to explain the situation. They also provided details of another adviser Mrs P could 
speak to until a new permanent adviser was in place.  
The new adviser was in place by November 2019 and Mrs P arranged to have an 
appointment with him in January 2020. Mrs P rearranged the appointment several times and 
there was a further delay due to the pandemic, but she eventually had a meeting with him in 
2020. Even though Mrs P didnt have a formal meeting with Skipton for some time, I can see 
that they attempted to have the meeting earlier than they did. And her investments were still 
being monitored and she received regular statements as part of the ongoing service shed 
signed up for. So, taking everything into account, I dont think Skipton have acted unfairly in 
the circumstances.Therefore, for the reasons Ive given, I dont think I can fairly uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate this will be disappointing to Mrs P, but I hope she can understand the reasons 
behind my decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman