DRN-3773047
The complaint
Mr J says Novia Financial Plc (Novia) failed to conduct a benefit crystallisation event (BCE) 
assessment when he reached 75, as required under the Lifetime Allowance (LTA) 
provisions. He says this meant there were delays when he wanted to switch to a different 
Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP) provider. And this caused him financial detriment. 
Mr J is represented by his financial adviser firm, The Private Office (TPO). 
What happened
Mr J held three SIPP accounts with Novia, which became his provider in the summer of 
2016. At the time of the events complained about in 2020 these were worth around £1.1m. 
Two of his pensions had been crystallised and were in drawdown. His largest pension had a 
fund value of about £852,000, this was uncrystallised.
The switch of Mr Js Novia SIPPs to a different provider was part of a batch request by his 
adviser. Both firms had agreed all clients would have their investments sold to cash by Novia 
on receipt of the transfer paperwork and then funds sent to TPO for reinvestment.
Novia says that the request to switch Mr Js SIPPs was received from TPO on 8 October 
2020 at which point his investments were sold to cash in accordance with the process it had 
agreed. But when it attempted to transfer the funds to the new provider it identified that it 
didnt have certain LTA information it needed to complete the transaction.
Its of note there are a number of BCEs pension holders are subject to, which can occur at 
different times. For example, when a member buys a lifetime annuity or when they receive a 
tax-free lump sum. The full list of BCEs is set out in HMRCs Pension Tax Manual.
Of relevance to this case is the BCE calculation HMRC require when a pension holder 
reaches 75. This assessment is carried out by the pension scheme administrator. It reviews 
the value of the benefits in a members pension(s) against the relevant LTA. This is 
important as Government sets a limit and if this is breached the member will be liable to a 
tax charge on any surplus.
As it was preparing to switch Mr Js SIPP, Novia identified that he was already 79, but 
relevant BCE tests hadnt been conducted when hed reached 75. This meant it had to carry 
out the exercise retrospectively before it could release his funds to TPO. The relevant BCEs 
were:
BCE 5A - Where a member reaches age 75 with a drawdown pension fund or flexi-access 
drawdown fund.
BCE 5B - Where a member reaches 75 under a money purchase arrangement in which 
there are remaining unused funds.
On Mr Js behalf, TPO has raised a number of concerns about what happened. It 
summarised his position in the following terms:
Novia, as scheme administrator, had a responsibility and requirement to undertake the 
relevant BCE test at the point the member reached age 75. Mr J, at the point in time that the 
recommendation to move away from Novia was made, was aged 79, meaningit was 
almost 5 years after the point at which it should have been actioned.
even accounting for the fact that the required BCE test was not undertaken, they failed to 
follow their own processes whereby checks would be undertaken on an individuals account 
as to whether any BCE (or other) tests were required PRIOR to selling down assets held. In 
this instance, Novia failed to follow this process and dis-investing Mr Js assets prior to then 
raising the issue of the BCE test and requesting additional information from Mr J and The 
Private Office. This resulted in an extended period of time where Mr Js assets were not 
invested.
Novia rejected Mr Js complaint. It identified the failings of other firms such as TPO and his 
former pension administrator as causing some of the problems he experienced. In 
summarising its position it said:
Since the delay was not due to any processing error on our behalf, that the sale to cash was 
in accordance with the agreed process with you, that you were aware of the delays and that 
you could have reinvested Mr J, I am satisfied that Novia is not responsible for any poor 
outcome for Mr J.
An Investigator considered Mr Js case and upheld it. She thought the root cause of the 
problems encountered in switching his SIPPs was due to Novias failure to conduct a BCE 
when he reached 75. And she wasnt persuaded by the argument made by it that TPO 
shouldve reinvested his cash through its platform until matters had been resolved.
Novia disagreed with the Investigators view, it promised her further arguments and evidence 
to support its case but this wasnt forthcoming. Because both parties couldnt agree with her 
findings and conclusions Mr Js case was passed to me to review afresh. 
I issued my provisional decision in October. Im grateful to Novia for its response, which it 
summarised in the following terms:
While we may disagree on some points of your decision, we agree that the outcome for the 
client was not reasonable and fair and we accept the decision to compensate the client 
accordingly.
Where we would like the FOS to review their decision is in regard to the determination that 
Novia is solely at fault for all losses the client has incurred. As Novia confirmed, TPO 
instructed Novia to sell down and elected not to reinvest the client and potentially mitigate 
any potential financial loss the client experienced due to the delays caused by the age 75 
test.
Ive thought carefully about Novias submission in arriving at this final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about the events complained about and gaps in what 
we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, whats most likely to have happened.Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Js complaint. Ill explain why.
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by Novia for Mr J. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, 
which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA 
Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like Novia. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Js complaint.
Mr J switched his pensions to Novia in the summer of 2016. He turned 75 a couple of 
months later. So the first question is why it failed to conduct the BCE tests 5A and 5B at this 
point in time.
Novia maintains it acted in accordance with HMRC regulations because LTA tests werent 
required prior to the switch of Mr Js SIPPs. It said the Pension Tax Manual didnt specify 
when BCE tests 5A and 5B had to be done, but rather stated they had to be conducted as at 
the members 75th birthday. Its systems enabled it to value members pensions at any given 
point in time and therefore the tests could be done after a member reached the age of 75.
In order to consider when the LTA test should have been done, the Investigator reviewed the 
Pensions Tax Manual. She said:
Ive found the below excerpts to be the most relevant (the emphasis is my own) but I invite 
both parties to visit https://www.gov.uk/hmrcinternal- manuals/pensions-tax-manual [and 
review what it says]
There is nothing in the tax legislation requiring benefits to come into payment when the 
member reaches age 75. The tax legislation imposes a lifetime allowance test on these 
uncrystallised entitlements at the members 75th birthday, whether or not the scheme 
pension and lump sum entitlements come into payment at that time.
Benefits held in a registered pension scheme in respect of a scheme member will always 
have been tested against that members lifetime allowance by their 75th birthday, whether 
or not those benefits have been drawn by that point. If benefits have not been drawn by the 
members 75th birthday they are valued and tested for lifetime allowance purposes at that 
point by reference to one of the following types of BCE.
As no BCE other than BCE 3 (PTM088630) can occur after age 75, benefits paid to or in 
respect of the member after that date are not tested against the lifetime allowance. However, 
they will already have been tested on the members 75th birthday under BCE 5.
I agree with the Investigators conclusion here. The regulations require a BCE test be 
conducted once the member reaches the age of 75 and not afterwards. Indeed, its difficult to understand how someone could plan for and manage the potential impact of the LTA if the 
assessment wasnt conducted until a later date.
BCE 5A and 5B were not triggered by the switch of Mr Js pensions to another provider after 
the age of 75, as Novia suggested. As the Investigator identified, there are no further BCEs 
after the member reaches the age of 75, apart from BCE 3 (where a scheme pension 
already in payment to a member is increased beyond a permitted margin).
It therefore follows that Novia failed to follow the regulations correctly and the LTA test 
should have been done in 2016 (a few months after Mr J had transferred his pensions to 
Novia).
Novia proceeded to sell down Mr Js funds on receipt of the paperwork from TPO around 8 
October 2020.
TPO has supplied notes of a call it had with Novias Director of Risk and Compliance on 21 
May 2021. These record that it wouldnt normally have sold down funds before completing 
the requirements for the LTA test, but in the case of Mr J it did so because of exceptional 
circumstances related to the agreement it had with TPO.
Novia provided a copy of the checklist it says was used at the time of processing the transfer 
for Mr Js SIPPs. While it confirmed the process had been followed, it also acknowledged the 
step for processors to check if the LTA test needed to be done before selling down hadnt 
been in place at the time. So it seems Novia has tightened up its procedures.
Given the obligation on pension scheme administrators set out by HMRC, I dont think Novia 
shouldve sold down Mr Js funds to cash when it did. It needed to have conducted the 
appropriate BCE tests against the relevant LTA.
Ive also considered Novias argument that Mr J had an opportunity to have reinvested the 
cash from his pensions through its platform until matters with the switch had been finalised. 
It says:
we do not agree with TPO that it would have been difficult, insufficient time or would have 
not been worthwhile [to reinvest Mr Js funds]. We have previously explained that Novia is an 
online platform and trading can be completed promptly and TPO were aware of the reason 
for the delay and the impact on the client since they raised these points with Novia on 11 
November, 16 November and 3 December 2020, and did not take any action to mitigate the 
impact on the customer.
Ive considered its point here carefully. Novias response isnt without merit. Theres a duty 
on customers and their advisers to mitigate losses. But I can also understand TPOs position 
 it said:
The possibility of reinvesting funds was not considered at the time as re-investing would 
bring additional complications and potential further delays due to the timescales involved 
with this and then having to subsequently dis-invest again shortly after, in addition to placing 
them back in a position that TPO had considered to be no longer suitable. We had no 
visibility or awareness of how long the transfer process would take to finalise so could not 
reasonably consider re-investing without a known timescale and with the expectation this 
would [be] extremely short term meaning the risk of impact or detriment could be increased.
In January 2021, while matters were still being finalised, Novia said to TPO (bolding is my 
emphasis):Although there is an active transfer request in progress, you are still able to access the 
clients SIPP and reinvest the portfolio if you would like to do so. This is not a scenario that 
we see on a regular basis; usually [former] schemes are far quicker to respond however 
in this instance reinvestment may be something that you wish to consider as we 
truthfully cannot provide a timescale for the transfer while we are reliant on the co-
operation of two other pension schemes.
On balance, I think the onus was on Novia. It was the firm which shouldve completed the 
BCE assessments for Mr J on his reaching 75 in 2016. Had it done so there wouldnt have 
been a delay in processing the switch of his SIPPs. And it sold down his funds without 
having completed the review against his LTA. The fact that it has now changed its procedure 
to ensure this doesnt happen in future is telling.
Further, Novias suggestion that TPO shouldve thought about investing Mr Js cash was 
made on 22 January 2021. I think the latters concerns about uncertain timescales and the 
potential to invest only to have to dis-invest days later wouldve come to fruition. I say this 
because the switch of his SIPPs were finally able to proceed on 27 January 2021. And while 
TPO had been concerned about the position from the middle of November 2020, I havent 
seen Novia gave it a sufficiently strong steer about how long things would take to finalise. 
Novia has made arguments about the culpability of TPO and Mr Js former pension providers 
for what happened. What it says in relation to the acts and omissions of other businesses 
and individuals, including the extent and impact of these and any resulting liabilities it incurs 
as a result, may or may not be the case. It may choose to pursue other parties  thats a 
matter for it to decide. But Im not considering a complaint against those parties here. 
Putting things right
The Investigators proposal on redress was broadly correct, although a small adjustment 
needs to be provided for on any loss arising to allow for the returns these mayve delivered.
If HMRC regulations had been followed correctly, the required LTA test wouldve been done 
at Mr Js 75th birthday and its more likely than not there wouldnt have been a delay to the 
switch of his SIPPs to a new provider.
So, its reasonable for Novia Financial Plc to ensure Mr J is put back in the position he 
wouldve been in now, as far as reasonably possible, had it not been for the failings Ive 
identified it was responsible for.
Novia Financial Plc has confirmed that its standard timescales to complete pension switches 
is around 12 working days. So Mr Js SIPP funds shouldve been with TPO around 26 
October 2020. I understand that TPO received funds from his three SIPPs on 1 December 
2020, 3 December 2020 and 29 January 2021.
Novia Financial Plc should therefore make an assessment to consider what, if any, loss of 
investment growth Mr J has incurred. It should assume TPO received his funds on 26 
October 2020 and that these were invested in the same funds and the same proportions as 
eventually happened. The end date for the calculation will be when the pensions funds were 
actually received by TPO.
If Novia Financial Plc identified a loss, it should also pay interest on this calculated from the 
end date of the calculation to the date of settlement at 8% simple. If Novia considers that its 
required by HMRC to deduct income tax, it should tell Mr J how much has been taken off. It 
should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HMRC if appropriate.Novia Financial Plc should contact TPO directly to request any information it needs to make 
the required calculations and provide Mr J with the details of its redress in a clear and simple 
format.
When Im considering a complaint like Mr Js I think about whether its fair to award 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. This isnt intended to fine or punish a 
business  which is the job of the regulator. But when somethings gone wrong, recognition 
of the emotional and practical impact can make a real difference.
Were all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and in our dealings with other 
people, businesses and organisations. When thinking about compensation, I need to decide 
that the impact of Novias actions was greater than just a minor inconvenience or upset. Its 
clear to me that this was the case here.
Novia Financial Plc caused Mr J worry about his pension arrangements and its appropriate 
for it to pay him £200 for the distress and inconvenience it has caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, Im upholding Mr Js complaint and require Novia Financial Plc 
to put things right in the way Ive directed. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman