DRN-4323410
The complaint
Miss C is complaining about 247 Money Group Limited (247). She says they shouldnt have 
lent to her because the repayments werent affordable.
What happened
In March 2022, Miss C took out a hire purchase agreement with 247 to finance the purchase 
of a car. She paid no deposit and borrowed £8,394  the cash price of the vehicle. The 
agreement required Miss C to make 60 monthly repayments of £292.82. 
Miss C complained to 247 in October 2022, saying theyd mis-sold her the hire purchase 
agreement because it was unaffordable for her.
In response, 247 said theyd checked Miss Cs credit file at the time, which had informed the 
Annual Percentage Rate (APR) they charged Miss C and told them how much she was 
paying towards credit commitments each month. They said theyd confirmed Miss Cs 
income was £2,000 net each month by looking at her payslips and at documentation proving 
her level of benefits. 247 also said they used Office for National Statistics (ONS) data to 
estimate Miss Cs spending. They calculated her monthly maximum contractual payment as 
£872 so they felt the actual monthly contractual payment of £293 was affordable for her. 247 
also said theyd had a phone conversation with Miss C in which she said she planned to 
settle her existing hire purchase agreement in full and confirmed there werent any 
foreseeable negative changes in her financial circumstances. So they didnt uphold her 
complaint.
Miss C brought her complaint to our service, adding that she already had a hire purchase 
agreement with a different lender when this lending decision was made and she didnt feel 
that had been taken into account. She also said shes now had a County Court Judgment 
(CCJ) in relation to nursery fees as shes had to prioritise making the repayments to 247.
One of our investigators looked into the matter but didnt uphold Miss Cs complaint. He said 
he wasnt satisfied 247 had completed proportionate checks but he felt the agreement was 
likely affordable for Miss C and 247 could have fairly decided to lend to her.
Miss C appealed our investigators view. She said the car she had on the previous hire 
purchase agreement had been written off and she was desperate for a car at the time. She 
said ONS statistics arent accurate because she has twins (as well as another child) which is 
more expensive than having two children of different ages.  Miss C also said she didnt have 
cooking facilities at home so had to eat out and was served a section 21 because she was 
failing to pay her rent. She asked for an ombudsmans decision  and the complaints come 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and recognising itll be disappointing for Miss C, Im not upholding her 
complaint. My reasons are broadly the same as our investigators  Ill explain below.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out in a part of its handbook known as CONC 
what lenders must do when deciding whether or not to lend to a consumer. In summary, a 
firm must consider a customers ability to make repayments under the agreement without 
having to borrow further to meet repayments or default on other obligations, and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers financial situation. 
CONC says a firm must carry out checks which are proportionate to the individual 
circumstances of each case. 
Did 247 carry out proportionate checks?
247 said they carried out the following checks:
reviewed Miss Cs credit file;
checked her income to payslips and benefits documents;
used ONS data to estimate Miss Cs expenditure; and
spoke with Miss C on the phone to confirm affordability and settlement of the existing 
hire purchase agreement.
Whether or not these checks were proportionate depends on various factors, including the 
size and length of the loan, and the cost of credit  which was high. Miss C was largely 
dependent on benefits, and the repayments on the hire purchase agreement were around 
15% of her income. So the checks needed to be thorough. 
247 havent provided their copy of Miss Cs credit file but they told us it showed Miss C had 
one credit card with a balance of £159, three current accounts, and one hire purchase 
agreement. The hire purchase agreement had monthly repayments of £187. They said they 
hadnt seen any evidence of missed payments or overdraft usage. 
Miss C has provided a copy of her credit file to us so Ive looked at what that said about her 
profile at the time of the lending decision. This showed Miss C had a credit card with a small 
balance and no payment issues in the last two years. But it also showed Miss C had 
defaulted on two accounts in the last six months  one in February 2022 and one in 
November 2021. This suggests Miss C might have had some difficulty with finances.
Because of the defaults Im not satisfied 247 acted reasonably in relying on ONS data for 
Miss Cs expenditure. The defaults are a potential indicator that her expenditure was higher 
than her income  and higher than the ONS data suggested. Ive listened to the call between 
247 and Miss C, and there was no discussion of the affordability of the agreement for Miss C 
or of her expenditure  instead the call sounded very much like a formality. Miss C did 
confirm on the call that she intended to settle her existing hire purchase agreement.
In summary, I dont think 247 did reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
whether the agreement was affordable for Miss C. She had a relatively low income, was 
borrowing a significant amount of money over a five year period, and there were indicators 
from her credit file that she was struggling to meet her financial commitments. This 
combination of factors should have prompted 247 to ask Miss C more questions about her 
financial circumstances.
What would 247 have found if they had done proportionate checks?
A proportionate check would have involved 247 finding out more about Miss Cs expenditure 
to determine whether shed be able to make the repayments in a sustainable way. Ive looked at statements for Miss Cs bank accounts for the three months around the time of 
her application to 247. Im not saying 247 needed to obtain bank statements as part of their 
lending checks. But in the absence of other information, bank statements provide a good 
indication of Miss Cs financial circumstances at the time the lending decision was made.
Ive also considered Miss Cs own statement of her expenditure, which is undated but seems 
to be based on her circumstances more recently. Looking at both together, Im satisfied 247 
could have fairly decided to lend to Miss C if theyd done more checks  Ill explain why.
Miss Cs statement of her monthly expenditure on essentials totals £2,015 per month  
almost exactly the same as her monthly income. This includes around £550 for rent, council 
tax and water, £270 for gas and electricity, £120 for TV, £349 per month for hire purchase 
repayments, £300 for housekeeping and food etc, £320 for travel expenses and £100 for 
childrens clothing. 
Whilst most of these amounts look to be a reasonable reflection of Miss Cs expenditure at 
the time, I dont think this is true of her estimates of gas and electricity costs or hire purchase 
repayments. From her bank statements I cant see that she was spending more than £120 
per month on bills. And in relation to the hire purchase repayments, 247 were expecting 
Miss C to settle her existing hire purchase agreement so only needed to account for the new 
one  reducing the figure of £349 per month to £293 per month. Making these changes 
reduces Miss Cs total monthly expenditure on essentials from £2,015 to around £1,810. 
With income of £2,000 per month and non-discretionary expenditure of around £1,810 per 
month including the new agreement, Miss C would have had net disposable income of 
around £190 per month for emergencies and non-essential spending. On that basis I think 
247 could have fairly decided to lend to Miss C if they had done proportionate checks. 
I appreciate Miss C doesnt agree that she had disposable income at the time and instead 
says she was struggling financially. But I have to consider what 247 would have found if 
theyd done reasonable and proportionate checks  and from the evidence Ive seen, I cant 
say 247 should have realised the agreement would be unaffordable for Miss C.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Miss Cs complaint about 247 Money Group 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman