DRN-3421614
The complaint
Mr F complains Monzo Bank Ltd didnt reimburse the money he lost when he was the victim 
of a scam.
What happened
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them all
here. But briefly, both parties accept that Mr F was the victim of a scam after he made a
faster payment of £4,000. He made the payment to purchase several computer graphic 
cards hed seen advertised for sale on a popular social media platform.
Mr F had initially seen the graphic cards for sale on the social media platform and then 
contacted the seller to obtain more information. Initially the seller had three graphic cards 
available but advised that they would be getting more in stock. There was contact over a 
number of days. Mr Fs friend  who was also contributing to the purchase  also spoke to 
the seller about the item. Ultimately a price of £10,000 was agreed for 10 graphic cards with 
Mr F and his associates paying half as a deposit upfront with the seller advising they would 
send the three graphic cards they had in stock while obtaining the rest to fulfil the order. One 
of Mr Fs friends sent £1,000 and Mr F then sent the remaining £4,000 via his mobile app.
Mr F sought to obtain information about the delivery and tracking details, but the seller 
provided excuses and then stopped responding to Mr Fs messages. Mr F realised hed 
been the victim of a scam and contacted Monzo to report it.
Monzo didnt agree to refund Mr F. It said it didnt consider hed taken sufficient steps to 
check who he was paying and what for.
Monzo isnt a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model
CRM Code (the CRM Code) but has explained that it is committed to applying the 
principles set out in it. 
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams in all but a limited number of circumstances. Monzo said one or more of those 
exceptions applies in this case. It said it gave a scam warning and that Mr F made the 
payment without having a reasonable basis for believing it was genuine. Monzo said Mr F 
ought to have done more checks to make sure he was making a legitimate purchase from a 
legitimate seller.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Fs complaint and thought it ought to be upheld.
The investigator didnt believe Monzo had fairly assessed Mr Fs claim under the CRM Code. 
They didnt think that Monzo had provided an effective warning prior to Mr F making the 
payment. And they didnt agree that Monzo had been able to establish Mr F made the 
payment without a reasonable basis for believing he was making a legitimate purchase from 
a legitimate seller.
Monzo disagreed with the Investigators opinion and maintained its position. As the matter 
hasnt been resolved, I have been asked to make a final decision on the outcome of Mr Fs 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Monzo should have refunded the money Mr F 
lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case.
In the circumstances Monzo should fairly and reasonably refund the money Mr F lost.
Monzo should also pay interest on the balance not yet refunded at a rate of 8% 
simple per year. This interest should apply from the date Monzo first declined to 
refund Mr F under the CRM Code, to the date of settlement.
As Ive said above, the CRM Code requires payment service providers to reimburse 
customers who have been the victims of authorised push payment (APP) scams, in all but 
limited circumstances. If Monzo declines to reimburse its customer in full, it is for Monzo to 
establish that its customer failed to meet the requisite level of care under one, or more, of 
the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code itself. Those exceptions are: 
where in all the circumstances, the customer made the payment without a 
reasonable basis for believing that: the payee was the person the customer was 
expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine goods or services, and/or that the 
person or business with whom they transacted with was legitimate; or
the customer ignored an effective warning by failing to take appropriate steps in 
response to that warning.
There are further exceptions within the CRM Code, but none of these are applicable here.
After having carefully considered all of Monzos submissions, Im satisfied that Monzo has 
not shown that Mr F made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that he was 
paying a legitimate seller for a legitimate item or ignored an effective scam warning. I will go 
on to explain why I have reached this finding.Did Mr F have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payment?
Mr F spotted the computer graphic cards on a well-known social media platform. He 
engaged with the seller over a number of days  initially through the social media website 
and then through direct messages. From reviewing the correspondence between the seller 
and Mr F, the seller came across as knowledgeable about the product and its usage and 
also about similar products in this area  all of which would have undoubtedly reassured 
Mr F. Fraudsters are adept at gaining peoples trust  and I find that this was the case here. I 
also dont find that the price Mr F was paying was too good to be true whereby Mr F should 
reasonably have had doubts about the legitimacy of the items or the seller. Im mindful Mr F 
was also intending on buying multiple graphics cards, with the seller giving reasons as to 
how the products were being sourced. 
While I agree the seller was keen to complete the transaction, I dont consider it was overly 
pushy whereby it could be considered concerning to Mr F that something might not be right. 
The seller had advised they had taken down the advert, but the graphic cards were in 
demand. The seller was also clever in gaining Mr Fs trust by explaining that people had 
sought to buy multiple items before but didnt follow through and sought clarification that 
Mr F had the funds for the multiple items he was intending to purchase and that he would 
need to relist the items if not. 
Mr F did initially seek to collect the items in person, but as Mr F had liaised with the seller 
multiple times and the seller had built trust with Mr F over the messages, the seller was able 
to give plausible explanations to Mr F as to why it wasnt possible and that delivery was 
easiest. The seller had also provided their identification and bank card to Mr Fs friend and 
Mr F had provided his ID to the seller also. So I think by this point Mr F was assured that he 
was dealing with a legitimate person, had seen their ID and didnt think anything was amiss 
in having the items delivered. And in any event, I also dont find it particularly unusual to pay 
for an item online and have it delivered rather than necessarily seeing it in person first. 
Mr F also explored paying through another payment method which the fraudster subtly and 
cleverly worked around. Again I dont think Mr F would have been on notice that anything 
untoward was going on here. As mentioned above, Mr Fs friend also obtained the ID of the 
seller and a picture of their bank card  which all matched and were the details Mr F used 
when making the payment. All things considered, I can see why Mr F would have been 
reassured, after liaising and messaging with the seller, that he thought he was dealing with a 
legitimate seller for legitimate items when making the payment.
Did Mr F ignore an effective warning? 
In its response to our investigator Monzo explained that reimbursement was being denied on 
the grounds of reasonable basis for belief, and not because it considered Mr F had ignored 
an effective scam warning. Monzo explained that it believes it was prevented from providing 
an effective scam warning through Mr Fs selection of something else as a payment reason 
rather than paying for goods/services. Ive taken account of Monzos point here, but the 
relevant test when considering reimbursement is whether the bank can establish that Mr F 
ignored an effective warning - and not whether Monzo was prevented from providing a more 
appropriate warning.
In saying this, the CRM Code does permit a business to deny reimbursement where it can 
be established that the customer was grossly negligent. But for the avoidance of doubt I 
dont find that Mr F was grossly negligent here  either in his choice of payment purpose or 
for any other reason. Ive explained above why Im satisfied Mr F had a reasonable basis for believing he was 
making a legitimate purchase, and overall, Im satisfied that Monzo hasnt established any of 
the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply here. It follows that Monzo should 
reimburse Mr F for the losses he suffered.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Ive decided it is fair and reasonable to uphold Mr Fs
complaint about Monzo Bank Ltd. I therefore require Monzo Bank Ltd to pay Mr F:
The balance of the money lost through this scam, being the sum of £4,000 less any 
sums already reimbursed or otherwise refunded; and,
8% simple interest per year on that amount calculated from the date Monzo Bank Ltd 
originally declined Mr Fs claim until the date of settlement.
I direct Monzo Bank Ltd to pay compensation, as set out above, within 28 days of receiving 
notification of Mr Fs acceptance of my final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman