DRN-3436644
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) didnt offer them the option 
of having a fee-paying Platinum account for free, when they upgraded their account to a fee-
paying Platinum Plus packaged account in June 2004.
Mr and Mrs C would like a refund of the account fees they have paid since 2004.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint, and he didnt think that Lloyds had acted 
unfairly or unreasonably.
Mr and Mrs C disagreed and asked for the matter to be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, I 
dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mr and Mrs C held a fee-free account. They then added a Plus bolt-on feature to the 
account in February 2003. They then upgraded their account to a fee-paying Platinum Plus 
account in June 2004. 
Lloyds has explained that the Platinum account incurred a monthly fee, but if the balance 
was kept above a certain level, the account holder would not have to pay the account fee. 
However, this fee-waiver was not available when the Plus bolt on was already included with 
the Platinum account.
I understand that Mr and Mrs C are unhappy that this was not made clear to them when they 
upgraded their account to a Platinum Plus account. They say, had they known about the fee-
waiver option, they wouldve opted for that, rather than have continued with the Platinum 
Plus account.
Lloyds has provided a contact note from when the upgrade took place. This says:
Spoke with Mr [C] today, he was not happy as he had requested on 25.04.04 with [staff 
member] @ internet banking that the account be upgraded to a Platinum Plus she went 
through the terms & conditions with him but nothing has happened have agreed to change 
a/c today for him.
Based on the evidence that is available, it appears that Mr C specifically requested that his 
account be upgraded to a Platinum Plus account. Therefore, I think the account was in all 
likelihood sold on a non-advised basis. This is important, because when a packaged account 
is sold on a non-advised basis, this means that Lloyds was not required to check whether 
the account was right, or the most appropriate account, for Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances. 
Because of this I cant reasonably say that Lloyds acted unfairly because it did not 
proactively run through all of the other account options to see which one wouldve better 
suited Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances  such as opting for a Platinum account rather than a 
Platinum Plus account. I appreciate that it wouldve been good customer service had it done 
this, but ultimately Lloyds wasnt required to do so. 
What Lloyds was required to do was provide Mr and Mrs C with the important information 
about the account, so that they could make an informed decision. The evidence provided 
suggests that Mr and Mrs C mayve initially tried to upgrade via online banking, and the 
notes suggests that Mr and Mrs C had then spoken to a member of staff who explained the 
important terms and conditions. Looking at an archived version of Lloyds website from 2004, 
I can see that it says:
Other conditions about your PLUS account
If you are presently a Gold Service or Platinum account customer we do not charge you 
our normal account fees if you keep a specified balance in your account. That will not 
apply, and we will charge you the normal fees, if you choose to upgrade to PLUS as we 
pay you interest on the balance instead. You should check that upgrading to PLUS will 
save you money before deciding.
I can also see that in the welcome pack that was in use around the time Mr and Mrs C 
upgraded their account to a Platinum Plus account, it contained a section called Platinum 
Plus. This explained how the Plus feature worked. It also explained that the fee-waiver did 
not apply if the Plus feature was on the account. As such, whilst I dont know what 
information Mr and Mrs C were given when they upgraded, Im satisfied that both the 
website and the welcome pack explained that the account holder cannot benefit from a fee-
waiver if they have the Plus feature included with their account. 
In addition to the above, I can see that when Mr and Mrs C upgraded to a Platinum Plus 
account, they were charged a reduced amount of £6 per month, for the first few months they 
held it. But they were regularly earning more than this in credit interest each month, as a 
result of having the Plus version of the account. So I cant rule out the possibility that they 
were aware of the fee-waiver on the Platinum account at the time (and have since forgotten 
about it) but specifically chose to have the Plus version as the credit interest they were 
earning combined with the reduced fee was the better option for them at the time.
Finally, Mr and Mrs Cs account changed from being a Platinum Plus account to a Platinum 
account in May 2016 (although the Plus feature was rebranded as Vantage in 2008). 
However, Lloyds has explained that the fee-waiver was no longer available on any new 
Platinum accounts since 2005. So the fee-waiver only remained available to those who 
already held a Platinum account when the fee-waiver was removed in 2005. Therefore, as 
Mr and Mrs C held a Platinum Plus account at the time the fee-waiver was removed, they 
were not eligible to have a fee-waiver once they changed their account to a Platinum 
account in May 2016. So I cant say that Lloyds acted incorrectly because the fee-waiver 
was not mentioned, and wasnt explained in any account literature, when they changed their 
account in May 2016.  
As such, whilst I do understand Mr and Mrs Cs frustration, overall I dont think that Lloyds 
has acted unfairly or unreasonably. Ultimately, as I think the Platinum Plus account was sold 
on a non-advised basis, Lloyds was not required to run through all of the alternative options 
to see which one better suited Mr and Mrs C. And I can see that the Platinum Plus product 
literature from the time did explain what a fee-waiver was and also that an account holder 
was not eligible for a fee-waiver if they held a Plus version of a packaged account.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman