DRN-4467826
The complaint
Mr L complains that UK Insurance Limited (UKI), trading as Prudential Home Insurance, 
declined a claim for storm damage under his home insurance.
Mr L is represented in this complaint by a relative (referred to in my decision as Mr R) but, 
for simplicity, Ill refer mainly to Mr L in my decision. 
What happened
Mr L had a UKI home insurance policy. In November 2022, he discovered water had come 
though his roof during a storm, causing damage to a bedroom. The storm had also blown the 
roof off his garage and damaged contents stored inside. Mr L reported the damage to UKI 
and made a claim on his insurance. 
UKI appointed a surveyor to inspect the damage. The surveyors report said, in summary: 
The concrete roof tiles werent damaged and There was no storm related damage 
externally.
The asphalt membrane underneath the roof tiles had a number of tears and was 
clearly deteriorated due to progressive effects of expansion and contraction. 
The water damage in the bedroom was a one-off event so was covered by the 
policys accidental damage cover.
Mr L and Mr R had been verbally abusive and physically threatening towards him.
Based on this report, UKI declined most of Mr Ls claim. It said the damage to the main roof 
was due to wear and tear so wasnt covered by his policy. It said its surveyor was unable to 
access the flat roof because it was covered by a tarpaulin. Finally, it said Mr L and Mr Rs 
behaviour towards its surveyor was not acceptable, so it wouldnt ask its supplier to repair 
the bedroom damage. Instead, it paid Mr L a cash settlement of £811.25 to cover repairs.
Mr L was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to this service. He says he was 
unhappy with the surveyor and asked him to leave his home, but he says the surveyor has 
lied about what happened during the visit. He wants UKI to settle his claim in full. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ls complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied 
that the surveyors report and photos showed the damage to the main roof was most likely 
due to wear and tear, so thought UKIs decision to decline this part of Mr Ls claim was 
reasonable. She accepted that UKIs surveyor couldnt inspect the garage roof and thought 
its decision to decline this part of the claim was also reasonable. Finally, she noted that Mr L 
didnt think UKIs cash settlement was enough to cover the internal damage but hadnt 
provided any evidence to support this. 
Mr L disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to review.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 9 November 2023. In it, I explained that I 
intended to uphold part of Mr Ls complaint. I said:
Before I decide whether the damage to Mr Ls home is covered by his insurance, Ive 
considered what happened when UKIs surveyor visited him in December 2022. 
The surveyor says Mr L and Mr R were verbally abusive and chased [him] out of the 
property. Mr L says this isnt true. He accepts that they asked the surveyor to leave, but only 
because they were upset by him turning up more than seven hours late for the inspection, 
his belligerent and arrogant attitude, his conclusion that the claim on the main roof should 
be declined, and his refusal to inspect the garage roof. 
Understandably, theres no recording of the inspection so theres no evidence which might 
show conclusively whether Mr L and Mr R acted unreasonably or whether they simply made 
legitimate, albeit frustrated, complaints that the surveyor overreacted to. In his call to UKI to 
report the claim, Mr L described his health problems to the call handler, and I could hear how 
the conversation left him short of breath. Given his age and health problems, I think Mr L 
might reasonably be considered vulnerable and I can understand why Mr R might have 
asked the surveyor to leave if Mr L became distressed. 
In February 2023, Mr L sent UKI more information about his claim as well as his account of 
the surveyors visit. UKI acknowledged Mr Ls continued dissatisfaction but said no further 
review will be carried out. It didnt address his concerns about the surveyors behaviour and 
didnt mention his claim for damage to the bedroom and garage roof.
I understand that UKI, rightly, wants to protect its suppliers. But it must also be fair to its 
policyholders. There are conflicting accounts of what happened during the surveyors visit, 
but it doesnt look like UKI investigated this. I think it should have done. There are several 
points that could have been easily checked. For example:
The surveyor said he called Mr L as soon as hed repaired his tyre to say hed be 
late. Mr L says Mr R made the call about 90 minutes after the surveyor was due. UKI 
could have asked the parties for evidence of these calls.
UKI could have asked its surveyor why he was so late for the inspection. His report 
mentions a flat tyre; Im not persuaded that this is a reasonable excuse for arriving 
seven hours late. 
The report said the surveyor was only told about the garage roof at the very end of 
the survey. When Mr L first spoke to UKI he was clear that the damage was to both 
his main roof and garage roof. UKI could have asked the surveyor why he wasnt 
aware of the damage to the garage.
Although I cant be sure what happened when the surveyor visited Mr L, I dont think its fair 
that UKI  with no corroborating evidence or investigation into the allegations of poor 
behaviour by either party  took its surveyors word over Mr Ls. Ive considered the impact 
of this when looking at the rest of Mr Ls complaint.
When we look at complaints about storm damage, we ask three questions: 
1. Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim? 
2. Is the damage consistent with storm damage? 
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to any of these questions is no the claim wont succeed.
Section 1 of Mr Ls policy booklet shows hes covered for loss or damage caused by a storm. The booklet doesnt define a storm. However Mr L provided a lot of evidence  for example, 
local and national news reports, plus weather records  to show the severe weather that hit 
his part of the country in early November 2022. UKI accepted that these were storm 
conditions, so its the second and third questions that are key to the claim.
The claim was for damage to the main roof, bedroom, and garage roof. Ill take each of these 
separately.
Main roof
The expert evidence in this case comes from UKIs surveyors report. His conclusion was 
that the lack of damage to the roof tiles, and tears in the asphalt membrane, showed the 
damage was due to wear and tear. Specifically, he said the membrane had deteriorated due 
to expansion and contraction. He noted that the roof was approximately 55 years ago, and 
the rear aspect had been replaced about ten years before. Ive done some research and 
found that this type of thermal damage is relatively common with membrane roofs.
The report contains several photos that appear to support the surveyors conclusions. For 
example, the photos show no visible damage to the tiles. One of the photos inside Mr Ls 
attic shows a tear in the membrane with a roof tile visible through the gap. The surveyor is 
saying that if the storm winds were strong enough to have torn the membrane under the 
tiles, hed expect to see damage to the tiles themselves.
Mr L hasnt provided his own expert report to contradict these findings. Ive considered the 
information, photos, and repair quotes he sent us. Neither quote describes damage to the 
tiles. And although Mr L told us he could hear the roof tiles rattling and lifting during the 
storm, he hasnt provided expert evidence of this or that this could have allowed winds to 
tear the membrane underneath. The surveyors report said: The tiles are not showing as 
been lifted. 
Ive thought about whether his argument with Mr L might have influenced the surveyors 
report. However, both parties said the argument happened after the surveyor told Mr L the 
damage was due to wear and tear. So Im satisfied that I can accept the report as a true 
summary of his findings.
In the absence of any expert opinion to the contrary, I accept UKIs surveyors conclusion 
that the roofs asphalt membrane had worn away over time. In other words, the storm wasnt 
the main cause of the damage. It follows that I dont think it was unreasonable for UKI to 
decline this part of Mr Ls claim.
Bedroom
Mr L doesnt understand how UKI can decline his claim for storm damage to the roof yet 
accept liability for the water damage in the bedroom. I understand this so Ill try to explain.
Mr Ls policy schedule shows hes covered for accidental damage to his buildings and 
contents. His policy booklet defines accidental damage as any sudden and unintentional 
physical damage that happens unexpectedly. This doesnt have to be storm damage. 
UKIs surveyor found that the water damage in Mr Ls bedroom was caused suddenly and 
unexpectedly and recommended that UKI settle this part of the claim. Under the policy 
terms, UKI must either repair the damage or make a cash payment. It wasnt prepared to 
have its contractors repair the damage, so it offered Mr L a cash payment of £811.25. Mr L 
doesnt think this is enough. Ive looked at both the report and UKIs internal notes of the claim. I see that the surveyor 
put the cost of repairing the damage at £811.25, but I couldnt find any explanation for how 
he calculated this sum and theres no description of what it covers. 
However, Mr L hasnt provided his own estimate for repairing the internal damage or 
explained why he thinks UKIs offer is too low. Without this, I cant say that UKIs offer is 
unfair. If Mr L can provide this, Id expect UKI to review this. But having studied the damage I 
can see in UKIs photos, I dont think its offer is unreasonable.
Garage roof
Mr Ls photos show significant damage to the garage roof, with large sections of felt torn off 
it. The surveyors report says: The [garage] flat roof was advised at the very end of the 
survey for which I could not access as there was a tarpaulin added onto the top and no 
photographs taken. I have three concerns here.
1. As Ive said, Mr L told UKI that the damage was to both his main roof and the garage 
roof. So I dont understand why the surveyor wasnt expecting to look at the garage.
2. I dont think it would have taken much time for the surveyor  with Mr Rs help if 
necessary  to remove the tarpaulin. I dont think it was acceptable for him to say he 
wasnt going to inspect it.
3. When he provided more information about his claim in February 2023, Mr L told UKI 
that his neighbour had taken photos of the garage roof. I think UKI should have 
asked for these and reviewed them. If it needed to validate the claim, I think it should 
have asked another surveyor to complete the inspection.
This means UKI declined part of Mr Ls claim without reviewing Mr Ls photos or inspecting 
the damage. I dont think this was fair. 
Normally, Id ask UKI to reconsider this part of Mr Ls claim. However, UKI had the chance to 
inspect the roof in December 2022 and didnt. Given the time thats passed since then, and 
the likelihood that the damage has got worse, Im not persuaded that a new inspection would 
help. I think the evidence shows the damage to Mr Ls garage roof is consistent with storm 
damage and, on balance, Im satisfied that the storm was the main cause of the damage. 
That means Im going to ask UKI to settle this part of Mr Ls claim in line with the remaining 
policy terms.
Mr Ls quote for repairs to the garage roof was £1,918 (plus VAT). This quote was in 
February 2023 so Im conscious its now out-of-date. I think it would be fair to both parties if 
Mr L got a new quote before UKI settles his claim. I also note that Mr L told us some garage 
contents were ruined. He should provide details of these to UKI to consider whether theyre 
covered by his policy.
Finally, for the reasons I set out at the start of this decision, I think UKIs handling of Mr Ls 
claim caused him unnecessary distress and inconvenience. In the circumstances, I think it 
should pay Mr L £200 to reflect this.
In summary, and subject to any evidence the parties wish to provide in response to this 
provisional decision, I think:
UKIs decision to decline the claim for damage to the main roof was reasonable.
In the absence of evidence from Mr L, UKIs cash settlement for the water damage in 
the bedroom was fair.
UKIs decision to decline the claim for damage to the garage roof was unreasonable.UKI should compensate Mr L for its handling of his claim.
Responses to my provisional decision
UKI accepted my provisional decision and had no further comments.
Mr L  through his representative, Mr R  didnt say whether he agreed with my decision. He 
said, in summary:
He lives in a very rural area, and it would be difficult to get a new quote for the 
garage roof before I make my final decision.
It was hard to get the original quotes for repairs, with tradesmen reluctant to visit his 
home. This explains the lack of quote for the bedroom damage. He expected his 
insurer to take care of this for him.
UKI didnt treat him professionally, reasonably or even fairly. 
Mr R telephoned the surveyor when he wasnt on time for the inspection, not vice 
versa.
He doesnt believe the surveyor could have made a proper evaluation of the damage 
given it was already dark when he arrived. He also questions whether the surveyor 
holds appropriate professional qualifications.
He made a similar claim for the rear side of his main roof ten years ago, which was 
initially declined before being upheld by this service. He believes UKI is trying the 
same tactic.
He made several comments about UKIs most recent annual accounts.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L has made many comments about why he believes UKIs handling of his claim was 
unfair. Ive looked at everything hes said but I dont think I need to address each point to 
reach the right outcome. Ive focused instead on what I think are the key issues. 
Im satisfied that Ive already considered the points Mr L raised. I understand his comments 
about the report, however the surveyors photos clearly show it was still light enough to see 
the condition of the roof tiles and the internal photos are also clear. While I appreciate the 
difficulties Mr L had finding quotes for repairs, he hasnt provided expert evidence to 
contradict UKIs surveyors findings about the main roof. And, for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision, I dont think those conclusions were unreasonable.
Mr L told us it might take time to get a new quote for the garage roof. I understand that and I 
wasnt expecting him to provide this in response to my provisional decision. I think it would 
be reasonable for him to get a new quote before UKI settles this part of his claim but if hes 
unable to get this quickly  and given his vulnerability  Id expect UKI to make appropriate 
allowances. For example, it might be reasonable to use the February 2023 quote as basis 
for any settlement. I leave that to UKI and Mr L to agree.
Otherwise, I uphold Mr Ls complaint for the same reasons I set out in my provisional 
decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and require UK Insurance Limited to:Settle Mr Ls claim for damage to his garage roof in line with the policy terms; and
Pay Mr L £200 to reflect the distress and inconvenience its handling of the complaint 
caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman