DRN-4466392
The complaint
Mr M and Ms M complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax hasnt kept full and 
detailed records of a mortgage application they made in 2015, so that Halifax cant confirm 
now why their request for additional lending didnt go ahead at that time. 
What happened
Mr M and Ms M said they had applied for additional mortgage lending in late 2015. But they 
said Halifax turned down their application, because it thought they couldnt afford any more 
lending. Mr M and Ms M felt that was unfair, and they said the fact they hadnt missed any 
payments since then, even though their payments had gone up, showed that Halifaxs 
decision in 2015 was wrong.
Mr M and Ms Ms complaint was made in January 2023, when they were applying again for 
extra lending, and recognised the same advisor from their previous application. Our service 
has already written to Mr M and Ms M to say that we cannot look at what happened with the 
mortgage application they made in 2015, so I wont discuss that further here. But when 
Halifax said that it had few details of what happened back in late 2015, Mr M and Ms M said 
Halifax should have all the details of what happened in 2015, so it should be able to look into 
their complaint now. And they said if Halifax hadnt kept full details of their 2015 mortgage 
application, including why they were turned down at that time, then Mr M and Ms M also 
wanted to complain about Halifaxs record-keeping.
Our investigator thought it was reasonable for Halifax not to have full records of the 2015 
additional mortgage lending application, particularly as the application didnt go ahead. He 
said Halifax shouldnt hold more records than necessary. Our investigator said Mr M and Ms 
M werent prevented from applying for further lending again now, just because Halifax didnt 
have the old records. And he noted Halifax had said they could apply over the phone if they 
didnt want to deal with this advisor again. So he didnt think Halifax had to do any more.
Mr M and Ms M didnt agree. They wanted an ombudsman to look at why Halifax didnt have 
a copy of the decision on their 2015 application now. So this case was then passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. Like him, I 
dont think its unreasonable for Halifax to say it doesnt have full details now, of an 
application which was made in 2015. 
As our investigator said, Halifax shouldnt just keep hold of all the information Mr M and Ms 
M have ever given it. Under the laws governing data protection, Halifax has to be able to 
justify how long it keeps personal data for. And I think, particularly because this 2015 
application didnt go ahead, its reasonable for Halifax to say it hasnt kept absolutely all the 
information that it had at the time, about that application. 
Halifaxs decision not to keep all that information hasnt stopped Mr M and Ms M from 
complaining about what happened in 2015. Our service has already explained that we 
unfortunately arent able to consider a complaint about that now, for reasons which arent 
related to the information Halifax now holds. And I dont think this affects Halifaxs 
consideration of any mortgage application for extra lending that Mr M and Ms M would like to 
make now. 
I understand that Mr M and Ms M didnt want to deal with the same advisor they spoke to in 
2015, so Im pleased to see that Halifax has identified an alternative way for their application 
to be considered, if they would like. 
I understand that Mr M and Ms M will be disappointed, but Ive looked at the parts of their 
complaint which our service is able to consider, and I dont think Halifax has done anything 
wrong here. And that means their complaint wont be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 December 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman