DRN-2815458
The complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
taken out in 1992 in connection with a mortgage. Mrs P and the estate of Mr P (the 
complainants) say HSBC UK Bank plc mis-sold them PPI.
What happened
The complainants took out a PPI policy alongside their mortgage. They paid a monthly 
amount for the policy which offered accident, sickness and unemployment cover. They said 
they didnt need PPI.
 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be rejected. The complainants disagreed with 
our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding the complainants case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
HSBC should have made the complainants aware they had a choice in buying the policy. 
Neither HSBC nor the complainants have any paperwork from the time of sale. I dont think 
thats surprising given that the sale took place around 29 years ago. But it does mean I have 
limited information about the sale, so I have to decide what I think is most likely to have 
happened, given the information I do have and the broader circumstances.
Based on what I know about how HSBC sold policies like this at the time I think its likely the 
optional nature would have been made clear. And nothing the complainants have told me 
makes me think HSBC didnt follow its normal process here. So overall, I think its likely 
HSBC made it clear to the complainants they had a choice about the PPI, and they agreed 
to buy it. 
HSBC says it cant say whether the sale was advised or non-advised and the complainants 
said it was non-advised. But I may not have to make a decision about that because I think 
the policy was probably suitable for them. I say this because the complainants were eligible 
to buy PPI, it seemed affordable at the time and they were not affected by the main things 
the policy didnt cover (the exclusions).
I noted the complainants said they had savings. But I think the policy could have paid out for 
them on a successful claim, which would have left their savings for other expenses. So I 
dont think their savings made the policy unsuitable.
I also noted the complainants said Mr P was self-employed at the time of the sale. HSBC 
has referred us to a sample of the policy they would have taken out  but this was dated 
after the PPI sale. So I have referred to a sample policy dated before the date of the PPI 
sale to see if Mr P would have been adversely affected by the policy terms and conditions. 
Having looked at the policy terms closely, I dont think he would have had to do anything 
more than an employed person would have to do to make a successful claim for 
unemployment cover. So I dont think Mr Ps self-employed status made the policy 
unsuitable for the complainants.
Looking at everything Ive been given, its possible the information HSBC gave the 
complainants about the PPI wasnt as clear as it could have been. But having decided the 
complainants chose to take out the PPI - it looks like they wanted this type of cover. And  
for the reasons Ive explained above - it looks like the policy would have been useful for 
them if something went wrong.
It also looks like the policy was affordable for them so I dont think better information about 
the PPI would have put the complainants off from taking out the cover. And overall I dont 
think the complainants have lost out by anything HSBC might have done wrong.
I realise that my decision is likely to be disappointing for the complainants. Its always difficult 
to decide a complaint on very little information. But Ive thought very carefully about what the 
complainants have said and about what I know of HSBCs sales processes. And I dont think 
 on balance  I can fairly and reasonably uphold their complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and the 
estate of Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman