DRN-1987666
The complaint
Ms N complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds Bank trading at the time of sale as 
Cheltenham & Gloucester) sold her a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a regular premium MPPI policy taken out in May 2000 alongside a 
further advance. Ms N applied for the policy in a meeting. The policy covered her against 
accidents, sickness and unemployment.
Ms N says she had no need for the cover as she already had good sick pay with her 
employer.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Ms N disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ns case.
I have decided not to uphold Ms Ns complaint. Here are my reasons:
Ms N says she had no need for PPI. I cant be sure what was discussed between Ms 
N and Lloyds Bank during the meeting. Its completely understandable that Ms Ns 
recollections are not detailed as the sale took place many years ago. And because 
of this I have needed to also consider the sales documentation to give me an 
understanding as to what more likely happened.
I can see that Ms N would have signed a separate application form for MPPI when 
she was also arranging her mortgage. So, I think, it is more likely that she would 
have understood that it was a separate product and that she had a choice to take it. 
So, I don't uphold her complaint on this point, based on what I have seen and have 
concluded above.
Moving on, I need to consider next whether Lloyds Bank provided advice to Ms N or 
not during the sale. If it did, it would have had an additional responsibility to ensure 
the policy was suitable for her. On looking at the information provided and in 
particular the application form, I think advice was given.

And based on the information Ive seen, I think the policy was suitable for Ms N. I say 
this after considering Ms N's circumstances at the time of sale. Because, although 
Ms N says she had sick pay she could have used (6 months half and 6 months full), 
the MPPI policy would have paid out if she was made unemployed or if she was sick 
in addition to her means. Having the policy in place would mean Ms N could use any 
provisions she may have had to cover other expenses. I dont think her means are 
sufficient for me reasonably to say that she wouldnt have wanted the policy.
Ms N was not affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits. It is 
unlikely Ms N needed better advice or information about the policys exclusions and 
limitations and if she had received clear information on these terms, I dont think it 
would have put her off.
Finally, I cant be sure that the costs of the policy were disclosed in a clear way, but 
even if Lloyds Bank did, I dont think Ms N would have done anything differently for 
the same reasons as I have already given. Ive also seen nothing to suggest it was 
unaffordable.
In conclusion, based on what I have seen, I do not think the policy was mis-sold.
Ive also thought about the commission Ms N paid on the policy  and whether Lloyds Bank 
treated her unfairly.
Lloyds Bank has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms N because:
Lloyds Bank got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Ms N about that. Because Lloyds Bank didnt 
tell her, that was unfair.
To put that right, Lloyds Bank has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Ms N.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Ms N any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI already done this, so I dont award any further 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2020.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman