DRN-2285581
The complaint
Mrs B complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) badly handled her claim on her motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs B was involved in an accident on 7 December 2019. She registered a claim on her 
motor insurance policy with AXA on the same day. 
AXA asked their approved repairer to assess Mrs Bs car. That assessment deemed the car 
a write off. 
Mrs B was unhappy with how her claim was being handled. She felt her car was repairable. 
AXA agreed to let her own garage assess the repair cost. The estimated cost fell just below 
AXAs repair limit, so they authorised the repairs.
 
Mrs B was also unhappy when her car was returned to her from AXAs approved repairer. It 
wasnt returned when promised and this resulted in her husband having a wasted day off 
work.
 
Mrs B raised a number of complaints with AXA. They took longer than they usually would to 
investigate the complaints. Mrs B was unhappy with their service. So she brought her 
complaint to this service in February 2020.
AXA replied to Mrs Bs complaints in August 2020, issuing three final response letters. They 
apologised and offered her the following compensation:
£250 for having to wait for her car to be returned from AXAs approved repairer
£150 for how her car had been handled by there
£200 for not meeting her expectations, poor communications and damage to her 
vehicle (which AXA additionally covered the repair costs for)
£100 for the distress and inconvenience caused by long hold times on the phone
£150 for her expectations not being met about the repairs required
£150 for the lack of contact from the complaints team
£200 for poor support
In July 2020 Mrs B made a further complaint. She felt her cars engine had been damaged 
by AXAs approved repairer. She said theyd driven the car when it was undrivable and that 
this had caused significant further damage to the car. This had cost her around £3,300 to 
repair. 
She also said she expected compensation for:
all the calls her and her husband had needed to make; 
the wasted days off work her husband had to take; 
the loss of her car for over 7 months;
the insurance premiums she paid when she didn't have the car; 
the costs she wouldve had to pay to hire another similar vehicle during the period 
her car was being repaired;
distress and inconvenience; and
the costs of the additional repairs required after AXAs driver had driven it when it 
was undrivable
Our service has been investigating the issues AXA werent able to cover in their final 
responses. These are:
being without a second car during the repair period; and
the engine damage
Our investigator looked into these issues. And also reviewed the compensation AXA had 
already offered for the issues theyd investigated. She felt AXA had handled the complaints 
theyd reviewed fairly and reasonably. But she felt that AXA should pay an additional £250 
compensation for the inconvenience Mrs B had suffered in not having use of her car during 
the extended repair period. She didnt feel it would be fair to ask AXA to cover the cost of the 
engine damage repairs as shed seen no evidence AXA were responsible for the damage.  
AXA agreed with our investigator. Mrs B didnt agree that the compensation was enough. So 
her complaint has come to me for a final decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are many strands to this complaint. AXA have responded to the majority of them in 
their three final response letters dated 17, 19 and 21 August 2020. As both parties are well 
aware of the contents of those letters Ill not spend much time in my decision discussing the 
points covered.
But I can say that Ive looked at all of the information provided by all parties. And taking 
everything into account, I agree with our investigator that AXAs response to the complaint 
points covered in those final response letters has been fair and reasonable. And the 
compensation thats been given is in line with what I wouldve awarded. So I wont be asking 
AXA to do anything more in respect of those parts of Mrs Bs complaints.
Ill now consider the remaining parts of the complaint that AXA havent yet responded to. 
There are:
being without her car during the repair period; 
the engine damage; and 
Mrs B has also asked me to consider a refund of her insurance premiums for the 
extended period she was without her vehicle
Ill consider each complaint separately.
Being without a second car during the repair period
Mrs Bs policy document explains what hire car cover she has in the event of her car being 
damaged. The policy says:
Courtesy car
If your car is repaired by one of our approved repairers, you will be supplied with a courtesy 
car while your car is being repaired. If your car cannot be repaired (total loss), you will be provided with a courtesy car however you will only be able to keep this for 14 days after the 
date the courtesy car was delivered to you. 
Mrs Bs car was initially deemed a total loss by AXAs approved repairers. Under the terms 
of her policy, AXA are entitled to decide whether to repair or cash settle the claim. 
The approved repairers assessed the repair cost. That cost exceeded the limit AXA had set 
for repairs to be their chosen method for the claim. But Mrs B wanted her car to be repaired. 
She found out how much her own garage could repair it for. That estimate came in just 
below AXAs limit, so they agreed to have her car repaired at her own garage.
Given the car wasnt repaired by one of AXAs approved repairers, the most she was entitled 
to was 14 days courtesy car under the terms of her policy. Mrs B actually had the use of a 
courtesy car for a period of 23 days. 
Although I consider that AXA followed the terms and conditions of the policy regarding the 
courtesy car, I feel that AXA should take some responsibility for the length of time it took to 
complete the repairs. This time was lengthened by the poor claims process and by the 
additional repairs that were needed. This led to Mrs B being without a second car for longer 
than she shouldve been. I consider that £250 is fair and reasonable compensation for this.
The engine damage
Mrs B said shed had to pay for further repairs to her car. She felt the engine damage was 
caused by AXAs approved repairers. She said the driver who returned our vehicle in the 
late evening advised us that he had started the vehicle, drove it round the yard and onto 
the recovery vehicle. This is despite the obvious front-end damage to our vehicle which had 
meant that fluids had drained from the radiator etc.
From what Ive seen, AXAs approved repairers wouldve been aware that the radiator had 
been damaged in the accident. And it seems that the car was only moved using a forklift. 
The inspection reports dont mention any damage to the engine. So I have no evidence that 
the damage was accident-related. And Ive seen no evidence that AXAs approved repairers 
were responsible for the damage after the accident. So I cant ask AXA to refund Mrs B the 
cost of the repairs.
Refund of insurance premium while not having use of her car
Mrs B felt that she shouldnt have had to pay for her insurance while her car was out of use. 
But I can't ask AXA to refund her premiums. Shes had the benefit of the insurance due to 
making the claim. And the repairs were always going to take some time to complete.
Summary
Having looked at all the evidence and considering what AXA have already done to make 
things right, I feel that an additional £250 compensation for being without a second car for 
longer than necessary is fair and reasonable under the circumstances.
I know that Mrs B will be disappointed with this decision. Shes told us that both her and her 
husband have suffered health issues for which they hold AXA responsible. I can see that 
AXA have caused her distress and inconvenience throughout the claim. But I also 
acknowledge that AXA have already made compensation payments for distress and 
inconvenience. And those payments are in line with what this service wouldve 
recommended. 
Putting things rightAXA Insurance UK Plc must pay Mrs B £250 additional compensation for being without a 
second car during the repair period.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Bs complaint. 
I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mrs B £250 compensation.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman