DRN-3258976
Complaint
Mr L has complained that Ulster Bank Ltd (Ulster) unfairly added interest, fees and charges 
to his overdraft when it ought to have been apparent he couldnt pay them. He feels that he 
should have been offered a loan instead as this would have been cheaper.
Background
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ls concerns. She didnt think that Ulster had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr L unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr L disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the 
various amounts Ulster charged Mr L over the years were fair and reasonable, or 
proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a 
bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get 
involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at Ulsters charging structure per se, it wont have acted fairly 
and reasonably towards Mr L if it applied these interest, fees and charges to Mr Ls account 
in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been
aware Mr L was experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive considered whether there were
instances where Ulster didnt treat Mr L fairly and reasonably. 
Ive looked through Mr Ls statements throughout the period concerned. And I cant see that 
Ulster ought to have realised that Mr L was experiencing financial difficulty. Mr L has argued 
that the regular use of his overdraft was in itself an indication Ulster ought to have acted. But 
the crucial point here is that Mr Ls account regularly received significant funds, which meant 
that it wasnt unreasonable for Ulster to conclude there was a reasonable prospect of his 
overdraft sustainably being repaid. 
And while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over Mr L expenditure, 
nonetheless there are significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and 
discretionary transactions being made from the account. And the reason Mr Ls overdrawn 
balance usually spiked was because of a large purchase or transfer of funds. So I cant 
reasonably say that it was the overdraft charges that were responsible for Mr Ls overdraft 
balance here. 
I accept that all of these things in themselves (or even taken together) dont mean that Mr L 
wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt anything in Mr Ls transactions in 
themselves which ought to have prompted Ulster to have realised this, in the absence of    
Mr L asking for help. I know Mr L has said Ulster should have proactively offered him a loan. 
But Ulster wont have known Mr L wanted a less flexible option  especially as his account 
usage and pattern of credits indicated the flexibility of an overdraft was something he might 
have been finding useful. I think its also fair to say that Mr L could have approached Ulster 
for a loan himself if he wanted to fix his monthly payments and no longer have an overdraft.
So, in these circumstances, I dont think that it was unreasonable for Ulster to proceed with 
the interest, fees and charges it added. And I dont think Ulster unfairly charged Mr L in 
circumstances where it ought to have realised that he may have been experiencing financial 
difficulty.
As this is the case, I dont think that it needs to refund any interest, fees and charges and Im 
not upholding Mr Ls complaint. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr L. But I 
hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns 
have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman