DRN-3694560
The complaint
Ms C complains about the way AXA PPP Healthcare Limited has handled claims she made 
on her personal private medical insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so Im simply setting out a 
brief timeline of events.
Ms C held a personal private medical insurance policy between 2014 and 2018, which was 
insured by AXA. In July 2018, Ms C took out a new personal private medical insurance 
policy which was also underwritten by AXA.
In September 2021, Ms C got in touch with AXA to make a claim for the treatment of skin 
lesions with a private consultant. AXA agreed to provide cover and gave Ms C an 
authorisation code. The following month, Ms C contacted AXA again to let it know the 
procedure codes for the treatment she needed.
The consultant sent AXA an invoice for Ms Cs appointment. However, the invoice included 
Ms Cs old policy number and the wrong authorisation code. The consultant sent a second 
invoice with the correct policy number, but still using the incorrect authorisation code. So 
when AXA received the invoices, it contacted the consultant to say that Ms Cs policy had 
lapsed and that she wasnt an AXA member.
Ms C was very unhappy with AXAs handling of her claim. She felt that AXA had changed 
her membership number without her knowledge and had questioned her financial integrity. 
She considered that its actions had been libellous. And she didnt think AXA had settled the 
invoices correctly at the point it had traced her policy.
AXA said the first invoice had contained the wrong information, which was why Ms Cs policy 
couldnt be traced. But it acknowledged that it shouldve been able to trace Ms Cs policy 
from the information on the second invoice and so it apologised. It also accepted that it 
hadnt assessed the claim properly, as it had treated the consultant as being fee-limited, 
when such a limitation didnt apply to some consultations and treatments. It said it would 
correct its mistake.
Ms C remained unhappy with AXAs position and she asked us to look into her complaint. 
While the complaint was with us, she raised further concerns about the way AXA had 
handled invoices for further treatment and consultation costs shed incurred while under the 
care of the consultant. 
AXA noted that Ms C had been diagnosed with skin cancer and so it agreed to cover two 
further invoices in full. Due to some confusion about what should be paid, it recouped some 
costs, so Ms C had to pay the consultant for these charges (in additional to payable costs of 
£100 excess and £134.40 which werent covered by the policy). So AXA suggested that Ms 
C should seek to recover her overpayment from the consultant. It accepted that it hadnt 
provided Ms C with the service it ought to have done and so it sent Ms C a cheque for £100 
in compensation.
Our investigator considered both complaints. And she didnt think they should be upheld. 
She felt the initial confusion surrounding the September 2021 invoice was because the 
consultant had included the incorrect information on the invoice. And she thought £100 
compensation was sufficient to put right AXAs service failings.  
Ms C disagreed. She said shed never received a written rationale for her change of 
membership details. She hadnt been compensated for defamation of character and her 
personal integrity had been attacked. She said AXA had since declined to cover further 
procedures. Shed suffered emotional and medical anxiety and had had to fund more of her 
treatment than shed anticipated. Shed spent a great deal of time dealing with AXAs 
incompetence and she felt she deserved compensation. Even when AXA had offered 
compensation, it had forgot to send this money to her. She felt that £500 compensation 
would be a fair award.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. Its important I make clear that this decision 
will only focus on the specific complaint points AXA dealt with in its final response letters of 
December 2021 and June 2022. I wont be commenting on Ms Cs concerns about 
outpatient costs which AXA has declined to cover. Thats because these complaint points 
havent been raised with AXA and it hasnt had an opportunity to respond to Ms C about 
these concerns. So shell need to raise a new complaint with AXA about these particular 
issues before we can potentially look into those issues alone.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Ms C, I think that AXA has treated her fairly 
and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Ms C that whilst Ive summarised the detailed background to her 
complaint and her submissions to us, Ive carefully considered all thats been said and sent 
to us. Within this decision though, I havent commented on every point Ms C has raised and 
nor do our rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key issues.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. So 
Ive considered, amongst other things, the policy terms and the available evidence, to decide 
whether AXA treated Ms C fairly. Ms C has two main heads of complaint, so Ive looked at 
each in turn.
The first complaint
Theres no dispute that Ms C contacted AXA, in September 2021, ahead of her consultations 
and treatment with her consultant. It seems that at that time, Ms C provided the correct 
policy number to AXA and it gave her an authorisation code. Ms Cs policy membership 
number had been in place since she took out the new policy with AXA in July 2018 and was 
clearly quoted - not just on the July 2018 membership certificate - but on each of the 
certificates that followed at each policy renewal. It seems to me then that AXA had, at least 
annually, clearly communicated Ms Cs policy number to her.
Unfortunately, when the consultant issued their first invoice to AXA, they included Ms Cs old 
policy number, together with the incorrect authorisation code. AXA has said that it hides old 
policy numbers, which means that they cant be searched for or found on its systems. And it 
couldnt have searched for Ms C through the authorisation code either. I think this is a reasonable explanation for the reason why AXA couldnt find Ms Cs policy upon receipt of 
this invoice and I dont think it was unfair for AXA to tell the consultant at this point that Ms C 
didnt appear to have a policy.
Upon issuing the second invoice, the consultant included the correct policy number, but 
failed to update the authorisation code. I do think, at this point, AXA had enough information 
to trace Ms Cs policy through the membership number it was quoted. And it agrees that this 
was the case.
It isnt clear why the consultant included the wrong policy and authorisation information on 
the first invoice. Ms C had previously been under his care while she held the old policy, so 
its possible that there was a simple miscommunication about Ms Cs up-to-date claims 
information or the consultants system simply failed to update. But I dont think AXA acted 
unreasonably here when it couldnt trace Ms Cs policy, or when it let the consultant know 
that she didnt appear to have a live policy. After all, the old policy had been lapsed. And the 
failure to identify Ms Cs policy from the second invoice seems to have been down to human 
error. I dont think there was any intention to deliberately mislead the consultant as to Ms Cs 
cover and neither did AXA tell the consultant that Ms C hadnt paid for her cover. I note too 
that once it became aware of the error, the invoices were settled. 
AXA accepts it went on to incorrectly assess those invoices as if the consultant was fully fee-
limited when this wasnt the case. And I accept that this mustve been frustrating for Ms C at 
a time when she was already unhappy with AXAs handling of her claim. But I think AXA 
gave a reasonable explanation for its error and it seems it took prompt steps to correct its 
error and pay the claim in line with its liability.
The second complaint
Ms C underwent further treatment and consultations following her diagnosis with skin 
cancer. And AXA was invoiced for these further costs. Ms Cs chosen consultant wasnt a 
fee-assured specialist under the policy Ms C held. The policy says that if a policyholder 
undergoes treatment by a non-fee assured specialist, albeit a specialist who is recognised 
by AXA, it will pay 60% of their fees. It appears that there was some confusion around what 
payments ought to have been made and the explanations AXA had previously given Ms C 
about this term and how it applied to her policy dont seem to have been very clear. This led 
to AXA recouping some payments which had been made and Ms C needing to cover some 
costs.
However, as Ms C had been diagnosed with skin cancer, some costs were covered in full 
under her cancer benefit, which wasnt subject to an out-patient allowance. And AXA agreed 
to cover a shortfall of £370 for a separate procedure on an ex-gratia basis. I think this was a 
fair and appropriate response from AXA.
I also think it was reasonable for AXA to direct Ms C to claim any overpayments shed made 
back from her consultant. Thats because it was the consultant whod been paid both by AXA 
and Ms C.
Its clear that AXA did make some mistakes here and that things couldve gone better. But 
its apologised for the lack of clarity and for the confusion it caused. And it sent Ms C a 
cheque for £100 as compensation for the trouble and upset its handling of her claim had 
caused her. In my view, this was fair compensation to reflect Ms Cs likely distress and 
inconvenience. And Ive borne in mind too that it appears to have settled costs outside of its 
strict policy liability, which I think was a fair and reasonable response to its handling of this 
claim.Overall then, I think AXA has responded to Ms Cs complaint fairly and so Im not directing it 
to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman