DRN-3801874
The complaint
Mr S says Killik & Co (KC) is responsible for investments (and loss) caused by its failure to 
inform him about an erroneous overpayment it made into his Self-Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP). He says the size of the payment and his unawareness of the error led him to make 
more investments in the SIPP than he would have made if the correct (and lower) payment 
had been received. He seeks compensation for financial loss and he disputes the £500 
value compensation (for distress and inconvenience) that KC presented to him.
Aside from its offer for distress and inconvenience, caused by the error and lack of 
communication, KC disputes Mr S claim for financial loss. It says the overpayment had to be 
recovered from the SIPP, as required by HMRC rules; that Mr S knew and would have 
known the payment was wrong and that it was around double what he was due; that he did 
not query it at the relevant time; and his claim that he thought the overpayment was other 
money due to him is defeated by evidence.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that the complaint should 
not be upheld. He broadly agreed with KCs position in the matter and considered that the 
balance of evidence supported its position  but did not support Mr S. Overall, he mainly 
found as follows:
Up to 2019 Mr S SIPP was managed by KC. In October that year he instructed 
transfer of the SIPPs management, in specie, to Equiniti (now Interactive Investor 
(II)). II could accept all the SIPPs contents, except a holding in MOMA Food Limited 
(MOMA), so the transfer proceeded without this holding. 
In November 2021 Mr S was in a position to sell the MOMA holding, and did so. In 
the following month KC confirmed to him that it had received £159,981.85 from the 
sale. However, a remittance error led to payment of £318,991.29 into Mr S II SIPP 
account.
KC was unsuccessful in its attempt to recover the overpayment through the banking 
system, so it contacted the SIPP administrator to recover the overpayment  which, it 
said, the administrator was required by HMRC rules to resolve. Recovery of 
£159,981.85 was made from Mr S II SIPP account in February 2022.
By the time of the recovery Mr S had made some investments with part of the money 
received. He says he usually made those types of (risky) investments with 25% of 
available funds, so had he known the money received was an overpayment he would 
not have invested to the extent that he did. However, there is evidence of the 
following:
oOn 13 December 2021 KC sent Mr S confirmation that, on 10 December 
2021, £159,981.85 from the MOMA holding sale was credited to his account.
oOn 30 December 2021 Mr S contacted the SIPP administrator to query the 
payment and it confirmed that £159,009.44 was the sale proceeds amount. 
He says he thought the excess payment he received was from other accounts 
he had with KC that he had asked it to close. However, evidence of his 
request to close those accounts shows he did that in March 2022, months 
after December 2021.
The investigator also suggested Mr S would have known the amount he sold the MOMA 
holding for, that would have been the amount (with allowance for commission) he expected 
to receive, so he ought to have questioned receiving around double that amount. He was not 
persuaded by Mr S claim of unawareness and he took the view that KC was not and could 
not reasonably be responsible for the investments Mr S made (or any loss from them). He 
also said he was satisfied that the £500 value compensation paid by KC was fair and 
reasonable for the error and its lack of communication (prior to recovering the overpayment).
Mr S disagreed with this outcome, asked for an Ombudsmans decision and questioned the 
absence of a basis/calculation for the £500 award that the investigator endorsed. He mainly 
argued that the contents of the SIPP administrators message to him on 30 December gave 
him the impression the excess payment was from other accounts held with KC; that KCs 
three key mistakes (the overpayment, failure to communicate the overpayment and failure to 
communicate its recovery) remain the issues to address; and that those were the mistakes 
that led to the investments he made (whilst unaware there had been an overpayment) and to 
his loss.
The investigator responded to Mr S points, but was not persuaded to change his view. The 
matter was then referred to an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusions expressed by the investigator. 
I address the matter of distress and inconvenience first.
KCs offer to Mr S, which appears to have been settled, was for a total value of £500 
(inclusive of a waiver of custody fee and commission charge debits in his KC account). It 
was for the distress and inconvenience caused to him by the overpayment error and by its 
failure to communicate with him prior to recovery of the overpayment. I am not persuaded 
that any other ground(s) for compensation (for distress and inconvenience) exists in this 
case. 
The offer sufficiently covers the first and third of the three key mistakes Mr S has highlighted, 
and I do not consider that fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to 
him by both mistakes goes beyond £500. This is distinct from compensation for financial 
loss, where the sort of calculation that he mentioned becomes relevant. The basis for 
compensation is recognition, through a reasonable financial award, of the particular distress 
and inconvenience caused to him. With regards to the second key mistake he refers to, and 
as I address further below, I do not find that lack of contact from KC about the overpayment 
created any impact. He was informed enough around the time to know that there had been 
an overpayment. If KC has not already paid him the rest of the £500 offer (after waiver of the 
fee/charge debits), I expect that it will do so without undue delay.
Mr S claim for financial loss rests on the second mistake he alleges. He says, but for KCs 
failure to notify him about the overpayment, he would have invested less of the remitted 
cash. The argument appears to be that he would have limited his 25% calculation to the money he was entitled to, as opposed to the full remittance. The causal link between his 
particular investment decisions and KCs erroneous overpayment is not quite clear, but I can 
understand the argument that had the correct net sale proceeds been paid to him, he would 
have had only around half of the money that was wrongly transferred and that scenario, he 
says, would have influenced how he invested. In any case, it remains necessary to establish 
the argument that he was unaware there was an overpayment. If the opposite was, actually 
or probably, the case then his claim fails, because he would have invested with knowledge 
there had been an overpayment.
On balance, I consider that the investigator raised relevant points of evidence in this respect. 
Mr S says the investigator was misguided in his approach and mistaken in his understanding 
of the evidence, but I am not persuaded to agree. I have reviewed the available evidence 
independently and will address them as they are. I do that as follows:
There is evidence from October 2019 that a full in specie (cash and investments) 
transfer of management from KC to II, in relation to Mr S SIPP, was instructed at the 
time and that II could not accept the MOMA holding. The transfer proceeded and was 
completed on this basis, whereby the SIPP (minus the holding) moved to an II 
account and the holding remained in the KC account until the sale in late 2021.
By late 2021, evidence shows that other than the MOMA holding there was nothing 
else in the KC SIPP account. Indeed, there is an email from Mr S to KC dated 25 
November 2021 in which he confirmed this and referred to his sale of the holding. 
There is also no evidence that he held any other SIPP account with KC. Therefore, 
these facts defeat any notion that, in addition to the proceeds from the sale, there 
was other money to remit from that account. As the investigator noted, there is an 
email from Mr S to KC dated 9 March 2022, in which he chased progress for his 
complaint and asked for  any funds in [his] Killik account to be transferred out and 
all accounts closed. It stands to reason that this instruction could not have related to 
any money received in December 2021, because it happened three months after 
December 2021.
On 13 December 2021, a MyKillik account link was sent by email, from KC to Mr S, 
with notice of a corporate action document. The linked document, of the same date, 
referred to a £159,981.85 credit into his SIPP account with regards to the sale of his 
MOMA holding and to the £972.41 commission deduction applied. Later in the same 
month, on 30 December, Mr S had the exchange with the SIPP administrator that he 
has mentioned. First, he asked for confirmation of the sale proceeds amount; the 
administrator said £318,991.29 had been received from KC but it did not  have the 
information to see what, of this amount was from the Moma sale and what was 
already in the account; the administrator sought clarification and returned to Mr S, it 
said KC had  advised the following - We have received £159,981.85 from the 
solicitors after deduction of their charges and our own commission was £972.41 
resulting in a net payment to the client of £159,009.44.
On balance, mindful of Mr S wider awareness about the sold MOMA holding being 
the only content that had been left in the KC account and mindful of the fact that he 
did not ask for any other transfers from KC until three months later, I consider it 
inconceivable that this exchange in December 2021 could have given him the 
impression that the money beyond £159,009.44 was from other payments due to 
him. No such other payments existed. He would have been aware of that at the time. 
On 13 and 30 December he was made aware of the correct sale proceeds amount, 
both gross and net, and I agree with the investigators suggestion that he probably 
had an idea of the amount prior to this when he agreed or arranged the sale of the holding.
It is not disputed that KC did not inform Mr S about the overpayment, and it has explained its 
reasons why. Based on the above analysis, I consider this a moot and irrelevant point. Given 
the circumstances summarised above, Mr S either knew of the overpayment in December 
2021 or ought reasonably to have known about it at that time. The administrator first said it 
did not have information on what was left in the account (other than the sale proceeds) and 
then confirmed the correct net proceeds amount, as it had been told by KC. Neither of these 
could have given the impression that there were additional amounts to be transferred from 
the account.
For the above reasons, I do not accept that Mr S investments were misled by an 
overpayment he was unaware of. Instead, I consider that he was (or probably was) aware of 
the overpayment, he ought reasonably to have been aware of it and his investments were 
made (or probably made) with this knowledge. There is therefore no basis for the financial 
loss claim he has made.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman