DRN-4201917
The complaint
Mrs K and Mr K complain that Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited (AAISL) 
referred them to an Accident Management Company (AMC) to handle the repairs to their 
car rather than arranging for the insurer to handle a claim under their motor insurance policy. 
Mrs K has acted as the main representative during the complaint process. So, for ease of 
reference, I will refer to any actions taken, or comments made, by either Mrs K or Mr K as 
Mrs K throughout the decision, save for when events relate specifically to Mr K. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so I wont go into detail but will 
summarise the key points. Mrs K says she was involved in an accident which wasnt her 
fault. She reported this to AAISL, as the broker of the policy, who then referred her to an 
AMC to arrange the repairs. Mrs K says she collected her car but later noticed problems with 
the repairs, so she notified AAISL who referred her back to the AMC. Mrs K says the repairer 
kept her car for a day and she was informed the repairs had now been completed. Mrs K 
says, when she went to collect her car, she could see no further work had been done. Mrs K 
says she raised a concern and the repairer explained she would need to discuss any issues 
with the AMC.  Mrs K says the AMC offered to send her car back to the repairer, but she 
wasnt happy with this as a resolution. Mrs K complained to AAISL as she says she wasnt 
made aware the car repairs werent being handled under her policy. AAISL didnt respond to 
her complaint, so Mrs K referred her complaint to our service.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs K and Mr K. She thought AAISL didnt give clear 
information to Mrs K and Mr K about the options available to them for their car repairs, and 
recommended AAISL pay Mrs K and Mr K £100 compensation. AAISL agreed but Mrs K and 
Mr K disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation here is a fair way to resolve matters. I understand Mrs K and Mr K will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
 
Before going into the merits of the complaint, I think its important to address a point raised 
by AAISL. They say another business handled the first notification of loss call and made the 
referral to the AMC. I accept that was the case, but Im satisfied this business was acting in 
the capacity of AAISLs agent. The policy booklet sets out the steps Mrs K will need to take 
to make a claim. It says, Report the accident to our [call handling company] team and it 
notes a number for Mrs K to call. Mrs K took these steps and spoke with the business 
handling calls on behalf of AAISL. Given that AAISL is asking their customers to call this 
business, I believe this business is acting as AAISLs agent. And therefore AAISL, as 
principal, is responsible for the agent.  
When AAISL referred Mrs K to the AMC they were obliged to provide her with information 
that was clear, fair and not misleading, in line with their obligations under Principle 7 of the 
FCA Handbook: Communications with clients (PRIN 2.1.1R The Principles) and ICOBS 
2.2.2R (Clear, fair and not misleading rule). In the circumstances of this case, this means 
that when Mrs K contacted AAISL to claim, they ought to have provided her with clear 
information about her options, so she could decide how best to proceed with getting her car 
repaired. 
The policy booklet doesnt provide any detail about the non-fault process. So, to decide this 
complaint, Ive listened to a recording of the first notification of loss call. Mr K explains the 
accident circumstances and it being the third partys fault. Mr K says he agreed with the third 
party for the repairs to be done privately but the third party wasnt moving things forward. 
During the call, and after all accident details are taken, the call handler says, Im going to 
look at getting your car fixedbear with me a moment while I get the repair company up. So, 
its going to be the same company doing your hire car and repairs and theyre called [AMC]. 
The call handler explains theyre a national company and theyll contact Mr K. 
Mr K asks if he can use his own garage and the call handler explains this can potentially 
slow down the process. Mr K asks why, and the call handler says, Weve approved these 
garages, so these are people that we work with and she then explains things can get 
slowed down if they use a garage which hasnt been subject to their checks. The call handler 
checks the system and explains Mr Ks suggested garage isnt on their list of approved 
repairers. Mr K explains his garage might be able to get his car in for repairs fairly soon, and 
the call handler explains the hire car the AMC would provide would likely be similar to Mr Ks 
car but if he chooses to go with his own garage then it would be for them to arrange a hire 
car. The call handler also explains Mr K would then need to deal with the insurer but at 
this point, I can deal with you. The call handler explains the AMC will have garages local to 
Mr K and he then agrees to continue  and is transferred to the AMC.        
Based on this call, I dont think that AAISL provided Mrs K with clear, fair and not misleading 
information in a balanced way to enable her to choose which option she would like to use. 
There is only slight reference made to the insurer, but I dont think AAISL made it clear that 
the AMC was acting as a separate company, or that the repairs would be dealt with outside 
of Mrs Ks regulated insurance policy. I dont think that the referral set out both the 
advantages and disadvantages of using an AMC rather than claiming on her policy. Neither 
did AAISL explain to Mrs K that she might not be able to complain to AAISL or our service if 
something went wrong. 
As I dont think that AAISL provided Mrs K with clear, fair and not misleading information, I 
have to consider what she would have done if the information had been clear as well as the 
impact of the poor referral on her. While its impossible to know for definite what would have 
happened if Mrs K had been given clear information, I have to reach a decision based on 
what I think is more likely than not. Having done so, Im not persuaded that Mrs K wouldve 
proceeded with a claim against her policy  and I believe its more likely than not she would 
still have chosen the AMC option. 
I say this because, under the terms and conditions of Mrs Ks policy, it says she would be 
entitled to a standard courtesy car during the period of the repairs. It describes a standard 
car as normally a small 3 door, 1 litre hatchback car. In the first notification of loss call, 
during the discussion about Mr K using his own garage, the call handler mentions Mr K 
would receive a like for like car by using their repairer. Mrs K has confirmed to our service 
she received a seven-seater car from the AMCs repairer and a three door, five-seater car 
wouldnt have been suitable as they are a family of six. So, I believe, in the circumstances of this case, the need for a like for like car, is particularly persuasive when deciding which 
option, I believe, Mrs K would likely have chosen. 
Even though Im not persuaded the situation wouldve been any different - in that Mrs K 
would likely still have chosen the AMC route - there is still an impact on Mrs K in not being 
able to make a fully informed decision. While making a claim will always lead to a certain 
amount of distress and inconvenience, in this particular case, I believe that the poor referral 
has caused Mrs K unnecessary distress and inconvenience. Its clear Mrs K thought AAISL 
were still connected with the process involving the car repairs as she contacted them when 
experiencing problems with the quality of repairs. It caused Mrs K distress when learning 
AAISL were no longer involved in this process and then discovering the limited options 
available to her to sort out these issues. So, I think the fair and reasonable outcome for the 
distress and inconvenience caused is for AAISL to compensate Mrs K for this  and I think 
£100 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that AAISL havent provided clear, fair and not misleading information to 
Mrs K. So, AAISL should pay Mrs K and Mr K £100 to compensate for the unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Automobile Association Insurance Services 
Limited must take the steps in accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right 
above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 October 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman