DRN-3969755
The complaint
Mr G complains that Revolut Ltd restricted and closed his account. Hed like his account 
reopened and compensation for the impact caused to him.
What happened
Mr G had an account with Revolut
On 28 June 2022 a payment of just over £1,500 was sent to Mr Gs account. However this 
was rejected and returned by Revolut. 
On the same day Mr G contacted Revolut to complain. He advised the payment was his 
salary, and explained that because the payment was returned hell incur late payment fees 
and itll negatively impact his credit file. 
Revolut advised Mr G to attempt to make the payment again and it should be processed 
smoothly. 
Mr G made a further attempt on 29 June 2022 to make the payment however this was also 
rejected and returned by Revolut. 
On 29 June 2022 Revolut made the decision to close Mr Gs account with immediate notice, 
and they notified him on the same day. 
Mr G complained to Revolut about their decision to close his account. The business 
reviewed his concerns, and thought they could have provided better communication in failing 
to respond to some of Mr Gs messages. However, they thought their decision to close his 
account was fair. They offered Mr G £25 compensation. 
Mr G wasnt happy with Revoluts response so complained to our service. He explained the 
returning of his salary meant he had to borrow money from friends, and he incurred 
significant late payment fees. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Gs complaint. But they thought Revolut acted fairly in 
closing Mr Gs account, and £25 was far compensation for the customer service issues. 
Mr G wasnt satisfied with the outcome. In response he explained it was embarrassing to 
keep going to his employers to ask them to resend his salary. And if theyd let him know his 
account was going to be restricted he could have redirected his salary. 
As Mr G didnt agree its been passed to me for a decision. On picking up Mr Gs decision I 
contacted him to ask for evidence of his salary payment, including pay slips, costs incurred 
by his employers from re-sending the salary and late payment fees. However, Mr G didnt 
respond.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account closure:
Our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat evidence from 
businesses as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains security 
information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the information Revolut has 
provided is information that we considered should be kept confidential. Our service has 
asked Mr G for details regarding certain payments into his account however he didnt 
respond. 
Revolut can only close accounts in certain circumstances and if its in the terms and 
conditions of the account. Revolut have relied on the terms and conditions when closing 
Mr Gs account. The terms explain that the e-money provider can close Mr Gs account 
without notice in certain situations. Ive considered the full circumstances of this complaint 
and I agree Revolut were entitled to close the account without providing notice. It follows, as 
I think Revolut acted fairly in closing Mr Gs account I wont be asking them to reopen it. 
Returned payments:
Ive reviewed the communication between Mr G and Revolut on 28 June 2022. Revolut 
accept that they advised Mr G to attempt to resend his salary to his account after the first 
payment was returned to source. Theyve explained that this wasnt because the account 
was blocked  and therefore customer service staff wouldnt be aware  but the payments 
were rejected and returned by their automated system.
I understand this will disappoint Mr G, but as he hasnt provided evidence of his pay slips, 
costs incurred by his employer or late payment fees I cant safely conclude the offer Revolut 
made  of £25 compensation  is unfair. It follows I wont be asking Revolut to do anything 
further here. 
If Mr G wants to accept the offer of £25, and hasnt already done so, Id expect Revolut to 
make this payment to him. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman