DRN-4370638
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with the response received from Shawbrook Bank Limited 
(Shawbrook) in relation to their complaint about a loan provided to fund the purchase of a 
Timeshare Product.  
What happened
In or around September 2008, Mr and Mrs W agreed to purchase a timeshare product from a 
supplier who Ill refer to as C. In order to fund the purchase, C arranged a loan for Mr and 
Mrs W through a regulated lender.
In April 2021, Mr and Mrs W wrote to the regulated lender to raise concerns and request 
information relating to their loan. In particular, Mr and Mrs W:
said that following enquiries with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), It appears 
C - as the credit intermediary  werent permitted or authorised to arrange loans 
under section 19 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA);
requested evidence of the checks theyd undertaken concerning the suitability of their 
loan, specifically including searches, credit checks, factors considered, their income 
assessment and steps taken to ensure C undertook a clear, lawful and transparent 
sales process when arranging the loan.
Mr and Mrs W thought the lenders arrangement with C was contrary to FSMA and caused 
them significant losses.
That lender forwarded Mr and Mrs Ws letter to Shawbrook and told them the servicing of 
that account had been transferred to them. They asked Shawbrook to respond to Mr and 
Mrs Ws concerns.
In their response to Mr and Mrs W, Shawbrook said their complaint was now time-barred 
under the time limits specified in [] DISP 2.8.2R (2)1.
Mr and Mrs W replied to Shawbrooks response using a professional representative (the 
PR). The PR thought Shawbrook hadnt adequately disclosed or address the issues raised 
and that their position as regards the Limitation Act 1980 (the LA) was wrong. They 
provided greater detail about how they thought time limitation applied to the complaint 
arguing that it had been raised within three years of when Mr and Mrs W knew (or 
reasonably ought to have known) they had cause to complain.
The PR also explained why they thought Mr and Mrs Ws complaint had been made in time 
under the LA. They went on to reference principles of the Resort Development Organisation 
(RDO) Code of Conduct they thought applied and C should have adhered to. The PR also 
raised concerns about the assignment of Mr and Mrs Ws loan to Shawbrook by the original 
Lender, suggesting that notice wasnt provided.
Having not received a further response from Shawbrook, the PR referred Mr and Mrs Ws 
complaint to this service. In doing so, the PR referenced allegations of misrepresentations 
they believe were made by C during the sales process. The PR thought these 
1 The FCAs Dispute Resolution: Complaints Sourcebook
misrepresentations rendered the relationship between Mr and Mrs W, C and Shawbrook 
unfair. 
One of our investigators considered all the information available, during which Shawbrook 
reiterated their belief that the complaint was made too late under DISP 2.8.2R (2) and/or the 
LA.
Our investigator thought this service did have powers to consider Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. 
They said the event being complained about was Shawbrooks response to a claim under 
sections 75 (S75) and 140A (S140A) of the Consumer Credit Act (the CCA). Further, 
that Mr and Mrs W believe the loan was unaffordable as the interest rate was too high and 
appropriate credit checks werent performed. 
Our investigator said Shawbrooks response to that claim was issued in July 2021. And as it 
was this response that was being complained about, they thought Mr and Mrs Ws complaint 
had been raised in time. Our investigator also thought that while Mr and Mrs claim under 
S140A had been raised more than six years after the events complained of, as it was raised 
within three years of when they ought to have reasonably known they had cause to 
complain, it was raised in time.
It appears Shawbrook didnt respond to our investigators findings. So, as an informal 
agreement couldnt be achieved, I was asked to consider Mr and Mrs Ws complaint further. 
Having done so, I decided this service was able to consider Mr and Mrs Ws complaint in 
relation to Cs authorisation. In particular, because I thought their complaint had met the 
second part of the two-part eligibility test set out in DISP 2.8.2 (R). That being that Mr and 
Mrs W had raised their complaint within three years of the date on which they became aware 
(or ought reasonably to have become aware) that they had cause for complaint. However, I 
decided this service wasnt able to consider any of the other aspects that had been referred.
I then went on to consider the merits of Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Having done so, I issued 
a provisional decision on 23 August 2023, giving Mr W, Mrs W and Shawbrook the 
opportunity to comment or provide further evidence before issuing a final decision.
In my provisional decision, I said:
Authorisation to arrange the loan
The supplier of the timeshare product is clearly detailed in the purchase agreement 
and accompanying documentation. And although the name specified within the credit 
agreement differs slightly, this services records show the names as linked trading 
names for C.  
Prior to April 2014, consumer credit business was regulated by the Office of Fair 
Trading (OFT). Regulation of consumer credit business didnt fall under FSMA until 
1 April 2014 when the FCA took over that responsibility. Our records show that at the 
time of the sale, when Mr and Mrs Ws loan was arranged, C was subject to this 
services Consumer Credit Jurisdiction. Im satisfied they held the requisite license 
from the OFT together with the necessary authorisation to arrange the loan. So, Im 
not persuaded that Mr and Mrs Ws introduction to the original lender (now 
Shawbrook) was undertaken by an unauthorised credit broker.
Assignment of the loan to Shawbrook
Im familiar with the transfer of loan servicing from the original lender to Shawbrook. I 
also understand communications were sent to all consumers impacted by that 
change. Ive no reason to believe such a communication wasnt sent to Mr and Mrs 
W. While it maybe they didnt receive or notice that communication, I cant 
reasonably hold Shawbrook responsible for its ultimate delivery. They wouldnt have 
control over that. So, I dont intend to ask them to do anything more in this respect.I want to reassure Mr and Mrs W Ive considered everything thats been said and 
provided. While I do appreciate they will be disappointed, I currently dont intend to 
ask Shawbrook to do anything more here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shawbrook have acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision and confirmed they have 
nothing further to add.
Despite follow up attempts made by this service, neither the PR nor Mr and Mrs W have 
responded to my provisional decision. 
In the circumstances, Ive no reason to vary from my provisional findings.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman