DRN-2280057
The complaint
Mr S complains that a car he obtained through a hire purchase agreement with 
MotoNovo Finance Limited was not of satisfactory quality. He wants MotoNovo Finance to 
pay for repairs.
The complaint is brought on his behalf by a third party.
What happened
Mr S obtained a second-hand car in April 2019, financed through a hire purchase agreement 
with MotoNovo.
He had a minor accident in the car and scraped the rear bumper. When he took the car to a 
garage for its MOT, he asked about repairing the scrape. When the garage investigated, it 
pointed out to Mr S that the rear left wing of the car had been poorly repaired.
Mr S complained to the supplying garage  but it had stopped trading and had been taken 
over by another business which wouldnt take any responsibility for the supply of Mr Ss car. 
So Mr S complained to MotoNovo.
MotoNovo arranged for an independent inspection of the car. Based on the outcome of that 
inspection, MotoNovo did not uphold Mr Ss complaint and would not pay for any repairs.
Our investigators conclusions
Our investigator didnt think the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied and that 
MotoNovo should pay to put right the poor repairs.
MotoNovo didnt agree. It said, in summary, that:
Theres no evidence as to when the poor repairs were carried out - Mr S had an accident 
in the car and its possible he had other accidents.
The car was sold as seen. Mr S should have raised concerns at the point of supply.
The car was second hand so was more likely to have been subject to previous repairs, 
particularly as it had been driven nearly 53,000 miles.
The repairs havent affected Mr Ss ability to drive the car - he drove over 16,000 miles 
before he complained.
Theres no evidence that the mechanics of the car werent satisfactory, and the car 
passed an MOT in early September 2019.
Mr Ss representative thought Mr S should also receive some compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused and suggested three months payments - £884.67  would be 
fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of goods is satisfactory. As such, in order to uphold this complaint, I would have 
to be persuaded that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and so a breach of contract has 
taken place.
The car has undergone some repairs following an accident. But an independent garage, and 
the independent report arranged by MotoNovo, concluded that those repairs were not 
completed to a satisfactory standard.
MotoNovo suggests that these repairs may have been carried out after Mr S obtained the 
car. I find this unlikely. The independent expert who inspected the car couldnt say with any 
certainty when the repairs were carried out and, importantly, whether or not they were 
completed before Mr S obtained the car. But he said, the repairs completed do not appear 
recent and were showing signs of general ageing. This suggests to me that they were 
carried out some time ago. Mr S complained about the repairs around five months after he 
obtained the car. And although hes covered a fair number of miles, this wouldnt affect these 
repairs. Bearing in mind the inspector didnt think they were recent, I think its unlikely they 
were completed during the time Mr S had the car.
And, like our investigator, Im persuaded by Mr Ss testimony. He has admitted to an 
accident and is not asking for MotoNovo to pay for the damage resulting from that. His 
actions following that accident dont suggest to me an individual who is likely to have had a 
previous accident, had it poorly repaired, and is now trying to get someone else to pay for it. 
I can also see that, after hed complained, the supplying garage confirmed to him that the car 
had previously been in an accident.
So, on balance, it seems more likely than not that the poor repairs were carried out before 
Mr S obtained the car.
And Ive not seen anything to suggest that these repairs were pointed out to Mr S at the 
point of supply. It seems that it took a close inspection of the under-side of the car by a 
garage to identify the problem, so it was unlikely that this was something Mr S would have 
noticed during his own inspection of the car before he decided to go ahead with the hire 
purchase agreement.
Having decided that the poor repairs were present when the car was supplied, and not 
pointed out to Mr S at the point of supply, I will now go on to consider whether those poor 
repairs means the car was not of satisfactory quality.
MotoNovo says the car was second hand so was more likely to have undergone repairs in 
the past. I accept that. But the important point here is that there were repairs that had not 
been carried out to a satisfactory standard.The car was clearly road-worthy  Mr S was able to drive it over 16,000 miles with no 
reported problems. And it passed an MOT. But the quality of a car is not just about its 
mechanics. Items of a more cosmetic nature can also affect its quality.
Unfortunately, the independent report does not explain the likely impact of these poor 
repairs, except for mentioning a rippling effect on the paintwork. I think the impact of the 
poor-quality repair is two-fold. Firstly it is likely, over time, to fail. Secondly, it is likely to 
reduce the cars value. Although the car will have been priced when it was supplied to take 
account of its age, mileage and condition, because it seems the supplying garage was 
unaware of the poor-quality repairs, this was unlikely to have been taken into account in the 
pricing.
I think the repairs were carried out to such a poor standard that it was only a matter of time 
before they failed. For this reason I think, on balance, that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied.
It follows that MotoNovo is responsible for putting this right. And I think the fair and 
reasonable resolution is for MotoNovo to pay for making good the sub-standard repairs.
Putting things right
MotoNovo should pay for the repairs required to put right the previous repairs as detailed in 
the independent report.
The repairs should be carried out as soon as possible and at minimum inconvenience to 
Mr S.
Ive considered carefully what Mr Ss representative has said about the inconvenience and 
stress this has caused Mr S and his family and that he should be refunded three months 
payments by way of compensation. But, like our investigator, I dont think its fair and 
reasonable to make an award for the distress and inconvenience caused. Firstly, Mr S has 
still had full use of the car. And, secondly, I can only make an award for the benefit of Mr S 
rather than an award for any inconvenience which has been caused to other family 
members. 
My final decision
My decision is that MotoNovo Finance Limited should pay for repairs to the car as outlined 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2020.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman