DRN-1188171
 
The complaint
Mrs B complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc incorrectly advised her that she was covered 
for the loss of or damage to a mobile phone, under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs Bs daughter was unfortunately injured when involved in an incident in December 2018.
Mrs B made a claim to AXA, as her daughter is a named driver on her comprehensive car 
insurance policy. AXA accepted the claim and began to arrange the repair of Mrs Bs car, 
along with the settlement of the personal injury claim. 
In January 2019, Mrs B contacted AXA to ask if the policy covered her for certain personal 
belongings that had been damaged in the incident. One of which was her daughters mobile 
phone. During this conversation, AXA told Mrs B that mobile phones are included in her 
cover, up to a maximum of £300. And, that Mrs B could pay for a new one and AXA would 
then reimburse this cost, upon being shown proof of payment. So, Mrs B purchased a 
replacement mobile for £425 and expected to claim back £300 towards this. 
But, in a call on 20 February 2019, AXA then told Mrs B that she in fact wasnt covered, 
according to the policy terms. It said that it had made a mistake, as the loss of or damage to 
telephones isnt covered by the policy  so it wouldnt be paying anything to Mrs B for the 
replacement cost of her daughters mobile.  
Mrs B found this unfair, as the new mobile shed paid for was non-refundable. She raised a 
complaint and, on 25 February 2019, AXA sent her an initial response by email. It 
apologised that it had given her the wrong information about the extent of her cover  but 
maintained that it wouldnt cover the mobile as part of the claim. Instead, AXA offered £200 
compensation. 
Mrs B turned this down, so AXA continued to investigate her complaint. In April 2019, it sent 
her a letter explaining that it had been unable to provide its final response to the complaint 
within the maximum eight weeks that its required to. The letter pointed out that Mrs B had 
the right to refer her complaint to our service from 16 April 2019, if she was unhappy that the 
matter remained unresolved. 
AXA then sent a subsequent letter on 8 August 2019, which set out its final response to the 
complaint. It reiterated that it wouldnt be paying Mrs B anything towards the cost of the 
replacement mobile she had purchased  but increased the compensation it was offering her 
to £320. 
Mrs B first referred the complaint to our service on 27 August 2019, as she didnt think this 
amount of compensation was enough. One of our investigators looked into it and, during the 
course of her investigation, AXA put forward a total of £450 compensation in an attempt to 
put things right for Mrs B. Our investigator thought this amount of compensation to be 
reasonable  so she didnt recommend AXA offer anything further. AXA accepted this recommendation, but Mrs B disagreed. Shes explained that £450 isnt 
sufficient to reflect the number of calls shes made to AXA, or the effort shes had to put into 
trying to resolve the mobile phone part of the claim. Overall, she argues that AXA should 
award more, considering the distress shes been caused as a result of the claim taking too 
long to resolve. And, that her complaint also ought to have been resolved sooner. 
Because Mrs B disagreed, the complaint has been escalated to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator that AXA doesnt need to add to what its already offered Mrs B to resolve this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Im sorry to hear that Mrs Bs daughter sustained injuries in the incident and I can appreciate 
that this, along with the overall claim, would have caused significant distress. For this 
reason, I recognise why Mrs B has argued that AXA should award more compensation. 
When considering whether this should be the case, its first of all important to point out that 
Ive determined the matters of complaint that are currently in dispute. 
AXA has pointed to the policy terms which clearly show that telephones arent included in 
this policy cover  and Mrs B accepts this. So, I dont need to determine whether the claim 
for the mobile should be paid. And, as mentioned, AXA has offered an award as 
compensation to put right its mistake  not as settlement for the mobile Mrs B purchased. 
So, whats left for me to decide is whether this £450 compensation is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances.
Secondly, my role is to decide this individual complaint  which means Im not taking all 
aspects of Mrs Bs claim into consideration. I say this because this complaint concerns the 
incorrect information that AXA gave Mrs B in a call in January 2019, while discussing cover 
for personal belongings. So, Ive not considered Mrs Bs entire claim, because this was 
made before January 2019  and not all aspects of it formed part of this complaint that was 
first raised with AXA during a subsequent call in February 2019. 
Therefore, Ive not taken into account the events leading up to when this complaint began, 
i.e. the other aspects of the claim, such as the repair of Mrs Bs car, or her daughters 
personal injury claim. As such, Ive thought carefully about whether £450 is reasonable to 
put right the impact caused, following AXAs mistake in January 2019 about the phone. 
After raising the complaint, Mrs B did call AXA a number of times. Between February and 
August 2019, there were at least six occasions where she asked AXA to fully investigate and 
answer her concerns. Therefore, it was evident that she felt strongly that more needed to be 
done to compensate her for the impact AXAs mistake had caused. 
So, I can appreciate that Mrs B did put effort into trying to resolve matters and that this would 
have caused some inconvenience. Its not in dispute that she was waiting for AXAs final 
response to her complaint for more than five months. With this in mind, I find that theres 
clearly been room for AXA to improve here, as it ought to have provided this final response 
within a maximum of eight weeks from its receipt of the complaint.
That being said, upon realising its mistake in January 2019, AXA remained consistent in its 
position that it had no liability to pay for the replacement mobile. And, Im satisfied it took 
positive steps to explain the reasoning behind this, when Mrs B questioned it. At the same time, AXA offered what it found to be an appropriate amount of compensation in 
its initial response to Mrs B in February 2019  which it then increased the longer that she 
had to wait to have her complaint answered in full, i.e. both in August 2019 and then once 
our service began to investigate the complaint. 
Mrs B has explained that the other elements of the claim, outside of this mobile phone, have 
caused her considerable distress. So, it strikes me that the overall claim has had a profound 
affect on her. However, as mentioned, the compensation is only to put right the mobile 
phone aspect of her entire claim.  
Also, although it has no liability to cover Mrs Bs costs for the mobile she purchased, the 
compensation offered could help reduce the financial impact of Mrs B replacing her 
daughters mobile. It would seem that she would always have needed to bear this cost to 
secure a replacement  regardless of whether she could claim it back through this policy. 
Accordingly, Mrs B wasnt financially prejudiced by the poor advice. This isnt a case where 
an insurer has knowingly waived its strict rights and the policyholder has relied on that to 
their detriment such that equity demands the insurer can no longer assert them (the doctrine 
of promissory estoppel). Nevertheless, in the round, it feels fair to me that AXA has offered 
a way to reduce the impact of its initial mistake. 
In light of this and the reasons Ive set out above, I conclude that, overall, AXA has put 
forward an award thats appropriate to reflect the impact of its careless advice about the 
nature and scope of cover. Therefore, in all of the circumstances, Im satisfied a total of £450 
is fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I understand AXA Insurance UK Plc has already offered Mrs B a total of £450 compensation, 
which I find fair and reasonable.
So AXA Insurance UK Plc should pay Mrs B a total of £450, if it hasnt already done so, 
within 28 days of receiving notice from us of her acceptance of this decision, failing which 
interest will start to accrue on this sum  or on any unpaid proportion  at the simple rate of 
8% a year (less any tax properly deductible) until the date of payment. 
Mrs B should note that if she accepts my decision and AXAs offer, they will be legally 
binding and she wouldnt be able to take further action over these matters (i.e. in relation to 
the phone aspect of the claim only). If, however, she rejects the decision or doesnt reply on 
time, her legal rights will remain intact  but itll then be strictly a matter for AXA as to 
whether its offer remains open for acceptance. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2019.
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman