DRN-4343447
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited (Omni) has treated her unfairly 
when she asked it to help her obtain a refund for a training course she paid for using a loan 
she took out with it.
What happened
In May 2021 Mrs K entered into a training contract with a third party I will call N. This 
purchase was financed by the loan Mrs K took out with Omni. 
Under the terms of the training contract Mrs K was meant to be able to do the course in her 
own time over a period of three years. However, Mrs K had already paid off the loan in full  
by the time the first year was up.
In October 2022 N went into administration. Mrs K was part way through the course. The 
course was made up of three distinct modules. Mrs K had passed the first module. But had 
not had an opportunity yet to complete the remaining two modules. 
Mrs K added that she had not needed to do the first module in any event because she 
already had an equivalent qualification. But N would not let her go straight to the second 
module. So she was obliged by N to take the first module which she did not need, merely to 
be able to do the modules she did need. This is another reason why Mrs K wants all of her 
money back.
Mrs K considered that N had breached its contract with her. N was no longer in a position to 
remedy this breach itself. Moreover, its administrator confirmed that Ns students would not 
be transferred by it to another provider to complete their course. Therefore Mrs K had to look 
for another route to obtain a remedy. 
As Ive already mentioned Mrs K used a loan provided by Omni to pay N for the course. Due 
to the type of finance that Mrs K used she has the protection of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (the CCA) in particular she has the protection of Section 75 (Section 75) of the 
CCA.
The general effect of Section 75 is that if Mrs K has a claim for misrepresentation or breach 
of contract against the supplier she can also bring a like claim against Omni provided certain 
conditions are met. 
Omni accepted that Section 75 did apply in this instance. But it does not share her view 
about what it needs to do to put things right. Its stance is that because Mrs K already 
completed the first module, which is a standalone qualification the contract has been part 
performed. Therefore she is only eligible for a partial refund. On this basis, Omni cancelled 
the loan and refunded the part of the loan that represented what Mrs K paid for the two 
modules shed not received. It also agreed to refund the deposit Mrs K had paid (but it later 
turned out this was a mistake and it had not intended to say it would return the deposit). 
Mrs K disagreed with Omni. She wanted a full refund because in her opinion the first module 
has no value to her as a standalone module. She asks that Omni refund her for what she 
paid for the first module.
Dissatisfied, Mrs K complained to our service.
Once Mrs Ks complaint was with us, Omni sent in new information from an independent 
expert third party organisation that indicated that the first module was a standalone 
qualification. Mrs K continued to dispute this and indicated that in her profession the opinion 
of the expert that Omni referred to does not count.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Ks complaint. She did not recommend that Mrs Ks 
complaint be upheld.
Omni accepted our investigators recommendation, Mrs K did not. Mrs K gave us the 
following reasons for rejecting the recommendation:
Shell get no benefit from the first module as a standalone module. It is a standalone 
qualification and is recognised by her professional body, but she will not be able to 
use it to get the very specific qualification she was aiming for, she needed all three 
modules for that.
Mrs K repeated the point shed made before about not needing the first module in the 
first place, she only agreed to take it to be eligible to do the other two modules.
Mrs K pointed out that she had not paid for each module individually rather she paid 
for the qualification as a whole. Therefore, since this had not been provided in its 
entirety, shed not got what she paid for and as a result she should get all of her 
money back.
Omni promised her in writing it would refund her deposit then did not.
Other people have used Section 75 to get a full refund and Mrs K indicated this must 
have set a precedent, which must be followed in this case too.
Mrs K asked that an ombudsman review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. Rather, Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Section 75 is relevant to this complaint. Both parties agree that N breached its contract with 
Mrs K. Both agree that Mrs K can hold Omni responsible therefore to put things right. The 
only disagreement is about whats a fair remedy. So that is the point Ill look at.
It seems both parties now agree that the first module is a standalone qualification which can 
be used for some purposes. Mrs K indicates that the problem is that the first module cannot 
be used as a credit towards the gaining of a very specific type of membership she wants to a 
particular professional body. However, whilst this may be the case, I think it is not fair or reasonable to say, that because the first module does not allow Mrs K to attain her very 
particular career aspirations it has no value and therefore Omni must refund her for it.
I dont think it is relevant that Mrs K tells us that she went ahead with the first module only 
because it was the only way to get N to teach her the second and third module. Mrs K might 
indeed have already had an equivalent qualification to the first module.  However thats not 
the point. I say this because the fact that N required her to take the first module in these 
circumstances is neither a misrepresentation nor a breach of contract and those are the only 
things Omni must fairly or reasonably take responsibility for.
Im not persuaded that there has been no part performance of the contract. There has been, 
the course was made up of three separate modules each of which is a standalone 
qualification as far as I am aware. N partly performed the contract by delivering the first 
module and Mrs K now has this qualification. It follows that it would not be fair or reasonable 
to refund the entire amount as that would wrongly suggest no services had been delivered at 
all.
It appears Omni made a mistake, in writing, about promising Mrs K a refund of the deposit. 
Just because a party makes a mistake and creates a permanent record of that  mistake by 
putting it in writing does not mean it is then bound to follow through on that mistake. I see no 
proper grounds either in law or on a fair or reasonable basis for taking that approach.
I dont know the circumstances under which other people have received refunds for this 
course and from whom. Even if I did know about the circumstances of those refunds, that 
would not create a binding precedent that I had to follow in this decision. Rather, Im not 
bound to follow precedents in the manner Mrs K suggests, instead I am meant to decide 
what is fair or reasonable in the very individual circumstances of her complaint. Im not 
persuaded by what Mrs K says about this point.
It follows that for all of these reasons, Ive no proper basis for telling Omni that it must take 
any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman