DRN-3072530
The complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC blocked a money transfer he wished to make and 
then removed his on-line access to his account.  And the process Lloyds is making him 
follow to restore his online access, and the customer service given was unacceptable.
  
What happened
In December 2020 Mr S attempted to make an online money transfer from his Lloyds 
account. Lloyds automated process highlighted this transfer as potentially fraudulent, and it 
was stopped and his online access was blocked temporarily. He was asked to attend a 
branch with identification to confirm the transfer request was genuine so it could proceed. 
He attended a branch the next day, but there was a delay in being seen by staff, and then a 
further delay in obtaining the required authorisation from the fraud team, which meant Mr S 
couldnt wait any longer. So his online access wasnt restored.
He made several calls to Lloyds following this visit, but Lloyds insisted he needed to attend a 
branch again with the required ID. Mr S complained that hed already done that and he 
wasnt prepared to return to the branch.
In its final response, Lloyds offered Mr S £150 for the trouble and upset hed been caused 
when the transaction was stopped and his online access blocked, and that it wasnt resolved 
by his visit to the branch. But it said his online access could only be restored if he came back 
to branch with his identification, but it offered him access to a branch of a different but local 
bank where this could be facilitated.
Mr S didnt agree and said it was unreasonable that Lloyds werent allowing him online 
access to his money, and that he wouldnt go back to the branch as hed already done so. 
So he complained to our service. But having considered all the evidence, our investigator 
thought what Lloyds had offered was fair in the circumstances. As no agreement could be 
reached the matter has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has not disputed that the customer service it provided to Mr S was not what it 
shouldve been, and that there were unnecessary delays caused. What has not been agreed 
is the level of compensation that should be paid in recognition of this, and whether Lloyds is 
being fair in insisting that Mr S follows its protocols to restore his on-line access to his 
account.
Lloyds has not disputed that the customer service it provided to Mr S was not what it 
shouldve been, and that there were unnecessary delays caused. What has not been agreed 
is the level of compensation that should be paid in recognition of this, and whether Lloyds is 
being fair in insisting that Mr S follows its protocols to restore his on-line access to his 
account.
Having considered all the evidence, I think the offer of £150 made by Lloyds is sufficient. 
And although it is inconvenient, I think it is also reasonable that Lloyds wants Mr S to 
reattend a branch with his identification, but it has been fair in making a non-Lloyds branch 
which is local to Mr S available to him to facilitate this. So I wont be asking Lloyds to do 
anything more. Ill explain why.
When Mr S attempted a payment online to a new payee, it was flagged by Lloyds 
automated system as potentially fraudulent, so it was blocked pending further security 
checks. Lloyds has not said exactly why this transaction was flagged, and I wouldnt expect it 
to, however its terms and conditions allow for this to happen. And whilst the transaction 
wasnt for a particularly large amount, it was unusual and to a new payee, so I dont think it 
was unreasonable that Lloyds considered further checks to protect Mr Ss account were 
necessary on this occasion.
Overall, Im satisfied Lloyds followed its own policy on security checks for online transfers. 
So, I cant fairly conclude it made an error when it subjected the online payment Mr S had 
wanted to make to a security check. That said, I can understand that this was an 
inconvenient and frustrating experience for Mr S, especially given that the transaction was 
genuine.
Mr S was advised he would have to attend a branch with photo ID in order to get the 
transaction authorised and his online access restored. Whilst Lloyds acknowledged that this 
would be inconvenient to Mr S, it explained it was necessary. Given the transaction and 
payee was unusual, I dont think this was an unreasonable request in order to protect Mr S 
and the bank from potential fraud.
Im satisfied that his identity couldve been established sufficiently on the first occasion he 
attended the branch had there not been delays and had Mr S not had to leave. And having 
listened to the subsequent calls between Mr S and Lloyds the frustration he felt was clear. 
But Im also satisfied that Lloyds have in place a reasonable process to follow to protect its 
customers and itself from fraud, and it was reasonable to ask Mr S to re-attend a branch to 
complete the required security checks. But the fact that Lloyds has arranged access to 
another non-Lloyds branch which was local to his home so that this can be completed is fair 
and a reasonable compromise.
Lloyds has already offered £150 in compensation in recognition of the trouble and upset its 
caused Mr S. Given the circumstances Ive set out above, I think this is a fair and reasonable 
offer. 
 
My final decision
I dont require Lloyds Bank PLC to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman