DRN-3309954
The complaint
Mr R complains about an investment he held on Integrated Financial Arrangements LTD 
(trading as Transact)s platform. He says that due to various failings on Transacts part, his 
investment was converted into a new form he didnt want. He says hes worse off as a result. 
Mr R is represented by a firm of solicitors, but for ease I shall refer to their submissions as if 
they were from Mr R himself.
What happened
Mr R opened a portfolio with Transact in 2010, including a general investment account, an 
ISA and a SIPP. The application form listed his adviser as a Mr W, from an authorised IFA Ill 
call A.
Over the next year or so, A instructed Transact to buy and sell, on Mr Rs behalf, a number 
of shares in a particular fund which Ill call X. Mr Rs holding in X took the form of shares in a 
limited company registered in the Marshall Islands. It was invested in property and property 
development projects, largely in the UK.
In late 2011, Transact received an application to register a new adviser firm account. It says 
this was from a firm called B. In early 2012 Mr R wrote to Transact to request the advisory 
firm attached to his portfolio be changed from A to B.
In May 2012 the operators of X wrote to Transact with a Notice of pending corporate 
action. This set out that due to upcoming changes in European regulation, the operators 
were seeking a restructure of the fund, with a merger into a new limited company. It said the 
documentation on the specifics of the proposal should be available for publication within the 
next four to six weeks and that the process of listing the new company should be completed 
a few months after that.
On 28 August 2012 the operators of X again wrote to Transact. This letter set out the 
restructuring that was to take place following a shareholder meeting on 10 September 2012. 
The proposal was for X to merge with another company, also registered in the Marshall 
Islands. The company with which X was to merge was wholly owned by another company, 
Y. The result of the plan was that the surviving entity would also be wholly owned by Y. With 
holders of the A class of shares in X becoming the sole shareholders in Y. And the holders 
of the B class of shares in X  which included all the investors in the fund, including Mr R  
being issued proportional amounts of a bond issued by Y. The bond was to have an 
intended 5 year term and be secured against the equity of a subsidiary company used to 
manage the properties and developments in which the fund invested.
The notice from the fund operators said that it is also the intention of [Y] in the future to 
make its stock exclusive to Institutional & Professional Investors. To give effect to this, [Y] 
intend to progressively redeem the bulk of this Bond issue over its 5 year term.
Transact emailed the address it held for Mr Rs adviser, B, on 3 September to inform it of the 
upcoming changes. 
On 10 September 2012 Transact received a request to open a new adviser firm account in 
the name of a company, C, which listed as its representative contact the same Mr W whod 
been advising Mr R at the previous firms A and B. On the same day it received a request 
from Mr R to change his registered adviser to C.
On 19 September 2012 Transact wrote to C, confirming the effect of the corporate structural 
changes made to X, and the replacement of his holding in X shares with a broadly 
equivalently valued holding in the bond issued by Y.
Nothing further seems to have happened regarding Mr Rs investment for some time. His 
annual Transact statements showed the bondholding as broadly staying around the same 
valuation. Then in 2017 his adviser received correspondence from Y. This said that Y had 
been the subject of an injunction which has had the effect of stifling ongoing funding and 
cashflow, and has caused all building works to be halted. It went on to say [Y] is still live 
and active, but in a holding position.
The result of the cashflow issues for Y was that the bond wasnt redeemed at the intended 
end of the 5 year term. A further corporate action resulted in a restructuring and further four 
year extension to the term of the bond. Mr R voted in favour of this restructuring. The bonds 
value was adjusted to near zero on Mr Rs Transact statements and it remains unredeemed.
At this point Mr R complained. Briefly, he argued that Transact ought to have done more to 
inform him, earlier, about the bond-for-share buyout that affected his original holding in X, 
and that had it done so, hed have been able to take steps to avoid the losses he is now 
facing. He said:
Transact provided platform services to Mr R, as well as being the provider of his 
SIPP. It had a duty to safeguard the investments it held for him.
As the nominee holder of Mr Rs shares in X, it ought to have allowed him to express 
his intentions with regard to the merger as the ultimate beneficial owner of the 
shares.
Transact ought to have read and investigated the implications of the merger notice, 
and made investigations into the legal implications.
In his view, the relevant law of the Marshall Islands provided for dissenting 
shareholders in a merger such as this to receive a cash payment for the fair value 
of their shares rather than having their holding subject to the terms of the merger.
By failing to investigate and properly inform Mr R of what was happening, Mr R was 
denied the opportunity to take this option.
As a result of the merger, Mr R became unknowingly the holder of an illiquid unlisted 
bond which he never wanted. This investment presented different and greater risks to 
his money than his original holding in X. Had he been properly appraised of the facts 
he would have attempted to redeem his holding through any means available to him.
At the point of the merger, Transact ought to have assessed the appropriateness of 
the new financial instrument Mr R received.
Transact ought to have informed Mr R of the original notice in May 2012. But even in 
August 2012 when the final merger plan was announced, Transact didnt inform Mr R 
directly (when it should have) and didnt send the notification to the correct adviser.
Transact didnt establish that the email address to which it sent the August 2012 
notification was in fact the correct address for Mr Rs adviser of record.
The evidence and arguments provided by Transact is inconsistent. In his view 
Transact didnt have sufficient controls and systems in place to ensure it correctly 
tracked the adviser firms it was dealing with and which advisers were linked to 
individual investors accounts.Transact had  before and after the X/Y merger and takeover  demonstrated far 
more transparent and detailed correspondence with regard to corporate actions 
affecting its clients holdings. It ought to have done the same here, and had it done 
so Mr R would have had the opportunity to act.
Transact had obligations under the FCA (then FSA)s high level principles to carry 
out its business with due skill, care and diligence, and have regard for Mr Rs 
interests and treat him fairly.
Failing to do anything regarding the impending merger in 2012 or properly inform Mr 
R about it was a breach of those obligations.
Our service should consider this complaint in light of a similar case looked at by the 
courts concerning the obligations of SIPP providers under the regulators principles - 
R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] 
EWHC 2878.
Had Transact not breached the principles and its obligations to Mr R, he wouldnt 
have remained invested in X and then had a bondholding in Y. That bondholding is 
now effectively worthless and unlikely to be redeemed. Transact ought to 
compensate him for those losses.
Transact didnt agree it had done anything wrong or treated Mr R unfairly. It said:
Its duties to safeguard Mr Rs assets didnt extend to protecting him from the effect of 
a corporate action that might be detrimental.
Mr R and his adviser were responsible for considering the implications of any action 
and taking whatever steps they thought were appropriate.
Transacts terms and conditions say it wont necessarily send information about 
corporate actions. Where it chooses to do so, it will send notification to the adviser in 
order for them to discuss it with their client.
Transact informed Mr Rs adviser of the merger within a few days of receiving notice 
itself. It sent this notification to the correct address and highlighted the importance of 
the correspondence.
Where Mr W had moved firms from B to C (and appears to have taken Mr Rs 
business with him) this wasnt something Transact were told about until 10 
September. It cant fairly be held responsible for Mr W or Mr R being unaware of the 
merger if it sent the notification to the firm of advisers listed on Mr Rs account at the 
time.
In any event, Mr Rs shares in X were B class shares. These held no voting rights. 
So even if Mr R had known earlier and wanted to vote on the merger, his 
shareholding didnt give him the right to do so.
Even if Mr R and his adviser had decided that there was an option to object through 
some other means under the relevant law of the Marshall Islands, theres no 
guarantee this would have been successful or resulted in Mr R getting his money 
back.
Mr Rs adviser was sent notification of the merger after the event on 19 September 
2012 at his new firm. There was not contact from him or Mr R himself regarding the 
merger or any concerns expressed at that stage. As a result it cant be said with any 
certainty Mr R would have objected to the merger had he known about it.
Mr R voted in favour of restructuring the bond in 2017, when the alternative was for Y 
to be liquidated. Liquidating Y  and receiving an unknown cash amount based on 
the value of the assets held by the company  isnt dissimilar to the step Mr R said he 
would have taken in 2012 by dissenting from the merger and attempting to secure a 
cash payment instead.
Mr Rs actions in 2017, choosing to remain invested rather than the option of 
liquidating Y and receiving a cash payment, cast further doubt on whether he would 
in fact have taken different steps in 2012 had he known more about the merger.One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint, and didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary he said:
Transact had discretion about what notices and information regarding corporate 
actions to forward to investors and their advisers.
The May 2012 letter, with the first indication of a restructuring to X, said X was 
considering changes but didnt contain detail. It gave no options for shareholders. It 
wasnt unreasonable for Transact to choose not to share this with Mr R or his 
adviser.
In any event the restructuring took a very different form to the tentative proposal set 
out in broad strokes in May 2012.
He was satisfied Transact sent the notification in early September 2012 to the correct 
email address. This was supported by other correspondence to and from that 
address regarding Bs clients.
Mr R, and his adviser, didnt inform Transact in writing of the change of adviser from 
B to C until 10 September. Transacts terms were clear about the process for 
changing adviser and that this needed to be done in writing. So it wasnt 
unreasonable for Transact to have continued to correspond with B about Mr Rs 
investments up until that point.
Transact is set up for investors that have an adviser. So it wasnt unreasonable for it 
to send detailed and technical information  like those about corporate actions  to 
an adviser rather than the investor themselves. This was also consistent with its 
general practice and wasnt unusual in the case of the X/Y merger.
It wasnt certain what Mr R would have done had he been aware of the merger 
earlier, or if Transact had pointed him to the Marshall Islands law that could 
potentially have given him the ability to dissent from the merger and receive cash.
Had Mr R chosen to pursue the ability to dissent, its far from certain what the result 
would have been. In any event the adjudicator thought on balance that Mr R wouldnt 
have chosen to pursue a dissent and attempt to redeem a cash value through the 
courts.
The merger and change of Mr Rs holding from X shares to a bondholding in Y wasnt 
the type of service or transaction that would have required Transact to assess 
appropriateness.
Mr R and his adviser found out about the bond for share swap at the latest a month 
or so after it happened. Mr R didnt raise any concerns or ask to redeem his 
bondholding at that point. This also suggests Mr R wouldnt have done anything 
differently had he been aware earlier.
Mr R didnt agree, and his representative made further submissions. These largely reiterated 
the arguments Ive set out above but emphasised:
The adviser firm application in 2011 isnt clear enough about which firm it refers to 
and who is authorised to request it for Transact to say it was definitely in reference to 
the firm of advisers B.
Theres evidence to suggest other entities, who werent Mr Rs adviser, used the 
email address on that form.
The May 2012 notification  whether or not it was what eventually happened  
suggested such a dramatic restructuring of the investment Mr R had invested in that 
Transact ought to have let him, or his adviser, know about it.
There were some common directors and shareholders between the advice firms 
involved here  A and B  and both the fund X and its operators. But B was no longer linked through any of these means to X or its operator by late 
May 2012. In particular, Mr W, who was the individual advising Mr R, had no 
knowledge of the events or anything to do with X.
Mr R wouldnt have needed to pursue anything through the Marshall Islands courts 
had he wanted to dissent from the merger. In his view hed have been able to litigate 
in the UK.
Whatever the outcome of the statutory process, its more likely than not that Mr R 
would have received a settlement from Y or the related entities which would have 
avoided much or all of his losses.
Even had he wanted to, Mr R couldnt have redeemed his bondholding in Y after he 
discovered it. He said he was aware of other investors who requested a redemption 
of their bonds in late 2012 and these requests remain unfulfilled.
I issued a provisional decision about the matter, in which I said:
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint, I have taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, 
guidance and standards; codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider 
to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Firstly, Id like to say that Im grateful for the detailed and comprehensive submissions 
both parties have made. Mr R and his representative have raised a number of points. 
And I hope he wont take it as a discourtesy that I wont address each and every point 
directly in detail. The purpose of this decision is to set out my conclusions on whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint, and my reasons for 
reaching them.
At its heart, this complaint is about a change to Mr Rs investment, and what Transact 
told him about it. Before addressing this aspect, however, I think its important to be 
clear about what the complaint isnt about.
This complaint isnt about Mr Rs initial investment into X during 2011. In his 
submissions Mr R said:
If the event about which this complaint is being made was the making of the original 
investment in [X] shares which was made on behalf of Mr [R] on 18/03/2011, then this 
complaint would clearly be out of time.
But the event that is the subject of this complaint is the enforced exchange of the 
original investment of [X] shares into a lower value/higher risk UCIS in the form of a 
corporate bond.
For absolute clarity, I make no comment or finding on whether such a complaint about 
Mr Rs initial investment into X would fall within this services jurisdiction. But I find that 
based on the way Mr R has described his complaint to our service, I am being asked 
to make a determination on matters solely related to the merger and bond for share 
swap in 2012.
So what happened in 2012? To summarise:
Mr R held shares in X. His shares were B class, non-voting shares.
X was a fund that invested in UK property.
It was domiciled in the Marshall Islands, and operated by a company based in 
Switzerland.Mr Rs overall portfolio was made up of a mixture of regulated funds, ETFs, and cash. 
Around a third of his portfolio was in X.
In May 2012 Transact was informed that X intended to undergo a restructuring. At the 
same time, redemptions were extended to a year.
In August 2012 Transact was then notified of the exact restructuring X was to undergo.
The restructuring involved X merging with another Marshall Islands company, Y.
Mr R and other investors were to be given holdings in a bond issued by another 
Marshall Islands company, Y.
So the events complained of concern the restructuring of the company Mr R invested 
in, and the enforced swap of his shareholding for a bondholding in Y.
Transact had a few different roles with regard to Mr Rs investment. Much of Mr Rs 
holding in X was held in his SIPP, and Transact was the operator of that SIPP. Mr Rs 
holding was also on a nominee basis  meaning that while Mr R was the beneficial 
owner of the shares, Transact was the legal owner and shareholder of record with Xs 
registrars. And Transact provided the platform services on which Mr R held his 
investment in X both within and without his SIPP.
Mr R has argued that a recent court case, also involving a SIPP operator, is relevant to 
his complaint. 
In (R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service 
[2018] EWHC 2878), Berkeley Burke brought a judicial review claim challenging the 
decision of an ombudsman who had upheld a consumers complaint against it. The 
ombudsman considered the FCA Principles and good industry practice at the relevant 
time. He concluded that it was fair and reasonable for Berkeley Burke to have 
undertaken due diligence in respect of the investment before allowing it into the SIPP 
wrapper, and that if it had done so, it would have refused to accept the investment. 
The ombudsman found Berkeley Burke had therefore not complied with its regulatory 
obligations and had not treated its client fairly.
Mr R says the same due diligence obligations applied to Transact when his X shares 
were changed into a bondholding in Y. He says Transact, had it complied with these 
obligations, could and should have explored options which would have allowed him to 
exit the investment and avoid his subsequent losses.
I dont agree that the circumstances here are analogous to those in Berkeley Burke. 
That complaint, and the courts findings, concerned the actions of a SIPP operator 
when accepting an investment into a SIPP wrapper. That wasnt the case here.
At the time of the events complained of, Mr R already held his X shares in his SIPP. 
The merger which took place involved Mr Rs shareholding being replaced by bonds 
issued by Y. But this was a corporate action impacting his existing investment. I 
acknowledge the impact was substantial and involved a change to the nature of his 
relationship to the fund (becoming a bond holding creditor rather than a part owning 
shareholder). But this doesnt change the fact that, in my view, this was a change to an 
existing investment and not one which involved Transact accepting an investment into 
Mr Rs SIPP. So Im not currently persuaded that the specific findings in relation to 
SIPP operators accepting investments into SIPPs apply here.
Of course, the FCAs high level principles referred to in Berkeley Burke also applied to 
Transact. I agree with Mr R that those principles are relevant and Transact needed to 
take reasonable steps to comply with them. As mentioned above, as well as being the operator of Mr Rs SIPP it was the nominee 
holder of his X shares. The terms of Mr Rs account at the time of the merger said that 
it is your and your Advisers responsibility to monitor any corporate action for the 
Investments which you have bought, or transferred into your Portfolio. We will not send 
you copies of reports or accounts or meeting and voting information or other 
documents about corporate actions issued by the providers of Investments.
So the terms said Transact wouldnt send Mr R or his adviser information about 
corporate actions. But Transact was also Mr Rs nominee. He himself wouldnt be privy 
to correspondence from X about corporate actions or anything else, they would be 
sent to Transact as the shareholder of record.
I agree Transact had no obligation to advise Mr R or recommend a particular course of 
action. But in taking on the role of nominee, it needed to carry out that role in 
compliance with the Principles  it needed to do so with due skill care and diligence, 
and having regard for Mr Rs interests and treating him fairly.
In May 2012 Transact was informed of an impending corporate action relating to X. 
The notification said that due to changes in the regulatory environment the operators 
were considering a restructuring of the fund. It indicated that the fund intended to 
merge with another company and list on the Maltese Stock Exchange. But it went on to 
say The final prospectus and documentation for the process is being prepared and it 
is anticipated that this should be available for publication within the next four to six 
weeks.
Mr R has argued that Transact ought to have passed this information on to him in May 
2012, and that it would have allowed him and his adviser to consider their options and 
take action to exit his investment. As I shall go on to explain, Im not currently 
persuaded that Mr R would have been left in a different position had he received the 
May 2012 notification. But Im also not currently of the view that it was unfair or 
unreasonable for Transact to decide against forwarding this correspondence to 
investors like Mr R.
The notification told Transact that X was considering a restructuring. But that there 
were no details agreed yet, and details would be forthcoming. As part of the notice X 
informed Transact that the redemption period for shares was being extended to a year.
So at this stage, there was no precise detail about the nature of the corporate action 
that was going to take place, nor specific timings. And investors werent able to 
redeem their holdings before the action would take place, in any event. Ive thought 
carefully about the content of the notice, in light of Transacts obligations to comply 
with the Principles, to treat Mr R fairly, and its role as his nominee. Having done so, I 
think it was fair and reasonable for Transact to have waited for further detail on the 
action before informing investors and their advisers. The notice didnt give Mr R any 
tangible knowledge of what would happen to his investment, and there were no steps 
he could take in relation to his investment at that stage.
In late August 2012, Transact received further correspondence from the operators of 
X. This gave the specific detail of the corporate action  which it transpired would 
involve the bond for share swap that eventually took place for B class shareholders 
like Mr R. 
In this instance, Transact did pass this information on to Mr Rs adviser (I shall address 
the dispute about this shortly). Now Transact knew exactly what was to happen to Mr Rs investment. While his shareholding didnt include voting rights, this was key 
information about a substantial change to the structure and nature of his investment. 
Bearing in mind Mr R wouldnt have had sight of this information himself as Transact 
was his nominee, I think it was fair and reasonable for Transact to ensure it passed on 
this information.
However I dont think that it was fair and reasonable for Transact to have been 
expected to go any further than this. Mr R has said it ought to have researched the 
action, the options available to investors, and the relevant law governing X to explore 
what else could be done. I dont agree. Transact operated the SIPP in which Mr R held 
his shares, and was the nominee shareholder on his behalf. But it was for Mr R, and 
his adviser, to establish the nature of the action and consider his options. I think it was 
fair and reasonable for Transact to have passed on the relevant key information about 
the changes to Mr Rs investment, but I dont think it needed to do any more than that.
Transact deals largely with investors who use regulated financial advisers. Its terms 
say instructions from an adviser are to be accepted as if from the end client. And that 
its the investors responsibility to ensure Transact is kept informed about any changes 
to which firm of advisers someone is using, or if they cease to use one at all. 
The action X was taking wasnt a normal corporate action but a fairly substantial 
change involving the nature of Mr Rs investment being changed into something 
different. I think it was fair and reasonable for Transact to consider this something it 
would be important for Mr R to discuss with his adviser, and to rely on the adviser to 
pass that information on to Mr R. Im therefore satisfied it was reasonable for Transact 
to send the August 2012 notification and documentation to Mr Rs adviser, rather than 
to Mr R directly.
Transact says it sent the notification of the merger and bond for share swap to Mr Rs 
adviser by email on 3 September 2012. Mr R has argued it didnt, and oughtnt to have 
considered the address it was sending the notification was one used by his adviser. I 
can confirm Ive read and considered Mr Rs submissions on this point in their entirety, 
and considered them carefully. Having done so, Im satisfied that it was fair and 
reasonable for Transact to consider that in sending that email to the address it did, it 
had informed Mr Rs adviser of the action about to take place.
A firm had applied for an adviser account with Transact in late 2011. Mr R disputes 
that this application (which included the email address Transact was to use in 
September 2012) was in fact related to his adviser firm, B.
B was a firm of advisers at that time trading under the name B Limited. It was an 
appointed representative of a principal firm, P.
The application form gives the adviser name B number 2. And is signed by a Mr L, 
stating he is a director of the firm.
According to the regulators financial services register, Mr L is recorded as having 
carried out the role of CF1 Director (AR) at an appointed representative firm of P 
from 2 December 2011 to 22 June 2012. The only appointed representative firm he 
was given as being attached to from 2 December 2011 until 5 March 2012 was B. So 
Im satisfied it was reasonable for Transact to have assurance Mr L was authorised to 
open an adviser account on behalf of B.
Transact has explained that the reference to B number 2 was because adviser firms 
would often open separate accounts, for various administrative reasons. The bank account given on the form gives the initials of the then registered name of B. Ive also 
seen emails in both directions between Transact and the email address on the form 
which support that address being used by B. In one email from that email address to 
Transact, it makes a request for a client to be registered to the specific adviser Mr W 
(who was Mr Rs adviser). This was in March 2012. The email also gives the name B 
limited. 
Overall Im satisfied that on the balance of probabilities, the email address on the form 
was provided to Transact by someone authorised to act for B, and that it was used by 
B to correspond with Transact about Bs clients. It follows that Im satisfied Transact 
informed B of the forthcoming bond for share swap in X/Y on 3 September 2012.
Mr R has raised concerns about the way Transact keeps records of its adviser firms, 
and whether it allows different entities in the same group to use the same email 
address. Hes highlighted examples of the same firm having different unique identifier 
codes and contradictory explanations for this from Transact. Broader concerns about 
Transacts methods for communicating with advisers are beyond the scope of this 
decision. For the purposes of considering whats fair and reasonable in these particular 
circumstances, I simply need to be satisfied Transact acted fairly and reasonably in 
sending the 3 September 2012 notification to the email address it did, on the 
understanding this would be received by Mr Rs advisory firm at the time, B. For the 
reasons Ive given above Im satisfied thats the case.
In summary, having considered the role of Transact and its responsibilities to Mr R, 
bearing in mind its need to take reasonable steps to comply with the Principles, have 
regard for Mr Rs interests and treat him fairly, Im currently of the view that in these 
particular circumstances that meant it ought fairly and reasonably to have informed Mr 
R and his adviser of the impending merger and corporate action in X when it received 
notice of it in August 2012. Im satisfied that it did so. It follows that I dont think it 
would be fair and reasonable to hold Transact responsible for any losses Mr R 
suffered following the merger.
However, even if Im wrong about any of the above, Im not persuaded that Transact 
informing Mr R earlier, or giving any more detailed information to him about the action, 
would have resulted in a different outcome here. I dont think its likely, on balance, that 
Mr R would have done anything but receive and hold the bonds he did.
Even if Mr R had been told of the impending (albeit at that time uncertain) restructuring 
in May 2012, and had decided to disinvest, that wouldnt have been possible in a 
traditional way. At the time of that announcement, X extended redemptions and my 
understanding is that no redemptions requested at that time (or even shortly before) 
were completed before the merger in September. So I dont think its likely, on balance, 
that Mr R could simply have sold his shares in order to avoid becoming a bondholder 
after the merger.
He could have requested a redemption of his bond holding immediately afterwards 
(although I do note that once he did discover the merger, he didnt do so). Mr Rs 
representative has provided evidence that other investors did make such redemption 
requests in September and October 2012, which have to date remained unfulfilled. So 
on the balance of probabilities, I currently think its more likely than not that Mr R would 
have been unable to redeem his bonds after the merger took place.
If either party has evidence to suggest such a redemption would have been possible 
then I would encourage them to provide it in response to this provisional decision.Mr R has also argued that the Marshall Islands law under which X was incorporated 
provided an alternative route. He says that, whether accorded voting rights or not, any 
shareholder in a company subject to a merger or acquisition has the right to dissent 
from the action, and request a cash consideration for the fair value of their shares 
instead. That fair value is said to be established through the courts if necessary.
Mr R and his adviser did become aware of the events and merger in September 2012. 
Ive not seen anything to suggest they raised the issue of being able to dissent from 
the merger at the time, or since. I dont find it likely, on balance, that this is something 
Mr R or his adviser would have considered of their own volition had they known about 
the merger earlier.
Even if Mr R and his adviser had been aware of this legal provision (whether or not it 
provided a route for Mr R to exit his investment  and to be clear I make no finding on 
that point) Im not currently persuaded hed have taken it. There was no guarantee or 
even likelihood it would result in him receiving anything back for his investment. And 
may have involved lengthy and expensive legal proceedings. Nothing in Mr Rs 
submissions or testimony suggest this was a course of action hed have been likely to 
take  especially at a time when there was no direct indication the bondholding was 
likely to result in the substantial losses Mr R now says hes facing.
So overall I dont currently consider that, on the balance of probabilities, Mr R would 
have done, or would have been able to do, anything differently in 2012 which would 
have resulted in him not ending up as a holder of bonds issued by Y.
I have great sympathy for Mr R, who invested a large sum in an investment that he 
now cant access. Its uncertain whether hell ever be able to redeem anything from it. 
But Im not currently persuaded that Transact treated Mr R unfairly or unreasonably. 
So I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to require it to compensate him for his 
losses.
Transact didnt have anything to add to my provisional decision. Mr R didnt agree with my 
conclusions, and maintained Transact should have done more to alert him to the nature of 
the corporate action affecting his shares in X, and his options at the time. He said had it 
done so, hed have exercised his right to dissent from the merger and receive a payment for 
his shareholding. He said:
I was wrong to say Transact used the correct email address to notify his adviser of 
the corporate action. My conclusions were contrary to the evidence hed provided.
The merger, and consequent replacement of Mr Rs shares in X with bonds issued by 
Y, was carried out by the fund operators in such a way as to reduce or remove the 
chance of investors like Mr R objecting and receiving payment for their shares.
Transact had an obligation to enquire into the nature of the action and how it would 
take place, because it was supposed to be safeguarding his investment. It couldnt 
protect his investment from harm if it didnt fully understand what was happening to it.
Transacts actions with this corporate action were inconsistent with what it did on 
other occasions  where it provided much more detail on what the action involved 
and clearly set out investors options and how they could exercise them.
Transact ought particularly to have done more here because it knew that there were 
potential conflicts of interest, given the shared directors and interrelationships 
between Mr Rs adviser firm and the fund operator.
Transact ought to have established what rights investors like Mr R may have had in 
light of the corporate action  here, to dissent from the merger and receive fair value 
for their shareholding. Further, it should have explained these rights to Mr R.Transact didnt just have to act fairly and reasonably, but it needed to act honestly, 
fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its clients. In these 
circumstances, checking what rights Mr R had as a shareholder (and by extension 
Transacts own rights as nominee) would have been necessary to act fairly and in 
Mr Rs best interests.
I was wrong to say that even if Mr R had known of his rights and options, he wouldnt 
have exercised them. 
My assumptions were made with hindsight, and didnt give weight to Mr Rs own 
testimony within his complaint about what he would have done.
Specifically, Mr R could have challenged the value of his shares in a UK court so 
wouldnt have needed to litigate in the Marshall Islands.
Mr R had asked his adviser to sell his X shares in 2011  but his adviser was 
prevented from doing so by the directors of the firm he worked for.
I focused on whether Mr R could have redeemed his shares in X (or later, his 
bondholding in Y) directly through the fund operator. This isnt relevant. What Mr R 
would have done (had he been properly informed by Transact) is exercise his right to 
dissent from the merger, and redeemed his shares that way.
As Mr Rs SIPP provider, Transact needed to carry out due diligence on investments 
it was to hold in his pension. This duty was an ongoing one.
This ongoing duty obliged Transact to investigate the specifics of the proposed 
corporate action in Mr Rs X shares. Had it done so it would have found Mr Rs 
fractional ownership shares were to be replaced with unsecured debt securities. No 
reasonable SIPP provider would have allowed that to happen.
This complaint isnt about Transact accepting Mr Rs investment in X onto its platform 
when he first invested. But the degree to which Transact followed regulatory 
guidance in terms of the due diligence it carried out at that point is relevant to this 
complaint.
Specifically, had Transact gained a thorough understanding of the investment when 
Mr R entered into it, Transact would have known about the right of redemption Mr R 
had in certain circumstances under Marshall Island law. It would have then known 
that the merger in 2012 arguably breached the requirements for notice periods, and 
at the very least meant Transact could and should have informed Mr R of his rights.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Once again Id like to thank all parties for their patience while our service has considered this 
complaint. Ive considered Mr Rs submissions in response to my provisional decision in full. 
Having done so, Im not persuaded to depart from my provisional conclusions, and Ill 
explain why.
Mr R has made a number of points relating to Transacts obligations as his SIPP provider 
and ISA platform provider, and what it ought to have done when accepting his investment 
onto its platform. Hes referenced various pieces of regulatory guidance and recent court 
cases he says are relevant.
But for largely the same reasons as I gave in my provisional decision, I disagree about how 
relevant those things are in relation to this particular complaint. The court cases and 
guidance Mr R refers to specifically relate to the due diligence expected of a SIPP operator 
when accepting an investment or application i.e. when deciding whether to accept an 
instruction. That isnt what this complaint is about. While the corporate action clearly involved 
a substantial change to the nature of Mr Rs investment, there was not an instruction from  Mr R or someone acting on his behalf to accept or reject  the focus of the complaint is the 
communication relating to an existing investment, and the extent of Transacts obligations in 
safeguarding and administering that investment. 
If Mr R has concerns about the due diligence Transact carried out when he first invested in X 
(that is to say, when Transact decided to allow the investment in its platform), hes of course 
free to make that complaint to Transact. And for absolute clarity I make no comment or 
finding on either whether or not our service would have the power to consider such a 
complaint, or whether it would have any merit. That isnt the complaint in front of me. What 
Ive been asked to consider is the role of Transact when an investment Mr R held on its 
platform was subject to a corporate action in the form of a merger and share-for-bond swap.
So this complaint isnt about what Transact should or shouldnt have done, or known about 
this investment, at the time Mr R made it. Its about what it should have done when 
presented with a corporate action on an investment an investor already held on its platform. 
Where I do agree with Mr R is that Transacts obligations to him werent confined to the 
inception of his investment, but were ongoing. Transact, as a regulated firm, had to comply 
with the regulators principles, including Principles 6 and 7 which say:
6 Customers' interests A firm must pay due regard to the interests of 
its customers and treat them fairly.
7 Communications 
with clientsA firm must pay due regard to the information needs of 
its clients, and communicate information to them in a way 
which is clear, fair and not misleading.
Transact was also bound by the regulators Conduct of Business Rules, including COBS 
2.1.1R, which provides:
(1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of 
its client (the client's best interests rule).
Ive considered these rules and principles carefully when thinking about Transacts actions in 
relation to this corporate action. And all this needs to be considered in the context of the 
relationship that existed between Mr R and Transact.
Mr Rs argument boils down to his assertion that Transact, when it became aware of the 
proposal by the operators of X to carry out a corporate action on the fund, ought to have 
commenced investigations as to the detail of what was proposed, what that might mean for 
investors, and what their options were. He says it should have done so especially in this 
case as it knew the operators of X were linked in a number of ways to the firms of advisers 
that had recommended investors put their money in X to begin with.
For the reasons I explained in my provisional decision, Im not persuaded it is fair and 
reasonable to expect Transacts involvement to stretch that far.
Mr R held his investment in X with Transact. The platform was the provider of the SIPP in 
which Mr R held his shares, and the nominee shareholder. As Mr R says, Transact carried 
out the activity of safeguarding and administering his shareholding. He says that 
safeguarding means protecting from harm  and here Transact ought to have protected him 
from the harm he suffered by being denied his contractual and legal right to dissent from the merger.
To amount to the regulated activity of safeguarding and administering, both of the two 
elements must be present. The handbook doesnt define each term separately, but PERG 
offers guidance as to what the regulator considers each involves, to help firms decide if they 
are carrying out a regulated activity.
At PERG 2.7.9G (1) on safeguarding investments it says:
Safeguarding is acting as custodian of the property, for example, holding any documents 
evidencing the investments such as the share certificate (although it is worth noting that 
there is express provision that an uncertificated investment may be safeguarded and 
administered).
Thats what Transact did here. It acted as custodian of Mr Rs investment, being the 
shareholder of record on his behalf. But I dont agree with Mr R that this, or any other rules 
or guidance Transact needed to follow, mean it would be fair and reasonable for it to have 
specifically told him about the potential for him to dissent to the merger and any action hed 
be able to pursue in that regard to redeem his investment.
I agree with Mr R that Transact needed to keep his investment safe  but I dont think it 
follows it needed to tell him how he might be able to get out of his investment if he wasnt 
happy with a prospective change to the investment as a result of a corporate action. Keeping 
his investment safe needs to be thought about in the context of Transacts role. I dont think 
it would be fair and reasonable for it to be used as a basis for imposing obligations on 
Transact which go beyond that role.
PERG 2.7.9G (2) gives guidance on the administering investments:
Administration covers services provided to the owner or manager of the property, such as 
settlement of sale transactions relating to an investment, dealing with income arising from 
the investment and carrying out corporate actions such as voting.
This shows that the sort of thing this complaint concerns  dealing with corporate actions  is 
considered to fall under the administration part of the regulated activity. In my view this 
means that imposing a requirement to protect Mr R from potential harm as a result of a 
corporate action goes beyond the safeguarding aspect of the role it played in looking after 
his investments.
Corporate actions happen all the time when companies management decides to do things it 
considers in the companys overall interests. These can be small  changes to dividend 
payments, changes of names. They can involve things which impact on shareholders rights 
and holdings, like rights issues or share buybacks. The company will  as X did here  set 
out the terms of the proposed action, and where it chooses to conduct an action in a way 
that it wants to offer options to shareholders it will do that too. 
Here, Xs operators decided to substantially restructure the company in a way that meant 
certain shareholders, including Mr R, would have their shareholding replaced with bonds 
issued by a new company. The action was to be voted on by shareholders  but Mr Rs 
shares didnt have voting rights. So there was nothing in the terms of the action set out by X 
that Mr R could vote on or choose to do.
Of course, where an investor holds shares in a company, he or she will have other rights  
either set out in the articles of association of the company or in the law of the country in 
which the company is based. These broader rights arent specific to a particular action, and wouldnt generally be included or repeated in information provided about a corporate action.
Mr R argues that his legal right to dissent from this particular action is something Transact 
should have known and told him about. But I dont agree. Transact had, as Mr Rs SIPP 
provider and nominee, been informed of a prospective action on a share Mr R held. I think 
its fair and reasonable in those circumstances for it to have made sure Mr R or his adviser 
were aware of it. Which it did by emailing Mr Rs adviser in September 2012.
But any rights or options Mr R had beyond those set out in the corporate action notification 
werent unique to this corporate action or this investment, or related to Transacts role as Mr 
Rs nominee or SIPP provider. They were aspects of Mr Rs status as a shareholder of a 
company in the Marshall Islands. Having chosen to invest in such a company Im satisfied it 
was for Mr R and his adviser to understand his rights as a shareholder of this sort of 
company. I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to expect Transact to have 
investigated any further implications of the action or told Mr R about them.
As I said in my provisional decision, I make this finding in light of and having carefully 
considered Transacts obligations under the Principles and COBS 2.1.1R. I think it was fair 
and reasonable for Transact to tell Mr R and his adviser about what was going to happen. 
Im satisfied it was in his best interests to know about it. 
But I dont think it was within the scope of what it would be fair and reasonable to expect 
Transact to have done in these particular circumstances for it to have also thought about Mr 
Rs broader rights as a shareholder and how he might exercise them. That, in my view, was 
a matter for Mr R as a shareholder of X to think about along with his adviser, and not 
something it would be fair and reasonable to hold Transact responsible for.
There is then the question of whether Transact took reasonable steps to notify Mr R and his 
adviser of the action. Mr R says my conclusions on this point run contrary to the evidence 
provided. On this point I have little to add to my provisional findings. I considered the 
application forms for different advisory firms, and looked at the financial services register 
relating to the individuals whose names were on the firms. I explained the rationale Transact 
had given about why a second account was opened, and why I was satisfied that evidence 
in the form of emails between Transact and the address given on B number 2s form 
persuaded me that this address was reasonably assumed by Transact to be used by B, Mr 
Rs firm of advisers. I remain of the view that, on balance, someone authorised to act for B 
gave Transact that email address, and B used it to correspond with Transact about its 
clients. Im therefore still of the view it was fair for Transact to send a notification of a 
corporate action to that address, and to consider it sent to Mr Rs adviser.
So taking into account the above, I find that in these particular circumstances it was fair and 
reasonable for Transact to have communicated what it did about the merger affecting Mr Rs 
investment. And that it was fair and reasonable for Transact to have sent this notification 
when it did, and where it did. It follows that I dont find it would be fair and reasonable to 
require Transact to compensate Mr R for any losses he has, or may suffer as a result of the 
corporate action.
In my provisional decision I also explained why I thought  even had Transact acted 
differently or informed Mr R about things at different times  Mr R would have ended up in 
the same position hes in now. Mr R responded to those arguments in detail.
Given my findings above, I dont think its necessary for me to consider what Mr R would 
have done in order to reach a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. I say this, 
because as Ive found above, I consider Transacts actions to have been fair and reasonable 
in the particular circumstances of this complaint. This is the primary point, and as a result of this I dont consider anything that could or should have happened differently to be something 
it would be fair and reasonable to hold Transact responsible for. 
However, I have reconsidered my provisional conclusions in this regard as well. And while I 
note the points Mr R has made in response, my view remains as set out in my provisional 
decision. I emphasise that this is a secondary point and my overall conclusion  that it 
wouldnt be fair and reasonable to require Transact to pay Mr R any compensation  would 
be the same in any event.
Mr R has said its wrong of me to say what he would have done, with the benefit of hindsight. 
And that Ive conflated what he could have done to redeem his shares or bonds, with his 
ability to dissent to the merger and achieve money for his shares that way. He says Ive not 
taken into account what hes told me about what he would have done.
I assure Mr R I have given considerable weight to his testimony in bringing his complaint. 
But Ive had to weigh that against the evidence from the time. Mr Rs current testimony is 
consistent, that hed have exited the investment by any means available to him. But I must 
acknowledge that Mr R is able to avail himself of the benefit of hindsight. He now knows 
much more about the investment than he did in 2012, and knows the bonds he was issued 
havent been able to be redeemed when they were originally intended to. In light of that 
information I have no doubt he now wishes hed been able to exit this investment earlier. But 
it doesnt necessarily follow that is in fact what hed have done in 2012 had he known more 
about the corporate action as it was envisaged and described at the time.
Mr R is right to say that his ability to redeem the shares or bonds through the fund operators 
is a separate issue from his ability to dissent from the merger and seek a redemption 
through those means.
For the reasons in my provisional decision I still dont think Mr R could have redeemed his 
shares or bonds even had he wanted to. As he has said himself in response to my 
provisional decision, he asked his adviser to sell his X shares in 2011. But the adviser wasnt 
able to do so. Ive not been persuaded by anything Mr R has said in response to my 
provisional decision that redemption of his shares or bonds through the fund operator would 
have been possible (and I acknowledge that Mr R hasnt argued that it would have been).
I also dont think that  even were Transact to have included mention in its notification of the 
right to dissent from the merger  that this is the course Mr R would, on balance, have taken. 
I dont doubt at all what Mr R says now. But in determining what would or wouldnt have 
happened at the time, I am more persuaded by what Mr R did in fact do with his investment, 
particularly once he and his adviser were made aware of the corporate action.
Neither Mr R nor his adviser appear to have made any attempt to exit his investment at the 
time of the merger, or raised questions with Transact or the fund operator about how he 
might go about redeeming his holdings. I find this persuasive evidence that, at the time, 
getting rid of his investment in X wasnt as much a focus for Mr R or his adviser as it is now.
I accept that establishing counterfactuals such as these can be finely balanced, as this one 
is. I cant know for sure what Mr R would have done in different circumstances. But for the 
reasons I give here and those in my provisional decision, I remain unpersuaded that different 
actions by Transact would have resulted in Mr R no longer holding his bonds.
To reiterate, my principal finding however is that taking account of its role and the 
relationship between Transact and Mr R, the firm acted fairly and reasonably in the 
circumstances of this corporate action and shouldnt fairly be held responsible for the losses 
Mr R has unfortunately suffered since.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Luke Gordon
Ombudsman