DRN-3203040
The complaint
Mrs W complains about Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) who declined a claim made under 
her furniture insurance. 
What happened
Mrs W bought several pieces of furniture as well as an insurance policy of five years for the 
furniture. After four years an item of furniture began to disintegrate and showed signs of 
sagging. Mrs W contacted the furniture retailers who directed her to the insurer Ageas, from 
whom she made a claim.  
Ageas sent two different independent technicians to inspect the furniture on different days. 
Both agreed that the damage caused, was due to wear and tear, so Ageas declined the 
claim. 
Mrs W complained to Ageas as she felt that her policy covered the damage and the furniture 
was of poor quality. In its final response, Ageas maintained that the damage wasnt covered 
on the policy and the claim remained declined. Mrs W referred her complaint to our service 
and complained on social media. Following this, the furniture retailer agreed to take back the 
furniture, refunded the full cost of the furniture and the insurance policy.  
But Mrs W remained unhappy as she felt that Ageas incorrectly declined the claim, and this 
caused her unnecessary distress and inconvenience. One of our investigators considered 
the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said that Ageas declined the claim in 
line with Mrs Ws insurance policy and as such, he was unable to suggest that Ageas take 
any further action.
Ageas accepted the view, Mrs W did not. She felt let down by the view. She said that the 
policy specifically covered for loss of resilience which is what happened to the furniture. And 
as she felt Ageas incorrectly declined the claim, she asked for a decision from an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint. My findings are broadly the same as our 
investigator, which I expect Mrs W will be disappointed with, but I will explain why I think this 
is fair.  
Mrs Ws policy covered the furniture for excessive loss of resilience, amongst other things. 
Mrs W felt that the furniture had lost its resilience as it began sagging and disintegrating. So, 
she believed that her claim shouldve been covered by Ageas. Consequently, Ive 
considered this as the main issue of complaint for Mrs W, which I will address. 
I have considered the policy terms and conditions and what is covered under the policy is: 
Structural defects to fabric or leather furniture, mattresses (including mattress protectors)
following the expiry of the suppliers warranty caused by loss of resilience to foam and 
fibre...
Having read the reports from the technicians, both concluded that there were no structural 
defects. 
The policy further provides that there is no cover for gradual wear and tear. Both reports 
were consistent that the cause of the damage was due to wear and tear. As such, I think that 
Ageas was fair in declining the claim as it fell outside the scope of the terms and conditions 
of the policy. 
Mrs W was asked to provide any further evidence that she wished me to consider. None was 
provided. 
Ageas provided reports from the technicians. In the first report it found: Claim found to be 
invalid (found issue due to natural settlement of seat infills). This is an invalid claim because 
issue has occurred over period of time. Inspection found no fault. Seats have had a high 
volume of use which has resulted in natural settlement of seat infills, no manufacturing faults 
found.
The conclusion from this technician was that the cause of the damage had been due to the 
natural settlement of the seat infills. Ageas has explained that this means, that the issue with 
the furniture had occurred gradually and not a one-off or accident event, which would have 
been covered under the policy. 
The second technician who was sent by Ageas and wrote a report also found that the issue 
with the furniture had been caused by wear and tear. The report concluded: I have 
completed an inspection and pressure test of the furniture and found no faults with
the seat support framework and serpentine springs. The pocket spring density is consistent
in each of the seats suggesting that the settlement is normal. No springs have
buckled or failed. General wear and tear and expected settlement from the materials used.
This is an invalid claim because the seats have not failed but have settled to within the
expected tolerance for the materials used.
I am satisfied that the technicians evidence can be considered as expert evidence and as 
they have concluded that there was no fault with the frame, springs, or cushions. And that it 
is usual for the infills to gradually settle over time due to normal use, this isnt covered by the 
policy. 
I understand that Mrs W believes that Ageas shouldve covered her claim, but as Mrs W 
hasnt provided any expert evidence that opposes the reports, Im not satisfied that Ageas 
were unfair or unreasonable to rely on the expert evidence in declining her claim.  
Whilst I appreciate that this would not have been the outcome that Mrs W was looking for, I 
am satisfied that Ageas fairly declined the claim in line with the policy terms. 
I understand that the furniture retailer has refunded the cost of the furniture and the 
insurance policy, which I am pleased to hear. However, regarding Ageas, I wont be asking it 
to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decisionFor the reasons I explained, I wont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman