DRN-4145749
The complaint
Mr F complains that Helvetia Global Solutions Ltd unfairly declined a claim on his 
mechanical breakdown insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Fs car had an oil leak, so he called Helvetia to log the claim. He also had a garage 
diagnose the fault and repair it and asked Helvetia to cover the cost of repair. 
Helvetia reviewed the claim and declined it. It said the issue with Mr Fs car was an oil leak 
and the policy specifically excluded general oil leaks. Mr F was unhappy with Helvetias 
response and complained. Helvetia reviewed the complaint and maintained its position that 
the claim wasnt covered. 
Mr F then referred his complaint here. He said Helvetia had told him when he called up that 
oil leaks were covered and said he should get the repair completed. 
Our investigator reviewed the claim and didnt find Helvetia had done anything wrong. She 
agreed the policy excluded oil leaks, and as Mr Fs car had an oil leak, she thought the claim 
had been fairly declined. She also didnt agree that Helvetia had said the claim would be 
covered and so didnt think Helvetia had done anything wrong in the call. 
Mr F didnt agree oil leaks werent covered by the policy and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. He also said he hadnt been given any terms and conditions which shows what 
was and wasnt covered. 
As Mr F didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Fs policy says: 
Your policy covers all mechanical and electrical components of the Vehicle, including Wear 
and Tear on covered components, that were part of the manufacturer's original specification, 
with the exception of those components listed below.
Below this it lists what isnt covered and provides a list of things which arent covered, within 
that list it says: 
general oil leaks or the adjustment of any component. 
Ive therefore looked at the repair invoice for Mr Fs car to see if Helvetia has acted fairly in 
declining the claim. The repair invoice is handwritten and appears to say: To replace rear 
main oil seal, remove + refit gearbox, + bolts + gaskets.  What is clear from the invoice is 
the issue with Mr Fs car is that it has an oil leak, and to fix it the rear main seal needed 
replacing. 
Helvetia declined the claim as the policy excludes general oil leaks, Im satisfied it acted 
fairly in doing so as the issue with Mr Fs car was an oil leak from the rear main seal. Ive 
also listened to the call Mr F made when he called to initially report the issue and asked 
about the claims process. From doing so, I dont agree Helvetia said the claim would be 
covered. And, while they did agree with Mr F when he said he might as well get the car 
repaired, as Mr Fs car needed repairing, I dont think this has caused him a loss he 
otherwise wouldnt have had. 
I understand my decision will be disappointing to Mr F, but Im not persuaded Helvetia has 
done anything wrong. It follows that I wont be telling it to do anything else.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman