DRN-1640972
The complaint
Mr D complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) refused to pay a claim 
he made for a lost mobile phone under a gadget insurance policy.
All references to Assurant include its agents.
What happened
On 12 August 2019, Mr D bought a gadget insurance policy online. It was underwritten by 
Assurant. Less than two weeks later, Mr D made a claim on the policy. He told Assurant that 
hed lost his phone whilst in the park with his child. 
Assurant declined the claim for the provision of misleading information. It said that the 
handset had been used both before and after it had been reported lost by someone with the 
same SIM card. Also, this SIM card was different to the two SIM cards Mr D had told them 
hed used in the handset. This indicated to Assurant that the phone wasnt lost and Mr D was 
still in possession of it. Also, it said it had no reason to doubt the information given to it by 
the mobile network provider but would consider its position if Mr D sent it evidence to 
explain what had happened. It referred Mr D to the following policy term:
 It is important that when applying for insurance, or submitting a claim you or anyone 
acting on your behalf must take reasonable care to answer all questions honestly and 
to the best of your knowledge. Failure to do so may affect the validity of your policy or 
the payment of your claim.
If false or inaccurate information is provided and fraud is identified then we will
not honour the claim and we will cancel your policy. If an excess has been paid 
this will not be returned, this is not a penalty this is to cover administration 
costs
 
As Assurant didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint, he came to our service. Our investigator looked 
into matters and agreed with Assurant that the evidence shows that someone was able to 
use Mr Ds handset both before and after the lost claim had been made. And he hadnt seen 
anything from Mr D to support his claim which would override this. Taking everything into 
account, he thought that Assurant had acted in line with their policy terms and reasonably 
raised concerns about the claim. He also noted that Mr D had been told in his initial call to 
contact the network provider to have his phone blocked. So he didnt uphold Mr Ds 
complaint. 
Mr D disagrees. He says hes searched for the phone number online and sent us a screen 
shot of the photo used by that number as its profile picture in WhatsApp. He says the child in 
the picture isnt a member of his family - a European guy has his phone but wont answer it.
This matter has now been passed to me for a decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks 
more likely to have happened in light of the evidence.
Although a number of matters and points have been raised, this decision focuses on what I 
think is the main issue. However, Ive carefully considered all of the submissions made 
before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I must tell Mr D that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome here 
and I think hes explained things clearly and thoroughly. So I dont uphold his complaint in 
this matter and set out why below. Before I do this, I think its important to mention that the 
test I must apply here is whether I think Assurant has treated Mr D fairly in declining his 
claim. Its not to decide what actually happened to his phone.
Mr D has a gadget insurance policy that covers his handset if its lost or stolen. When 
considering a claim, its reasonable for Assurant to ask for evidence to satisfy itself the claim 
is valid. This is common with insurance claims of any kind and this requirement is set out in 
the terms and conditions. 
As a result of its review, Assurant had concerns about the claim to the extent it couldnt be 
satisfied the claim was valid. It has pointed to inconsistencies in what Mr D has said and the 
evidence which the mobile phone network provider gave it. 
Having considered everything carefully, I think Assurants concerns were legitimate. Having 
looked into the claim carefully and taken into account all the information, I think it was 
reasonable for Assurant to say it wasnt satisfied the phone was lost and declined Mr Ds 
claim. The evidence Ive seen doesnt support this and I havent heard any explanation about 
how this couldve happened in a situation where Mr Ds phone was lost.
I note that Mr D has sent us a photo of the WhatsApp profile picture for the phone number in 
question and says this isnt a member of his family. Even if I accepted this was the case, this 
still wouldnt explain how the SIM card with this number was used in his handset before he 
says he lost his phone and the claim was made. So this doesnt change my decision in this 
matter.
It follows that I think Assurant fairly declined Mr Ds claim and I dont uphold his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2020.
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman