DRN-3370107
The complaint
 A company, which Ill refer to as X, complains about the service it received from Barclays 
Bank UK PLC when it tried to apply for a Bounce Back Loan (BBL). 
In bringing this complaint, X is represented by its director, who Ill refer to as Mr S
  
What happened
 In November 2020 Mr S closed Xs business account with Barclays. But Mr Ss personal 
account with the bank remained open.  
In February 2021 Mr S contacted Barclays about applying for a BBL for X. According to 
Barclays, Mr S told them he wanted to apply for the loan using his personal account. 
Barclays acknowledges Mr S was told it was possible to do so. 
In early March 2021, however, Barclays contacted Mr S to let him know that because X was 
a limited company the bank wasnt able to pay the BBL funds into his personal account. 
Barclays also told Mr S that he needed to contact the relevant department at Barclays to 
apply for a business account. 
Towards the end of March 2021 Mr S contacted Barclays again to ask the bank to review the 
recent advice it had given to him. He said based on advice from his accountant as well as 
that previously given to him by the bank, he didnt think he had to open a business account 
to qualify for the BBL. Mr S didnt apply to open a business account for X  and the BBL 
Scheme closed to new applications on 31 March 2021.  
Mr S believed X was treated unfairly by Barclays and so he complained to the bank on its 
behalf. He said from March through to May he was sent text messages confirming X s BBL 
application was progressing, and he was told the same in phone calls with the bank. He said 
he was not told until around mid-May about the banks requirement for X to have a business 
account in order to progress its application. He said that if the bank had told him earlier 
about its requirement, he could either have opened a business account or sought to re-
activate X s old account so that its BBL could be processed. 
Barclays didnt think theyd done anything wrong. They said they required customers to have 
a business relationship with the bank in order to apply to them for a BBL. And in respect of a 
limited company as in the case of X, a business account was needed to receive the BBL 
funds. Since X did not, it was unable to apply to the bank for a BBL. 
Barclays acknowledge they had discussions with Mr S about progressing Xs application  
including making amendments to records held at Companies House for X so theyd align 
with the Barclays own records for the company. But Mr S wanted a guarantee from the bank 
that if he were to make the amendments, Xs application would be approved  which the 
bank was unable to provide. 
Barclays also acknowledge X was provided with poor service when, for instance, they 
incorrectly informed Mr S that it was possible for BBL funds to be credited to his personal 
account.  However, Barclays said it rectified that error by letting Mr S know in March 2021 
that X did need to have an active business account with the bank into which the BBL funds 
could be paid. In recognition, however, of their poor service, which the bank felt also caused 
the many phone calls Mr S made to the bank for updates on the progress of Xs application, 
Barclays offered £100 as compensation to X.
Mr S didnt accept this outcome and referred his complaint to this service. 
An investigator looked into Xs complaint. He also acknowledged Barclays had made errors 
and provided poor service to X  including incorrect advice in February 2021, as well as 
sending text messages that gave the impression Xs application was being progressed.  
But he didnt recommend the bank take any further steps to put things right because: 
Under the BBL Scheme rules, Barclays had discretion to decide the terms on which it 
was prepared to offer finance  including the freedom to require X to enter into a 
business relationship with the bank as it had done; and
Barclays had told Mr S in March 2021 that X needed to apply for a business account 
to re-establish that relationship. But because Mr S seemed unprepared to do so, it 
wasnt unreasonable for Barclays to discontinue Xs application.
Mr S did not accept the investigators conclusions. He believes the banks £100 offer is 
derisory and has asked an ombudsman to review Xs complaint. Hes made lengthy 
submissions, which I summarise as follows: 
Barclays told him that payments could be made to a non-business account and did 
not make their criteria for a BBL known to X early enough in the application process. 
It was a long time after X approached the bank that it confirmed that X needed to 
open a new business account. 
In any case its disputed that X did in fact need to open a business account at all 
because there was an existing relationship with Barclays through Xs business credit 
card. And although credit cards may not be intended for depositing of funds, 
nonetheless they can be used for that purpose. 
Over many months Barclays sent texts confirming the application was being 
progressed. There was no reason for him not to have relied on the contents of the 
text messages. That being the case, it was immaterial when the BBL Scheme closed 
given the banks confirmations Xs application was in progress. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions and for broadly the same 
reasons. Ill explain why. 
Barclays required X to open a business account before it would consider a BBL application 
from it.  While it was not a requirement of the Scheme that applicants had a business 
relationship (or held a business account) with the prospective lender  and Mr S is right 
about that  lenders had the discretion to insist on that requirement. Barclays did so which I 
regard as reasonable. In particular, because it is through the process of assessing that application the bank is able to satisfy a number of legal and regulatory obligations in 
connection with the provision of banking services to its customers. 
A business relationship established by way of a business credit card did not satisfy the 
banks requirement. And overall, I do not regard the requirement as unreasonable given the 
fact that it is the business account that establishes the business relation between the bank 
and X for the purposes of the BBL. 
Barclays records show that Mr S called the bank on 22 February 2021 and indicated he 
wanted to apply for a BBL using his personal account. The bank initially indicated that was 
possible, which was incorrect as the bank acknowledges. Bearing in mind that Mr S and X 
are not one and the same in that X is a separate legal entity, as just noted the banks 
position that there needed to be business account to establish the business relationship 
between it and X seems reasonable.  
I dont agree with Mr Ss submission that Barclays did not explain the correct requirement for 
a BBL early enough in discussions with Mr S regarding Xs application. 
I have listened to the phone conversation between Mr S and the Barclays employee on 24 
March 2021. I am satisfied the employee made clear to Mr S that for X to be eligible to apply 
to Barclays for a BBL, the company first needed to open a business account with the bank. 
At that point the advice accurately reflected the banks policy. Its unfortunate that Mr S did 
not believe that what he was being told was right, which hes explained was based on advice 
from his accountant and what hed been told earlier by another employee at the bank. But it 
was right, and Im satisfied the requirement was clearly explained to Mr S who in turn made 
clear he was unprepared follow the revised advice he was being given. 
It follows that I have not been persuaded Mr S only became aware sometime in May 2021 
that the bank required X to have a business bank account. Im satisfied Mr S knew the steps 
he needed to take before X would be able to apply to Barclays for the BBL before the 
Scheme closed to applications at the end of March 2021. So, I do not find that Barclays were 
responsible for Xs failure to apply for (or obtain) a BBL. 
That being said, in their dealings with Mr S there were incidences of poor service from 
Barclays. As well as the incorrect advice the bank initially gave him that his personal account 
could be used to complete a BBL application for X, he was also sent text messages advising 
that Xs application was proceeding when it wasnt. These all point to the poor service the 
bank has already acknowledged. 
I am also satisfied X was inconvenienced by the poor service it received. Mr S has told us 
that on the occasions he received the text messages from the bank regarding Xs 
application, he called the bank and was given similar assurances. Although Im not 
persuaded that Mr S could have reasonably assumed his application was being progressed 
since he was unprepared to accept the banks terms, no doubt such calls could have been 
avoided but for the banks continued correspondence. 
Taking everything into account Im satisfied the banks offer of £100 is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this case. 
  
My final decision
 My final decision is I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement, I require 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay X £100.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman