DRN-2910628
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC defaulted his loan account and reported this to 
the credit reference agencies
What happened
Mr S arranged a loan with Barclays in October 2012. The monthly repayments were around 
£211 a month and were due on the 30th of each month.
In August 2016 Mr S contacted Barclays as he wasnt working and was unable to make the 
repayments  he hadnt paid the August payment. At this time an arrangement was agreed 
where Mr S wouldnt need to make any repayments until January 2017  a total of five 
months.
Mr S had several conversations with Barclays in January and February 2017 where his 
situation and the situation with the loan was discussed. It was explained that if his loan 
reached a point where he was six months in arrears, the account would be closed and 
passed to the recoveries department. And this would affect his credit file.
On 1 April 2017 Barclays issued a notice of default. This said Mr S needed to either repay 
the arrears in full by 29 April 2017 or contact Barclays to agree how the arrears would be 
paid. It said if Mr S didnt do this, the agreement would be terminated and details of the 
default would be registered with credit reference agencies. 
Mr S contacted Barclays on 5 April 2017. In this call the arrears werent repaid and no 
agreement was reached about how they would be repaid. The account was closed on 3 May 
2017 and details of the default were subsequently registered with credit reference agencies.
M S discovered the default had been recorded on his credit file in 2020 and he complained 
to Barclays. Barclays didnt think it had done anything wrong.
Our investigator also didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong. Mr S disagreed. In 
summary he said:
He wasnt told in August 2016 that the arrangement would affect his credit score.
Barclays refused to agree a repayment plan to clear the arrears, even though he was 
making the monthly payments on time.
The reason the March 2017 payment was late was because hed made it in cash on 
30 March and it took until 4 April to clear the account and show the payment made.
He paid the loan off a year early and had made efforts to save the money to make 
the monthly payments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr S feels strongly about having the default recorded on his credit file. 
From what hes said, and the calls Ive listened to, he was clearly in a difficult situation 
financially back in 2016/2017 and wanted to do everything he could to avoid this happening. 
He must have stretched himself to be able to continue making the monthly repayments and 
pay off the outstanding balance ahead of the date that had originally been agreed.
But just because I sympathise with Mr Ss situation, this doesnt mean it follows that Barclays 
did anything wrong. 
Ive listened to the call when Mr S agreed the payment arrangement in August 2016. While I 
appreciate he, understandably, doesnt remember being told about this affecting his credit 
file, Mr S specifically asks Barclays this question and is told it would. Hes also told that 
when the arrangement comes to an end, he will need to repay the arrears  either in one go 
or, depending on his financial situation at that time, he might be able to spread it out. So I 
think Barclays made the consequences of entering into the payment arrangement clear.
When the payment arrangement came to an end, Mr S spoke to Barclays several times to 
discuss the situation. Unfortunately his financial position hadnt significantly improved since 
August 2016 and when Barclays looked at whether he could afford to spread out the 
repayment of the arrears, as well as maintain the normal loan repayments, it concluded he 
couldnt. So while Mr S might have offered to pay £50 a month towards the arrears, as his 
outgoings were higher than his income at this time, it wouldnt have been responsible for 
Barclays to accept that. Restructuring the loan was also discussed but as Mr S didnt have 
any/enough surplus income, this wasnt possible. This was explained to Mr S.
During these calls it is made clear that if Mr S misses another repayment, his account will be 
closed, as hell be six months in arrears. And while extending the payment arrangement for a 
further six months was discussed  ie continuing to make no repayments  Barclays 
explained that this would lead to the account being closed as Mr S would be six months in 
arrears. Mr S wanted to avoid this happening. 
What Mr S wanted to do was make the monthly repayments and repay the arrears in the 
future, when his financial situation improved. And while Barclays didnt agree to this as a 
formal payment arrangement, the call Mr S had with Barclays on 1 February 2017 would 
have given Mr S the impression this was acceptable. But in the same call it is made clear 
that if Mr S misses another payment, then a default notice would be sent and the account 
closed. 
Mr S did make the January and February repayments on time, but the March repayment 
wasnt credited to his account until 4 April. Mr S now says the payment was made on 
30 March (the due date), but it didnt clear until 4 April because of the weekend. However, in 
the call Mr S had with Barclays on 5 April, Mr S said he makes the payments on Monday, 
and hed paid on 3 April. I think what Mr S said back in 2017 is more likely to be an accurate 
reflection of what happened than his recollections over four years later. So it seems likely 
Mr Ss March repayment was made after the due date. And this is why the default notice was 
triggered  as soon as the due date passed without a payment being made, Mr S was six 
months in arrears.
I dont think Barclays did anything wrong by sending the default notice when it did. It had told 
Mr S on several occasions this would happen if he was six months in arrears. The 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO) says when a consumer is at least three months 
behind with their payments then a default may be registered. And it would expect a default to 
be registered by the time the consumer is six months behind with their payments. So 
Barclays processes were in line with the ICOs guidance and they arent unreasonable.I appreciate Mr S did make the March repayment  it was just a few days late. And Mr S 
called Barclays as soon as he received the default notice. In this call Mr S tells Barclays 
again hes not able to repay the arrears and hell pay them when he can. Barclays told Mr S 
that wasnt how it works. The call ends abruptly before Barclays can explain more. 
I know Mr S thought the default notice had been sent in error and he would be fine if he 
continued to make the monthly repayments. But at no point during the call does Barclays 
agree with this. As such I dont think it was reasonable for Mr S to assume the steps set out 
in the default notice wouldnt happen. And as there was no further communication with 
Barclays and no agreement had been reached, I dont think Barclays did anything wrong by 
going on to terminate the agreement and register the default with credit reference agencies, 
as set out in the default notice.
Mr S went on to repay the full outstanding balance before the date that was originally set out 
in the loan agreement. But that isnt a reason for me to tell Barclays it should arrange for the 
record of the default to be removed from Mr Ss credit file, when Ive concluded it was fairly 
registered in the first place.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Claire Allison
Ombudsman