DRN-1505798
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complained about a mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
The Co-operative Bank PLC is now responsible for answering the complaint. However, at 
the time it was trading as Britannia. Ill therefore mainly refer to Britannia throughout this 
decision.
What happened
I see Mr and Mrs B have already been offered some money back, in respect of part of the 
commission Britannia got from selling the PPI. 
One of our adjudicators then assessed the mis-sale element of the complaint and told Mr 
and Mrs B its unlikely to be upheld. They disagreed with this as they still think the PPI was 
mis-sold in the first place, and asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint. 
Whilst I dont doubt Mr and Mrs B may now genuinely feel the PPI was mis-sold, Ive seen 
quite a few documents from the original sale which show the PPI was portrayed as optional 
and that Mr and Mrs B engaged in the sale process to buy it. 
I note, for example, that Mr and Mrs B signed a specific PPI application form in 2001 which 
was separate to a mortgage application. For some reason, the sale didnt go through at that 
point. But Ive seen a subsequent letter to Mr and Mrs B which confirmed PPI was an 
optional product and the letter also said it was a type of policy that could be cancelled at 
any time. It seems that Mr and Mrs B eventually went on to take out a PPI policy with their 
mortgage in July 2002.
I also think theres good documentary evidence that Mr and Mrs B engaged in the sale 
process and that PPI was something they wanted to have. They set the policy up in a way 
that demonstrates this - with Mr B being apportioned 34% of the cover, and Mrs B 66%. It 
seems to me that this establishes that theyd given considerable thought to what they 
wanted to do and how the insurance ought to be apportioned to reflect their salaries. I note 
that at the time, Mrs B was the higher earner.
Ive also seen further evidence to support the optional nature of the PPI, in the form of an 
annual mortgage statement. This described the PPI as optional. Mr and Mrs B continued to 
retain the PPI long after this letter and I think theyd have received similar notifications for 
each year they had the cover. I think if they hadnt ever wanted PPI, theyd have had 
numerous opportunities to question Britannia about the cover they were paying for.
Im afraid these things therefore point, strongly in my view, to them knowing they had an 
option about either having or not having this type of insurance with their mortgage. My 
finding is that Britannia properly obtained Mr and Mrs Bs consent to add the policy.
Britannia did not carry out an advised sale  Mr and Mrs B ticked a box and signed their 
names to confirm this during the sale. This means it was for Mr and Mrs B to decide for 
themselves what they wanted to do. Britannia needed to only give them the information to 
allow them to make an informed decision.
Its obviously possible that Britannia could have done a better job at explaining everything, 
but as Ive said, the evidence does point to Mr and Mrs B engaging in the sale process and 
wanting this type of protection because it suited their circumstances. It also looks to me that 
the disclosure of documents in this sale would have been quite good. Ive seen evidence of 
price disclosure and information about who and what was covered.
So, I dont think anything would have changed what Mr and Mrs B went on to do, even if 
Britannia could have done more to explain things during the sale. I say this because Mr and 
Mrs B appear to have been eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the main 
exclusions we sometimes see in these policies. Ive seen nothing that suggests it wasnt 
affordable for them as it was £19.64 per month and Ive benchmarked this against their 
salaries and what they were borrowing at the time. 
Mr and Mrs B implied they didnt need the cover because they also had sickness protection 
with their jobs. Ive thought very carefully about this, but as Ive said, the decision about 
whether to buy the cover was for Mr and Mrs B to make and having some sickness 
protection from work doesnt make the PPI of no use. The mortgage was secured against 
their home and so the consequences of them not being able to keep up payments could 
have been serious. In the event of a successful claim, the PPI cover was payable for up to 
12 months, which is longer than either Mr or Mrs B said they had with their respective jobs. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs B, but I think there is enough evidence there were 
informed discussions about having PPI during this sale. In my view, they look to have gone 
through a number of steps to get the policy and they provided their consent. 
I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. And I dont direct The Co-operative Bank PLC to do 
anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman