DRN-3585065
The complaint
Mr M complains that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, 
S.A. has turned down a missed departure claim he made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
On 13 February 2021, Mr M took out an annual travel insurance policy through a broker. On 
19 February 2021, Mr M flew abroad for a family visit and was due to fly back to the UK on 
20 March 2021. 
However, Mr M was unexpectedly detained abroad by the local authorities and so he missed 
his return flight to the UK. He made a claim on his travel insurance policy for the costs 
associated with his unexpected stay abroad and his missed flight.
Mapfre turned Mr Ms claim down. It said the circumstances of the claim werent covered by 
the missed departure section of the policy. And it noted that at the point Mr M took out the 
policy, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  formerly the FCO) was 
advising against all but essential travel abroad. Travel against FCDO advice was specifically 
excluded by the policy terms. 
Mr M was unhappy with Mapfres decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. He didnt think the claim 
was covered by the policy terms and so he felt itd been fair for Mapfre to decline to pay it.
Mr M disagreed and so the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
Its important that I make it clear that this decision will only consider Mapfres decision to turn 
down Mr Ms claim. I appreciate Mr M considers that this policy should not have been sold to 
him. But Mapfre didnt sell the travel insurance to Mr M  he took it out through a broker. So 
Mr M will first need to make a complaint about the sale of the policy to the broker - and give 
it a chance to investigate his concerns - before were potentially able to consider any 
complaint about that issue alone.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, I think it was fair for Mapfre to turn down 
his claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mr Ms policy and the circumstances of his claim, to decide whether Mapfre 
treated him fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy, as these form the basis of his 
contract with Mapfre. I appreciate Mr M initially claimed under the cancellation section of the 
policy. However, Mapfre didnt think Mr Ms trip itself had been cancelled, as hed been able 
to travel abroad as hed planned. Instead, as a result of unforeseen circumstances, he 
missed his return flight. So Mapfre concluded that the claim should be assessed in line with 
the missed departure section of the policy. I think this was appropriate. Ive set out the 
missed departure cover which Mapfre has chosen to provide below:
What you are covered for
We will pay up to the amount shown in the table of benefits- for the extra reasonable costs of 
travel and accommodation you need to continue your trip if you cannot reach the departure 
point of any part of your outward or final return journey which is due to commence within 36 
hours after the departure date and time of the start of your outward or return journey, as a 
result of public transport services failing (due to poor weather conditions, a strike, 
industrial action or a mechanical breakdown) or the vehicle you are travelling in being 
stuck in traffic, involved in an accident or having a mechanical breakdown. (My 
emphasis added).
I think Mapfre has clearly set out the events its chosen to cover in the event that a 
policyholder misses their outbound or return departure. And its also clear that Mr M didnt 
miss his return flight because of one of those specified, listed reasons. So I think it was fair 
for Mapfre to conclude that Mr Ms claim wasnt covered by the missed departure section of 
the policy.
Mapfre has also set out a list of General Exclusions which apply to all claims. One of these 
says that Mapfre will not cover:
Any claim that results from you travelling to a country or an area where the (FCO) Foreign 
and Commonwealth Office advice at the time that you purchase your policy or book an 
individual trip, whichever is the latter, is not to travel to this country or area.
The claim form Mr M filled out says that he booked the trip on 11 February 2021. He took out 
the policy two days later. At the time Mr M booked his trip and took out his insurance policy 
then, there was FCDO advice in place against all but essential travel to all destinations as a 
result of the Covid-19 pandemic. Like the investigator, Ive also checked the relevant FCDO 
advice from the time which confirms this. So I dont think it was unreasonable for Mapfre to 
conclude that this exclusion could be fairly applied to the circumstances of Mr Ms claim, 
based on the information it was given. In any event though, irrespective of this exclusion 
clause, Id still think it was fair for Mapfre to decide that Mr Ms claim simply didnt fall within 
the scope of missed departure cover. So Id still have found that Mapfre didnt act unfairly 
when it declined to accept and settle this claim.
I have a great deal of sympathy with Mr Ms position, as I appreciate hes been left 
substantially out of pocket and because hes told us hes been through a difficult time. But 
overall, I dont think it was unfair for Mapfre to turn down Mr Ms claim. And I dont think there 
are any reasonable grounds upon which I could direct Mapfre to pay it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 Lisa Barham
Ombudsman