DRN-3189443
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited rejected his claim against it 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
What happened
Mr W bought solar panels for his home in 2018. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Omni Capital, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer allegedly misleading 
Mr W into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
Mr Ws complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mr W, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to make the panels cost no more than the benefit they would provide over a ten-
year period (the term of the loan). This restructure should be based on evidence of the 
actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future performance. 
Omni Capital didnt agree. It felt the Mr Ws allegations (made via his representatives) were 
contradictory, generic, and unsubstantiated. It said that this was a considered purchase by 
Mr W which he actively pursued. He didnt make a complaint until over two years after 
installation and didnt mention the complaint to the installer, even when it attended the 
property to fix a fault in August 2020. The system has generated electricity as expected, and 
Mr W has benefitted from FIT payments and savings on his electricity bills. 
Because agreement couldnt be reached, Ive been asked to make a decision on the 
complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Omni Capital is familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place. Mr W was told the solar panels would be 
self-funding within the term of the loan, and he was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that would not be the case. Had he realised the net costs to him over the term 
of the loan, I dont think he wouldve bought the solar panels. 
So, I think that Omni Capital didnt treat Mr W fairly and he lost out because of what Omni 
Capital did wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Ive thought about what Omni Capital has said, but Im not persuaded to change my 
decision. Mr W says he saw an advert on social media which enticed him to enquire further 
by entering his contact details, which he did. He says it was not clear to him that the contact 
from the installer was as a direct result of this  the installer didnt explain where it had got 
his details from  which is why he felt hed been cold called. He was not specifically looking 
to purchase solar panels until the installer persuaded him to do so. 
Mr W says he had some health issues between installing the solar panels and Spring 2020. 
At that time, when he was feeling better, he reviewed his finances looking for areas he could 
cut back on spending. It was then he realised the solar panels werent generating the 
expected benefits and were not self-funding. Shortly after this he engaged his 
representatives to make the complaint on his behalf. He was advised by his representatives 
to complain to Omni Capital and not to the installer. He left it for his representatives to 
pursue this, which is why he didnt raise the issue with the installer, even when they attended 
his property. 
The solar panels do appear to be generating electricity in line with the estimate shown on the 
installation certificate. So, the issue is not that they arent performing as expected in terms of 
generating electricity. The issue is that Mr W was told the solar panels would be self-funding, 
in effect paying for themselves over the course of the loan term. He was not provided with 
anything clearly comparing the costs and benefits of the system indicating a shortfall which 
he would have to meet himself (which may have made me think he was not told it was self-
funding). And the solar panels, despite generating the expected amount of electricity, do not 
appear to be self-funding in the way he was told they would be. So, overall, on the balance 
of the evidence available, Im satisfied that it is more likely than not that there was a 
misrepresentation and that this complaint should be upheld. 
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ws complaint for Omni Capital to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr W from the solar 
panels over a ten-year period so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel 
system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr W is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have, then Omni Capital needs to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show 
that the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be 
shared with Mr W by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Omni 
Capital to restructure Mr Ws loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr W in a position 
where the solar panel system is cost neutral over a ten-year period.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumers monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they wouldve paid more each month than they shouldve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr W have the following options as to how he 
would like his overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mr W and he continues to make his current 
monthly payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mr W and he pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Mr W accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr W has settled the loan, Omni Capital should pay him the difference between what he 
paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% 
interest.
If Mr W has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Omni Capital and Omni Capital should: 
1. Refund the extra Mr W paid each month with the Omni Capital loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr W receives his refund.
3. Refund the extra Mr W paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr W receives his refund.
5. Pay Mr W the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he wouldve 
owed if the system had been self-funding over a ten-year period.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr W first 
contacted Omni Capital that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Omni 
Capital should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint. Omni Capital Retail Finance 
Limited should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman