DRN-3751020
The complaint
Mr P complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) didnt provide a full service of his 
boiler under his home emergency policy. He said this led to him needing to replace his 
boiler.
What happened
Mr P held a home emergency policy with BG from March 2021 to March 2022. This provided 
boiler, controls and central heating cover and repairs in the event of breakdown or damage 
to the boiler. It also included an annual service of the boiler. 
I understand that Mr Ps boiler was around eight years old and that it had been serviced 
every year. 
BG first inspected Mr Ps boiler in May 2021 and his first annual service was carried out on 
14 February 2022. Both inspections showed the boiler was operating correctly. BG also said 
that Mr P had confirmed at the time of annual service that the boiler had no faults.
In 2022 Mr P cancelled his policy and moved to another provider for his boiler cover. 
I understand that Mr Ps new insurer looked at the boiler, but that they had to call the 
manufacturer to inspect it in May 2022. The manufacturers engineer advised that the boiler 
was unrepairable and that this shouldve been noted at the annual service. They also said 
that there were a number of issues with the boiler which required parts. 
The engineer noted that there was no evidence a specified seal had been replaced. And 
also felt that the boiler hadnt been cleaned at the time of the annual service in February 
2022.
Mr P complained to BG. He felt that BG shouldve identified the problems that his new 
insurer and the boilers manufacturer had noted. And that if BG had carried out a proper 
service and cleaned certain parts of his boiler then it wouldnt have failed. He asked BG to 
contribute towards the cost of a replacement boiler.
BG issued their final response to the complaint on 15 August 2022. They didnt think theyd 
done anything wrong. They said theyd also asked their Customer Delivery Manager to 
review the complaint and he agreed that they couldnt be held liable for the issues he now 
had with his boiler. 
BG said that their terms and conditions stated: 
One of our engineers will visit your home to complete your annual service. This will include 
testing the gases your appliance or boiler produces. If the visit shows that its necessary to 
take your appliance or boiler apart to adjust or clean it, well do so" 
BG said that on both of their most recent visits thered been no need to take the boiler apart 
and repair any individual parts.
BG also said that Mr P had noted that the fault only occurred after hed moved to another 
insurer. They said that if hed still been with them they wouldve replaced the parts required. 
Mr P didnt agree. So brought his complaint to this service. He said that when BG had first 
inspected his boiler in February 2022 theyd deemed it to be in great working order. But 
three months later he was told that there were problems with the boiler. He said the engineer 
told him that BG hadnt followed the instruction on the boiler which said it should be cleaned 
in a service. He was also unhappy with the level of service from BG and their responses to 
him. He wanted BG to pay or replace the boiler.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. She felt that BG had complied with the terms 
and conditions of the policy, which didnt require the boiler to be cleaned as long as it was 
working safely. And she didnt think that there was enough evidence to suggest there was an 
issue with the boiler in February 2022. 
Mr P disagreed with our investigator. He said that the manufacturer had confirmed that the 
boiler was not in full working order when they inspected it in May 2022. And that theyd told 
him it was beyond economical repair. He said hed been told that the filter had never been 
cleaned or replaced and felt that this had caused his boiler to get blocked. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a final review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know my decision will be disappointing to Mr P. 
Ill explain the reasons for my decision.
Mr P feels that if BG had carried out a proper service of his boiler, including following the 
instructions on it which said it should be cleaned in a service, then it wouldnt have needed 
to be replaced.
I first considered whether BG had carried out the annual service in line with their terms and 
conditions. 
The terms and conditions define annual service as: 
a check in each period of agreement to ensure that your boiler, gas appliance or central 
heating, and ventilation is working safely and in line with relevant laws and regulations. 
Theres also a visiting you section of the policy that states: 
One of our engineers will visit your home to complete your annual service. This will include 
testing the gases your appliance or boiler produces. If the visit shows that its necessary to 
take your appliance or boiler apart to adjust or clean it, well do so. 
So the purpose of the annual service is to ensure that the boiler (and the other elements 
listed) are working safely, and that the testing involved is designed to do this. During the 
February 2022 annual service, BGs engineer carried out the required checks, but found no 
need to take the boiler apart and clean it at this time because the boiler was working safely. 
I understand that Mr P also felt that his boiler had no faults at this time. As theres no evidence that there were any faults on the boiler at the time of the February 
2022 service, I consider that BG did carry out the service in line with their terms and 
conditions. And, although I understand why Mr P feels that the engineer shouldve followed 
the instructions on the boiler and cleaned it during the service, this wasnt required under the 
terms of the policy. I also note that BGs engineers have recommended system 
improvements at various points in time since 2019.
When the boilers manufacturers engineer inspected Mr Ps boiler in May 2022, he noted a 
number of issues with it that would require new parts. Although he said the boiler was safe, 
he felt the cost of the repairs meant that the boiler was beyond economic repair. This meant 
that the expected cost of the repairs was likely to be greater than the cost of a new boiler, 
not that the boiler couldnt be repaired.
I understand that Mr P has confirmed that the faults on the boiler started after he changed to 
his new insurer. And, although Mr P considers that the failure to clean or replace the filters 
caused the boiler to get blocked, Ive no evidence to suggest that this is the case.
BG said that they wouldve only identified that those parts were needed if there had been a 
fault. And that if they had found faults with the boiler during cover, they wouldve replaced 
the required parts. But Ive seen no evidence of a fault being apparent during Mr Ps time on 
cover with BG between March 2021 and March 2022.
As Ive seen no evidence that BG failed to repair a fault during the time they provided cover 
to Mr P, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to ask them to contribute towards the cost of a new 
boiler, or to repair the boiler. From what Ive seen, the faults only occurred after Mr P had 
moved to a new insurer. And, as Ive seen no evidence that BG failed to carry out the annual 
service properly, I cant fairly say that they shouldve identified any faults earlier. 
Therefore I cant uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman