DRN-1649862
The complaint
Mr A complains that Royal Bank of Scotland PLC (RBS) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy alongside a credit card.
What happened
In 2007 Mr A took out a credit card with RBS and at the same time he took out a PPI policy 
to protect his repayments. A successful claim on the policy would have covered his 
repayments for periods of time if he lost his job or if he was unable to work due to accident 
or sickness.
When Mr A complained to RBS that the policy was mis-sold it didnt agree. However, it did 
refund to him some excess commission and profit share that had been part of the premiums 
he had paid. Mr A wasnt happy with what RBS had said and offered so brought his 
complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr A disagreed and asked for 
an ombudsman to look at his complaint.  Mr A is represented by a third party.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr As complaint.
Mr A Initially said he applied for the credit card over the telephone. He said PPI wasnt 
mentioned and he didnt know he had it until he was told by an agent. Mr A has since 
acknowledged the credit card and PPI application may have been made over the Internet. 
But he maintains it wasnt made clear he had a choice whether to take out the PPI as it was 
packaged as part of the credit card application. Mr A says he didnt need the policy as his 
family would have helped if he had any problems. He says he wouldnt have taken it out if he 
had known he had a choice.  
RBS has provided a copy of the application form Mr A completed and this shows the card 
account and PPI were applied for online. Mr A submitted his details on-line and chose what 
he wanted and then the application form was sent to him to check and for his signature.
I can see from the application form that it was completed with the information Mr A had 
provided on-line before it was sent to him. The PPI is in a separate box with other products 
that could also have been chosen. But the application form reflects that Mr A had only 
selected to take out the PPI. The information on-line, and also on the actual application form 
Mr A signed, make it clear he had to actually indicate he wanted the PPI for it to be added to 
his account and he had to sign separately for it. 
Taking into account what Mr A completed on-line and also the application form he was sent, 
asked to check and then sign, I think it was clear Mr A had a choice whether or not to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out. So it looks like he wanted this type of cover at the 
time.
From the information provided it seems Mr A met all the basic criteria to be eligible to take 
out the policy, such as his age and being in employment. He did confirm that was the case 
when he signed the application for the PPI.
At the time of completing the application form Mr A may not have clearly understood all of 
the restrictions in the terms and conditions that applied to the PPI. He was sent information 
afterwards with the Certificate of Insurance but its possible the information he had when 
choosing to take out the policy wasnt as clear as it could have been. 
But Ive not seen anything to suggest he would have been affected by any of the exclusions 
to or limits on the PPI cover. As he wasnt caught by any restrictions of the policy, I dont 
think better information about these would have put him off taking out the cover at the time. 
The cost of the policy is indicated on the application form, stated as an amount for every 
£100 of balance outstanding each month. It is also stated the premiums will be added to his 
account and treated as purchase transactions. I have seen nothing to show the cost was not 
affordable.
Mr A had good employment benefits but the policy would have paid out in addition to any 
work benefits he would have received, so allowing the income from his work benefits to pay 
for other household expenses. 
Mr A hasnt indicated he had any savings but says his family would have helped if he had 
problems. However, everyones circumstances can change, including those of family, and 
this policy would have paid Mr As credit card payments, allowing use of savings or other 
support for other living expenses if he wasnt able to work. So I think the policy would have 
provided a useful benefit to him 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold, so the Royal Bank of 
Scotland PLC does not have to pay back the full cost of the PPI to Mr A. It has refunded the 
excess commission that was included in the PPI premiums, so it doesnt need to do anything 
more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2020.
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman