DRN-2235510
The complaint
Mr Us complaint is about Lloyds Bank PLC. Mr U says that in 2018 Lloyds led him to believe 
his loan application had been approved, as a result of which he incurred expenses. Mr U 
also says he was previously overcharged by Lloyds and missed repayments on other loans. 
To settle the complaint, Mr U wants Lloyds to reimburse his expenses, accept responsibility, 
return his loans to their original status and allow him to repay these on the original terms. Mr 
U also wants Lloyds to reinstate his business banking.
The complaint has been brought by Mr Us representative, but for clarity I will refer to Mr U 
throughout.
What happened
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to more than a thousand pages of documents. 
Ive read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to 
the underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition 
of arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
Briefly, what happened is this.
At the time of the events  2018  Mr U had two commercial loans with Lloyds, the terms of 
which say that in the event of default, Lloyds is entitled to make final demand for full 
repayment. In total the loans were for just over £500,000.
In June 2018 Mr U applied for another loan to refurbish two residential investment 
properties. No formal application was made, but the loan was discussed with Mr Us 
Relationship Manager (RM), who gave a positive indication that the bank would approve the 
loan, subject to valuation. A valuation was carried out and the evidence shows that the RM 
continued to suggest that Lloyds would approve the loan. Mr U booked building contractors 
to carry out the refurbishment work.
Lloyds requested further information on the project, including a current Energy Performance 
Certificate (EPC), which Mr U paid for. Unfortunately Mr U was under pressure from his 
builders and so he allowed them to begin the refurbishment before Lloyds had approved the 
loan. After spending £10,000, Mr U was told by Lloyds the loan had been declined.
The knock-on effect of this was that Mr U missed loan repayments and Lloyds issued final 
demand. Mr U sought bridging finance, but this didnt proceed.
Mr U complained to Lloyds, which didnt uphold the complaint. The bank said that at no time 
had the RM suggested that the application was merely a formality. Lloyds also said that, as 
Mr U had missed his loan repayments for August and September 2018, the bank was 
entitled to take recovery action and make formal demand for payment. Lloyds noted that 
Mr U had maintained his loan repayments since October 2018, but the accounts were still 
with its Recoveries department.
Dissatisfied with Lloyds response, Mr U referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, where an investigator looked at it.
The investigator was satisfied that Lloyds hadnt given any guarantee that the loan would be 
approved, but she did think that the RM should have reviewed Mr Us request more fully 
before telling him he needed to incur the expense of the valuation and other reports. The 
investigator thought that, if the RM had done so, he would have noted from past account 
history that it was more than likely the loan would have been declined.
As far as past overcharging was concerned, the investigator noted that Lloyds had made 
refunds for past errors between 2016 and 2018. But she didnt think this would have 
changed Mr Us situation, as there was no evidence to show that hed set the refunds aside 
to bring his loans up to date in 2018.
The investigator noted Lloyds reasons for issuing formal demand, and was satisfied that the 
conduct of Mr Us accounts justified Lloyds actions.
The investigator asked Lloyds to reimburse the cost of the valuation fee (£960) and the EPC 
(£150) and to pay 8% interest on these. She also asked Lloyds to pay £250 for trouble and 
upset.
Lloyds agreed to refund the valuation fee and to pay £250 for trouble and upset. Lloyds 
didnt think it was obliged to refund the cost of the EPC but said it would pay Mr U £150 plus 
8% interest as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr U didnt accept this. In summary, he says that this is not about seeking repayment of 
costs, but is about the duty of care and responsibility the bank owes to Mr U. The Bank was 
a partner in a situation that went wrong and should accept a shared responsibility for putting 
it right.
Mr U says his loans are fully up to date and it would be a simple computer action to transfer 
control back to the branch and allow the banking relationship to be resumed; to do otherwise 
would be an injustice.
Because the matter remains unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Mr U also has concerns about other accounts relating to a limited company, of which 
he is a director. Those accounts do not form part of this complaint, as the limited company is 
a separate entity.
Ive reviewed everything both parties have said in detail and, having done so, Ive reached 
the same conclusion as the investigator, for largely the same reasons.Im satisfied that Lloyds gave no guarantee that a loan would be approved, but I agree that 
the RM should not have allowed Mr U to incur expenses in anticipation of a formal 
application being submitted. I also agree that the RM could have looked in more detail at 
Mr Us overall exposure and account conduct before asking him to incur the valuation and 
EPC expenses.
But this was not  as has been suggested   a partnership between Mr U and Lloyds. Mr U 
was embarking on a commercial venture and his decision to begin work before finance was 
in place was entirely his. The bank owed him no duty of care or responsibility, nor was it 
required to have any oversight of Mr Us activities. The banks role is to administer Mr Us 
banking, not to manage his business activities. 
Ive noted what Mr U has said about past overcharging between 2016 and 2018 resulting in 
difficulty meeting loan repayments in 2018. But I share the adjudicators opinion that I think 
its unlikely, after Lloyds had redressed the position, Mr U had set aside the refunds to cover 
missed loan repayments in 2018. 
The decision on whether or not to lend to Mr U  and if so, on what terms  is up to Lloyds. 
Likewise, the decision on whether or not to call in a loan is also a decision the bank is 
entitled to make. I have no power to interfere in the commercial decisions Lloyds makes. In 
this case, Lloyds was not prepared to assume the risk of lending to Mr U, given past account 
conduct. Im satisfied that this is a legitimate reason for declining Mr Us loan application. 
Lloyds was also satisfied that past account conduct justified a formal demand. Where Lloyds 
has exercised its commercial judgment legitimately, I have no power to interfere with this, or 
to order Lloyds to return the accounts to the branch.
I appreciate this will be a disappointment to Mr U. I understand this has been a stressful time 
for him. Since the events giving rise the complaint occurred, the commercial landscape has 
changed significantly due to Covid, and I note Mr U has been offered assistance from Lloyds 
by way of a bounce-back loan. I would remind Lloyds that it must treat Mr U positively and 
sympathetically in relation to any financial difficulties. I can see from what hes told us that 
Mr U would like to continue his banking relationship with Lloyds at branch and RM level. 
That is, of course, up to Lloyds, but I hope that the relationship can be repaired for the 
future, given that Mr U has been a customer of Lloyds for over 40 years and wants to remain 
loyal to the bank.
Putting things right
In all the circumstances, and for the reasons stated above, I dont think the bank is required 
to pay any further redress than the investigator recommended.
In full and final settlement, Lloyds must pay Mr U the following:
£960 for the valuation fee, plus interest at 8% simple per annum from the date the fee 
was paid to the date of reimbursement*
£150 as a goodwill gesture, to cover the cost of the EPC, plus interest at 8% simple per 
annum from the date the fee was paid to the date of reimbursement*
£250 for trouble and upset.
*If Lloyds considers that it is required to pay income tax on the interest portion of this award, 
it should write to Mr U to explain this and provide him with the relevant HMRC tax deduction 
certificate, if requested by Mr U.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I direct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay the 
redress stated above in full and final settlement of the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2020.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman