DRN-3701046
The complaint
Mr S complains about how Santander UK Plc dealt with him following fraudulent transactions 
on his account.
What happened
Mr S says he tried to contact Santander about fraudulent transactions on his account. He 
says he received a refund from Santander but spent a significant time on hold to it and in 
dealing with the call. He also says one call to Santander was disconnected. Mr S says the 
Santander staff member had a poor attitude towards him and would like compensation for 
what took place.
Santander says it dealt appropriately with Mr S during the call and refunded the fraudulent 
transactions. It says it can experience high call volumes on occasions.
Mr S brought his complaint to us and our investigator listened to the telephone call, which he 
thought was appropriately dealt with. The investigator didnt think the call times were 
unreasonable and didnt think compensation was warranted. The investigator didnt think 
there evidence that Santander disconnected the call.
Mr S doesnt accept that view and questions how we know Santander didnt end the call. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr S will be disappointed by my decision.
I have listened to the available calls between Mr S and Santander. And having done so Im 
satisfied that Santander dealt fairly and appropriately Mr S when he called it about the fraud. 
During that call I have not heard evidence of Santander staff displaying a poor attitude and 
think the complaint about the fraudulent transactions was dealt with as it should. Im also 
satisfied that Santander refunded the fraudulent transactions and think it inevitable that calls 
about fraud will take some time to sort out.
 I have no doubt Mr S spent some time trying to speak to Santander and made a number of 
calls. I confirm I have seen the call logs he has provided. But I dont think such call times 
justifies compensation and make clear that its not our role to punish a business about such 
matters.
I appreciate Mr S says a call was disconnected. But I cant be sure how that happened and 
have not seen or heard evidence that Santander staff did so intentionally. In those 
circumstances I cant fairly hold Santander responsible for how that call ended.
Overall, Im satisfied Santander tried to help Mr S with the fraudulent transactions and I dont 
think compensation is justified here for the reasons I have explained.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman