DRN-4426392
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Mortgage Advice Bureau Limited (MAB) mis-sold income 
protection and critical illness insurance policies to him.
Mr B has a representative but I will refer to Mr B throughout my decision as he was the 
policyholder.
What happened
Mr B took out critical illness and income protection policies following advice from MAB in 
2018. Mr B made a claim but the insurer declined the claims and cancelled the policies as it 
said Mr B had made a misrepresentation at the time the policies were sold. Mr B made a 
complaint to the insurer, which has been dealt with separately. 
Mr B complained that the policies had been mis-sold to him. He has said that the income 
protection policy was mis-sold as it didnt match the term of his mortgage which is what he 
requested. In addition, he said he already had suitable income protection cover and so MAB 
should not have advised Mr B to replace that policy. Had he not taken the new income 
protection policy, his claim would have been covered under the old policy.
Mr B complained but MAB didnt think it had mis-sold the policies so Mr B referred his 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think the policies were unsuitable. 
Mr B disagreed and in summary, has made the following comments:
The relevant rules havent been taken into account. MAB did not follow the rules.
Had MAB provided correct advice not to cancel his old policy, Mr B would have been 
able to make a claim and so he has financially lost out.
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say a seller should ensure a policy is 
suitable for the buyers needs, in an advised sale. And the information must be 
provided in a clear, fair and not misleading way. I have considered the rules and 
regulations referred to by Mr B. 
I should also say that I have carefully considered everything Mr B has said, in detail. 
But I will only address what I consider to be key to my decision. 
Firstly, in relation to the critical illness insurance policy, Mr B seems to have accepted 
our investigators conclusion on this. For the sake of completeness, I am also 
satisfied that the policy was suitable. He needed a new policy to reflect his change in 
circumstances. His previously policy covered his ex-partner and there is no evidence 
of a separation clause in the previous policy. The term was for 18 years as requested 
and based on Mr Bs disposable income, the policy was affordable. So I am satisfied 
that this policy was suitable for Mr Bs needs and was not mis-sold to him.
Mr B has said the income protection policy sold to him was unsuitable as it didnt 
match the term of his mortgage which is what he had requested and discussed. His 
previous policy did match his mortgage and was suitable for him so MAB shouldnt 
have advised him to take a new policy. 
Ive reviewed all of the available documentation from the time of the sale. This 
confirms that Mr B wanted a term of 18 years. It also confirms that the policy would 
expire when he was 52 years old which made the term just over 17 years. The 
monthly benefit was £1,300 with a monthly premium of £18.49.
Mr Bs previously policy matched the term of his mortgage but only had a monthly 
benefit of £1,200. The premium was £17.13.
Mr B says had he been advised to keep his old income protection policy, he would 
have been covered for a claim he made. I cant say whether Mr B would have been 
able to make a successful claim under his old policy. But I dont think Mr B would 
have kept his old policy and I dont think the advice to take a new policy was 
unsuitable. 
As the paperwork clearly confirmed that the policy would expire at age 52, I dont 
think this was mis-sold. Even if I accept that there is an insufficient explanation as to 
why the policy would end at age 52, I dont think this makes any difference to the 
outcome. That is because to put Mr B back in the position he would have been in, 
what should have happened is that MAB should have recommended a policy with a 
term of 18 years. Had it done so, I dont see any reason why Mr B wouldnt have 
taken it. The monthly premium was only slightly higher for an additional £100 benefit. 
So I still think he would be in the same position he is in now. He would have taken a 
new policy for a higher benefit amount. So it therefore follows that I dont think the 
term of the policy makes any difference to this case as its more likely than not that 
Mr B would have taken a new policy with slightly increased premiums for a higher 
benefit amount. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman