DRN-1943789
the complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a credit 
card in 2000. Mr P says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
background
Mr P took out a PPI policy with his credit card, he took out the credit card and PPI policy 
though the post. Mr P says that Barclays mis-sold him the PPI.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint but didnt think that it should be upheld. Mr P 
disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr P opened his credit account with Barclays in 2000, through a postal application. Mr P 
says that he has a credit card before this date, and that he was told that the terms and 
conditions of his card were changing, so he needed to complete a new application. But 
Barclays has shown that while they have records of other types of account, this is the only 
record it has for a credit card in Mr Ps name. 
We asked Mr P if he had any statements or information about a card held prior to this date, 
but understandably he wasnt able to provide any. So, I think that its likely that this is the first 
time Mr P had a credit card with Barclays.
Barclays has provided a copy of Mr Ps credit card application  and I can see on this, that 
the PPI is presented as an optional product, and has been selected. Mr P agrees that he 
ticked to take out the PPI, but that at this time it was accepted that PPI came as part of a 
package in order to get a credit product, and that he would expect a business to tell you to 
go elsewhere if you didnt want its product which included PPI.
But I disagree. While that may have been Mr Ps impression at the time, the credit card 
application clearly shows that he had a choice in taking out PPI. Nowhere on the application 
does it say that the credit card would not be provided should he not take it, or that it would 
be more likely he would be approved if he chose to do so. It was up to Mr P to decide to 
enter into a credit agreement with Barclays  with or without taking PPI. It didnt need to tell 
him that he could go elsewhere for his credit card. So, I think that Barclays did give him a 
choice in taking out the policy, and that he chose to do so.
Barclays didnt provide a personal recommendation for the PPI to Mr P, so it didnt need to 
make sure that the PPI was right for him  but it did need to provide Mr P with information for 
him to decide if he thought it was right for him.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. Based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any 
of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it could have been useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So, I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover. 
This means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr P because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs B about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mrs B, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr P has said, but none of the points he has raised change my 
decision, and for the reasons set out above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr P any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman