DRN-3541550
The complaint
Mr B complains that Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) recommended that he transferred 
his pensions to a SIPP without explaining to him that it was a SIPP. He states this was not 
appropriate for his risk tolerance and status as an inexperienced investor and he was not 
aware of the associated fees.
Mr B is being represented by a third party. For ease, all references to Mr B will include 
communications from the third party. The complaint refers to Portal as Portafina but for 
clarity I will refer to Portal throughout.
What happened
In 2017, Mr B approached Portal in response to an advert on a social media platform in 
order to review his pension. The date of this approach is not recorded, however a Pension 
Review Information Form was dated and signed by Mr B on 12 September 2017.  Portal 
gathered information relating to Mr Bs pensions, and on 03 January 2018, a fact find was 
completed. This detailed Mr Bs circumstances and objectives.  At that time Mr B:
Was aged 54, turning 55 in March 2018
Was in good health and living with his partner, also aged 54 in rented 
accommodation. 
Had an income of £17,000pa. His income covered his expenses and is stated 
generally gets used up but £300 [disposable income]. The fact find states on page 
15 we live to our means.
Had a personal loan but no other debts.
Had no savings or other assets
His attitude to risk was assessed as moderately cautious via the use of a set of 
questions. The document states agrees with ATR although there is no evidence of 
any meaningful discussion in relation to this. 
His objectives were stated to be to buy a nice new car and holidays/leisure in new car. The 
fact find asked how important raising the cash and achieving the aim was to Mr B. His 
response was recorded as: It is something in my mind to do and been keen to do since the 
laws were in place to take TFC.
The fact find addresses the fact that accessing the pension early often means there is likely 
to be less pension for eventual retirement. Mr B was asked to select from a list of responses, 
and selected My immediate need for tax free cash is not that important, I would only want to 
proceed if there was a reasonable chance of making up much of the withdrawal or my long 
term needs in retirement were otherwise catered for. And, in relation to the costs, he 
selected I do not really need the money, so would only want to proceed if the cost was 
moderate.
The fact find states that the loss/reduction of benefits was discussed but the client still 
wished to proceed.
 
Mr B had three personal pensions, invested in moderate risk funds. As part of their research, 
Portal obtained details relating to these to ensure there were no guarantees or other secure 
benefits which would be lost on transfer, and also projections of the pensions at retirement 
age. It is noted that one of the pensions included a demutualisation bonus and the other two 
had penalties on transfer.
Mr B complains that the transfer to the SIPP was not in line his attitude to risk, and that due 
to the recommendation he is at a substantial financial loss with no way of recovering 
financial stability at retirement. The investigator found that the transfer was not in line with Mr 
Bs moderately cautious attitude to risk to transfer his pension in order to access his tax free 
cash and upheld his complaint. Portal did not agree with this outcome and thus the 
complaint has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Within Mr Bs original complaint there were a number of points raised, relating to the 
recommendation and Mr Bs circumstances. I do not intend to address each point 
individually as they all pertain to the same ultimate point, that Mr F believes that the advice 
provided was not suitable when taking into account his circumstances and objectives.
When considering whether it was appropriate for Portal to have recommended that Mr B 
transfer his benefits in order to access the tax free cash available from his pension, I have 
considered the relevant rules and guidance in place at the time, alongside Mr Bs 
circumstances and objectives. I have also considered Mr Bs role in the process.
At the time of the advice, Mr B was aged 54, almost 55, the earliest age he could have 
accessed his pension. He rented his property and with the exception of his personal 
pensions, he had no other investments or assets. There is no evidence of Mr B having any  
particular level of knowledge or experience in relation to savings and investments. He had 
approached Portal after seeing an advert because he was aware he could access his tax 
free cash and wanted to do this. 
Prior to the recommendation to transfer, Mr B held three personal pensions, one  with 
ReAssure and two with Friends Life. These were invested in the Managed Accumulator fund 
(risk rating 3 or 4 out of 6) and the FL Rainbow Managed 1 fund (risk rating 4 out of 7) 
respectively. None of these pensions included any element of certainty or guarantee. It is 
noted that the complaint also references an Aviva pension however this appears to be an 
error in the complaint as there is no indication on file that Mr B held an Aviva pension at the 
time the recommendation was made.
I have considered whether it was reasonable for Portal to make a recommendation to Mr B 
to access the full tax free cash available from his pension at age 55, which would have 
resulted in reducing the pension available to him when he reached his likely actual 
retirement age and ceased working. When considering this I have taken into account Portals 
obligations as an adviser making a recommendation alongside Mr Bs rights to access his 
pension in line with pension freedoms available to him and his wider circumstances.
Mr B approached Portal several months prior to his 55th birthday because he had become 
aware that he could access his pension from age 55. At that time he was employed with 
income that covered his expenditure and a personal loan, but had no assets or investments 
which could be used to meet his objectives. His only objective at that time was to access his tax free cash to buy a new car, go on 
holiday and use any remaining tax free cash to supplement his lifestyle. As they were 
required to do, Portal went through alternatives with Mr B, including take a further loan, 
raising borrowing against his property (not available as he did not own his property), or using 
existing assets or disposable income to raise the money required. 
Portal have stated in their response to the investigators view that when making the 
recommendation for Mr [B], his retirement provisions were considered and it was deemed 
that accessing his tax-free cash would not vastly impact his overall retirement income. 
Portal further states that it was calculated that the investment period of the residual funds 
was long enough to re-coup the deduction of the tax-free cash. It is fair to comment that the 
length of time between Mr B accessing his tax free cash and his actual intended retirement 
would be likely to allow for investment growth sufficient to cover the tax free cash taken. 
However it does not consider the potential fund size if the tax free cash was not taken and 
the impact of the investment growth on the income that could be available in retirement. 
Portal did not make Mr B aware of what the pension would be in retirement if he did not take 
the tax free cash, and allowed the entire fund to grow. Whilst the size of the fund (and the 
fact that these pensions represented the entirety of Mr Bs pension provision) meant that 
even the fund without the withdrawal of the tax free cash would have been unlikely to 
provide a significant level of income, it is fair to consider that the income that could have 
been available would be higher.
I have considered whether Portal took appropriate steps when making the recommendation 
to provide a meaningful comparison of the impact on Mr Bs pension by transferring his 
pension in order to access the tax free cash at age 55. In their Final Response Letter, Portal 
have stated that a standard pension switch comparison was not required because Mr B was 
entering the decumulation phase of his pension. Whilst it is true that accessing tax free cash 
is generally considered to be part of the decumulation phase of retirement, I do not consider 
that in practice this was an accurate description of Mr Bs circumstances. He intended 
accessing tax free cash only, as he had income from his employment sufficient to meet his 
needs at the time of the advice. Mr B intended retiring at State Pension Age, 12 years after 
the recommendation. 
On balance, I do not believe that it was fair for Portal to have taken such a prescriptive 
approach when considering whether comparisons were required, and fell short of what was 
required of them in this respect. Providing a comparison would have allowed Mr B to have a 
full awareness of the impact on his income in retirement of taking the tax free cash so early, 
which would have been likely to prompt a more thorough consideration of whether the funds 
were really needed at that time. 
Its possible that Mr B was attracted by the idea of transferring and the opportunity to 
purchase a new car which he would otherwise not have been able to afford to do. As stated 
above, Mr B approached Portal after seeing an advert, indicating that he was keen to access 
his tax free cash. The fact find states it was something he had already thought about doing. 
However, overall I havent seen anything that makes me think that Mr B had the experience, 
knowledge or appetite for risk to assess or fully appreciate the effect on his income in 
retirement of accessing his tax free cash at age 55. Nor did Mr B have the capacity to bear 
the risks associated with this recommendation due to his limited provision for retirement. The 
advisers role was to really understand what Mr B needed and recommend what was in his 
best interest. For the reasons above, Portal should have recommended against accessing 
tax free cash in order to buy a car and go on holiday and ensure that Mr B understood the 
implications of this course of action. 
I have considered what Mr B was likely to have done if he had been advised not to access 
his tax free cash at the time of the advice. There is an element of inconsistency from Mr B in the way he has responded to questions asked as part of the process  his responses in the 
fact find indicate that accessing the cash was not of high importance to him, however he has 
also indicated that he had been considering taking tax free cash and had no alternatives 
available. I accept Portals comments that they did explore alternatives with Mr B, with the 
outcome that there were no viable options for him. However, as an inexperienced investor, 
Mr B would have been particularly reliant on the advice provided. Its reasonable to consider 
that if Mr B had been fully informed and understood the risks of accessing the tax free cash 
against advice, he would have been unlikely to do so.
The complaint states that Portal as a SIPP provider would have been aware of the 
particularly high-risk ventures in the portfolio and ensure they were only available to 
experienced investors and not offered to retail clients. Portal were not the SIPP provider, nor 
did the SIPP recommended by them include particularly high-risk ventures which should only 
be available to experienced investors. 
The complaint subsequently reiterates that the recommended investments were not suitable 
for the clients attitude to risk  I cannot agree with this assertion. It is important to note that 
the clients funds were invested in a similar way prior to the transfer. 
I cannot therefore agree with the assertion that the transfer to a SIPP per se resulted in Mr B 
incurring additional risk which would cause him the substantial financial loss stated in the 
complaint letter and do not uphold this element of his complaint.
The complaint later comments that Mr B was accepted into a SIPP that was inappropriate for 
a retail customer and so was not in his best interests. There is nothing to indicate that the 
recommended SIPP and underlying investment was not suitable for a retail customer. I do 
not uphold this element of his complaint. 
On balance, I believe that if Mr B had been recommended not to transfer in order to access 
tax free cash at the time of the advice, and had been made fully aware of the effect on his 
pension in retirement of taking the tax free cash at age 55 (particularly when taking into 
account the effects of the advice charges), he would have been unlikely to act against that 
advice, particularly due to his statements that accessing the money was not of high 
importance to him. I therefore uphold the complaint that the recommendation to transfer to a 
SIPP in order to access tax free cash at age 55 was not suitable.
My aim is that Mr B should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr B would have remained with his previous providers, however I 
cannot be certain that a value will be obtainable for what the previous policy would have 
been worth. I am satisfied what I have set out below is fair and reasonable, taking this into 
account and given Mr B's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
Putting things right
To compensate Mr B fairly, Portal must:
Compare the performance of Mr B's investment with the notional value if it had 
remained with the previous providers. If the actual value is greater than the notional 
value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual 
value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.Portal should add interest as set out below:
Portal should pay into Mr B's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount 
of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Portal is unable to pay the total amount into Mr B's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr B wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr B's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr B is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr B would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr B how much has been taken off. Portal should give Mr B a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr B asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Funds held 
within the 
SIPPStill exists 
and liquidNotional 
value from 
previous 
providerDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr B's investment had it remained with the previous provider until the 
end date. Portal should request that the previous provider calculate this value.
Any withdrawal from the Funds held within the SIPP should be deducted from the notional 
value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Portal totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end to determine the notional value instead of deducting periodically.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, Portal will need to determine 
a fair value for Mr B's investment instead, using this benchmark: For half the investment: 
FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index; for the other half: average rate from 
fixed rate bonds. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of a fair value using 
the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the calculation of 
compensation.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr B wanted Capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its 
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return.
I consider that Mr B's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr B into that position. It does not mean that 
Mr B would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some 
kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise 
that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr B could have obtained from investments 
suited to his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Portal Financial Services LLP should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Portal Financial Services LLP should provide details of its calculation to Mr B in a clear, 
simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Joanne Molloy
Ombudsman