DRN-2143261
The complaint
Mrs S complains about delays and poor claim handling by Royal & Sun Alliance Plc (RSA)
What happened
Mrs S owns a rental property and was told water was leaking from a pipe under the 
driveway. Mrs S contacted RSA to make a claim. At the same time the tenancy arrangement 
with the existing tenants came to an end, so they moved out.
RSA sent out a contractor who assessed the issue and made repairs to the pipework within 
a month. However, there were problems reinstating the block paving on the driveway, so 
another contractor was appointed to carry out this repair.
Mrs S complains the claim took a total of four months to resolve and that shed lost rental 
income and incurred additional council tax payments because of this. She explained shed 
originally allowed for the property to be empty for two months, which shed thought was 
sufficient time for the claim to be resolved. Mrs S said she didnt put tenants into the property 
while the repairs were outstanding as she felt the damage to the driveway meant the 
property was unsafe to let.
RSA looked at the timeline for the claim and identified there was confusion with the 
contractor being appointed to repair the driveway, which caused a slight delay. It said Mrs 
Ss policy didnt cover loss of rent as the property itself was considered habitable. It did 
however say that if Mrs S could provide evidence, she had tenants waiting to move into the 
property, it would consider the matter further.
Our investigator looked at the complaint, he said there was an avoidable delay of a month in 
the claim progressing. He agreed the policy didnt cover loss of rent but did think RSA should 
pay Mrs S £100 compensation for the trouble and upset shed been caused.
Mrs S considered the offer of compensation to be insulting and asked for the complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman. In doing so, she made the following points:
RSA have an obligation to deal with insurance claims in an efficient and proactive
manner.
It wasnt acceptable for the claim to take four months when the contractors only had
to spend two days on site to complete the initial repair of the pipe.
She is very angry about the situation, she has a demanding job and it wasnt
appropriate or convenient for her to keep making phone calls to chase up progress.
It would have been irresponsible for her as a landlord to rent the property in the
state it was. The damage to the driveway and hole, would have made it dangerous
for families with children.
Her property is sought after and rarely without tenants. She had potential tenants
lined up within days of the driveway being fixed.
She has lost rental income and had to pay two months worth of council tax for the
property.
The case has been passed to me to decide.
My provisional findings
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 20 August 2020. I said I intended to 
uphold the complaint, for the following reasons:
Its agreed there were delays with this claim but what I need to decide is how long those 
delays were and how Mrs S should be compensated.
Mrs S reported the claim to RSA In April, although it appears, she was made aware of the 
leak earlier than this. I can see contractors were appointed and attended the property within 
two weeks. A further visit had to be made as the pipework was shared with a neighbouring 
property and the slope of the driveway meant it wasnt possible to fix the pipe. Instead, plans 
had to be made to reroute it. The repair to the pipework was completed within six weeks 
which I think is a reasonable amount of time.
RSA were notified there was an issue reinstating the block paving on the driveway, so it 
needed to appoint a different contractor. It appears there was a four week delay here before 
a scope of works was approved. This was because the contractor wasnt appointed 
immediately, and insufficient information was given to them about the job that needed to be 
done. Mrs S was provided with the details of the driveway contractor on 19 June and a date 
for repair was booked for 17 July.
From reviewing the evidence available to me, there was an avoidable delay of a month in the 
claim moving forward. So what I now need to decide is how Mrs S should be compensated 
for this.
I understand what Mrs S has said about the property and why she didnt want to let it out 
while the repairs were ongoing. However ultimately this was her choice not to do so, the 
policy itself only provides cover for loss of rent if the house is uninhabitable. Wed usually 
expect to see a policyholder to attempt to mitigate their loss, in this case it may have been 
possible for Mrs S to rent the property at a reduced rate.
However, Mrs S has been able to demonstrate that her letting agent had potential tenants 
lined up for the property very quickly after the repairs to the driveway were completed. So I 
do think Mrs S has suffered a financial loss due to the delay in dealing with the claim, as she 
could have rented the property one month sooner.
To put things right RSA should, subject to evidence, pay Mrs S an amount equivalent to one 
months rent and council tax - Mrs S has said these payments are £1,400 and £188 
respectively.
I understand Mrs S feels very strongly about what has happened and she has outlined in 
detail how this has impacted her. I also appreciate it would have been very frustrating for her 
not to be able to let out the property. I can see that Mrs S did also have to chase progress of 
the claim. Having considered everything, I think RSA should also pay Mrs S £100 
compensation to reflect the trouble and upset she has been caused.My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that Im minded to uphold Mrs Ss complaint and direct Royal & 
Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to make the following payments to Mrs S.
Pay Mrs S an amount equivalent to one months rent and council tax. RSA is entitled to ask 
Mrs S to provide evidence of these amounts.
Pay Mrs S £100 compensation.
Responses to my provisional decision
Both Mrs S and RSA responded saying they accepted my provisional findings. 
Mrs S added that she didnt think she was aware of the leak prior to it being reported to RSA 
and she made comments about the professionalism of the contractors that were sent to do 
work on her property. However, to bring the matter to a conclusion, she was happy to agree 
with the award I had made.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as both parties have indicated they accept my findings, I see no reason 
to depart from my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ss complaint against Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Plc. I direct it to make the following payments to Mrs S:
Pay Mrs S an amount equivalent to one months rent and council tax. RSA is entitled to ask 
Mrs S to provide evidence of these amounts.
Pay Mrs S £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman