DRN-2409007
The complaint
Mrs L has complained that Ageas Insurance Limited unfairly priced her motor insurance 
policy. 
What happened
Mrs L was looking for quotes for a car she was about to buy. Via a comparison site she 
received a quote from Ageas for £170, which increased to £183 once she added no claims 
discount (NCD) protection to the policy. She later rang a broker to buy the Ageas policy but 
was told it would cost around £218. Mrs L bought the policy but was unhappy that Ageas 
didn't honour the lower quote.
She brought her complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. He didn't think 
Ageas had done anything wrong. Mrs L didn't agree so the complaint's been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
who is the complaint about?
Mrs L initially complained to the broker, which sold the policy to her. The broker told Mrs L 
that the reason that the premium had changed from £170 to £218 was largely because shed 
added a purchase date to the policy. Adding the purchase date had changed the calculation 
of risk, that is the likelihood of making a claim, which increased the premium. And its Ageas, 
as the policy underwriter, which is responsible for deciding on risk levels and what affects 
that risk, not the broker. So as the complaint centres on something that Ageas is responsible 
for it is also responsible for responding to the complaint.
Mrs Ls also said that her contract is with the broker and not Ageas but thats not quite right. 
In fact Mrs Ls policy says she has two contracts: one with the broker for administering the 
policy on her behalf; a second is with the insurer, Ageas. And brokers don't determine risk, 
insurers do. So, as I've said above, given her complaint is about something Ageas is 
responsible for, then her complaint concerns her contract with Ageas.   
was it fair to charge the higher premium?
Mrs L was initially looking for a quote using a comparison website. And at that time she 
hadn't yet bought the car she was looking to insure. She ran a quote using a purchase date 
in March 2020, which provided an Ageas quote of around £250. Roughly two days later she 
ran the quote again, without adding a purchase date. And initially she received a quote of 
£170 (£183 after adding NCD protection). But, two minutes later, she ran a further quote 
again entering a purchase date in March 2020 and the quote increased to £218.
I've listened to Mrs Ls call with the broker when she rang to buy the policy. And in that call 
the broker explained that entering a purchase date may change the premium. I understand 
why Mrs L might think that a purchase date shouldnt make any difference to a premium. But 
that doesn't mean that Ageas has done anything wrong. 
It might help if I explain that were not the industry regulator. That means it's not my role to 
tell an insurer how much it can charge for its policies. We generally take the view that, 
providing they treat people fairly, insurers are entitled to charge what they feel they need to 
in order to cover a risk. Its essentially a matter of commercial judgment, balancing risk 
against the need to compete with other policies on offer. And insurers will review those 
factors each time a consumer asks for a quote. So prices can go up or down depending on 
what it thinks the risks are. And each insurer will go about that in its own way. We wouldnt 
interfere with that unless we thought the pricing was unfair in some way: for example if there 
were hidden charges which the consumer was only told about after taking out the policy. But 
thats not the case here.
One risk factor that some insurers will consider is how long a consumer has owned a car for. 
Thats because many insurers consider that a consumer whos owned their car for a number 
of years, and is therefore very familiar with it, pose less of a risk than a consumer whos only 
recently bought the car. So insurers may consider a driver with a car which is new to them 
as a higher risk and reflect that increase risk in the premium they charge. 
In this case it seems that, when Mrs L asked for a quote without including a purchase date, 
Ageas has calculated the premium without factoring in that the car was new to her. But once 
shed entered the actual purchase date its then factored in the increased risk, which has 
produced a higher premium. I understand that Mrs L might not think that's fair. But, as I've 
said above, insurers are allowed to decide for themselves what factors they think pose a risk 
and reflect that in the premiums they charge. 
Further, while I can understand Mrs Ls disappointment that Ageas didn't honour the lowest 
quote she received, that wasn't the only quote she had. And only two minutes after she 
received the lower quote she entered the actual purchase date, which provided a quote for 
the sum she actually bought the policy for. And she was under no obligation to buy the policy 
if she wasn't happy with the premium charged for it. So I don't think Ageas priced her 
premium unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman