DRN-4345603
The complaint
Mr D complains that Bank of Scotland plc didnt credit his account with the cash he had paid 
in at a branch.
What happened
Mr D explains that he went to a branch on 6 February 2023 with £2,000 in old twenty-pound 
notes. He says he paid this into the account and withdrew the same amount. But he found 
that the money he paid in hadnt been credited.
Bank of Scotland said it hadnt made a mistake. The branch manager had conducted a 
review and there were no cash discrepancies.
Our investigator said that he didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. During his 
investigation Bank of Scotland provided the source information from the branch showing the 
till that Mr D used balanced as did the total cash in branch that day. This was later confirmed 
again as part of a regular review. 
Mr D didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He insisted that he paid this 
cash in. He provided a copy of the receipt for the withdrawal which he related to his 
statement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Im thinking about what is most likely.
Mr D has explained he had a quantity of old notes. And he had been paying these in over a 
few days and withdrawing the equivalent amount. I can see from his bank statement there 
are entries that support that on other days in February 2023 and it seems at the branch 
involved here too on 13 February 2023.
Ive looked at the information that Bank of Scotland has provided about the till Mr D used, 
the overall cash then at the branch and other regular checks that are made. There are no 
cash discrepancies to account for the money Mr D says has gone missing. Ive seen the 
entry showing he did withdraw £2,000 that day. Mr D has provided a receipt for that 
withdrawal but says he wasnt given a receipt for the money he paid in and that it wasnt 
counted at the counter. There is no CCTV for that day available as this isnt retained beyond 
a set number of days and it may not in any case have shown the specifics of his transaction.
Mr D has been clear and consistent in his testimony. I need to balance that with the 
evidence provided by Bank of Scotland about the tills and cash holdings in branch. This as I 
say shows no discrepancy. Im afraid having done so I dont have sufficient to find that Bank 
of Scotland most likely made a mistake and then to require it to credit Mr Ds account with 
£2,000.
I can appreciate that he will be very disappointed with my assessment given what is at stake 
for him.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman