DRN-2682465
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
In 2001 Mr and Mrs H bought a PPI policy at the same time as they applied for
a further advance on their mortgage in one of the banks branches. The policy was in Mr Hs 
sole name and gave him protection against accident, sickness and unemployment. They 
paid a monthly amount for it. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagreed so the complaint
was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Lloyds had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs H that the PPI was optional, and they had to
agree to take it out. They say they didnt know they were being sold PPI, they never took it 
out on any of their borrowing in over 40 years. I can't know what was said during the sale, 
but I've looked at the available paperwork.
Mr and Mrs H signed a separate PPI application form and direct debit mandate. They 
selected cover for just Mr H, and he answered a number of eligibility questions. So I think Mr 
and Mrs H would have been aware they were taking out PPI. And theres nothing on the 
forms that I think could reasonably have led them to believe the PPI was mandatory.
So I think it's most likely Lloyds make it clear the PPI was optional and Mr and Mrs H opted 
to take it out.
Lloyds recommended the PPI for Mr H to Mr and Mrs H, so it had to make sure it was right 
for him. Mr H says they didnt need it but based on what Ive seen of his circumstances I 
think the PPI was suitable. Mr H told us he was entitled to six months' full pay and six 
months half pay if he was sick pay. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to his work 
benefits and for up to 12 months for each successful accident and sickness claim. It also 
gave him up to 12 months redundancy cover. Mr H said he was entitled to redundancy pay 
from his employer, but the PPI would have allowed him to protect any lump sum redundancy 
payment giving increased financial stability at an already difficult time. He told us he had at 
savings worth at least six months salary at the time but the PPI would have allowed him to 
use these for other living costs whilst not working, or to keep them intact for a future need.
Overall, I think the cover wouldve been useful for them if Mr H was sick, had an accident or 
lost his job.
I agree its possible Lloyds didnt give Mr and Mrs H all the information they needed before
they decided to buy PPI. But what I need to decide in order to conclude the PPI was mis-
sold is if it's most likely they would have made a different decision with better information. I
dont know when Lloyds made the cost clear, but the PPI was reasonably priced
for the benefit it offered, and it was apparently affordable. I dont know that it pointed out the
main things the PPI didnt cover. But Mr H doesnt appear to have been affected by
any of those things (such as the type of employment contract or any pre-existing medical
conditions). So on balance I dont think it's most likely better information wouldve changed
their decision.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs H have lost out because of any problems with this sale.
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint for the reasons set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman