DRN-3276728
The complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt do enough to protect him from losing 
money to a scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in full 
here. Mr R learned of an investment opportunity after meeting an individual through a dating 
app. They persuaded Mr R to invest funds with a cryptocurrency firm, who Ill refer to as B. 
Between May 2020 and June 2020 Mr R transferred funds totalling around £1,900 from his 
account with Barclays to his account with C  a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange 
platform. He was told to use these funds to purchase cryptocurrency, which he then sent to 
the wallet details hed been provided believing he was crediting his trading account with B. 
Mr B realised hed likely fallen victim to a scam when he no longer could access his trading 
platform with B and the individual who hed met online ceased communication. He reported 
this to Barclays and asked that it refund his loss. 
Ultimately Barclays couldnt agree to refunding Mr Rs lost funds. However, it did 
acknowledge that the customer service it had provided was not up to standard and credited 
Mr Rs account with £200. 
Mr R referred his complaint about Barclays to our service. Our Investigator considered the 
complaint but didnt recommend that it should be upheld. In summary she thought Barclays 
couldnt reasonably have prevented or limited Mr Rs loss. And the compensation award it 
had paid was appropriate in the circumstances of his complaint. Mr R didnt agree with the 
Investigators conclusions. He asked for his case to be reviewed again, so the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, theres not much more I can add to what the Investigator has already said. I 
know this will come as a disappointment to Mr R, but I cannot see any basis on which I can 
fairly instruct Barclays to refund his loss or do anything more. I will explain why. 
There is no dispute that Mr R authorised the transactions in question. Whilst he didnt intend 
to get scammed, he is initially presumed liable for the loss. 
But banks also have a duty to protect their customers against the risk of fraud and scams so 
far as is reasonably possible. Amongst other things, this might involve a bank looking to 
identify and help prevent transactions  particularly those which are unusual or out of 
character  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. 
With the above in mind I agree with the Investigator that in the context of Mr Rs normal 
spending and account usage, Im satisfied here, that it wouldnt be fair to say that the 
amounts and/or type of payment (including the merchant the payments were made to) 
should have appeared sufficiently unusual or suspicious to Barclays such that it ought to 
have intervened and contacted Mr R about the transactions. And as there wasnt any 
interaction between Mr R and Barclays at the time the payments were made, it also didnt 
otherwise unreasonably miss an opportunity to unearth the scam before the payments were 
made. Furthermore, as the payments were made to Mr Rs own account with C (which he 
was in control of) I wouldnt have expected Barclays to have done more in assisting him in 
the recovery of those funds. I agree that there were some delays in Barclays providing a 
response to Mr Rs claim. But I think the £200 already paid is a fair way to address this. So, I 
wont be asking Barclays to do any more.
Ive also considered whether Mr R would be entitled to a refund under the Lending 
Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM code). This requires 
firms who are a signatory of the code (which Barclays are) to reimburse customers whove 
been the victims of authorised push payment (APP) scams, in all but a limited number of 
circumstances. One of those is that the payment is sent to another person. But here as the 
payments were sent to Mr Rs own account with C (which he was in control of) the CRM 
code does not apply.
Despite my natural sympathy for what has taken place, ultimately, it was the scammer that 
tricked Mr R. And for the reasons Ive explained above, I cant fairly hold Barclays liable for 
Mr Rs loss. I also think the compensatory award it has already paid for the delay in dealing 
with Mr Rs claim is fair. So it follows that I wont be asking Barclays to do anything further.   
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman