DRN-3044950
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) asked her for tax 
residency information.
What happened
Mrs F has had an account with Halifax since December 2014. Halifax wrote to her and asked 
her to complete a Tax Residency Self-Certification form.
Mrs F complained. She didnt see why this was needed  when shed had an account with 
Halifax for so long. Shes lived in the UK for over ten years. She felt discriminated against  
as shes a foreign national.
Halifax said they had to comply with the rules on tax residency as laid down by HMRC. The 
purpose of this is to ascertain if customers have paid tax in another country. Theyd realised 
that they didnt hold those details for Mrs F from when she opened her account  so needed 
to ask for it now. They agreed they hadnt dealt with Mrs Fs first complaint effectively and 
paid compensation of £35.
Mrs F brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said Halifax had to comply with the tax 
regulations of HMRC. She hadnt seen that Mrs F was being discriminated against  as they 
were treating all customers the same way.
Mrs F asked that an ombudsman look into her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs F considers that shes being discriminated against  as shes a foreign national. Halifax 
have written to her to ask her to certify her tax residency status. She wonders why this has 
happened now  when shes lived in the UK for over ten years and has had an account with 
Halifax since 2014.
Halifax must comply with the tax rules in the UK. This means they must record the tax status 
of all their customers  whether they are foreign nationals or UK nationals. In my experience, 
its not something that Halifax do differently to all other UK banks  as all banks must 
comply.
Ive looked at Halifaxs records here. It shows that they dont have the information about Mrs 
Fs tax residency. We asked Halifax why they didnt get this information when Mrs F opened 
her account in 2014  which of course wouldve been the best time to get it. They cant tell 
us why that happened. But  they do need to have it to complete their records.
On Mrs Fs point about discrimination  Halifax must hold this information for all customers, 
so I cant see that Mrs F had been treated differently. And so  I dont agree that shes been 
discriminated against.
I can see Mrs F feels strongly about this and so will be disappointed by my decision. But Im 
not going to ask Halifax to do anymore here.
 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman