DRN-1521142
The complaint
Ms V is unhappy with the level of service that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) has provided in 
relation with her home insurance policy.
What happened
Ms V has said she received a call regarding her home insurance policy. She was concerned 
and suspicious because the line sounded as if the consultant was
in a tunnel, and Ms V didnt believe the consultant was calling from where they said they 
were. Ms V was aware that the business the consultant said she was calling from no longer 
sold home insurance policies and therefore Ms V continued to ask further questions. 
Ms V says the consultant wasnt co-operating or answering her questions correctly. And she 
says she has never received a call before about the renewal of her insurance policy, so, she 
was concerned it was actually a sales call. Ms V says complaints handler confirmed it was a 
sales call and they were getting a bonus or commission for the call. Ms V wasnt very happy 
as she doesnt remember giving her permission to receive sales call, she felt the consultant 
had been dishonest and caused inconvenience. So, she would like compensation for the 
inconvenience she was caused.
UKI looked into Ms Vs complaint and issued its final response letter. It said their consultant 
offered to call Ms V on another line if she had concerns about the call and it was satisfied, 
she answered all of the questions correctly. Overall it was satisfied that its consultant 
introduced herself correctly. And while she did say she was calling from another business 
she explained UKI administer the home insurance policy on behalf of that business. It said 
while it understands Ms Vs concerns that she had never been called before, it was calling to 
ensure she had received her policy documents, but it had now removed her number from its 
outbound call list. So UKI felt it hadnt acted unfairly so it didnt offer any compensation. 
Ms V remained unhappy, so she brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into the case, but he didnt think it should be upheld. To summarise he said that he 
had listened to the call he felt the consultant at UKI made it clear  she was a UKI consultant 
calling regarding her home insurance policy. The investigator said he couldnt say the 
consultant avoided answering Ms Vs questions, but he thinks she could have tried harder to 
understand what Ms V was saying. And he was satisfied the team leader Ms V spoke to also 
clarified why the consultant had introduced herself the way she did and explained the 
purpose of the call. So overall, he was satisfied with the service UKI had provided and he 
didnt think compensation was warranted. 
Ms V didnt agree, so the case was passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. I will 
explain why.
I have reviewed the policy terms which Ms V received and confirmed she had received 
during the call with the consultant form UKI. On page three of the policy terms it states that 
UKI is the underwriter of the policy. So with that in mind, I dont think it would be fair to say 
that it was unusual or uncommon for the underwriter or administrator of a policy to contact 
the insured.
I have listened to the call that took place between Ms V and UKI. Having done so I am 
satisfied the consultant was clear who she was and where she was calling from. She said:
I am a UK Insurance consultant at .
So, while she did go on the say she was calling from another businesses, she did explain 
she was a UKI consultant. Then Ms V said that the business the consultant said she was 
calling from no longer provided insurance policies. So Ms V questioned who she worked for.
At this point I do think the consultant could have been clearer and explained to Ms V that 
UKI administers the policy on behalf of that business. I think the consultant did get confused 
with the questions Ms V was asking. So, while I do think the consultant could have been 
clearer, I cant say the information the consultant provided was deliberately dishonest. 
Ms V remained unhappy with the information the consultant provided as she said she had 
been dishonest. So, she asked to speak to her manager.
Having listened to the call with the manager I am satisfied she clearly explained that UKI 
represent the business in question, so she didnt feel the consultant had been misleading. 
She also clearly explained that UKI underwrites the policy on behalf of the business in 
question. With that in mind, I think UKI did enough to clarify the concerns Ms V had.
So while appreciate that the consultant could have been clearer when Ms V asked who she 
worked for, I am satisfied within the same call Ms Vs concerns were answered and the 
matter was clarified. So, I dont agree that this caused a degree of distress or inconvenience 
which warrants financial compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2020.
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman