DRN-2349598
The complaint
Miss W complains that Phoenix Life Limited failed to notify her that it had taken a decision to 
suspend customers being able to take money out of the property fund due to the Covid-19 
pandemic. She said this had a financial impact on her, as she intended to access part of her 
pension fund early and couldnt because this was invested in the property fund.
What happened
Miss W had a pension policy with Phoenix Life, with much of it invested in the property fund.
Miss Ws financial circumstances changed as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. She 
telephoned Phoenix Life in June 2020 because she was considering accessing part of her 
pension fund. During the phone call she was told that Phoenix Life had suspended funds 
being paid into and out of the property fund. Miss W complained that this had impacted on 
her financial planning, at a difficult time for her. 
Phoenix Life said it suspended dealings on its property fund as a response to the potential 
effects of the Covid-19 pandemic. It said this was a commercial decision, taken at board 
level on 24 April 2020. It said it had received guidance from the Financial Conduct Authority 
stating that managers of property funds should take action to protect the interests of 
customers in relation to property funds. 
Phoenix Life said that it had already written to some customers explaining the position, but 
mainly those that were actively paying into their policy at the time, rather than those with 
paid up policies, like Miss Cs. Phoenix Life said it did update its website to show it had 
made this decision.
Miss C became aware of the suspension during her call in June 2020. Phoenix Life accepted 
it didnt write to all affected customers until 9 July 2020. It explained this over the phone to 
Miss C on 15 July 2020, when it read the response letter it had drafted to her. Phoenix Life 
acknowledged it didnt do all that it could to make affected customers aware. It sent Miss C 
£100 redress for the trouble and upset caused by this. It also agreed to get her complaint 
reviewed again. This was because Miss C was dissatisfied with the outcome discussed on 
the phone.
Miss W said it wasnt until her complaint was escalated within Phoenix Life, that she was told 
that she couldnt make a partial withdrawal from her pension fund.
Miss C received a response to her complaint from a senior complaint handler in August 
2020. Phoenix Lifes offer of redress did not change. The senior complaints manager 
informed Miss W that Phoenix Life did  not allow partial withdrawals. Phoenix Life explained 
that whilst it was not normal business practice to suspend dealing within funds, it could 
happen in periods of exceptional market circumstances, such as the Covid-19 pandemic. It 
said it did have the right to suspend dealing and had done so to protect investors.
Miss C referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into it and did not 
recommend that it was upheld. The investigator took the view that Phoenix Life didnt need 
to do anything more as the redress already paid was in line with other awards made in 
circumstances like this.
Miss C didnt accept our investigators view and so her complaint has been referred to me for 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate that this was a difficult and uncertain time for Miss C as her personal and 
financial circumstances had changed as a result of the pandemic.
However, based on what Ive seen, I think Phoenix Life was able to act in the way it did to 
suspend the property fund, to protect investors, in the exceptional circumstances of the 
worldwide pandemic. Phoenix Life told Miss C this decision was being kept under regular 
review.
Phoenix Life told Miss C in August 2020 that partial withdrawals were not allowed. So, it 
seems that, Miss C wouldnt have been able to make the partial withdrawal she was hoping 
to make in June 2020, in any event.
But I do accept that Phoenix Life couldve done more to make Miss C aware sooner of the 
decision taken by its board in April 2020. Ive noted, however, that details were given on 
the website and scheduled retirements and death claims were still being processed. I also 
note that those still making contributions into their plans were told first of the suspension, 
so they could make alternative arrangements.
When Mrs C called Phoenix Life to make it aware of her changing position, it informed her 
of the suspension during that call. It responded to her complaint in a timely way, fairly 
acknowledging her concerns. It paid her £100 redress for the trouble and upset she had 
been caused due to its boards decision not having been directly communicated earlier to 
her. I consider Phoenix Lifes actions and the redress it has already paid Miss C to be a 
fair and reasonable response in all the circumstances. The £100 paid is in line with the 
level of awards made by this service in situations akin to this.
Taking everything into account, I am not asking Phoenix Life to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman