DRN-1999035
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with the outcome of a claim he made against Bank of Scotland plc trading 
as Halifax (Halifax), regarding a transaction he made on his credit card issued by them.
What happened
Mr L entered into a contract with a supplier Ill call X, to supply and install a new boiler. 
During a conversation with the salesman for X, Mr L asked whether the work would be 
carried out solely by Xs engineers or would be sub-contracted  he didnt want sub-
contactors involved. He was told he could request that only Xs engineers were involved, and 
he did so. Mr L says he entered the contract on that basis and paid the deposit using his 
Halifax credit card.
During the installation, Mr L became aware one of the people working on his property was in 
fact a sub-contractor. He complained to X who rejected his complaint. They explained that 
they dont employ electrical engineers so always sub-contract that element of the work at 
least. They said their employee carried out the boiler installation which was the majority of 
the work, but the supplementary specialist electrical and building work required as part of 
the installation were carried out by sub-contractors. X confirmed that all sub-contactors they 
use are fully qualified, Gas Safe registered engineers. They said they believed Mr L was 
satisfied with the quality of the work carried out. They gave Mr L the required rights to 
complain to the Utilities ADR which performs a similar function to our service, but in that 
area.
Mr L didnt accept what X or the Utilities ADR had said so he complained to Halifax as he is 
entitled to do. He said X had misrepresented who would be carrying out the work under the 
contract and had therefore breached it. Mr L said he could have got the work done by 
another provider for £1,000 less but chose X because they promised their own staff would 
do the work. He said Halifax should refund him £1,000, or remove the installation and put 
him back in the position as if hed not entered the contract.
Halifax looked at Mr Ls complaint under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(section 75). They said the electrical work was carried out by a sub-contractor, contracted by 
X to act on their behalf, and there was no suggestion that the work hadnt been carried out to 
the required standard. Halifax noted the entire installation (including the work that was sub-
contracted) was guaranteed for five years. They didnt uphold his complaint Mr Ls 
complaint.
As Mr L remained unhappy, he referred his complaint to us and one of our investigators 
looked into it. Mr L asked for £1,000 plus an award for the time and trouble hed had to 
prepare his submission to us. Our investigator said the facts of the case werent in dispute  
that X sub-contracted part of the work despite Mr Ls request for employees only to be on the 
job. And she accepted that Mr L may not have entered the contract had he understood that 
would happen. But she concluded that the work appeared to have been carried out 
successfully so she didnt think it would be reasonable to ask Halifax to pay for it to be 
reversed. Our investigator said that she hadnt seen any evidence of an adverse impact or 
financial loss on Mr L. She didnt uphold the complaint. 
Halifax didnt respond to our investigators opinion, so weve deemed that to be their 
acceptance of it. Mr L didnt accept it. He reiterated several legal arguments around the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA), the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) to name but two. 
He pointed out that the work hadnt been carried out successfully  hed had to contact X 
when water started to leak from the boiler a few weeks after the work had been carried out.  
As there was no agreement, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L has presented a lot of evidence to support his case which Ive carefully read and 
listened to. Just because I dont comment on a point doesnt mean I havent read or 
considered it. Much of what hes said sets out various legal arguments. Only a court can 
decide whether Mr L has a claim under the law  I cant. My role is to reach a decision on the 
basis of what I consider to be fair and reasonable taking into account things such as the law, 
regulation and good industry practice.
Its important to note this decision only relates to whether I believe Halifax has treated Mr L 
fairly when they considered his claim against them. I have no jurisdiction to consider a 
complaint about X and, in any event, Mr Ls complaint about them has already been 
considered by an alternative dispute resolution scheme.
Section 75 says that in some circumstances the borrower under a credit agreement has an 
equal right to claim against the credit provider if theres either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services. One of the circumstances for such a 
claim to be valid is that there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement. The 
formal wording for a DCS agreement is set out in section 12 of the CCA. In summary it says 
there needs to be a three-party agreement between a debtor, a creditor and a supplier. 
In this case, Mr L is the debtor, Halifax is the creditor, and X is the supplier. The contract 
between Mr L and X was to supply and fit a boiler and necessary ancillary work. During the 
meeting with Xs sales representative which took place on 16 July 2018, Mr L asked if the 
job would be sub-contracted or carried out by Xs employees. Mr L has provided an audio 
recording of a minute or so of the conversation that took place. In that minute, the 
representative says Mr L can specify for employees only to be on the job. Mr L says he 
accepted the contract with X on that basis.
A quote from X for the work was accepted by Mr L on 1 August 2018 and the boiler was 
installed on 7 August 2018. But Mr L became aware a sub-contractor was used for the 
electrical work. He says hed not have accepted the contract had he been aware that a sub-
contractor would be used and therefore says X misrepresented the situation and / or 
breached the contract.  
I agree with Mr L that the sales representative said (in the short recording I have) that Mr L 
could ask for employees only to carry out the work, but that was never possible; X has said 
since that it doesnt employ electricians and always sub-contracts that work. So I accept 
there was a false statement made at the meeting. That said, in order to give rise to a claim, 
the false statement must have led Mr L to enter a contract hed otherwise not have done. 
Mr L says he wouldnt have entered the contract if hed been aware that sub-contractors 
would have been used. While I accept there was a false statement, Ive seen no other 
evidence which leads me to believe Mr L wouldnt have gone ahead if the representative had given the correct information. I think on balance, he would have gone ahead with X anyway. 
Let me explain why.
Mr L says he could have had the work done by a local builder hed used for other work. He 
says he could haveemployed this builder and his sub-contractors. However... I explored 
the option of employing [X] for the work. [Mr Ls emphasis]. 
He says he was aware he wasnt going for the cheapest option in employing X to do the 
work, so he doesnt appear to have been particularly price sensitive. He says he could have 
saved £1,000 by not doing so  but hes not provided any evidence of that. He has supplied 
a quote from a builder  presumably the one he refers to as having carried out work for him 
in the past. But I note that the quote is dated April 2019 some eight months after X had 
completed the work.
The quote is for £888 less than X, but the builders specification doesnt include items which 
have been included on Xs quote as your tailored extras - items such as reconfiguring 
controls pipework, energy saving heating valves etc, which come to £576. So Im not 
persuaded the quotes provided are on a like for like basis or demonstrate the loss of £1,000 
Mr L claims. And hes also said hed have accepted sub-contractors being used for the work 
by the local builder.
So it seems to me that Mr L was keen for X to carry out the work in the first place  
otherwise I think he would have approached the local builder for a quote before entering into 
the contract, and Ive seen nothing to show he did. The fact that he chose to go with X 
instead, implies he was keen to go ahead with them in any event. So in summary, I dont 
think the false statement led him to enter into a contract hed otherwise not have done. 
Mr L has also said the work wasnt carried out satisfactorily because there was a leak from 
the boiler within a few weeks of installation. Hes says that an employee of X who visited his 
home to repair it, told him the work hadnt been completed satisfactorily. I note that the 
installation of the boiler itself, which was the cause of the leak, was in fact carried out by an 
employee of X as Mr L had requested. Nonetheless, he has a right to have expected the 
work to be carried out to a reasonable standard and the goods (i.e. the boiler) to be of 
satisfactory quality (as specified by the CRA).
Section 9 of the CRA says that goods provided under a contract must be of satisfactory 
quality  that is they must meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory. Clearly a reasonable person wouldnt expect a boiler to leak having only been 
installed a few weeks ago, so Im inclined to agree the installation wasnt satisfactory. 
Section 19 of the CRA says if the goods do not conform to the contract (for example they are 
of unsatisfactory quality), the consumer has various remedies. One of these remedies is the 
right to repair. Section 23 sets out more about the right to repair.
Mr L has highlighted section 49 of the CRA in this regard which covers services rather than 
goods. It says services should be performed with reasonable care and skill. If we regard the 
leak as a failure in the service of installation (as opposed to the goods being of 
unsatisfactory quality), then section 54 of the CRA sets out the consumers rights to enforce 
terms about the services. One of the rights available is for the consumer to require a repeat 
performance of service. I dont think it would be reasonable for X to have taken the boiler 
out and reinstalled it under this section, but I would expect them to repair the leak and 
ensure the boiler was working satisfactorily. 
Mr L has pointed out that another remedy available to a consumer under the CRA is a price 
reduction (section 56). But section 56 (3) explains that a consumer who has the right to a price reduction and the right to a repeat performance, is only entitled to a price reduction if 
(as set out in section 55 (3)) a repeat performance is impossible, or the consumer is entitled 
to a repeat performance but the trader is unable to complete it within a reasonable time. 
An employee of X repaired the leak, so provided a repeat performance within a reasonable 
timeframe as required by the CRA. So I dont think Mr L is entitled to a price reduction as 
hes requested under the CRA. And Ive seen nothing to suggest the boiler itself (i.e. the 
goods supplied under the contract) was unsatisfactory so as to give rise to a claim under 
those sections of the CRA. And even if they were satisfactory due to the leak, that leak has 
now been repaired which means he wouldnt have the right to a price reduction under the 
relevant part of the CRA for that reason either.
I realise my decision will disappoint Mr L but I dont think Halifax has treated him unfairly in 
their consideration of his complaint and their rejection of it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman