DRN-3126408
Complaint
Mr S has complained about the overdraft charges Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) applied 
to his current account. Hes said these charges caused him difficulty.
Background
Mr S complaint was looked at by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think that Barclays had 
done anything wrong as Barclays had notified Mr S that the interest free terms on his 
overdraft were due to end in advance of this and it didnt have reason to suspect he may 
have been in financial difficulty before being notified of this. So she didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld.     
Mr S disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr S
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts Barclays charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate 
in comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a bank charges for 
services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get involved with.
I know Mr S says that he wasnt notified of the change in the terms and conditions of his 
overdraft. But Ive been provided with a copy of the notification Barclays sent to him in 
February 2018 and it appears to have been correctly addressed. I appreciate that Mr S may 
not recall this letter and that he might not have read it. But given Mr S hadnt asked to be 
sent information in an alternative format, its difficult for me to say that Barclays should have 
taken additional steps here or that it didnt do enough to bring the changes to Mr S attention. 
That said, even though Barclays notified Mr S of these changes in advance of them 
happening, it still wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr S if it applied these 
interest, fees and charges to Mr S account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought 
fairly and reasonably to have been aware Mr S was experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive 
considered whether there were instances where Barclays ought to have known Mr S was in 
financial difficulty. 
Ive also looked through Mr S statements throughout the period concerned I cant see that 
Barclays ought to have been aware that Mr S might have been struggling during the period 
weve looked at. 
Its fair to say that Mr S did have returned payments. But while Im not seeking to make 
retrospective value judgements over Mr S expenditure, nonetheless there are significant 
amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions account going 
from the account. 
I accept neither of these things in themselves (or taken together) mean that Mr S wasnt 
experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt anything in these transactions in themselves 
which ought to have alerted Barclays to potential financial difficulty prior to Mr S notifying it of 
this. So, in these circumstances and in the absence of being told anything by Mr S, I dont 
think that it was unreasonable for Barclays to have proceeded adding the charges that it did. 
And I dont think Barclays unfairly charged Mr S in circumstances where it ought to have 
realised that he may have been experiencing financial difficulty.
Ive seen what Mr S has said about his financial position. And Im sorry to hear about his 
difficulty. But I note that Barclays has taken steps to help him move his account elsewhere. 
Equally, while I understand Mr S is unhappy at being declined for an increased overdraft 
limit. A bank will have its own criteria for assessing whether it is prepared to lend. And its 
not for us to tell a bank that it should lend in circumstances where it determines any further 
borrowing isnt affordable for the customer. 
As this is the case and bearing in mind what Ive already said earlier, I dont think that 
Barclays has treated Mr S unfairly. So it doesnt need to refund any interest, fees and 
charges and Im not upholding Mr S complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr S  especially as he has quite rightly 
pointed out that hes been waiting sometime for an answer from us. But I hope hell 
understand the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been 
listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman