DRN-4076791
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) declined her claim for a leaking water 
pipe under her home emergency insurance policy. 
Mrs M is represented by her daughter in this complaint. I will refer to Mrs M in my decision 
for ease. 
What happened
Mrs M contacted Aviva to make a claim on her policy in August 2022. There was low water 
pressure at her property. 
Aviva says its engineer attended and identified a leak from a shared water supply pipe. This 
was reported to Mrs Ms water company. Aviva says it believed it was the water companys 
responsibility to repair the leak. 
In early September 2022 Mrs M received a letter from the water company telling her she was 
responsible for the leak detection and repairs. Mrs M contacted Aviva again. It arranged for 
an engineer to attend. The initial plan was to excavate within Mrs Ms property. But as she 
didnt want this to happen, it was agreed that the supply pipe would be re-routed instead. 
This required access to the neighbouring properties. Aviva says it wrote to the neighbours to 
obtain the necessary permissions. 
Aviva says that due to the scope of the work, and permissions required, an appointment to 
carry out the repairs couldnt be provided until early November 2022. When its engineer 
attended, they found the water company had completed the work. It confirmed this had been 
done under section 75(2)(b) of the Water Industry Act 1991. The water company told Aviva 
the leak had been detected on 8 July 2022. 
Aviva contacted Mrs M to tell her it couldnt cover her claim for the repairs carried out by the 
water company. This is because her policy has an exclusion period, which states no claims 
could be made until 18 July 2022. 
Mrs M didnt think this was fair. She says she was only informed about the leak on 4 August 
2022. This is when the water company posted a card through her door. She complained to 
Aviva, but it didnt change its decline decision. It did offer £110 compensation for delays in 
handling the claim. But Mrs M decided to refer the matter to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold her complaint. He says the policy terms excludes any leaks 
that occur with the exclusion period. As the water company confirmed the leak was identified 
within this period, there is no cover. Our investigator thought the offer of £110 for the claim 
delays was reasonable. 
Mrs M didnt agree with our investigators view. She says she wasnt aware of the leak until 
she received a card from the water company. This was received after the exclusion period.  
She says the card refers to a possible leak, which means the engineers werent sure at this 
point if there was a leak or not. Mrs M says Aviva should pay her claim and compensate her 
for the distress this matter has caused her. She asked for an ombudsman to consider her 
complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. I understand she has been 
very distressed by this matter and Im sorry to disappoint her. But I will explain why I think 
my decision is fair. 
Ive read Mrs Ms policy terms to understand the cover she has in place. Its clear the policy 
provides for the detection and repair of leaks relating to water supply pipes. There is no 
dispute from Aviva on this point. 
In these circumstances if the policyholder can show that they have suffered an insured 
event, the insurer should pay the claim unless it can rely on a policy exclusion not to. 
Ive thought about the reasons Aviva gave for declining the claim. Ive copied the relevant 
excerpts from the policy documentation and terms it relied on below:
The policy schedule says:
Water Supply Pipe  Claims can be made from: 18th July 2022. Please see your Terms & 
Conditions for full details
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) says:
Are there any restrictions on cover?  When can I claim?
There is an exclusion period of 28 days when you will not be covered. For more information, 
refer to your schedule section in your documents.
The General Exclusions section says:
The following are also excluded from cover and therefore the Underwriter will not be liable 
for any of the following:
b) any event, loss or damage arising from circumstances known to you before your policy 
start date or occurring in any exclusion period.  
I think the terms are clearly written. Any event, loss or damage that occurs in the exclusion 
period isnt covered. The water company in Mrs Ms area has confirmed a leak was identified 
on 8 July 2022. This was during the exclusion period, which didnt end until 18 July. Based 
on this information Mrs Ms loss wasnt covered by her policy.  
Ive thought about Mrs Ms comments that she didnt know about a potential leak until 4 
August 2022. But I dont think this is relevant here. The terms exclude the loss if it occurs 
during the exclusion period. Mrs M says it was a potential leak, which was advised on the 
card she received from the water company. I understand her point, but its clear there was a 
leak from the water supply pipe, which was initially detected at the beginning of July. 
Because of this I dont think Aviva behaved unreasonably in declining the claim. Ive thought about Mrs Ms reference to delays in the handling of her claim by Aviva. There 
were some delays in arranging for the work to be carried out. This was after Mrs M called 
Aviva in September 2022 having receiving notice from the water company that she was 
responsible for the repairs. Ive read the records provided by Aviva and Mrs Ms testimony 
when considering this point. 
Mrs M didnt want excavation work to take place within her property. So, the alternative 
meant permission had to be sought from her neighbours to access their property. I can see 
from the records that the work required more than one engineer. This meant repairs couldnt 
proceed until November 2022, by which time the water company had completed the work. 
Aviva offered £110 for delays in its claim handling. In the circumstances I dont think this is 
unreasonable. Ultimately there was no cover in place under Mrs Ms policy for her loss. 
Aviva wasnt aware of the date the leak was detected until after the repairs were completed 
by the water company. 
I note Mrs Ms comments that her property has been damaged by the ongoing leak. Aviva 
says the damage Mrs M reported was toward the front of her property, whereas the leak was 
at the rear. It doesnt think the leak caused this. 
I acknowledge Mrs Ms concerns, but I havent seen an expert report that confirms damage 
has resulted from a leak. Regardless of this there was no cover in place for this loss  so I 
cant reasonably conclude Aviva was responsible for the repairs or any damage caused.  
Im sorry Mrs Ms property has been impacted by the damaged water supply pipe. This has 
clearly been a very distressing time for her. But for the reasons Ive discussed I dont think 
Aviva acted unfairly when declining the claim. It should pay Mrs M the £110 compensation 
payment if it hasnt already done so. But I cant reasonably ask it to do any more.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman