DRN-3562018
The complaint
Mr M complains that a motor insurance quote given to him by Hastings Insurance Services 
Limited trading as Hastings Direct (HISL) was much lower than the actual cost of the 
insurance.
What happened
Mr M had a motorbike insured through HISL. A few days after taking out the policy he 
contacted HISL via its online chat facility to ask about the cost of insuring a different bike. He 
had most of the details of the bike, but he said as it was new he didnt yet have the 
registration number. 
HISL quoted him about an extra £40 to change the policy to the new bike. Mr M said:
Thanks. Can you keep a record of that please, as I am still talking to the dealer. I don't want 
any changes yet.
The call handler replied:
Yes sure [Mr M] just to let you know the price may change as there is no registration on the 
quote.
Mr M asked:
Will it change by much.
The call handler replied:
I could not say without the registration.
Mr M said:
The bike is the same. I don't want to buy it then you tell me it's an extra £500!
The call handler said:
If you can come back to us with the registration we can run this again before you decide to 
go ahead.
Mr M said:
They won't register it until I buy it. Could I use a registration of a similar bike.
The call handler said:
I see so if the registration matches the details of the bike the price will remain the same.
Mr M says he went ahead and paid a deposit on the bike on the basis of the quote. He then 
contacted HISL to take out the insurance. In this live chat Mr M said:
Hi [call handler] I have the reg number for the bike I am changing to I did a quote 
yesterdayI am picking it up tomorrow.
Mr M gave the call handler the registration number and confirmed the make and model. 
There was some discussion about the correct make, model, year and engine size. This time 
the quote came back as an increase in Mr Ms premium of approximately £800. Mr M said 
the previous quote was a lot less. The call handler said:
Yesterdays quote was a rough quote based on the [make and model] 2021 model. Today 
I've put down 2020 as you had mentioned earlier.
Mr M queried this and the call hander said:
The insurers provide the price based on their set criteria. The details put down as the ones 
we have discussed on this chat. The difference is yesterday you've requested a rough quote 
based on a 2021 modelPlease note that our prices aren't guaranteed and can increase or 
decrease at any time. We offer the policy on the insurer's behalf which means we don't 
control the priceTo confirm yesterdays quote was without a registration which would be a 
rough quote only. I will provide the details.
Mr M was able to reduce the cost to an extra £301.57 by reducing the annual mileage. His 
compulsory excess also went up from £200 to £350.
Mr M asked about the cost of cancelling the policy and said he would get some other quotes. 
However he did stay with the HISL policy. He says he only found out about the actual cost of 
the new policy the evening before he was due to collect the bike and there wasnt time to 
shop around.
Mr M had also asked HISL for a quote to change the policy to a different bike the day before 
asking for the quote for the bike he went on to buy. In this live chat the call handler advised 
him:
I can give you a quote but we do work on real time pricing so the price may go up or down 
depending so this quote may not be same price you get when you make the changeThis 
quote will expire at midnight.
Mr M wasnt happy about what had happened, so he complained to HISL. HISL didnt uphold 
his complaint, saying that hed been told in the first two chats that the price might be different 
from the quote.
Mr M wasnt happy with this response so he complained to this service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold his complaint. He said HISL had told Mr M that the price of the policy for the 
new bike could change once the registration number was provided, but Mr M didnt get this 
quote before paying a deposit for the bike. The investigator didnt consider HISL made any 
mistakes.
Mr M wasnt happy with this response so his complaint has been passed to me. Mr M says 
hed wanted the quote so he could decide whether to buy the new bike. He says if hed have 
known how much the insurance would be he wouldnt have bought the bike. He wants to be 
compensated for what he says are mistakes made by HISL which he says have caused him 
much distress. He wants the originally quoted cover for the originally quoted price.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
On 10 June 2022 I issued a provisional decision. My provisional decision said:
I intend to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
In the first online chat Mr M gave full details of the new bike and said it was a 2020 model. 
However it seems that HISL ran the original quote as a 2021 bike as Mr M told it the bike 
was new, and he asked for the quote at the end of 2021. HISL has pointed out to our 
investigator that in fact the bike wasnt brand new as the year of manufacture was 2020.
HISL has provided premium data which confirms the quote as accepted by Mr M was correct 
and was calculated in line with the new risk and inputted details. I cant share details of this 
with Mr M as it is commercially sensitive, but it does show a price of £301.57.
I can see that Mr M was correctly advised by HISL that the price of the quote he was given 
might be different when the registration number of the bike was inputted. He was also 
advised that any quote was only valid for a short period of time. However he was also told 
that if all the details of the bike matched the registration the price would be as first quoted. 
The details given by Mr M did match the registration. The problem seems to be that HISL 
used the wrong date to run the first quote.
Mr M took all the precautions he could to get an accurate quote for insuring the new bike 
before he agreed to buy it. I dont think it was fair or reasonable of HISL to then increase the 
actual price from the extra £40 it quoted to an extra £800.
Its difficult to say exactly how Mr M can be put back in the same position he would have 
been in had the initial quote been accurate. I cant require HISL to give Mr M the originally 
quoted cover for the originally quoted price, as that quote was for a different bike. So I intend 
to require HISL to compensate Mr M for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
disappointment of his legitimate expectations.  
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, I intend to uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
I intend to require Hastings Insurance Services Limited trading as Hastings Direct to pay Mr 
M £301.57, equal to the price he paid to insure the new bike.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr M said:
I am extremely happy that the ombudsman has finally decided to uphold my complaint and 
find in my favour. I am happy that it has been recognised that HISL made mistakes. 
The only point I wish to highlight is that the situation has be unnecessarily prolonged due to 
failure to listen to me, the customer, at previous stages. HISL failed to own up to the initial 
mistake and completely failed to look at it in any meaningful way when I initially raised my 
concerns.  HISL said:
Ive reviewed the provision decision and disagree with the outcome. I would like to put 
forward the additional points for consideration. 
In the quote ran on 16th December 2021, we offered a price of around £40.00 additional 
premium. Mr [M] said he didnt have a registration as the bike was brand new, which would 
suggest 2021 model (considering new registrations come out in March and September of 
each year). When inputting the vehicle make and model, the year of make pre-populated as 
2021. This is further supported by looking at the change of vehicle web-chat on 17th 
December 2021. When the registration was inputted, the representative said it was a 2021 
model. Mr [M] said it was a 2020 model, which is where the representative manually 
overtyped this year of make. If a customer (who would have signed papers when buying the 
vehicle), states the year is 2020, we wouldnt dispute this. Im satisfied, we ran the quote 
based off the information given by Mr [M]. 
Ive checked the year of manufacture for this vehicle and it was in fact 2021, which is why 
this vehicle was pre-populated on the first quote. See the below evidence
Furthermore, you have said Its difficult to say exactly how Mr M can be put back in the 
same position he would have been in had the initial quote been accurate. Mr [M] was 
provided with the option to cancel the policy, issuing him pretty much a full refund due to 
how little time he had on cover. Mr [M] chose to stay with us and pay the additional premium, 
which suggests he was unable to find a policy any cheaper elsewhere. Additionally, the 
original quote was accurate, as per the HPI check. 
If the initial quote had been processed, Mr [M] would have had to pay £39.95 to process the 
change, therefore we shouldnt be refunding the full £301.57 to Mr [M]. 
Your service often asks us to provide compensation for the trouble and upset and have a 
view on how this cant be premium. We have evidenced the premium is correct as per the 
details inputted (this hasnt been disputed), however youve asked us to pay the same cost 
of the premium in compensation. Can you explain how this quantifies to the material trouble 
and upset on Mr [M]? Mr [M] has had the cover in place since 17th December 2021, so we 
wouldnt refund used premiums.
Your website provides the following explanation Typically an apology or small monetary 
award of less than £100 will fairly compensate a one-off incident or occurrence such as a 
small administrative error or short delay. An apology can often be enough to remedy these 
types of mistakes as long as they cause minimal impact and are put right quickly. As youve 
agreed the premium is accurate, the minor error is our failing to tell Mr [M] the vehicle was 
showing as a 2021 model. However, you could also argue, this isnt our place to provide this 
information as we didnt sell Mr [M] the vehicle and our representatives are not registered 
within the motor trade.
We have no evidence to suggest Mr [M] couldve obtained cheaper insurance. we also have 
no evidence to suggest Mr m wouldnt have purchased the new bike if we had offered the 
higher price in the first instance. I say this, because Mr [M] did allow us to make this change 
and did pay the higher premium, knowing his option to cancel the policy. As such, I cant see 
how these warrants over £300.00 compensation.
Mr M was clear in the first online chat about this bike that the bike was a 2020 model. He 
said this at least three times in the chat. He wasnt to know that HISL actually ran the quote 
for a 2021 model. At this point he hadnt bought the bike. The call handler on the chat told 
him it would be about an extra £40 to change the policy. The call handler also confirmed that as it was within the first weeks of the policy there wouldnt be an administration charge to 
change the bike. Mr M asked if the quote would change by much once he had the 
registration. The call handler said:
I see so if the registration matches the details of the bike the price will remain the same.
It was on the basis of this assertion that Mr M went ahead and bought the bike. But the 
actual quote came back at approximately £800 more than the cost of his previous policy. Mr 
M was only able to reduce the price to an extra £301.57 by taking out less advantageous 
cover. I think Mr M was caused a lot of distress and inconvenience by HISLs error. He 
bought a bike which he says he wouldnt otherwise have bought and he had to pay an 
unexpectedly large amount of money to obtain less favourable cover than he had for his 
previous bike. This would have affected him for the term of the policy.
Ive carefully considered HISLs comments, but I still think that it should compensate Mr M 
for this distress and inconvenience and for the disappointment of his legitimate expectations.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold Mr Ms complaint. I require Hastings Insurance 
Services Limited trading as Hastings Direct to pay Mr M £301.57 in recognition of the 
distress and inconvenience caused by the disappointment of his legitimate expectations.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman