DRN-2310963
The complaint
Miss R says Lloyds Bank PLC (trading at the time as C&G) mis-sold her a payment
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy which Miss R took out with a 
mortgage in 2002.
If Miss R had made a successful claim for accident, sickness or unemployment, the PPI 
would have paid her monthly mortgage payments for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss R disagreed with the adjudicators view, so 
the complaint was passed to me.
My provisional findings
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss R 
and to Lloyds on 30 September 2020. I explained that based on what Id seen so far, Id 
reached the same conclusion as the adjudicator, but Id set out my reasoning in more detail, 
so I wanted to give both parties a chance to comment further before I issued my final 
decision.
I summarise my provisional findings:
Miss R has told us that she believed that the PPI was compulsory, and part of the 
mortgage package. She says she simply signed the paperwork without understanding 
the full implications.
Our adjudicator said she thought it was likely that Lloyds would have asked Miss R if she 
wanted to buy the PPI policy, and would have made it clear to her that she didnt have to 
buy it if she didnt want to. But Id seen copies of several of the documents that Lloyds 
actually provided to Miss R at the time, which were specific to her mortgage. So Id taken 
them into account in reaching my decision.
Id seen Miss Rs signed application for the mortgage. It includes a section on insurance. 
Under a clear sub-heading Payment Protection Insurance it says I wish to apply for 
C&G Payment Protection Plus cover and have completed the relevant proposal form. 
The box is ticked. An equally prominent option not to take out the PPI was left unticked. 
Id also seen a copy of Miss Rs separate, signed application form and direct debit 
mandate for the PPI.
I thought it was clear from the way the mortgage application form was set out that PPI 
was optional. And I thought Miss R decided to take it out, knowing that she had a choice 
 although I could understand how she may no longer remember this, so many years 
later.
Miss Rs told us she cant remember whether Lloyds recommended the PPI to her. 
Lloyds says it did, and Id assumed that was right. This was to Miss Rs advantage when 
it came to considering her complaint, as it meant Lloyds had a responsibility to check that 
the PPI was suitable for her. But it didnt look as if it was unsuitable, based on what Id 
seen of Miss Rs circumstances at the time.
Miss Rs told us she was self-employed when she took out the mortgage and PPI. So 
she wouldnt have been entitled to any sick pay or redundancy pay. If shed made a 
successful claim on the PPI policy for accident, sickness or unemployment, it would have 
paid her monthly mortgage payments, plus £3 for every £1,000 of her initial mortgage, for 
up to 12 months per successful claim. So I thought the PPI could have been useful to 
Miss R, especially as shes told us that she didnt have any other means she could have 
fallen back on if she was unable to work.
Id also borne in mind that the mortgage was a significant, long-term financial 
commitment, secured on Miss Rs property, and the consequences of falling behind with 
her mortgage payments could have been serious.
It was possible that Lloyds could have explained the cost of the PPI better than it did. But 
it was competitively priced, and I thought that Miss R chose to take out the cover 
because she wanted the protection that it gave her, even if shes understandably 
forgotten this now, so long after the event. So I wasnt convinced that better information 
about the cost of the policy would have put Miss R off taking it out. And as she was 
paying for the PPI monthly, she could have cancelled it at any time without further cost if 
she changed her mind, or if her circumstances changed.
I accepted that it was possible Lloyds didnt point out the main things the policy didnt 
cover. But based on what Id seen of her circumstances at the time, I thought it was 
unlikely Miss R would have been affected by any of these. Id borne in mind that Miss R 
was self-employed at the time. But while some policies would have made it difficult for 
her to make a successful claim, I was satisfied that this wasnt one of those policies.
Further submissions
Lloyds hasnt commented on my provisional decision. Miss Rs representatives have told us 
that they have nothing further to add, other than to point out that the application form for the 
PPI provided no clear details of how much the monthly premium would be. And they say that 
without that information, Miss R wouldnt have been in a position to make an informed 
decision about whether to take the PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Rs case.Ive considered what Miss Rs representatives have said. But I accepted in my provisional 
decision that it was possible that Lloyds could have explained the cost of the policy better. 
However, that, in itself, doesnt mean that the complaint should be upheld. I needed to 
decide whether its likely that better information about the cost of the policy would have put 
Miss R off taking it out. And I wasnt convinced it would have done. This was because 
I thought she wanted the type of cover the policy offered, and the policy was competitively 
priced. 
As I also commented in my provisional decision, Miss R was paying for the policy monthly, 
she had the option of cancelling it at any time. So if she was unhappy with the amount she 
was paying for it, she could have cancelled it at any time.
While Ive thought about what Miss Rs representatives have said in response to my 
provisional decision, my view remains that I cant fairly uphold the complaint, for the reasons 
previously set out.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 December 2020. 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman