DRN-2309515
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Nationwide Building Society did not pay them, in full, an 
incentive they were expecting to receive when they took out a new mortgage interest rate 
deal.
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S have a mortgage with Nationwide. Their interest rate deal was due to expire in 
July 2017.
Nationwide sent Mr and Mrs S an annual mortgage statement in January 2017. This 
included a reminder that their existing interest rate deal was due to expire and gave details 
of an incentive offered by Nationwide. It said that if they switched to a new deal with 
Nationwide, theyd receive £250 cashback.
Mr and Mrs S applied for a new interest rate deal in May 2017. 
Nationwide sent them a product conversion offer on 14 May 2017. This set out the details of 
the rate theyd selected and the associated mortgage conditions. There was a section of the 
offer setting out additional features, which included confirmation that a payment of £100 
cashback would be made within a month of completion.
Mr and Mrs S mortgage allowed overpayments up to a set amount each year, while the 
interest rate deal was in place, without triggering an early repayment charge. After taking out 
their new interest rate deal, Mr and Mrs S made overpayments. Nationwide informed them 
that theyd exceeded the amount allowed so as a result a partial early repayment charge of 
£12 would be applied to their account.
Mr and Mrs S complained to Nationwide that they only received £100 when theyd been 
expecting £250, based on the information in the statement sent in January 2017. They also 
disputed having exceeded the allowed level of overpayments and the £12 charge.
Nationwide said the cashback incentive for switching to a new rate was subject to change 
and by the point Mr and Mrs S had applied for a new deal, the amount payable had reduced 
to £100  which it noted was confirmed in the product change offer. So, it didnt think it had 
made an error by only paying £100 cashback. In relation to the overpayment it 
acknowledged that Mr and Mrs S had not exceeded the allowed level of overpayments and 
that the £12 charge had been generated due to a system error. To put this right, it agreed to 
remove the charge from their mortgage account and pay £50 for the upset caused.
Mr and Mrs S remained unhappy with Nationwides response about the issue of the 
cashback so asked our service to consider the complaint. They said that they were generally 
satisfied with the response in relation to the overpayment.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but thought what Nationwide had done 
was fair. He said that he felt it was reasonable that the cashback incentive was subject to 
change and that Nationwide had been clear about the amount that would be received when 
the product change was applied for. And he also felt the offer in respect of the overpayment 
error was fair.
Mr and Mrs S still didnt think Nationwide had acted fairly and asked for their complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. As a result, it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide has said that the offer of cashback to existing customers taking out new interest 
rate deals was an incentive that was subject to change at any time depending on its policies 
and procedures. I think this is reasonable. Business are free to decide whether to offer 
incentives to customers and what those incentives may be. And likewise, it is reasonable 
that businesses are entitled to change or withdraw those incentives if they think it is 
appropriate to do so.
When Nationwide sent Mr and Mrs S a mortgage statement in January 2017 the cashback 
incentive it was offering was £250. When they came to apply in May 2017, it says this had 
been revised to £100. This was a decision that I think Nationwide was entitled to make.
Mr and Mrs S has said that the letter sent in January 2017 didnt make it clear that the 
incentive was subject to change. And I agree with them that it wouldve been better if the 
letter had been clearer about this. But I dont think the letter from January 2017 committed 
Nationwide to being required to pay £250 cashback  it simply provided details of an 
incentive in place at the time. And although the letter couldve been clearer that this was 
subject to change, I dont think the omission of this information means Nationwide wasnt 
entitled to review and amend that incentive if it considered this appropriate.
The mortgage product change offer Nationwide produced for Mr and Mrs S, when they 
applied, correctly set out the level of cashback that would be paid. And this was in line with 
Nationwides revised incentive. So, I think Nationwide were clear in telling Mr and Mrs S 
about the incentive they would receive at the point they applied for their new deal. And so 
overall, I dont think Nationwide acted unfairly by paying them £100 cashback  being the 
incentive they qualified for  rather than £250.
Turning to the issue of the overpayments, Nationwide has acknowledged that Mr and Mrs S 
did not in fact exceed their overpayment allowance. It has said that a reporting error on its 
systems led to the partial early repayment charge of £12 being generated when it should not 
have been.
I dont doubt this was frustrating for Mr and Mrs S  to be told something that was incorrect. 
Taking everything into account I think what Nationwide has already done to put this right  
removing the £12 early repayment charge and paying £50 for the upset caused  is a fair 
way to address the error made. So, I dont intend to require it to do more.
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman