DRN-1318817
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax gave him incorrect information 
about the delivery time for a new credit card.
What happened
Mr S applied successfully for a Halifax credit card on 10 August 2019. On 15 August 2019 
Mr S called Halifax as he had not received the new card and says he was told it had been 
sent on 11 August 2019 and would receive it the following day. Mr S says he didn't receive it 
the following day but did receive a text message from Halifax telling him it had been 
dispatched . He says Halifax's offer of £75 compensation doesn't go far enough. And doesn't 
take into account the further incorrect information he was given or that he received the credit 
card after nine days which is outside the time period he was told he would receive it.
Mr S says he didn't suffer any financial loss but opened the account for protection for items 
he intended to buy. He says Halifax hasn't taken that into account and that he had to put 
back the payment for that purchase.
Halifax says the compensation it's paid is fair and has apologised for the incorrect 
information about receiving a card within five days. It says a new card can take between 
seven and ten days and Mr S received an e-mail from it telling him about those time periods 
before he brought his complaint to it. Halifax says that all matters were considered in its 
compensation offer.
Mr S had brought his complaint to us and our investigator issued two views. In the first view 
the investigator thought Halifax should increase its compensation offer by £25 to take 
account of the second part of Mr S's complaint about the seven days. The investigator then 
reconsidered that view in the light of Halifax's e-mail about that point and thought overall the 
compensation paid was fair and reasonable. The investigator didn't think that Mr S had 
suffered any financial loss and was able to use the card for the intended purchase.
Mr S doesn't accept that view and in summary says he was told the card would arrive on 16 
August and the complaint handler ought to have checked the position. He says he would 
have suffered a financial loss unless he took steps to avoid that and the compensation paid 
doesn't reflect all of his complaint points.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I have come to the 
overall view that the compensation of £75 is fair and reasonable. I realise Mr S will be 
disappointed by my decision.
Halifax doesn't dispute that it gave Mr S incorrect information about the date he would 
receive  the credit card. I accept in those circumstances Mr S would have been caused some inconvenience and spent some time speaking to Halifax about this issue. I also accept 
that the staff member ought to have been able to provide the correct information. But I can 
see that Halifax has apologised for what took place and paid what I think was a fair and 
reasonable level of compensation.
The key issue is if Halifax should pay further compensation for the second part of Mr S's 
complaint in that he was told he would receive the card within seven days. I have looked at 
the e-mail Mr S received from Halifax and can see that Mr S was told he would receive the 
card within that time period but he did not. I'm satisfied that e-mail was sent before Mr S 
spoke to Halifax and I have considered what I think would be the appropriate level of 
compensation taking everything into account including the fact Mr S received the card a 
couple of days later than he did. I don't think Mr S suffered any financial loss as a result of 
what took place and don't think Halifax's actions had a significant impact on him.
For those reasons I can't fairly order Halifax to pay any further compensation in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Halifax hasn't told me what its procedure is for sending out 
new credit cards. It's not clear if they are sent by post, and if that's the case then Halifax 
wouldn't be responsible for the late delivery of mail in any event.
I appreciate Mr S says he may have suffered a loss unless he took steps to delay the 
payment. But I can only consider what did take place and not what may have.
Overall I'm satisfied that compensation paid by Halifax is appropriate. And I don't think the 
delay of a couple of days in receiving the credit card or the information Halifax gave about it 
justifies any further compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman