DRN-4105846
Complaint
Mr H complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim he 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr H is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background 
In or around December 2017, Mr H was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call 
P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Mr H decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In 2021, the CMC made a claim on Mr Hs behalf under section 75 of the Act to Shawbrook. 
The CMC said that P had made a number of representations about the system that had 
turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had induced Mr H to enter 
into the contract with P. The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
The system would be self-funding.
The feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on energy bills would provide enough income to 
cover the finance agreement repayments costs.
Mr H asserted that P damaged his roof during the installation of the solar panels and 
wanted Shawbrook to pay for the remedial costs. 
Shawbrook didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr H or that there were any 
other reasons for the claim to be upheld. But it did offer £200 compensation for delays in 
complaint handling. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our investigator didnt think that P had led Mr H to 
believe the system would be immediately self-funding. 
But they did think the system had underperformed compared to Ps estimates from the point 
of sale and they felt this aspect of the complaint should be upheld. Shawbrook didnt agree 
to our investigators view of the complaint. Shawbrook hadnt investigated a complaint of this 
nature and wanted to carry out an inspection to see whether there was a fault with the 
system. 
Our adjudicator subsequently reviewed the complaint again and explained that this aspect of 
the complaint had not been raised with Shawbrook directly, so if Mr H wanted to complain 
about it, he needed to do so separately now, and give Shawbrook an opportunity to 
investigate and resolve the issue in the first instance. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
In my provisional decision of 4 April 2023, I set out why I was minded to not upholding the 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision. Neither Shawbrook nor Mr H made any further comments. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56, section 75 and section 140 of the Act. 
Section 140 is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In this 
case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system.
As Mr H paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr H could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr H and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities - 
what I think most likely happened, given the evidence that is available and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
Mr H says that during a sales meeting he was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these, along with the consumers testimony and recollection of the sales 
meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the 
consumers version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of 
fact. 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments. The loan 
agreement clearly sets out the cash price of the goods.
Im satisfied that Mr H was told that the cost of the system was £12,495. The quote sets this 
out clearly. This is also supported by the credit agreement which sets out that the cash price 
of the system was £12,495. The total amount of credit is £12,395 (after deducting a deposit 
of £100) and goes on to show that the total amount payable would be £23,768.20.
The quote also set out that the expected monthly loan repayment was £132.44. But I note Mr 
H deferred his payments for a few months which is reflected in his credit agreement and his 
monthly payment is also marginally different at £131.49  but I dont think these differences 
make the quote mis-leading. 
Having considered all the evidence, including the consumers recollections, Im satisfied that 
he was told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this clear, 
as set out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the 
credit agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £12,495, it would 
cost Mr H more than this as he had decided to pay for it with an interest bearing loan. 
Mr H has said that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and savings on energy bills. Ive considered the quote that was 
provided by P as well as the consumers recollections of their meeting with Ps 
representative to decide what is most likely to have been said. 
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr H could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr H could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £212.72, which results in an average monthly income of £17.72. 
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr H could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £230.43 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chosen by Mr H the combined income and savings in year one is shown as £908.73. 
This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together. 
As outlined above, Im satisfied that the quote set out that there would be an expected 
monthly loan repayment due of £132.44 (which is £1,589.28 annually).  The actual monthly 
payment in Mr Hs credit agreement was marginally lower at £131.49, which is £1,577.88 
annually. As a result, Im not able to conclude that the consumer was told that the monthly 
loan repayments would be covered by the FIT payment and savings on energy bills.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months since this is 
the length of the loan that Mr H entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 80 monthly payments of £132.44. For each year of the 15-year loan it shows 
the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, 
and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £132.44, to give an average difference 
between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr H could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan repayments. The 
table does clearly set out that the overall income he could expect to receive by way of FIT 
income and any additional savings would not be immediately sufficient to cover the monthly 
loan repayments. This supports my finding above that Mr H wasnt told that the FIT 
payments and savings would cover the loan repayment. Ive carefully thought about the 
consumers version of events. However, as Ive found that the quote did form a central part 
of the sales process which the salesperson went through at the meeting, I dont think I can 
reasonably find that he was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the 
FIT income and additional savings.
Ill now consider whether P told Mr H that the system would be self-funding from the outset. 
In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have 
happened. 
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand and on balance Im also satisfied that 
the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr H was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 25 years. This shows that by year 17 the overall benefits that Mr H could 
expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr H that the system would pay for itself by 
year 17, and this is supported by the table above included in the quote. If that were an 
untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the 
contract, and he subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
The MCS certificate sets out what the system is expected to produce in kWh a year and I 
understand the solar panel system may not be performing in line with the estimates made. 
Currently there is no explanation as to why the energy generated is not in line with the 
estimates made - for example, it may be that the system was defective, or it developed a 
fault. 
Mr Hs original section 75 claim was that the system was not generating the estimated 
financial returns (in FIT payments and savings on energy bills), that the financial benefits 
were not covering the monthly finance cost, and that the system had therefore been 
misrepresented on that basis. So Shawbrook only dealt with that complaint, and itss answer 
was that the quote had made it clear Mr H had not been told the system would be self-
funding from the start. 
Shawbrook didnt have to go further than that and investigate whether the system was 
generating as much energy as P had estimated. This matter has only recently been raised 
with Shawbrook and will be dealt with separately by Shawbrook. I understand an inspection 
has recently taken place  so Mr H may wish to discuss next steps with Shawbrook directly. 
If he isnt happy with Shawbrooks response, then he can refer the matter to us. To confirm  
I have not looked at it as part of this case.
I have only considered whether P made any misrepresentations when it estimated the 
financial returns Mr H was likely to receive from the system, independently of the systems 
failure to generate as much energy as estimated.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to calculate the utility price and RPI inflation. 
I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 2020 and the increases have 
been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think that explains why he hasnt 
been receiving the financial returns he may have been expecting from the solar panels. 
Since actual energy prices have been lower than the modelling predicted, the savings 
achieved through the energy generated by the system has been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have used them 
as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr H couldve expected to receive 
from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not have been as high as 
estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to unreasonable 
assumptions being used by P at the time Mr H entered into the contract.
Shawbrook has pointed out that P used slightly inaccurate rates when working out Mr Hs 
estimated benefits. This was likely down to human error and the estimates were only 
marginally overstated. Over the 15-year term of the loan, the estimates were overstated by 
£108.82. Shawbrook has said this error does not change its view of Mr Hs Self-funding 
complaint, as even without this, the system would still not be self-funding. As the error 
resulted in the benefits being only very marginally different to what they ought to have been, 
I dont think this would have affected Mr Hs decision to proceed with the sale. So this issue 
also doesnt change my view of the complaint. Shawbrook has, however, offered to refund 
this amount to Mr H due to the error which Mr H can accept if he wishes to do so. 
Ive also gone on to consider whether a court may conclude that there existed an unfair 
relationship under section 140A the Act. 
A sufficient inequality of knowledge and understanding is considered a classic source of 
unfairness in a relationship between a creditor and a consumer. Shawbrook has confirmed 
that it paid no commission to P and, considering that I havent found any misrepresentation 
and Im of the view that the underlying assumptions used by P were reasonable, I think a 
court is unlikely to conclude that there is an unfair relationship under section 140.Damage to roof 
Mr H says that he believes P damaged his roof when installing the solar panels causing an 
internal leak. He says he has been quoted £770 to repair the roof and £235 to repair the 
internal damage. Shawbrook says that Mr H did not contact P regarding this issue until 
October 2019. It says that, if the installation in January 2018 had caused damage to the roof, 
it would have expected this to have come to light sooner. So it will not agree to cover the 
costs of rectifying these issues now. 
If the installation had caused damage to Mr Hs roof and caused the internal leak, I would 
generally have expected this to come to light sooner. While Mr H says he did raise this 
earlier than 2019, Ive seen no evidence of this. So it seems almost two years passed before 
Mr H raised this with P.  And his quotes for remedial works are from early 2021  some 3 
years after installation. A Roof can get damaged and need maintenance and repairs for a 
wide variety of reasons (storm, blocked guttering, general wear and tear due to age for 
example). Where a significant amount of time has passed between the installation and the 
damage being reported and examined, I would need persuasive evidence that the damage 
was indeed caused by the poor installation of the system. Normally we would expect there to 
be expert reports to demonstrate this. I havent seen sufficient evidence linking the damage 
Mr H has suffered to the installation carried out by P.  Overall, currently, Im not satisfied that 
this damage was caused by P and therefore do not require Shawbrook to cover these costs. 
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr H to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
So overall, Im satisfied that Shawbrook did not act unreasonably or unfairly when declining 
the claim.
If Mr H wishes to accept Shawbrooks offer of £200 compensation for delays in complaint 
handling, and/or its offer of £108.82, he should contact Shawbrook directly.
In the absence of any new points for me to consider, I find no reason to depart from my 
original findings as set out in my provisional decision. So having reviewed the complaint 
again in its entirety, Im still of the view that there were no untrue statements of fact made by 
P that induced Mr H to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other 
reason to uphold this complaint. So overall, Im satisfied that Shawbrook did not act 
unreasonably or unfairly when declining the claim. With this in mind, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
As explained in my provisional decision and if he hasnt done so already, if Mr H wishes to 
accept Shawbrooks offer of £200 compensation for delays in complaint handling, and/or its 
offer of £108.82, he should contact Shawbrook directly.
My final decision 
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 Asma Begum
Ombudsman