DRN-3717672
The complaint
Mr A complains about Scottish Equitable Plcs (Scottish Equitable) decision regarding the 
alternative fund that his 2016 single premium contribution should have been allocated to, 
following the closure of one of the funds that it had been erroneously applied to in 2016. 
What happened
Mr A has held a pension plan within his employers group personal pension scheme  
administered by Scottish Equitable, since 1999. He made regular contributions alongside his 
employer and some single contributions. His plan had been set up so that 50% of his 
investments went into the with-profits (WP) fund and the other 50% was invested across a 
variety of other funds  which has changed over the term of the plan. 
 
In March 2016 Mr A made a single contribution of over £90,000 which was made in line with 
his then existing investment strategy. 
In December 2020 Mr A wanted to make another single contribution on the same basis as 
2016. But Scottish Equitable advised Mr A that, while his regular contributions could 
continue as before, his intended single contribution was regarded as a new payment. And as 
the WP fund was now closed to new business the single contribution couldnt be applied to 
the fund. Scottish Equitable asked Mr A into which fund hed like his contribution to be 
invested. He confirmed he would like it allocated to the other fund he was invested in  
which was the balanced core fund. 
 
Shortly after Scottish Equitable wrote to Mr A and said that it had made an error in allowing 
the 2016 contribution  as its WP fund had been closed since 2013. It wanted Mr A to select 
an alternative fund for his 2016 payment. 
But Mr A didnt think that was fair and complained that, as it was him that spotted the error 
over four years later, it wouldnt be fair to move that contribution from the WP fund. In 
particular he was concerned about the effect on the bonus hed accrued. He said it should 
leave things exactly as they are.
Mr A asked Scottish Equitable a number of questions about the effect this would have on his 
accrued final bonus, what choice of other available funds he had, and also whether Scottish 
Equitable would use the 2016 prices of those available funds.
Scottish Equitable confirmed that:
Mr A could select from the whole of its fund range. 
There would be no loss of accrued bonus from the WP fund. 
Scottish Equitable would carry out a calculation to see if Mr A would have benefited 
from staying in the WP fund. If it was found that the alternative fund would have 
benefitted him instead then he would be allowed to keep that gain.   
The number of units that were purchased in 2016 would be invested into the chosen 
alternative fund using the 2016 prices. 
So Mr A nominated an alternative fund, the TEC fund  for illustrative purposes only, to 
establish a comparison of fund values.
In subsequent emails Scottish Equitable confirmed that Mr A would be £141,102 better off as 
a result of having invested in the TEC fund instead.  Following this information Mr A 
instructed his employer to cease his pension contributions as any additional benefit would 
take him close to the lifetime allowance. He also instructed Scottish Equitable to switch his 
funds in line with their agreement. 
But Mr A said Scottish Equitable refused to carry out the switch stating the fund value would 
be pegged to the current value of the WP fund. He didnt think that was fair and said it 
should honour the increased value that had occurred as a result of him selecting the 
alternative TEC fund. 
Subsequently Scottish Equitable said that Mr A could remain invested in the WP fund. It said 
its calculation showed that he wouldnt be disadvantaged from remaining in the WP fund. It 
also said that it could resume taking contributions from his employer without any payments 
being missed. But it paid Mr A £500 compensation for all the inconvenience it had caused 
during this time. 
But Mr A also brought his complaint to us around the same time where one of our 
investigators looked into the matter. She thought Scottish Equitable should allow Mr As 
2016 investment into the WP fund  as originally requested. She considered the subsequent 
actions to be a series of mistakes, so she didnt think it was fair to tell Scottish Equitable to 
honour its offer of investment into the alternative TEC fund. She thought that overall Scottish 
Equitables offer of £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused was fair 
and reasonable. 
 
Mr A didnt agree with the outcome. He said that, while he broadly accepted that his original 
intention had been to remain in the WP fund, it was Scottish Equitable who had 
pressurised him to nominate an alternative fund. He questioned whether the offer of a back 
dated valuation of any alternative fund constituted a contract which Scottish Equitable 
should now honour.  He said that the payment of £500 compensation was insufficient when 
considering the anguish he had suffered over the last nine months.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her mind. She said she didnt believe that 
Scottish Equitables offer to move to another fund constituted a contract therefore it wasnt 
bound to honour it. She also said shed reconsidered Scottish Equitables £500 payment for 
the distress and inconvenience Mr A had been caused, but she thought it was in line with 
what shed expect for similar situations. 
But Mr A didnt accept the position. He said the arrangement with Scottish Equitable met all 
four requirements of a contract in UK law. He wanted his complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman  so it was passed to me for review. 
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said Mr As complaint should be upheld. But I said that the 2016 
contribution should be applied across the other funds that Mr As pension was invested in at 
the time. I said that a notional value of investment into those funds should then be compared 
with the current value of his plan and any loss should be paid into the pension. I made the 
following points in support of my findings:Based on the evidence Id seen; I was satisfied that Scottish Equitable needed to 
correct its error and apply the 2016 contribution to a different fund.
Looking at the options Mr A would have had in 2016, I thought Scottish Equitables 
usual approach where a fund had been closed to new investment would have been 
to nominate a similar fund in profile to the fund that had been closed. But it didnt take 
that approach when it couldnt accept Mr As 2020 contribution  so it was difficult to 
conclude it would have done that in 2016.
So Mr A would have needed to make that decision himself in 2016  without the 
benefit of hindsight which he had in 2020. I thought he might have considered funds 
with a similar risk profile to the WP fund  but in 2020 he nominated a fund which 
couldnt be seen as anything other than higher risk.
So I concluded that the best evidence of what he would done in 2016 was the 
decision he made in 2020 with his other contribution  which was to invest across the 
other 50% of funds that he was invested in.
If Scottish Equitable was unlikely to have provided him with information about 
alternative, similar funds  and with the need to make a reasonably quick decision, I 
think that was the most likely choice Mr A would have made in 2016 if hed been 
made aware that he couldnt make his contribution into the now closed WP fund. 
I did consider whether to recommend the use of industry type benchmark as a 
comparison, but I thought that was more appropriate if Mr A had moved to a new 
provider. The choice he had in 2016 was limited to the range of funds offered by 
Scottish Equitable so I thought the fairest solution was to try to identify which of these 
funds he was most likely to have nominated in the circumstances.
I didnt think Scottish Equitables offer to allow Mr A to switch to the higher rate TEC 
fund constituted an contract so I didnt think it should have to honour its offer. Nor 
did I think it was reasonable to recommend that the TEC fund be used, given that 
Mr A had been able to nominate that fund  with the benefit of hindsight and up to 
date investment data  and which was outside of the general investment strategy he 
had previously adopted with his plan.
Responses to my PD
Mr A accepted my redress formula recommendation. But he made the following points in 
support of his position:
He had transferred his pension to new provider on 8 October 2021. 
In 2020, when he wanted to invest a new single contribution, he chose to invest into 
the main alternative fund in his portfolio  not across all his funds. That was because 
he only held one other fund which represented a small proportion of his overall 
investments.
In 2020, when Scottish Equitable asked him to nominate a fund for the retrospective 
reallocation of his 2016 single premium, he was told that his terminal bonus from the 
WP fund wouldnt be affected. Therefore he didnt believe the terminal bonus should 
be included in my redress recommendation.  
Scottish Equitable didnt accept my provisional decision and through several submissions 
made the following points:
It felt strongly that the outcome it had already implemented  to allow Mr A to remain 
in the fund he wanted to in 2016, was fair and reasonable.
It had tried to accommodate Mr As request to leave things as they are from 
December 2020, and its principle of reaching a fair and reasonable outcome which 
put Mr A back in the position that he would have been (or as close to). It thought the best option of meeting those options was to leave him invested in the WP fund as he 
had been since 2016. It also paid Mr A £500 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
The solution I had proposed based on Mr As actions in 2020, was to invest in very 
different funds to the unitised WP fund  where the growth is added through 
bonuses. And the term of the investment in 2016 would have been significantly 
different to 2020.
Mr A had now transferred his pension to another provider which would involve 
Scottish Equitable having to obtain information from that provider. 
In 2020 Mr A was only invested into one other fund apart from the WP fund  which 
meant that contribution was directed to the other fund. But in 2016 Mr A was invested 
into three funds including the WP fund so it would be difficult to allocate the single 
contribution on the same basis as 2020, especially as the other two funds arent 
equally split as an investment.
Following the information I was provided with, I made both parties aware that I was likely to 
change the redress formula to ensure any loss was capped at the point Mr A transferred his 
pension away and then brought up to date. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having considered the further submissions from both parties I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional findings, except to include the revision I said I would make to the 
redress formula. I think Scottish Equitable needs to carry out the calculation Ive set out 
below to see if Mr A has suffered a financial loss here, so Ill set out my reasoning.
The 2016 contribution 
Theres no dispute here that when Mr A wanted to make a single premium contribution to his 
pension in 2020, he wasnt able to make into one of the two funds he was invested in, as it 
was closed to new business. He was asked to make an alternative fund choice  which he 
did. Subsequently Scottish Equitable echoed the same problem about a contribution he had 
made in 2016  which been allocated to the WP fund, although that fund had been closed for 
new contributions since 2013. 
Scottish Equitable asked Mr A to select an alternative fund for that contribution as well but 
he thought  some four years on  things should be left as they are. But Scottish Equitable 
remained of the view that the contribution should simply have not been made into what was 
a closed fund. It explained that, as the WP2 fund was closed due to changes in legislation, 
we must adhere to this. In this case the one off payment was invested incorrectly and we 
must rectify it. 
Scottish Equitables position about Mr As 2020 contribution was that, we cannot allow the 
money you have sent us to be applied to the WP fund.
So I think Scottish Equitable was firm in its stance, although this subsequently softened 
when it offered to put things right, that it simply wasnt possible to make a contribution into 
the WP fund after 2013 and that it would be against legislation to do so. Scottish Equitable 
doesnt now accept the redress I proposed in my provisional decision because it thinks its 
already offered to put Mr A back into the position he ought to have been without its error and 
that was what Mr A asked it to do. But if it wasnt possible to make the contribution into the WP fund in 2016 then Mr As single 
premium wouldnt now be invested in the WP fund  so that wouldnt put him back as close 
to the position he would now be in without the error. So thats what Ive gone on to consider 
 the position that Mr A should now be in. 
What fund should have been used?
In order to decide how Mr As 2016 single premium should now be invested, Ive looked at 
his position in 2016 had Scottish Equitable told him that his money couldnt be invested into 
the WP fund. The first option I believe Mr A ought to have been given was Scottish 
Equitables normal position regarding closed funds, as set out in an annual pension 
statement from April 2016  which noted changes to your policy conditions. 
This said that, any alternative fund that we nominate under 4.4, 5.2 and 6 above
will be a fund that we consider closely reflects the make up of the fund that is removed or
closed. If you do not want to be invested in the alternative fund chosen by us, then you must
give us alternative instructions as detailed in 4.4, 5.2 and 6 above or change your fund after
the action mentioned in those conditions has taken place.
So I think Scottish Equitable should have nominated a fund that was similar in profile to the 
WP as an alternative for Mr A in 2016. I think, without giving Mr A advice, it could have 
furnished him with the information about funds similar to the WP fund. But I note this didnt 
happen in 2020 when the same situation arose, and Mr A was asked to choose a fund 
himself  so I cant reasonably say Scottish Equitable wouldnt have done that in 2016 either.  
That means Mr A would have had to make the decision himself in 2016 and I think its 
reasonable to assume that he would have taken the same approach as he did in 2020 when 
faced with the same situation  namely that he chose to invest across the other 50% of 
funds that he was invested in. I now understand that Mr A was only invested in one other 
fund in 2020 instead of the two other funds he was invested in in 2016. But I dont think that 
would have affected his decision as I think he would have still taken the same view of 
investing across the other funds. I think that would seem a reasonable decision for Mr A to 
have make when he would have been unsure of what other alternative funds to choose from 
and didnt have the relevant information from Scottish Equitable to help in that respect. 
Scottish Equitable has raised the issue of the change in composition of Mr As funds since 
2016 and the difference in the split of each investment. But as I said in my provisional 
decision, I think the investment would have been made into the same funds, in the same 
proportion  which Ill confirm in the redress section below. In my view, when confronted with 
the question of how to invest his single premium in 2016, Mr A would simply have chosen to 
spread the money across the funds that he was able to invest in within his plan  according 
to the proportion he was already invested in within each one. 
The other possible resolutions
I have taken other possible or proposed resolutions into consideration when making my 
decision here. 
I have carefully considered Scottish Equitables offer to leave Mr A invested in the WP fund, 
which satisfied both Mr As initial suggested solution and also the basic principle of ensuring 
he remained in the position he had already been in for four years. It also ensured he neither 
gained an advantage nor was disadvantaged as a result of the offer. 
But as Scottish Equitable has consistently said, Mr A simply wasnt allowed to invest his 
single premium into the WP fund in 2016, so it wouldnt be possible for his single premium to be invested in that fund now. That wouldnt put Mr A into the position he would be now if 
Scottish Equitable had acted correctly in 2016. 
Ive also thought about Mr As request to switch into the TEC fund in 2020  when Scottish 
Equitable said that it would allow Mr A to switch to that fund, only to then change its mind 
and use the WP fund to peg a comparison and ensure Mr A didnt suffer a financial 
disadvantage. But I dont think the discussion between Mr A and Scottish Equitable 
constituted a contract that it needed to it had to honour around the TEC fund, and I dont 
think its right to make Scottish Equitable let Mr A pick a fund, with the benefit of significant 
hindsight, which would be at odds with the general investment strategy he had previously 
adopted. So I dont think that resolution would be fair or reasonable.
I did also consider whether it would be fair to compare the position of Mr As plan now with 
the notional value of his plan using an industry type benchmark in line with his attitude to 
risk. But Ive discounted that option because, while that would be appropriate for a situation 
where Mr A had transferred his plan to another provider, its possible to decide here, on 
balance, what I think Mr A would have done using the range of funds available from Scottish 
Equitable in 2016.     
 
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr A should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given the correct information in 2016 about how his single 
contribution had to be invested. 
What must Scottish Equitable do?
To compensate Mr A fairly, Scottish Equitable must:
Compare the performance of Mr A's investment with that of the benchmark shown below. If 
the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Scottish Equitable should add interest as set out below:
Scottish Equitable should pay into Mr A's pension plan to increase its value by the total 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan 
if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Scottish Equitable is unable to pay the total amount into Mr A's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow 
for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the 
compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr A wont be able to 
reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr A's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age.
For example, if Mr A is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the 
reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr A would have been able 
to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.Scottish Equitable has confirmed it has already paid Mr A £500 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by this matter.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Scottish Equitable deducts income tax 
from the interest it should tell Mr A how much has been taken off. Scottish Equitable should 
give Mr A a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr A asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Investment 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end date)Additional 
interest
Individual 
GPPPStill exists 
and liquidThe other two 
funds
that Mr As
pension was
invested in at 
the
time of the
contribution  
and
allocated 
according to 
the underlying 
percentage 
proportions of 
each fund. Date of 2016 
investmentDate that Mr A 
transferred his 
pension to 
another 
provider 
bringing any 
loss up to date 
using a 
percentage of 
loss applied to 
the current 
value of the 
funds.8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark above.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investment should be deducted 
from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any 
return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to 
keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Scottish Equitable totals all those payments and 
deducts that figure at the end.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Scottish Equitable Plc should pay the amount 
calculated as set out above.
Scottish Equitable Plc should provide details of its calculation to Mr A in a clear, simple 
format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman