DRN-2458787
The complaint
Mr H has complained about The Prudential Assurance Company Limited. Hes unhappy 
about the way its reviewed the sale of his annuity from 2012.
Mr H is represented in this complaint by his wife, Mrs H, but Ill refer to Mr H throughout.
What happened
Mr H bought an annuity with Prudential in December 2012, with the first payment made in 
January 2013.
In 2019 Prudential wrote to him asking him to provide medical and lifestyle details. This was 
because Prudential was carrying out a review to see if customers had lost out because they 
werent advised about enhanced annuities at the time the annuities were sold.
Mr H provided information and medical evidence to show he suffered from diabetes, and that 
Mrs H (as eligible dependant) suffered from asthma. Based on this information, the annuity 
was reviewed and in November 2019 Prudential wrote to Mr H saying that there was no 
financial loss. However, the figures set out didnt seem right to Mr H and Prudential were 
asked to look at them again. A second assessment was made, and revised figures showed 
there was loss and a lump sum payment of around £600 was due for past losses, as well as 
a higher monthly annuity payment going forward. 
Prudential also offered to pay £100 compensation for the initial incorrect assessment.
Mr H was unhappy with the outcome as he thought he was already receiving an enhanced 
annuity and said that had he known this wasnt the case, he could have looked for better 
rates and enhanced annuities elsewhere. He also said that he felt rushed in 2012, at the 
time of the sale, and the increased payments arent enough.
The complaint was referred to this service where it was considered by an investigator. He 
didnt think that it should be upheld and explained why he thought the offer Prudential had 
made was fair.
The investigator said that before the annuity was sold Mr H had meetings with a financial 
adviser from Prudential. The financial planning report from December 2012 detailed the 
discussions that had taken place as well as the options presented. An agent visited Mr H at
home more than once. On 28 December 2012 there was a meeting to finalise Mr Hs choices 
and provide the relevant forms. 
Prudential carried out a review of the sale as part of a regulatory program to make sure any 
shortfalls in recommendations for enhanced annuities were rectified.
Mr H said he felt rushed, but the investigator pointed out that the sales process took place 
over several months and there were a number of meetings. The quotations explained that Mr 
H could choose to buy an annuity from another provider if he wished. The financial planning 
report also mentions that he didnt want to explore the open market option as he was happy 
with Prudential. The options were also repeated in the return forms and the report confirms 
this was discussed. 
The investigator was satisfied that the options were clarified, and Mr H made an informed 
decision to purchase an annuity from Prudential.
On the enhancement, the investigator noted that the financial report doesnt contain notes of 
any discussions about medical conditions or lifestyle choices that may have an impact on the 
annuity. So, it wasnt apparent that enhanced annuity options were considered. The 
recommendations focussed on guaranteed income periods, lump sum payments and 
dependant benefits. 
The investigator was satisfied that the option of an enhanced annuity should have been 
discussed. However, he explained that in the review from August 2019 onwards Prudential 
used calculations set out by the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The 
calculation itself took into account health and lifestyle circumstances to determine what Mr H 
could have achieved as an enhanced annuity in the open market at the time. The 
investigator checked the calculation and was satisfied that it was carried out correctly.
The investigator considered Prudentials offer of £100 was fair. He thought Prudential had 
acted in reasonable time frames to put things right.
Mr H didnt agree. He restated that he shouldve had an enhanced annuity from the outset 
and should have had the chance to explore the open market option.
The investigator explained that Prudential had taken account of the options Mr H had with it 
and with other providers. Therefore, Mr H had been put in the same position he would have 
been in if the sales process had been carried out correctly in 2012.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigator. Ive set out a summary of his view above, and there is very little 
that I can add. I dont uphold this complaint as I think Prudentials offer is fair.
I appreciate that Mr H feels that the sales process in 2012 was rushed. Although its now 
clear that there some failures in that process, there appear to have been a few meetings 
over a period of a few weeks. Mr H was obviously making an important decision which would 
impact on him through the rest of his life. But Ive not seen anything to suggest, in any 
objective way, that the sales process itself was hurried. The timescale doesnt look 
unreasonable in any way.
Having considered the evidence from the time of sale, I agree with the investigator that the 
open market option was explained with reasonable clarity. The documentation, including the 
quotations, is reasonably clear on this in my view. Im satisfied that Mr H knew, or ought to 
have known, that he could decide to set up his annuity with another provider if he wished. I 
think there was sufficient information to make an informed choice.
However, Mr H can also have the assurance now that the calculations Prudential has been 
required to make by the regulator do put him in the same position he would have been in if 
he had chosen to explore the open-market option. The calculation the regulator requires isnt 
limited to Prudentials annuity rates and takes into account rates that may have been 
available to him elsewhere from other providers.Prudential has offered £100 for the distress and inconvenience it has caused. I agree with 
the investigator that Prudential did conduct the review with reasonable speed. I can 
understand the review process will have caused inconvenience and some frustration, 
particularly when Mr H may have had a nagging concern that the 2012 sale process had 
been hurried. But Prudential has put things right. Im satisfied that Mr H is now in the position 
he should have been in and is receiving the correct annuity. In these circumstances, I think 
the offer of £100 does properly acknowledge its failures and is fair in all the circumstances.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I consider the offer Prudential has made to be fair.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman