DRN-3920423
The Complaint
1. Mr and Mrs G say that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) didnt fairly or 
reasonably deal with claims under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the 
CCA) in relation to the purchase of a holiday product on 8 August 2016 (the Time of 
Sale). They also say that Shawbrooks due diligence before lending to them was 
inadequate.
Background to the Complaint
2. Mr and Mrs G were existing customers1 of a timeshare provider (Company A)  the 
operator of international resorts and hotels, providing amongst other things, 
timeshares and property ownership products.
3. While on holiday between 5 and 12 August 2016, Mr and Mrs G say they attended a 
half-day sales presentation during which they were introduced to a points-based 
timeshare called the Fractional Property Owners Club (FPOC).
4. Following that introduction, Mr and Mrs G went on to purchase FPOC membership by 
buying 900 Fractional Points for £16,401 (which was the price they paid after trading in 
their existing Trial Membership for £3,995). And they paid for their membership by 
entering into an agreement for a Fixed Sum Loan for £16,401 from Shawbrook (the 
Credit Agreement). 
5. The Credit Agreement had a term of 120 months. The monthly repayments were 
£228.72. And the total amount repayable after interest2 and charges was £27,446.40.
6. The Purchase Agreement dated 8 August 2016 (the FPOC Purchase Agreement) 
was made between a Company A sales company and Mr and Mrs G. The sales 
company, which had the right to promote and sell Fractional Rights in the FPOC, was 
the supplier for the purposes of the CCA (the Supplier). Under the FPOC Purchase 
Agreement, Mr and Mrs G agreed to be bound by the rules of the FPOC (the FPOC 
Rules) and by the management agreement relating to the FPOC (the FPOC 
Management Agreement).
7. Under the terms of the FPOC, Mr and Mrs G could exchange their Fractional Points for 
holidays. And at the end of their projected membership term3, they also had a share in 
the net sale proceeds of a property tied to their membership (the Allocated Property) 
 which was referred to as 289 (Marina Park) on their FPOC Purchase Agreement. As 
their interest in the Allocated Property was limited to a share in its net sale proceeds, 
they didnt have any preferential rights to stay in the Allocated Property or use it in any 
other way.
1 Mr and Mrs G were Trial Members  having purchased Trial Membership of Company As Destinations Club (Trial 
Membership) on 24 October 2015 using a 12-month interest free loan from Shawbrook for £3,995.
2 The Annual Interest Rate was 11.9%
3 According to Mr and Mrs Gs Members Declaration, they were entitled to use their Fractional Points until 31 December 3033.
8. Unhappy with what happened at and after the Time of Sale, Mr and Mrs G  using a 
professional representative (PR)  made claims under Section 75 of the CCA for 
misrepresentation and a breach of contract on 6 July 2018. Included in that letter were 
hyperlinks to correspondence that had already been sent to Company A to register 
Mr and Mrs Gs concerns  including, it seems, a letter dated 18 May 2018 setting out 
their grounds for misrepresentation and a breach of contract (the First Letter of 
Claim).4 As the contents of that Letter are familiar to both sides, it isnt necessary to 
repeat the reasons for those claims in detail here. They focused, largely, on the 
availability of holidays and the quality of the service given to them  all of which can be 
summarised as follows:
(1) During Mr and Mrs Gs Trial Membership, they were made to feel that 
Company A was a professionally run organisation. They received a call every 
week to find out if they had decided on a destination and dates. They had 
access to a concierge service that helped them with a wide variety of travel 
related issues. And when they booked their first (and last) Company A break, 
they were made to feel extra special  being put up in the most luxurious flat and 
having all of the small issues dealt with for them. 
This conduct was an implied representation by Company A of the standard of 
service it offered in relation to membership of its timeshares. This implied 
representation was made by Company A with the intention of inducing 
Mr and Mrs G to enter into full membership.
(2) During the sales presentation, the Suppliers sales representative told 
Mr and Mrs G that they would be contacted constantly  implying the same 
courtesy and service that had been given to them with when they booked their 
first holiday. This was important to them, particularly Mr G because he was going 
to be very busy at work and found the prospect of help similar to that they 
received as trial members appealing.
Mr and Mrs G were also told that they would have access to a third partys (TP) 
resorts across the world at discounts of around 80% - which implied that they 
could take a weeks holiday during peak season at some of the best locations for 
just a few hundred pounds.
At no stage were Mr and Mrs G told that there would be additional costs each 
year in the form of annual management charges. It was only when they were 
taken to the Client Liaison Officers office four hours into the presentation that 
the issue of further costs arose. So, Mr and Mrs G rejected the offer before them 
and only agreed to proceed on the proviso that they wouldnt have to pay any 
additional costs for 15 months.
But Mr and Mrs G say that all of the representations above were false and that 
the Supplier breached the FPOC Purchase Agreement by failing to deliver the 
service represented to them. For, gone was the customer service and phone 
calls from a concierge. And when they made enquiries about properties for 
holidays, properties werent available in their desired locations.
For example, Mr and Mrs G needed accommodation abroad in the summer of 
2017. But the Supplier had nothing to offer them. As a result, they had to pay for 
4 Mr G did write to Shawbrook on 21 May 2018 to let it know that he had complained to the Supplier. He enclosed a copy
of Shawbrooks Supplier Dissatisfaction Form and the Letter of Claim.accommodation provided by TP  which wasnt in their preferred location. And 
when they paid for that accommodation, they werent given a near 80% discount.
So, as soon as Mr and Mrs G discovered the true facts (i.e., that the availability 
of properties, ongoing costs of membership and cost of holidays to TPs resorts 
werent as represented), they sought to rescind the contract on 28 March 2018.
9.  The Letter of Claim also said the following:
The conversation with [the Supplier] then continued but came to an impasse as the 
price was incorrect and was substantially more than [Mr and Mrs G] had made plain 
they could afford. []
The senior negotiator knew my clients maximum monthly expenditure was around 
£225 - £250 and yet he persisted with more expensive packages. Finally, when he 
realised my clients were not going to budge, the senior negotiator came up with [an 
offer of] £229 per month  which involved my clients buying a fractional deal with 17 
years remaining [that] someone else had returned for unknown reasons. 
This met my clients price and at no stage were they informed there were [] any 
additional costs by way of maintenance [charges]. It was only when my clients were 
taken into the Client Liaison [Officers] office almost 4 hours later [] that the issue of 
further costs arose. My [clients] rejected this as this now meant the price was over 
what they were willing to pay. My clients were only coaxed into signing the deal by [the 
Supplier] on the basis that they would not have to pay an extra amount for 15 months. 
[]
10. Company A was the first to respond to the First Letter of Claim  disputing, in their 
entirety, the allegations that had been made.
11. In response, PR wrote to Company A again on 11 June 2018 (the Second Letter of 
Claim). As that Letter repeated much of what the First Letter of Claim had to say, I 
wont repeat its contents in detail here. But insofar as its contents could be said to be 
relevant to claims for misrepresentation and breach of contract5, it said the following 
(in summary):
(1) While Mr and Mrs G were on a promotional holiday as part of their Trial 
Membership, they believed the following as a result of the service they received:
i. That they would have a dedicated account manager who would maintain 
contact to make them aware of deals and help them to plan for and book 
holidays.
ii. That they would have access to a concierge and travel service  including 
pick-ups from the airport.
The services Mr and Mrs G were provided with as Trial Members ceased on 
becoming FPOC members. It was those services that they bought into. Yet the 
Supplier never mentioned that those services would end once they joined the 
FPOC.
Had the promotional holiday Mr and Mrs G were on been provided to the same 
standard as the service they were set to receive as FPOC members, they would 
5 I note that the Second Letter of Claim acknowledged that Mr and Mrs G were happy at the Time of Sale with the product and 
services they believed they had signed up to. Its what happened after the sale that concerned them the most.never have made their purchase. 
(2) Mr and Mrs G were misled about the extent of Company As development and 
the choice of accommodation that would be on offer. As far as they are 
concerned, the Supplier made promises that new resorts would be opened in 
different locations, and nothing happened. In reality, all that Company A had 
were large holiday villages in a few locations  mostly Spain  which is not what 
Mr and Mrs G were sold.
12. Shawbrook treated Mr and Mrs Gs Section 75 claims as a complaint and issued PR 
with its final response on 21 November 2018 (the FRL). Shawbrook rejected the 
claims and complaint. And, when doing that, it said the following about its Credit 
Assessment:
An appropriate assessment of [Mr and Mrs Gs] creditworthiness took place prior to 
establishing their FPOC membership and this was completed in accordance with our 
regulatory obligations under CONC rule 5.2.1.
From the information we were aware of at the time of the [application], and the credit 
reference checks we undertook, it was considered the [loan was] affordable for 
[Mr and Mrs G].
 
From what Ive seen, [Mr and Mrs Gs] application for finance passed the appropriate 
checks and procedures for the finance to be approved. Ive seen no evidence to 
suggest [Mr and Mrs G] werent willing to proceed with their application on the basis 
given.
13. By the time Shawbrook issued its FRL, Mr and Mrs G had already referred a complaint 
to the Financial Ombudsman Service. And according to their Complaint Form, it was 
Shawbrooks handling of their claims for misrepresentation and breach of contract that 
they were complaining about at that time.
14. However, in response to Shawbrooks FRL, Mr G sent PR an email in December 2018 
to address what Shawbrook had to say about its credit assessment. And he said the 
following:
Just to say I have read Shawbrooks response and feel strongly that they have got 
this point wrong.
They have mentioned all due diligence was done as regards my income status.
I would like to point out that I did mention in both my meetings with Shawbrook 
(purchase of the initial 6 holiday package and at the meeting in Tenerife) that I was 
working on a [start-up] of which I was investing my own money and I had no other 
source of income.
At both the meetings I let them know that my taxable income was less than £30,000  
the minimum they required and had to top this with capital  through sales of my 
investments  which I was using both for my start up and to sustain myself during the 
development of my product. I did also clearly state that it would take a few years 
before I would be able to generate large incomes [].
I was told at both the meetings if asked to mention my income was over £30,000. []15. On 13 January 2021, Mr Gs email to PR was forwarded on to Shawbrook by an 
investigator along with a request for further information  including evidence of the 
creditworthiness assessment it carried out before lending to Mr and Mrs G.
16. Shawbrook got back to the investigator later that month to explain that, based on the 
information it had, it didnt have any concerns about affordability.
17. The complaint was then looked at by another investigator who, having considered the 
information available6, concluded that Shawbrooks decision to lend to Mr and Mrs G 
was irresponsible because the loan in question was unaffordable for them.
18. Shawbrook disagreed with the investigators assessment (the First Response) and, in 
addition to providing a breakdown of its creditworthiness and affordability assessment 
(CA Assessment), it gave the following reasons for doing so (which Ive summarised):
Mr and Mrs Gs Purchase
(1) The Letter of Claim gave extensive details of various alleged breaches of 
contract and representations alleged to have been made by the Supplier in order 
to induce Mr and Mrs G to purchase FPOC membership. But no complaint was 
made as to the Credit Agreement entered into by Mr and Mrs G.
(2) Nonetheless, Shawbrook thought it was clear that Mr and Mrs Gs purchase was 
within their budget. Shawbrook also pointed out that they exhibited no difficulty 
making any repayments at any time in the last six years or so  which includes 
higher payments (than those in question) towards a previous loan from 
Shawbrook used to purchase Trial Membership in 2015.
Shawbrooks Creditworthiness Assessment
(3) Shawbrook thought it would be irrational not to consider the fact that:
i. It used assessment tools that were industry standard at the time.
They enabled lenders to undertake a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of creditworthiness.
ii. Mr and Mrs G had a declared income of £95,000 between them.
iii. The amount lent to Mr and Mrs G was low compared to their joint income.
iv. Mr and Mrs Gs debt to income ratio (DTI Ratio) (excluding their mortgage)
was just 44% compared to the maximum DTI Ratio of 130%.
v. The industry standard score (from a product Ill refer to as RN4)
demonstrated that the possibility of Mr and Mrs G being unable to make their 
repayments as they fell due and in a sustainable manner without incurring 
further financial difficulties or adverse consequences was very low (1%).
6 Ahead of the investigators assessment, Mr and Mrs G submitted the following information in response to a request for bank 
statements:
Statements for a joint bank account covering May, June and July 2016.
Mr Gs 2016 and 2017 UK tax returns.
Mrs Gs 2016-2017 P60.
Mrs Gs payslip from March 2016.vi. Mr and Mrs G were owner-occupiers of a home valued at £413,000 with an
outstanding mortgage of £227,462  which meant they had substantial equity.
vii. According to the search of Mr and Mrs Gs credit files, they were responsible
for (a) mortgage payments of £860 per month and (b) other loans (including 
hire-purchase) totalling £25,433 with monthly repayments of £1,707. The loan 
from Shawbrook only increased those payments by £228.72.
viii. There wasnt any evidence of any late payments or signs that Mr and Mrs G
had sought forbearance according to the results of Shawbrooks credit 
search.
ix. Theres no evidence of any late payments being made since entering into
the Credit Agreement. And Mr and Mrs G have never sought any forbearance 
or intimated to Shawbrook that they were experiencing financial difficulty.
(4) In Shawbrooks view, its approach to assessing Mr and Mrs Gs creditworthiness 
was reasonable and proportionate in accordance with the law, regulations and 
guidance applicable at the time. And it thought that it wouldnt have been 
standard industry practice nor reasonable and proportionate to ask 
Mr and Mrs G for their bank statements (or payslips and tax returns etc).
(5) However, having considered the information the investigator took into account 
(which included bank statements) anyway, Shawbrook argued that the 
statements didnt provide a sensible, credible or rational basis for the outcome 
the investigator reached. In Shawbrooks view, the statements didnt show a 
complete financial picture of Mr Gs circumstances. So, it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable to decide the outcome of this complaint without knowing more about 
his circumstances. And, in any event, Shawbrook thought that it was clear from 
the statements that Mr and Mrs G had monthly debt commitments of just under 
£2,000 and, on that basis, had sufficient income to cover any basic expenditure 
based on their declared income of £95,000.
Causation
(6) Shawbrook thought that it was neither fair nor reasonable to conclude that 
Mr and Mrs Gs decision to purchase FPOC membership was a direct 
consequence of Shawbrooks decision to lend to them. In its view, their decision 
to purchase FPOC membership was motivated by the benefits offered by that 
product. 
(7) Shawbrook also thought that there was no evidence to suggest that 
Mr and Mrs G wouldnt have been able to pay for their Fractional Rights in any 
other way and pointed out that Mr and Mrs G had credit cards at the 
Time of Sale with credit limits totalling £125,145. Only 11% (£13,302) of that 
credit had been used. And with that being the case, it suggested Mr and Mrs G 
could have used their existing credit to make their purchase. Conclusion and Proposed Remedy
(8) In Shawbrooks view, it carried out a reasonable and proportionate 
creditworthiness and affordability assessment at the Time of Sale. So, it didnt 
think it was fair or reasonable to uphold the complaint. And any remedy 
(including the issue of causation for any loss) should take account of the High 
Courts approach in Kerrigan & Others v Elevate Credit Internal Limit (t/a Sunny) 
[2020] [Kerrigan].
19. The investigator disagreed with Shawbrooks First Response, explained why and 
referred the complaint for an ombudsmans decision.
20. As a result, Shawbrook made further submissions (the Second Response). And, in 
addition to providing documentary evidence, it made a number of points  which, 
without repeating those it made in the First Response, can be summarised as follows:
Reasonable and Proportionate Checks
(1) Shawbrook didnt contend that standard checks are appropriate in every case. 
Instead, it acknowledged that checks are subjective and should be carried out 
proportionately to the circumstances of each customer. There are occasions on 
which Shawbrook accepted that additional checks are warranted. But it said that 
there was nothing special about Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances  such that 
additional checks were necessary on this occasion.
(2) Shawbrook also thought that the following points were important to consider:
i. Mr and Mrs G declared annual incomes of £75,000 and £20,000
put them in the top 3% of the population.
ii. The amount lent to Mr and Mrs G wasnt high. They borrowed £16,401  
which was well within the industry standard maximum of £25,000 for 
unsecured lending. And the amount lent to them wasnt significant relative to 
their income, expenditure and assets. 
iii. Unlike other unsecured loans, the Credit Agreement Mr and Mrs G entered 
into was repayable over 10 years. And in Shawbrooks view, that benefited 
Mr and Mrs G because it meant that they could spread their payments over a 
longer period of time, thereby reducing their monthly instalments. 
iv. The RN4 score and Advanced Indebtedness Score (AIS) indicated that 
the risk of Mr and Mrs G being unable to make their repayments in a 
sustainable way was very low at 1%.
v. Mr and Mrs G had an existing relationship with it. And it could see that 
they had a clear payment history and had never raised issues of affordability.
vi. Mr and Mrs Gs DTI Ratio was just 44% compared to the maximum DTI
Ratio, which at the time was 130%.(3) In Shawbrooks view, the evidence produced by Mr and Mrs G was incomplete 
and flawed for a number of reasons  including:
i. Only the statements for one account (the Joint Account) had been
produced. That account was clearly used for bills and didnt provide any
insight into Mr and Mrs Gs income, savings or discretionary spending.
Money was clearly being deposited into the account from other sources,
including bank transfers, cash deposits and payments by BACS and CHAPS.
In fact, £25,484.13 was deposited into the Joint Account (excluding interest
and refunds) during the three-month period before Mr and Mrs G were lent to
 in contrast to £15,554.50 taken out. 
ii. Mr G declared on the loan application form that he was employed (working for 
a company Ill refer to as Company C) and earning £75,000. But in the tax 
returns he submitted, he claimed that he was self-employed and not earning 
much. So, Shawbrook questioned how he and Mrs G were able to afford any 
of their bills. And with that doubt in mind, rather than accept the tax returns on 
face value, Shawbrook thought that the checks it carried out at the 
Time of Sale gave it a clearer picture as to Mr and Mrs Gs financial 
circumstances.
iii. Mr Gs notes accompanying the Joint Account statements dont explain how 
he and Mrs G could afford to maintain their lifestyle if he was self-employed 
and not earning much. They also refer to a transfer from a savings account, 
information in relation to which hadnt been disclosed. 
(4) Shawbrook said that there isnt any evidence, other than the assertions of 
Mr and Mrs G, that the loan in question was unaffordable or that any financial 
hardship was suffered by them as a result. It also argued that the investigators 
assumption that Mr and Mrs G wouldnt have been able to pay for their FPOC 
membership without the loan from Shawbrook contradicts the facts in this 
complaint and is contrary to purchasing practices and logic. And in Shawbrooks 
view, there were a number of other ways in which Mr and Mrs G could have paid 
for their FPOC membership, like approaching another lender, using their 
savings, selling assets, releasing equity in their property or using some of their 
existing credit.
Conclusion
(5) While Shawbrook didnt agree with the outcome reached by the investigator, 
even if it did agree, it thought that her approach to redress was unfair and 
unreasonable. The assessment suggested that, in addition to returning all the 
payments made by Mr and Mrs G with interest, Shawbrook must also refund the 
management charges. But, in Shawbrooks view, management charges were 
part of a completely separate legal agreement, to which it wasnt a party by way 
of finance or otherwise. 
 
21. As an informal resolution to this complaint didnt prove possible, it was passed to me 
for a decision. I issued a Provisional Decision (PD) in November 2022. And, in 
summary, I was inclined to uphold the complaint because I thought that Shawbrook 
had wrongfully entered into the Credit Agreement contrary to the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). And had Shawbrook carried out its 
affordability assessment in keeping with the relevant rules and guidance at the 
Time of Sale, I thought Mr and Mrs G would have been saved from the financial 
burdens of both the Credit and Purchase Agreements.22. While Mr and Mrs G agreed with my PD, they provided me with additional submissions 
and information. But as much of what they had to say went over existing ground, it isnt 
necessary to repeat their submissions here.
23. Shawbrook accepted that the creditworthiness assessment it carried out before 
lending to Mr and Mrs G wasnt reasonable or proportionate given the facts of this 
complaint. But it says that it entered into the Credit Agreement in good faith. And any 
detriment suffered by them was the result of Mr Gs decision to declare that he was 
employed earning £75,000 rather than self-employed earning little to nothing. 
24. Shawbrook says that lenders must protect themselves from those who exploit their 
application process. And rewarding a borrower who was dishonest would be harmful to 
both individual firms and the financial services sector as a whole. Whats more, the 
issue of dishonesty was considered in Kerrigan (specifically customers who inflate 
their income). And while that case concerned a claim under Section 140A of the CCA, 
Shawbrook says it would be helpful to consider that case here because the Court 
found that dishonesty was relevant to determining whether a debtor-creditor 
relationship was unfair.
25. Shawbrook also thinks that the approach I took to redress in my PD was inappropriate. 
In its view, if a timeshare isnt found to have been mis-sold, it says redress should be 
limited to the following steps in order to better reflect the fact that the timeshare wasnt 
mis-sold:
(1) writing off any outstanding balance;
(2) refunding the interest paid by the borrowers up until the point at which the loan is 
settled  rather than everything they paid under the credit agreement; and
(3) terminating the timeshare.
26. As the deadline for responses to my PD has been and gone, Ive looked at the 
complaint again for the purpose of this Final Decision. But, before I get to my findings, 
Ill set out the legal and regulatory context that I still think is relevant to this complaint.
The Legal and Regulatory Context
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA)
27. Mr and Mrs G paid for their membership of the FPOC when they entered into a 
restricted-use Fixed Sum Loan Agreement at the Time of Sale that was regulated by 
the CCA. As a result, their purchase was and is covered by certain protections 
afforded to them by the CCA. And the relevant sections for the purpose of this 
decision, as at the Time of Sale, are below.
28. Section 11: Restricted-Use Credit and Unrestricted-Use Credit
(1) A restricted-use credit agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement
(b)  to finance a transaction between the debtor and a person (the supplier) other 
than the creditor []
29. Section 12: Debtor-Creditor-Supplier Agreements
A debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement 
being(b)  a restricted-use credit agreement which falls within section 11(1)(b) and is made 
by the creditor under pre-existing arrangements, or in contemplation of future 
arrangements, between himself and the supplier, or
30. Section 75: Liability of Creditor for Breaches by Supplier
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or 
(c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the 
supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like 
claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and 
severally liable to the debtor.
The Law on Misrepresentation
31. The law relating to misrepresentation is a combination of the common law, equity and 
statute  though, as I understand it, the Misrepresentation Act 1967 didnt alter the 
rules as to what constitutes an effective misrepresentation. It isnt practical to cover the 
law on misrepresentation in full in this Provisional Decision  nor is it necessary. But, 
summarising the relevant pages in Chitty on Contracts (33rd Edition), a material and 
actionable misrepresentation is an untrue statement of existing fact or law made by 
one party (or his agent for the purposes of passing on the representation, acting within 
the scope of his authority) to another party that induced that party to enter into a 
contract.
32. The misrepresentation doesnt need to be the only matter that induced the representee 
to enter into the contract. But the representee must have been materially influenced by 
the misrepresentation and (unless the misrepresentation was fraudulent or was known 
to be likely to influence the person to whom it was made) the misrepresentation must 
be such that it would affect the judgement of a reasonable person when deciding 
whether to enter into the contract and on what terms.
33. However, a mere statement of opinion, rather than fact or law, which proves to be 
unfounded, isnt a misrepresentation unless the opinion amounts to a statement of fact 
and it can be proved that the person who gave it, did not hold it, or could not 
reasonably have held it. It also needs to be shown that the other party understood and 
relied on the implied factual misrepresentation.
34. Silence, subject to some exceptions, doesnt usually amount to a misrepresentation on 
its own as there is generally no duty to disclose facts which, if known, would affect a 
partys decision to enter a contract. And the courts arent too ready to find an implied 
representation given the challenges acknowledged throughout case law.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (the FCA) Principles for Business (PRIN)
35. Shawbrook lent to Mr and Mrs G while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (the FCA). The relevant rules and regulations that authorised firms 
had to follow are set out in the FCAs Handbook of Rules and Guidance. 
36. PRIN set out the overarching requirements that all authorised firms were required to 
comply with at the time of the event complained about. The Principles themselves 
were set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most relevant principle to this complaint was 
PRIN 2.1.1 R (6)  which said that A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly.The FCAs Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC)
37. This part of the FCAs Handbook sets out the rules and guidance that apply to 
providers of consumer credit (like Shawbrook). And in light of the complaint in 
question, I think the most relevant section is CONC 5  which set out the rules and 
guidance that an authorised firm had to consider and follow when lending responsibly.
38. CONC 5 has been updated over time. So, I refer below to what I think are a number of 
the most relevant of the rules and guidance as they were at the Time of Sale.
CONC 5.2.1[R]
CONC 5.2.3[G]
CONC 5.2.4[G]
CONC 5.3.1[G]
CONC 5.3.2[R]
CONC 5.3.3[G]
CONC 5.3.7[R]
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
39. When doing that, Im required by DISP 3.6.4[R] of the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
(FCA) Handbook to take into account the: 
(1) relevant: 
(a) law and regulations; 
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
(c) codes of practice; and 
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time. 
40. When evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based 
it on what I think is most likely to have happened given the available evidence and the 
wider circumstances.
41. Having done all of that, I still think this complaint should be upheld. 
42. Before addressing its substance, I want to repeat what I said in my PD about my role 
as an ombudsman. It isnt to respond to every single point thats made. Instead, its to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in light of the circumstances of this complaint. As 
such, Im only going to refer to what I think are the most salient points when I set out 
my conclusions and my reasons for reaching them. But, having read all of the 
submissions in full, I will keep in mind all of the points that have been made, insofar as 
they relate to this complaint, when doing that. 43. In response to the investigators assessment upholding this complaint, Shawbrook 
questioned whether Mr and Mrs G had, in fact, made a complaint about its decision to 
lend to them. But as I said in my PD, as it was Shawbrook who first introduced and 
addressed the merits of its credit assessment in its FRL, it was Shawbrook who drew 
Mr Gs attention to what he then went on to say in relation to its lack of due diligence 
before lending to him and Mrs G.
44. Shawbrook has now had a number of opportunities to engage with a complaint about 
its lending decision (which it has done at length on two separate occasions). And I still 
cant see why it would be unfair or otherwise inappropriate to consider the substance 
of the complaint before me.
45. So, having done that, for reasons Ill go on to explain, I still think the following:
(1) Mr and Mrs Gs purchase of FPOC membership at the Time of Sale wasnt 
misrepresented by the Supplier in such a way as to make the Supplier liable to 
them in the law of misrepresentation. And there isnt the evidence to 
demonstrate that there had been a breach of contract by the Supplier either. So, 
I dont think theres anything Shawbrook needs to do to put things right as far as 
those claims are concerned. 
(2) Shawbrook didnt carry out reasonable and proportionate checks before lending 
to Mr and Mrs G  in keeping with CONC. But had it done so, I think it would 
have discovered that the loan was unlikely to have been repayable on a 
sustainable basis given their financial circumstances. And I think they ended up 
entering into the Credit and FPOC Purchase Agreements when they otherwise 
wouldnt have. 
46. As Mr and Mrs Gs claims for misrepresentation and breach of contract remain, in my 
view, relatively straightforward to deal with given the circumstances of this complaint, 
Ill address them first before moving onto Shawbrooks decision to lend to them.
Section 75: Misrepresentation
47. Section 75 of the CCA states that, when a debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement has a claim of misrepresentation or breach of contract against the supplier 
that relates to a transaction financed by the agreement, the creditor is equally and 
concurrently liable for that claim  enabling the debtor to make a like claim against the 
creditor should they choose to. 
48. In this case, it isnt disputed, and I am satisfied, that Mr and Mrs G entered into a 
contract with the Supplier for goods and services financed by a debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement and could have a like claim against Shawbrook under Section 75 as a 
result. And that means that, if I find that the Supplier had misrepresented the contract 
entered into by Mr and Mrs G, Shawbrook  as the creditor  can be held liable.49. In summary, Mr and Mrs G say that the Supplier misrepresented their FPOC 
membership for four principal reasons:
(1) The availability of holiday accommodation wasnt as represented to them by the 
Supplier.
(2) The cost of holidays to TPs resorts werent discounted as promised by the 
Supplier.
(3) The standard of service they received wasnt as high as the service they got 
while they were trial members.
(4) The annual management charges werent as represented by the Supplier.
50. But, based on what Ive seen, Im still not persuaded that any of the allegations of 
misrepresentation should succeed.
51. Mr and Mrs G say that the availability of holiday accommodation wasnt as 
represented to them by the Supplier at the Time of Sale. And I note that they say they 
were misled about the extent of Company As development and the choice of 
accommodation that would be on offer  having been promised that it would open new 
resorts in different locations when that didnt happen. However, Mr and Mrs G still 
havent described the conversation and circumstances surrounding this particular 
representation in detail. And while they may have found it difficult to book the holiday 
accommodation they wanted to book, Im not persuaded that means their FPOC 
membership was misrepresented when I still cant see that the Supplier made clearly 
defined promises at the Time of Sale in relation to the availability of accommodation 
that it knew or ought reasonably to have known couldnt or werent going to lived up to 
 especially when some of the paperwork they signed stipulated that holiday 
accommodation was subject to availability.
52. Mr and Mrs G also say that they were told by the Supplier that the cost of holidays to 
TPs resorts were subject to a discount of 80%  which they took to mean they could 
holiday during peak season at some of the best hotels and locations for just a few 
hundred pounds when that wasnt true. But, again, other than providing an example of 
a holiday that the Letter of Claim seems to suggest was more expensive than 
anticipated, Mr and Mrs G havent described the conversation and circumstances 
surrounding this particular representation in detail. And as the allegation isnt reliably 
corroborated by any other evidence, it doesnt have the necessary colour and context 
to persuade me that the Supplier made a false statement of fact.  
53. The Letter of Claim suggests that Mr and Mrs Gs FPOC membership had been 
impliedly misrepresented to them because the standard of service they received from 
wasnt as high as the service they got while they were trial members. But I dont think 
that amounts to a statement of existing fact when the allegation is based on Mr and 
Mrs Gs prior experience as trial members rather than anything that was said and/or 
done by the Supplier at the Time of Sale. And, in any event, unless the Supplier made 
clearly defined promises in relation to service standards at the Time of Sale (of which 
there were none as far as I can tell) that it knew or ought reasonably to have known 
werent going to be lived up to, I cant see how the service standards could have been 
factually misrepresented. 
54. The Letter of Claim also suggests that Mr and Mrs Gs FPOC membership was 
misrepresented because they werent told about the annual management charges. But 
that doesnt strike me as a misrepresentation either when the Letter of Claim 
acknowledges that Mr and Mrs G were, in fact, told about the annual management 
charges  albeit late in the day.Conclusion 
55. I continue to recognise that Mr and Mrs G have concerns about the way in which 
membership of the FPOC was sold by the Supplier. However, as I said in my PD, 
under Section 75 of the CCA, I can only consider whether there was a factual and 
material misrepresentation by the Supplier. And for the reasons Ive set out above, Im 
not persuaded there was. So, I still dont think Shawbrook has to do anything to put 
things right as far as its handling of this claim is concerned.
Section 75: Breach of Contract
56. The Letter of Claim says that the contract Mr and Mrs G entered into was breached 
because they werent given the level of service represented to them. But, as Ive said 
above, this allegation is based on Mr and Mrs Gs prior experience as trial members. 
And without knowing what specific contractual rights Mr and Mrs G think they lost, I still 
cant say that theres been a breach of contract that Shawbrook is likely to be jointly 
liable for. 
The Lending Decision
57. Under the legal and regulatory framework Ive set out above, Shawbrook was obliged 
to lend responsibly. 
58. At the Time of Sale, CONC 5.2.1[R] (1) stipulated that Shawbrook had to assess 
Mr and Mrs Gs creditworthiness before entering into the Credit Agreement.
59. When carrying out that assessment, CONC 5.2.1[R] (2) stipulated that Shawbrook had 
to consider:
(a) the potential for the commitments under the Credit Agreement to adversely 
impact Mr and Mrs Gs financial situation, taking into account the information that 
it was aware of at the Time of Sale; and
(b) the ability of Mr and Mrs G to make the repayments as they were going to fall 
due over the life of the Credit Agreement. 
60. At the end of CONC 5.2.1[R] (2)(a), the FCA referred to paragraph 4.1 of the Office of 
Fair Tradings (the OFT) Irresponsible Lending Guidance (the ILG). The OFT 
regulated consumer credit before the FCA took over its regulation in April 2014. The 
ILG was intended to provide greater clarity for businesses and consumer 
representatives as to the business practices the OFT thought might constitute 
irresponsible lending for the purpose of Section 25(2B) of the CCA. And, for that 
reason, I think its helpful to set out some of what paragraph 4.1 said here because it 
gives helpful context to CONC 5.2.1[R] (2)(a):
'Assessing affordability', in the context of this guidance, is a 'borrower-focussed test' 
which involves a creditor assessing a borrower's ability to undertake a specific credit 
commitment, or specific additional credit commitment, in a sustainable manner, without 
the borrower incurring (further) financial difficulties and/or experiencing adverse 
consequences.
61. The FCA also referred to paragraph 4.3 of the OFTs ILG at the end of CONC 5.2.1[R] 
(2)(b)  which defined what the OFT meant by sustainable in paragraph 4.1. But I 
wont repeat that here as the FCA set out its own and very similar definition in CONC 
5.3.1[G] (6):For the purposes of CONC sustainable means the repayments under the regulated 
credit agreement can be made by the customer:
(a) Without undue difficulties, in particular:
i.The customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; and
ii.Without having to borrow to meet the repayments.
(b) Over the life of the agreement []
(c) Out of income and savings without having to realise security or assets
62. CONC 5.2.3[G] said that the extent and scope of a creditworthiness assessment under 
5.2.1[R], in a given case, should be dependent on and proportionate to a number of 
factors  which Ill come on to later.
63. The FCA acknowledged in CONC 5.2.4[G] that considering all of the factors set out in 
CONC 5.2.3[G] is likely to have been disproportionate. But CONC 5.2.4[G] (2) went on 
to say the following:
A firm should consider what is appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent 
on, for example, the type and amount of the credit being sought and the potential risks 
to the customer. The risk of credit not being sustainable directly relates to the amount 
of credit granted and the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial 
situation.
64. On my reading of the relevant rules and guidance, therefore, Shawbrooks assessment 
of Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances before entering into the Credit Agreement had to be 
borrower-focused  which means that, while Shawbrook wasnt prevented from 
assessing its own risk as a lender (which I accept is one of the primary components of 
creditworthiness), it also had to assess the risk of lending to Mr and Mrs G as 
borrowers.
65. When doing that, Shawbrook had to reasonably assess whether Mr and Mrs G could 
afford to meet the repayments under the Credit Agreement in a sustainable way over 
the term of the loan.
66. I acknowledge that the FCA didnt specify what level of detail such an assessment 
might require, nor did it set out how such an assessment needed to be carried out in 
practice. But it did say in CONC 5.2.4[G] (2) that the necessary level of detail 
depended on the risk to the borrower relative to their financial situation. 67. As a result, and in keeping with what the Financial Ombudsman Service has published 
on its website, I still think there are a number of overarching questions I need to 
consider here when deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint 
looks like given its circumstances:
(1) Did Shawbrook carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mr and Mrs G were likely to have been able to repay the borrowing in a 
sustainable way?
i. If Shawbrook carried out such checks, did it lend to Mr and Mrs G responsibly 
using the information it had?
or
ii. If Shawbrook didnt carry out such checks, would the requisite checks have 
revealed that Mr and Mrs G were unlikely to have been able to repay the 
borrowing in a sustainable way?
(2) Did Mr and Mrs G lose out as a result of Shawbrooks decision to lend to them?
Did Shawbrook carry out reasonable and proportionate checks?
68. As the FCA acknowledged in CONC, what constituted reasonable and proportionate 
checks when Shawbrook lent to Mr and Mrs G depended on several factors. And I 
recognise that what these checks looked like in practice wasnt and isnt an exact 
science.
69. CONC 5.2.3[G] indicated that the factors relevant to determining what such checks 
looked like included the type of credit being applied for along with the size and cost of 
the borrowing. Other relevant factors related to a borrowers financial circumstances  
which included, though werent necessarily limited to, their financial history and outlook 
along with their situation as it was, including any signs of vulnerability and/or financial 
difficulty. 
70. As Ive already said, the FCA accepted in CONC 5.2.4[G] (1) that it would be 
disproportionate to require firms, like Shawbrook, to consider all of the factors in 
CONC 5.2.3[G] in all cases. But Shawbrook still had to carry out checks that were 
proportionate to number of factors like those in CONC 5.2.3[G].
71. So, I still think reasonable and proportionate checks ought to have been more 
thorough:
the lower an applicants income because it could be more difficult to make the 
repayments as a result; 
the higher the amount repayable because it could be more difficult to meet a higher 
repayment, especially from a lower level of income; and 
the longer the loan term, because the total cost of the credit was likely to have been 
greater given the longer time over which repayments have to be made.72. Whats more, as the FCA went on to say in CONC 5.3.1[G] (4)(b), it didnt consider 
self-certification of income to be generally sufficient. And as it also said in CONC 
5.2.4[G] (2), firms, like Shawbrook, had to take account of the fact that the risk of the 
credit being unsustainable was directly related to the amount of the credit granted 
(along with associated interest/charges etc.) relative to the borrower's financial 
situation.
73. Generally speaking, therefore, the circumstances in which it was reasonable to 
conclude that a less detailed affordability assessment was proportionate strike me as 
being more likely to be limited to applicants whose financial situation was stable and 
whose borrowing was relatively insignificant and short-lived. And for reasons I get on 
to below, I still dont think Mr and Mrs Gs loan fits that description.
74. Shawbrook considered the following as part of its affordability assessment:
(1) A one-page application form that was limited to capturing Mr and Mrs Gs 
personal details and, insofar as it was relevant to a creditworthiness 
assessment, the following information:
Mr and Mrs Gs monthly mortgage payments.
Mr and Mrs Gs employment status and gross annual income.
(2) The results of a credit search.
(3) The results of two credit reference agency owned products: RN4 and AIS.
75. Shawbrook accepted my provisional finding that the checks it carried out before 
lending to Mr and Mrs G werent reasonable and proportionate given the facts and 
circumstances of this complaint. So, its for largely the same reasons I gave in my PD 
that I still think thats the case. For completeness, Ive set them out below.
76. In response to my PD, Shawbrook described, in more detail, how the RN4 and AIS 
work. However, Shawbrook still hasnt provided a breakdown of the data it relied on at 
the Time of Sale. So, it still isnt clear to me how closely aligned to the relevant data 
Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances were and whether they were comparable to the
reference group(s) Shawbrook relied on. 
77. As it remains difficult to assess the reliability of the results Shawbrook got and how 
helpful they would have been to its affordability assessment, I cant determine the level 
of confidence that the third-party data could and should have given Shawbrook. And 
for that reason, I still cant see why it was appropriate to use statistical averages to 
determine whether the loan in question was affordable for Mr and Mrs G rather than 
direct evidence of their income and essential outgoings.
78. With that being the case, Im still not persuaded that using the tools in question 
amounted to the verification of Mr and Mrs Gs income and essential outgoings on 
this occasion as it still seems to me that their use was likely to have been limited to 
cross-referencing what little Shawbrook knew about their circumstances from the loan 
application form and its credit search with the relevant data and filling in the gaps in its 
knowledge in a very broad way.
79. Yet, according to the results of Shawbrooks contemporaneous credit search, 
Mr and Mrs G already owed just over £25,400 between eight credit cards, a loan, a 
hire purchase agreement and an outstanding overdraft balance of £1,504  which the 
loan in question was going to increase to just under £42,000. 80. The Finance and Leasing Association (the FLA) suggested in its Lending Code as 
long ago as 2006 that having four or more credit commitments and/or spending more 
than 25% of gross income on consumer credit might suggest that there was a higher 
risk of financial difficulty. Such risk factors werent included in the FLAs 2012 Lending 
Code  nor the amended version of that in 2014. But since then, the Office of National 
Statistics (the ONS) has included in its definition of problem debt7:
(1) households whose debt repayments were/are at least 25% of its net monthly 
income; or 
(2) households whose debt to net annual income is higher than 20%. 
And as I said in my PD, debt can be both an immediate and a longer-term problem for 
a households material standard of living if the costs of servicing the debt take up too 
large a proportion of the households income. The more income a consumer needs to 
make available for repayments and the longer they need to make the repayments for, 
the more risk there is that theyll find the borrowing unsustainable. 
81. At £16,401, Shawbrooks loan (before interest and charges) represented roughly 23% 
of Mr and Mrs G combined net annual income8 as declared (in gross terms) on their 
loan application form. When the interest and charges are factored in, it represented 
closer to 29%. And when their existing consumer credit is taken into account, their 
overall debt to combined net annual income was closer to 62%.
82. As part of Shawbrooks CA Assessment, it assumed that Mr and Mrs G only needed to 
make repayments of 1% each month on their running credit. But as Ive said before, 
the minimum payments set by credit card providers must usually be at least 1% of the 
outstanding balance plus interest, any default charges and the annual fee (if there is 
one).9 So, it remains my view that 1% wasnt realistic. And I still find it difficult to 
square with Shawbrooks responsibility to ensure that its loan could be repaid by 
Mr and Mrs G sustainably. 
83. After all, its widely recognised that, while the minimum repayment on interest bearing 
running credit (like credit cards) each month provides temporary relief, the interest 
quickly adds up, making it more difficult to make the minimum repayments as time 
goes by and, more importantly, clear the balance over a reasonable period of time  
which was reflected in CONC 5.3.1[G] (8) when the FCA said:
For a regulated credit agreement for running-account credit the firm, in making 
its creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1):
(a) should consider the customer's ability to repay the maximum amount of credit 
available (equivalent to the credit limit) under the agreement within a reasonable 
period;
(b) may, in considering what is a reasonable period in which to repay the maximum 
amount of credit available, have regard to the typical time required for repayment that 
would apply to a fixed-sum unsecured personal loan for an amount equal to the credit 
limit; and
7 The ONS definition of can be found here: 
https://www.ons.gov.uk/peoplepopulationandcommunity/personalandhouseholdfinances/incomeandwealth/bulletins/householdd
ebtingreatbritain/april2016tomarch2018#debt-burden-and-problem-debt
8 Using the website listentotaxman: https://listentotaxman.com/?year=2016&taxregion=uk&age=0&time=1&ingr=75000
https://listentotaxman.com/?year=2016&taxregion=uk&age=0&time=1&ingr=20000
9 See CONC 6.7.5[R](c) should not use the assumption of the amount necessary to make only the 
minimum repayment each month.
84. I continue to recognise that this guidance was written for the benefit of lenders entering 
into regulated running credit agreements for the first time rather than lenders who, like 
Shawbrook, had to decide how to reasonably factor in an applicants running credit 
when deciding whether to grant them fixed credit. But the rules and guidance in CONC 
were and are there to protect consumers. And it remains my view that it would have 
been inconsistent with what the FCA was trying to achieve in CONC 5.3.1[G] (8), and 
in CONC more generally, if Shawbrook only had to assume, as part of its affordability 
assessment, that Mr and Mrs G only needed to pay 1% each month on their 
outstanding running credit.
85. With that being the case, Mr and Mrs Gs total debt commitment each month 
(excluding their mortgage) should have been higher than the £1,075 or so that 
Shawbrook calculated, had it factored in repayments that were consistent with CONC 
6.7.5[R] and CONC 5.3.1[G] (8)  especially if Mr and Mrs Gs interest rates were 
consistent with or higher than what was typical of the relevant types of running credit at 
or around the Time of Sale. And depending on what those rates of interest looked like, 
I think Mr and Mrs Gs total debt commitment each month (excluding their mortgage) 
would probably have been closer to if not higher than 25% of their combined net 
monthly income (which Ive calculated using the information they declared on the loan 
application form).
86. At 10 years, Mr and Mrs Gs loan was also a long-term commitment relative to 
unsecured loans more generally  as Shawbrook itself acknowledges10. I accept that 
offering credit over a longer term reduces a borrowers monthly repayments. But that 
has to be weighed against the associated increase in the cost of the credit. And as I 
said in my PD, Shawbrook should recognise that, the more time over which 
repayments have to be made, the more uncertainty it has to factor into its level of 
checks. After all, it is more important to take steps that might reveal overlooked 
possibilities and expose unexamined assumptions when a loan term is 10 years rather 
than two (for example) as a lot more can happen during the former than latter. 
87. So, given the impact the loan in question was going to have on Mr and Mrs Gs overall 
debt to combined net annual income (increasing it to close to 62%), I thought and still 
think it would be unreasonable to suggest it wasnt a significant financial commitment 
that warranted greater scrutiny by Shawbrook. 
88. Whats more, as the results of Shawbrooks credit search indicated that Mr and Mrs G 
had an outstanding overdraft balance of just over £1,500, I found and still find it difficult 
to explain why  if their declared gross annual income of £95,000 was reliable  that 
was the case. Their combined net monthly income11 would have been something like 
£5,600. And I find it surprising that they were overdrawn when their total monthly debt 
commitment (including their mortgage) according to Shawbrooks CA Assessment was 
only 34% of their combined net monthly income  which, in theory, left them with just 
under £3,700 each month to spend elsewhere.
10 See paragraph 11(iii) in the Second Response.
11 After tax and National Insurance contributions.89. I accept that people make all sorts of decisions for all sorts of reasons. And it isnt for 
me to impose my own view on the merits of someone elses decision to maintain an 
overdraft balance if they didnt need to. But I think it remains the case that, on any 
reasonable view, there was a fundamental tension between Mr and Mrs Gs overdraft 
balance and the amount of disposable income they were assumed to have each month 
by Shawbrook. 
90. As such, for the reasons Ive set out above, I think there were a number of questions, 
based on the information Shawbrook did and didnt have, as to whether it could 
reasonably conclude that Mr and Mrs Gs financial circumstances rendered the loan in 
question affordable.
91. In other words, greater care needed to be taken to ensure that Mr and Mrs Gs loan 
could be sustainably repaid given what Shawbrook knew about their financial 
circumstances at the Time of Sale  which was a point CONC made when it referred to 
a borrowers financial circumstances being relevant to determining the proportionality 
of any checks.
92. Overall, therefore, the checks Shawbrook carried out threw up a number of questions 
about Mr and Mrs Gs financial circumstances that it couldnt have answered without 
taking steps to better understand their income and essential outgoings along with how 
they were met. And as Shawbrook made the decision to lend to Mr and Mrs G having 
left those questions unanswered, Im not persuaded it carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks in keeping with CONC.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have demonstrated?
93. While Ive concluded that reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out by 
Shawbrook before it agreed to grant Mr and Mrs G their loan, I acknowledge that it 
isnt possible to determine with certainty what such checks would have shown 
Shawbrook in practice as I dont know what checks it would have decided to carry out 
 and what information it would have relied on  if it had its time again.
 
94. But what Im deciding here is the likelihood of reasonable and proportionate checks 
showing Shawbrook that Mr and Mrs G either would or wouldnt have been able to 
sustainably repay their loan.12 
95. In response to my PD, Shawbrook inferred from the amount of information I relied on 
when I came to my provisional findings that it too had to rely on the same amount 
and/or types of information in order to have carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks before lending to Mr and Mrs G at the Time of Sale.
12 In response to my PD, Shawbrook suggested that there was good evidence that the loan was affordable for Mr and Mrs G 
because they maintained their monthly repayments. But the exercise Ive described in paragraph 92 above is a forward-looking 
one from the point at which the decision to lend to Mr and Mrs G was made. So, the fact that they maintained their monthly 
repayments after the event complained about isnt relevant to whether Shawbrooks decision to lend to them was a responsible 
one. 
I accept that the way in which Mr and Mrs G managed their monthly loan repayments could be relevant to an assessment of 
detriment and whether they lost out financially as a result of Shawbrooks decision to lend to them. But for the reasons I go on 
to give later on in my decision, I still think they lost out.96. However, that wasnt what I said or suggested. I came to my PD (as Im coming to this 
Final Decision) over six years on from when Shawbrook lent to Mr and Mrs G. And as 
the passing of such a significant period of time often makes it more difficult to paint a 
reliable picture of someones financial circumstances a long time ago, it is often 
necessary (as was and is the case here) to consider more information than a lender 
might otherwise have done at the relevant time in order to determine what reasonable 
and proportionate checks would have revealed given the reality of a borrowers 
financial circumstances.
97. So, to be clear, while I recognise that I had referred to information in my PD that 
Shawbrook may not have sought to obtain at the Time of Sale if it had its time again, 
I wasnt saying13  nor am I saying  that the information in question was that which 
Shawbrook had to get its hands on if it was going to carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks.   
98. The guidance in CONC 5.2.4[G] (3) indicated that Shawbrook could have used a 
variety of types and sources of information to assess affordability at the Time of Sale  
which included, for example, looking at Mr and Mrs Gs bank statements, copies of 
bills and/or payslips.
99. Ahead of the investigators assessment, Mr and Mrs G submitted the following 
information in response to a request for bank statements:
Statements for a joint bank account (the Joint Statements) covering May, June and 
July 2016 (the Relevant Period).
Mr Gs 2016 and 2017 UK tax returns.
Mrs Gs 2016-2017 P60.
Mrs Gs payslip from March 2016.
100. On my reading of the investigators assessment, it was largely in light of the Joint 
Statements that she upheld the complaint because she couldnt see that Mr and Mrs G 
had the monthly income required to make their loan repayments once all of their 
existing commitments were factored in.
101. In the First Response, Shawbrook argued that the Joint Statements werent a sensible, 
credible or rational basis on which to conclude that the loan it granted Mr and Mrs G 
was unaffordable. And one of the reasons Shawbrook gave for that argument was the 
fact that the Joint Statements dont provide a complete picture of Mr Gs financial 
circumstances because there was a transfer into the joint bank account from another 
account in Mr Gs name  statements for which werent considered by the investigator.  
13 See footnote 14 on page 29 of my PD.102. Having looked at the Joint Statements, I accepted (as I still do) that they dont provide 
a sufficiently complete picture of Mr and Mrs Gs financial circumstances because:
(1) I couldnt reconcile their combined net monthly income with what they declared 
on the loan application about their employment status14;
(2) I couldnt identify how much of that income was spent on essential household 
outgoings  which I thought Shawbrook had to understand if it was going to 
reassure itself that Mr and Mrs G were likely to be able to sustainably repay a 
loan of the size and length in question given all of their existing commitments; 
and
(3) There were a number of payments into their joint bank account during the 
Relevant Period from other accounts held by Mr G and/or Mrs G that the Joint 
Statement shed little to no light on  three of which (labelled F, H and I in the 
table below) were reasonably significant and particularly important to 
understand:
Date Amount Type
A 13 May 2016 £82.80 Transfer
B 13 May 2016 £200 Transfer
C 18 May 2016 £200 Transfer
D 31 May 2016 £996.45 Bank Giro Credit
E 8 June 2016 £82.80 Transfer
F 10 June 2016 £3,000 Deposit
G 30 June 2016 £973.56 Bank Giro Credit
H 1 July 2016 £6,593.41 Transfer
I 25 July 2016 £12,298.75 Transfer
J 25 July 2016 £82.80 Transfer
K 29 July 2016 £973.56 Bank Giro Credit
103. Had Shawbrook seen the Joint Statements at the Time of Sale, it would have 
discovered these payments itself. But given how generically named some of them 
were, I thought and think that the lack of helpful information accompanying the 
payments should have led Shawbrook to ask Mr and Mrs G for more information about 
them  like what they were for and where they had come from.
104. Had Shawbrook done that, I think it would have discovered that Mr and Mrs G had a 
savings account in their name. I say this because Mr Gs notes15 accompanying the 
Joint Statements (which I think are indicative of the information he would have shared 
if asked to) suggest that the £3,000 deposited into his and Mrs Gs joint bank account 
on 10 June 2016 was from a savings account in their name. 
105. As CONC 5.3.1[G] (6)(c) made it clear that Shawbrooks creditworthiness assessment 
could take into account an applicants savings, it would have been reasonable and 
proportionate of Shawbrook to ask Mr and Mrs G for more information about that 
account given its relevance to the decision it had to make. 
14 Theres no sign of Mr Gs monthly income from the employer he named on the loan application form.
15 In the Second Response, Shawbrook questioned why Mr and Mrs G were paying for income protection if he wasnt in receipt
of any income  referring to Mr Gs notes on their income and expenditure according to the Joint Statements when doing so.
Those notes mention a number of payments for insurance policies  including life insurance and critical illness cover. But they 
dont mention income protection.106. As were over six years on from when Mr and Mrs G were lent to, I asked to see 
statements for that account covering the Relevant Period given the risk that memories 
fade with the passing of time  which Mr G provided in the form of a single statement 
covering 26 June 2015 to 10 June 2016. Its clear that the account was left with a 
balance of only £1 on 10 June 2016 after £3,283.18 was withdrawn that day. And as 
Mr G says that the account was drawn down in 2016, I think its unlikely that it would 
have had a bearing on Shawbrooks decision to lend a month or so later even if it had 
asked Mr and Mrs G for more information  including the statement Ive seen if 
Shawbrook thought that was necessary at that time.
107. I also asked Mr and Mrs G to explain the transfers A, E, H, I and J because they too 
could have been relevant to the decision Shawbrook had to make. In response, Mr G 
says that H and I were transfers from abroad following an inheritance he received in 
November 2014  which Ill come on to below. As for A, E and J, they were child 
benefit payments that Mr and Mrs G moved into their joint bank account from a 
savings account they used solely for the receipt of those payments16. 
108. However, it was the absence in the Joint Statements of Mr Gs net monthly income 
from Company C that I thought and still think was the most significant question to ask 
on the back of those Statements. So, had Shawbrook seen them, I think they should 
have led it to ask Mr G to explain where his net monthly income was going if not into 
his and Mrs Gs joint bank account. And even if Shawbrook had taken a different set of 
steps to verify Mr and Mrs Gs income, it still seems likely to me that Shawbrook would 
have found itself with the same question to ask Mr G given the inescapable reality of 
his employment status. 
109. As a result, had Shawbrook questioned Mr G, I think its likely that he would have 
disclosed that he wasnt working for Company C. I say that because he has said 
throughout this complaint that he was self-employed, in the middle of starting his own 
company and not in receipt of a monthly income. And in light of the tax returns he 
provided by his own volition, he told Her Majestys Revenue and Customs (HMRC) in 
2016 and 2017 that he was self-employed  which I would find surprising if that wasnt 
the case. And as he recently submitted a copy of his P45 from 2013 that confirms that 
his last day at Company C was in August 2013, I dont have any reason to doubt that 
he would have disclosed his actual employment status at the Time of Sale had he 
simply been asked about it by Shawbrook17.
110. With that being the case, I acknowledge (as I did in my PD) that Shawbrook may well 
have taken the decision to turn down Mr and Mrs Gs loan application simply because 
it knew that Mr G was in the middle of starting his own company rather than working 
for Company C.18 And had Shawbrook taken that decision, for reasons I get on to 
below, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs G would find themselves in the position they did 
i.e., owning FPOC membership and owing money under a regulated credit agreement.
16 Mr and Mrs G have submitted statements for the account in question from the Relevant Period that demonstrate that was the 
case. So, that too was an account that I think was unlikely to have had a bearing on Shawbrooks decision to lend even if it had
asked Mr and Mrs G for more information about it.
17 Im not suggesting that it would have been proportionate to ask Mr G for his 2016 and 2017 tax returns or his 2013 P45 at the 
Time of Sale. But as were now nearly six years on from when Mr and Mrs G were lent to, Im relying on this information to 
support the finding Ive made about the likelihood of Mr G telling Shawbrook at the Time of Sale that he wasnt working for 
Company C had he simply been asked that question at that time.
18 After all, CONC 5.3.7 [R] said that [a] firm must not accept an application for credit under a regulated credit agreement 
where the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect that the customer has not been truthful in completing the application in 
relation to information supplied by the customer relevant to the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by 
CONC 5.2.2R(1).111. But Shawbrook still hasnt suggested thats the decision it would have taken had it 
known that Mr G was in the middle of starting his own company. So, in addition to 
considering where such a decision would leave Mr and Mrs G now, I also have to 
consider the position they would be in now had Shawbrook persevered with their loan 
application.
112. As CONC 5.3.1[G] (6)(c) made it clear that lenders could conclude in the right 
circumstances that the repayments under a regulated credit agreement were likely to 
be sustainable if they could be met out of savings, its possible that Shawbrook would 
have persisted with Mr and Mrs Gs loan application had it known that Mr G had come 
into an inheritance as that could have been relevant to the decision it had to make. But 
even if Shawbrook had done that, had events played out in a way that was consistent 
with the relevant rules and guidance in CONC, I think it would have still discovered that 
the loan wasnt repayable by Mr and Mrs G on a sustainable basis.
113. Indeed, even if Shawbrook had stuck with Mr and Mrs Gs loan application, I think it 
should have questioned Mr and Mrs G on how they were able to maintain (1) all of 
their essential spending and (2) their standard of living if Mr G wasnt in receipt of a 
monthly income. After all, Shawbrook knew what their existing credit commitments 
were. And as they exceeded what it knew Mrs G was likely to be earning on average 
each month during the Relevant Period, those strike me as questions that needed 
asking at that stage if Shawbrook was to better understand Mr and Mrs Gs financial 
circumstances.
114. That, in my view, would have shed more light on Mr Gs inheritance, which should 
have then led Shawbrook on to questions about the inheritance itself given its 
relevance to the decision it had to make  like questions about its size, nature, how 
much was left at the Time of Sale and whether it was ring fenced for a particular 
purpose.
  
115. Having asked Mr G to tell me about his inheritance, he says it was worth a total of 
roughly 34 million in a foreign currency  27 million of which sat in shares and 7 million 
was in cash. And according to the likely exchange rate at the Time of Sale19, the entire 
amount equated to just under £365,000. 
116. Mr G says that he used his inheritance to fund the company he was building and meet 
his familys essential living expenses. And as a result, he says that he had used all of 
the cash by 2015  while, by August 2016, he says that he had about £220,000 left in 
shares.
117. So, despite the fact that Mr G wasnt in receipt of a monthly income, Mr and Mrs G did 
have the means to make the repayments under the Credit Agreement by selling some 
of Mr Gs shares as and when they needed to. 
118. But as CONC 5.3.1[G] (6)(c) made it clear that making repayments under a regulated 
credit agreement by realising assets wasnt sustainable, any decision by Shawbrook to 
grant the loan to Mr and Mrs G because Mr G could have sold some of his shares 
would have been at odds not only with that specific subsection of CONC but the 
consumer protection purpose of CONC more generally.
19 https://www.exchangerates.org.uk/INR-GBP-08_08_2016-exchange-rate-history.html119. Whats more, had Shawbrook known more about Mr and Mrs Gs financial 
circumstances, as I think it ought to have, it would have realised that they only had one 
regular income between them and were reliant on Mr Gs dwindling inheritance at a 
time when they faced the financial uncertainty of building a new company and had a 
large number of credit commitments to meet  including a mortgage  on top of all of 
their other essential outgoings.
120. With that being the case, even if it wasnt at odds with CONC to grant Mr and Mrs G 
the loan on the basis that Mr G could have sold some of his shares, I find it hard to 
argue that increasing Mr and Mrs Gs indebtedness to facilitate the purchase of FPOC 
membership didnt put them at real risk of undue difficulty or further borrowing given 
their circumstances.
121. Overall, therefore, whether Shawbrook had decided against lending to Mr and Mrs G in 
keeping with CONC 5.3.7[R] in light of Mr Gs employment status as declared or to 
persevere with their loan application, I think reasonable and proportionate checks are 
likely to have shown Shawbrook that Mr and Mrs G were unlikely to be able to repay 
what they borrowed under the Credit Agreement without a real risk of undue difficulty 
given their circumstances.
Did Mr and Mrs G lose out financially?
122. In response to my PD, Shawbrook says that any detriment suffered by Mr and Mrs G 
was the result of Mr Gs decision to declare that he was employed earning £75,000 
rather than self-employed earning little to nothing. But Im not persuaded thats the 
case. And Ill come on to why I think that shortly.
123. Shawbrook argued in the Second Response that, even if it had rejected 
Mr and Mrs Gs loan application, there were a number of other ways in which they 
could have funded the purchase of FPOC membership. So, despite its decision to lend 
to them, it said that they either didnt suffer a loss, or their loss is more limited than the 
investigators assessment suggests. Those alternatives included:
(1) approaching another lender,
(2) taking money from savings, 
(3) selling assets (as had Mr and Mrs G had done before), 
(4) releasing equity in property; or 
(5) further credit utilisation. 
124. However, had Mr and Mrs Gs loan application been rejected (as I think it ought to 
have been), Im still not persuaded that they could and/or would have pursued any of 
the other options that Shawbrook suggested were available to them. 
Another Lender 
125. It was argued by the defendant in Kerrigan that, had it refused the claimants 
applications for credit following a CONC compliant creditworthiness assessment, the 
claimants would probably have gone to another lender for credit instead. And as a 
result, any breach on the part of the defendant was not causative of the interest 
incurred by the claimants or the detrimental effect on their credit rating because they 
would have obtained another loan that had the same effect.
126. Following cross-examination, the Court was satisfied, on balance, that the claimant 
would have gone to another lender for credit. But as paragraph 140 of the judgment 
makes clear, it was and is important to consider what that other lender would have done. After all, as HHJ Worster said, the hypothetical act of a third person is not to be 
determined on the all or nothing balance of probabilities approach. The court has to 
assess the chance that the third party would have acted in such a manner as would 
have avoided the harm done to the Claimant.
127. In other words, the High Court had to consider whether the other hypothetical lender 
would have lent to the claimant. And as HHJ Worster went on to say in paragraph 141, 
it did so on the presumption that the other lender would have complied with CONC. 
The Court acknowledged that the lender may not have done that. But it said that was 
the right place to start  looking to what Lord Nueberger MR had to say in 
Wright v Cambridge Medical Group [2011] EWCA Civ 669 (paragraph 75) in support:
It is true that the burden of establishing causation in a negligence claim is, in principle, 
as with every other ingredient of the claim, on the claimant. However, once the 
claimant established that (i) she could and should have been referred to the Hospital 
on 15 April, and (ii) she would not have suffered the damage now complained of had 
she been so referred and been treated competently at the Hospital, she had the 
benefit of a presumption that she would have been competently treated thereafter. In 
the absence of evidence to the contrary, the court will assume that professional 
and other service providers would have or have performed their functions 
competently. Of course, provided that I am wrong in my view that this 
presumption is effectively irrebuttable as a matter of law in a case such as this, 
that presumption can be discharged by evidence, but it is, as it were, the right 
starting point. [my emphasis]
128. Ive already explained why I think Shawbrook needed a more thorough understanding 
of Mr and Mrs Gs income and essential outgoings in order to reasonably conclude that 
it had carried out its checks in line with CONC. So, had Mr and Mrs G approached 
another lender to finance their purchase of FPOC membership, in light of what the 
High Court had to say in Kerrigan, I have to assume that the other lender would have 
taken the steps necessary to better understand Mr and Mrs Gs financial 
circumstances. 
129. With that being the case, therefore, and for the reasons Ive already given as to why 
the borrowing in question was at risk of being paid by Mr and Mrs G with undue 
difficulty, Im still not persuaded another lender  acting in line with CONC  would 
have concluded that increasing their indebtedness was likely to prove sustainable 
given their financial circumstances at the Time of Sale. 
Savings
130. While Mr and Mrs G had two UK based savings accounts at the Time of Sale, both 
accounts had negligible balances at that time. And as neither side has said and/or 
provided anything in response to my PD to suggest otherwise, calling on savings 
wasnt an option available to them at that time.Realising Assets
131. Shawbrook will be aware that Mr and Mrs G were on a promotional holiday as part of 
their Trial Membership when they made the purchase in question. Ive seen an extract 
of Company As business plan called Target Market and Target Customers (which, 
as I understand it, was shared with the Financial Ombudsman Service by Company A 
in 2017 and again in 2019) that suggests that, as trial members, they had to attend a 
sales presentation during their promotional holiday. The extract isnt dated. But it does 
appear to have been in place when the product in question was being sold20. So, I find 
it difficult to reconcile the condition attached to Mr and Mrs Gs promotional holiday 
with the suggestion21 that it wasnt incumbent on them to sit through the presentation 
for at least a minimum amount of time  especially when the sales process looks like it 
was relatively involved and likely to have cost the Supplier time, effort and money. And 
as Company As business plan suggests that the sales representatives involved in the 
opening stages were self-employed and earning an income based entirely on 
commission, it seems likely to me that would have contributed to an environment in 
which every effort would have been made to complete sales on the day of their 
presentation.
132. So, at a practical level, any suggestion that Mr and Mrs G could have sold some of 
Mr Gs shares or released some of the equity in their home to facilitate their purchase 
of FPOC membership, if they couldnt do so using finance, strikes me as unrealistic 
given:
(1) the tight timeframe the Supplier was likely to be working to; and
(2) the lengths Mr and Mrs G had to go to in order to pursue either of those options.
Equity release applications can be complicated and lengthy  taking weeks if not 
months. And any attempt by Mr G to sell some of his shares abroad would have 
probably faced a number of complicating factors  like the extent to which he would 
have been selling at a loss or profit, the impact of the exchange rate at the time and 
any possible tax implications.
133. Whats more, Mr G has consistently said that he was using his inheritance to fund his 
new company and help meet the households living expenses. And when I asked him 
to tell me how much of his inheritance he had left by the Time of Sale, this is what he 
said:
Both the cash and shares were treated by me as Fixed Assets for Development and 
not Income  and ring fenced for the project. We had to make sure the funds lasted till 
the end of the project.
 
By end 2015 the entire cash inheritance had been used mainly towards the business 
(both pre-set up and ongoing costs) and towards living expenses for our family.
 
20 A footnote in the extract refers to full membership as one of Company As timeshare products with a membership term of 19 
to 80 years  the first of which is consistent with the original term of the product purchased by Mr and Mrs G.
21 On the second page of a letter from Company A dated 20 June 2018.Having depleted the cash balance, I had to resort to selling fixed assets - stocks and 
shares. []. The balance of the remaining shares [as of] August 2016 was 
approximately [] 20,000,000 (approximately £220,000). This amount had to be very 
carefully managed to fund the development of the project to completion and 
provide maintenance for our family in the years ahead with spending only being 
done for necessary items  as I was leading the design, managing data analytics 
and creating the vision for this project  a role I am still doing. 
 
The outstanding debt [as of] August 2016 was approximately £230,000 (Mortgage)  I 
have an interest only mortgage to keep costs as low as possible and approximately 
£20,000 in unsecured loans.
[my emphasis added]
134. It still seems to me, therefore, that Mr and Mrs G were limiting the use of Mr Gs 
inheritance to only what was necessary. After all, they had only one monthly income 
between them at a time when they faced the financial uncertainty of building a new 
company and the stresses and strains of several credit commitments on top of all of 
their other essential outgoings. 
135. I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs Gs decision to purchase FPOC membership was likely 
to have been motivated by the potential benefits of it. But the purchase was, 
nonetheless, discretionary. And a relatively large one at that. So, if Mr and Mrs G 
hadnt borrowed and couldnt borrow any money to fund the purchase, they would 
have had to weigh up whether or not to give up some of Mr Gs inheritance or, as 
Shawbrook suggested, use some of the equity in one of their most important assets. 
Yet it strikes me as a leap to suggest they are likely to have sacrificed either of those 
assets when:
(1) Selling a relatively large proportion of Mr Gs remaining shares would have (1) 
risked what he was trying to achieve by investing his inheritance in his new 
company and (2) reduced what would have otherwise been available to him 
and Mrs G for essential living expenses and their existing credit commitments  
particularly their mortgage.
(2) They havent sold any of Mr Gs shares in order to clear the loan from 
Shawbrook and reduce if not avoid the £11,000 or so in interest and charges; 
and
(3) There isnt any persuasive evidence that suggests they were enamoured 
enough with FPOC membership to go to such lengths for a discretionary 
purchase given their circumstances.   
Credit Utilisation
136. As I said in my PD, Mr and Mrs G had more than enough unused credit between their 
various credit cards to purchase FPOC membership at the Time of Sale  including 
two credit cards with limits high enough to accommodate the purchase price on their 
own. So, its possible that they would have used one of those cards to finance the 
purchase had Shawbrook rejected their loan application. But, based on what Ive seen, 
I still dont think thats probable. 137. Mr and Mrs G knew at the Time of Sale that money was tight  having said the 
following in the Letter of Claim: 
The conversation with [the Supplier] then continued but came to an impasse as the 
price was incorrect and was substantially more than [Mr and Mrs G] had made plain 
they could afford. []
The senior negotiator knew my clients maximum monthly expenditure was around 
£225 - £250 and yet he persisted with more expensive packages. Finally, when he 
realised my clients were not going to budge, the senior negotiator came up with [an 
offer of] £229 per month  which involved my clients buying a fractional deal with 17 
years remaining [that] someone else had returned for unknown reasons. 
This met my clients price and at no stage were they informed there were be any 
additional costs by way of maintenance [charges]. It was only when my clients were 
taken into the Client Liaison [Officers] office almost 4 hours later [] that the issue of 
further costs arose. My [clients] rejected this as this now meant the price was over 
what they were willing to pay. My clients were only coaxed into signing the deal by [the 
Supplier] on the basis that they would not have to pay an extra amount for 15 months.
138. As Shawbrook itself recognises, the typical interest rate on those credit cards was 
likely to be higher, perhaps quite a bit higher, than the typical interest rate 
Mr and Mrs G were likely to pay on a loan (including Shawbrooks). And as credit card 
interest is often compounded, managing a new credit card commitment of just under 
£16,500 for FPOC membership, when they would have known that they had a loan 
application  for the same amount at a lower rate of interest  rejected by Shawbrook 
on the basis that it was unsustainable, is likely to have been a more challenging 
prospect for Mr and Mrs G than the predictable repayments of a loan  especially 
when they were already uncertain as to whether they could afford FPOC membership.
139. Whats more, even if Mr and Mrs G would have considered purchasing FPOC 
membership using one of their credit cards had Shawbrook rejected their loan 
application, and even if they considered repaying the £16,500 or so over the same 10-
year term as the Credit Agreement (which strikes me as unlikely given the extent to 
which compounded interest would work against them over such a long period of time), 
I dont think the challenge of trying to do that would have been lost on them given the 
insight their existing credit card debt was likely to have given them into how to manage 
credit card debt effectively. 
140. After all, by my calculations, even if the credit card was subject to a relatively low APR 
of only 14% (which I think was unlikely), any attempt to repay the purchase price over 
10 years would have required more than £250 each month from Mr and Mrs G  which 
would have been more than they were required to pay each month under the Credit 
Agreement. And that requirement would only have increased if the APR was higher 
than the one Ive used above or if they had wanted to clear the balance more quickly.
141. As I suggested in my PD, Shawbrook could argue that the fact that Mr and Mrs G had 
only utilised 11% of their available credit at the Time of Sale suggests they preferred to 
use Mr Gs inheritance over that credit  such that they would have only had to rely on 
one of their credit cards temporarily while Mr G sold some of his shares at a later date 
to clear the balance.142. But Ive already explained why I think its a leap to suggest that Mr and Mrs G would 
have sacrificed some of Mr Gs inheritance for a large discretionary purchase like 
FPOC membership given their circumstances. And as they hadnt used any of his 
inheritance to clear their existing credit card debt despite having the chance to do so, 
I still cant see why they would have contemplated taking that step when weighing up 
whether to use one of their credit cards to proceed with their purchase at the Time of 
Sale. 
143. So, while I continue to acknowledge that Mr and Mrs Gs decision to purchase FPOC 
membership was motivated by the potential benefits of it, I havent seen enough to 
persuade me that they were so enamoured with the prospect of membership that they 
were prepared to ignore what they were willing to pay each month and overlook their 
concerns about the cost of membership. And with that being the case, Im not 
persuaded that they would have pressed on with their purchase when faced with 
having to use what was probably a more expensive and less predictable form of credit 
 particularly when a decision by Shawbrook to reject their loan application on the 
basis that the repayments werent sustainable would have been fresh enough in their 
minds to bring home to them those concerns.
 
Information Declared by Mr G
144. Mr and Mrs G have said throughout this complaint that they told the Supplier that their 
combined annual income was less than £30,000. And they allege that they were told 
by the Supplier that recording Mr Gs previous employment on the loan application 
form would be acceptable.
145. It isnt possible for me to determine with certainty what Mr and Mrs G were or werent 
told by the Supplier at the Time of Sale. But given the evidence provided by Mr G to 
demonstrate that he wasnt working for Company C, it does add credence to his 
assertion about what he was told to do by the Supplier.
146. Nonetheless, even if Mr G was told by the Supplier that it was acceptable to include 
his previous employment details on the loan application form, that doesnt change the 
fact that he went ahead with the application knowing that he was self-employed and 
not in receipt of a regular income. 
147. Shawbrook says that any detriment suffered by Mr and Mrs G following its decision to 
lend to them was the result of Mr Gs decision to declare that he was employed 
earning £75,000 rather than self-employed earning little to nothing. 
148. As I said in my PD, lenders are entitled to expect prospective borrowers to answer 
questions about their financial circumstances in good faith. And as I also suggested at 
that time, I had considered whether Mr Gs declared income and employment status 
were relevant to causation here  such that I could say the inaccuracy of the relevant 
information provided by Mr G nullified the mistakes made by Shawbrook. 
149. I wasnt persuaded I could. And that remains the case now. It was said by the 
High Court in Kerrigan that an applicants dishonesty may be relevant to causation in 
relation to [a] FSMA claim if it can be characterised as an intervening act.  But the 
information declared by Mr G in relation to his income and employment status was 
provided by him before Shawbrooks creditworthiness assessment. And as I havent 
seen enough to persuade me that the steps taken by Shawbrook during that 
assessment can be said to have reliably and reasonably reassured it that the 
information in question was accurate, or at least appeared that way even though it 
wasnt, in my view, the information provided by Mr G cant be characterised as an act that intervened between Shawbrooks failings in relation to CONC and Mr and Mrs Gs 
loss. 
150. Whats more, in Kerrigan, it was under the unfair debtor-creditor provisions of the CCA 
that the High Court considered the issue of dishonesty in the main. And neither side in 
this complaint have raised those provisions nor have they addressed the fairness of 
their debtor-creditor relationship. So, while Ive read and considered Kerrigan, Im not 
persuaded it helps Shawbrook on this occasion.
151. As Ive said before, the rules and guidance in CONC were and are there to protect 
consumers. And the regulatory expectations imposed on Shawbrook a responsibility to 
verify the income and expenditure declared by Mr and Mrs G should the circumstances 
warrant it. Whats more, CONC, as I read it, anticipated that applicants may not always 
provide entirely accurate information. Thats why the rules and guidance at the 
relevant time asked lenders to ensure that they had clear and effective processes and 
procedures in place to assess affordability (CONC 5.3.2[R])  which included taking 
adequate steps to ensure that the information provided by an applicant was complete 
and correct (CONC 5.3.3[G]).
152. So, while I continue to acknowledge that there is clearly some variance between 
Mr Gs declared income and employment status at the Time of Sale and what the 
evidence on file now suggests was the case, Shawbrook still had a responsibility under 
CONC to properly scrutinise the information he and Mrs G had provided. And with that 
being the case, whether Mr G had declared he was employed or self-employed at the 
Time of Sale, had Shawbrook known more about Mr and Mrs Gs financial 
circumstances before lending to them, as I think it ought to have, I cant see how it 
could have justified a decision to lend to them that would have been consistent with 
the regulatory rules and guidance it had to follow.
Conclusion
153. In light of what Ive said above, I think Shawbrook wrongfully entered into the 
Credit Agreement contrary to CONC. And I still think that had a significant effect on 
Mr and Mrs G. They ended up borrowing and trying to repay a substantial sum of 
money while also being subjected to another long-term financial commitment in the 
form of FPOC membership. And had Shawbrook carried out its affordability 
assessment in keeping with CONC, I think Mr and Mrs G would have been saved from 
the financial burdens of both the Credit and Purchase Agreements.
Fair Compensation
154. When I find that a business has done something wrong, I would normally direct that 
business  as far as its reasonably practicable  to put the complainant in the position 
they would be in now if the mistakes it made hadnt happened. 
155. DISP 3.7.1 of the FCAs Handbook states that, when a complaint is determined in 
favour of the complainant (as is currently the case on this occasion), my determination 
may include a money award, an interest award or a costs award against Shawbrook  
or another direction. And DISP 3.7.2 states that a money award may be an amount 
that I consider fair redress for one or more of the following:
(1) Financial loss (including consequential or prospective loss); or
(2) Pain and suffering; or
(3) Damage to reputation; or
(4) Distress or inconvenience 156. Shawbrook says that, if a timeshare isnt found to have been mis-sold, redress should 
be more limited than what I proposed in my PD. But Shawbrooks proposed approach 
to redress ignores the fact that I found that Mr and Mrs G are unlikely to have entered 
into either the Credit or Purchase Agreements. And as I still think thats likely to have 
been the case, I still think it would be fair and reasonable to put them back in the 
position they would have been in had they not entered into either agreement at the 
Time of Sale. And heres what I think needs to be done to compensate Mr and Mrs G 
with that being the case:
(1) Shawbrook should refund:
i. Mr and Mrs Gs repayments to it under the Credit Agreement; and
ii. the annual management charges paid by Mr and Mrs G under the Purchase
Agreement.22
(the Repayments)
At the time of my PD, it didnt look like Mr and Mrs G used their Fractional Points 
to take any holidays. Shawbrook hasnt disputed that in response. And as 
Mr and Mrs G say that they didnt use their Fractional Points to holiday, which I 
have no reason to doubt, I see no reason to factor into the redress any usage of 
their holiday rights. 
(3) Shawbrook should write off the outstanding balance under the Credit Agreement 
if Mr and Mrs G still owe it money under that Agreement.
(4) Simple interest at 8%* per annum should be added to each of the Repayments 
from the date each one was made until the date Shawbrook settles this 
complaint.
(5) Shawbrook should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr and Mrs Gs 
credit file as a result of the loan it provided at the Time of Sale. 
*HM Revenue & Customs may require the business to take off tax from this interest. If thats the case, the business must give 
the consumer a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
157. However, this isnt necessarily where redress ends. Mr and Mrs G would not have 
acquired a share in the net sale proceeds of the Allocated Property had they not 
purchased FPOC membership. An email from Company A to Mr G on 10 June 2021 
confirmed that Mr and Mrs Gs Fractional Rights were suspended at that time because 
they had stopped paying their annual management charges. If their Fractional Rights 
have now been terminated, that ends the Purchase Agreement between them and the 
Supplier  leaving me with not much more to say as far as their investment in the 
Allocated Property is concerned. But if Mr and Mrs G are still entitled to a share in the 
net sale proceeds of the Allocated Property when its sold, its necessary to consider 
how to deal with that given the fact that Shawbrook is the respondent to this complaint 
 not the Supplier. 
22 I know Shawbrook says that the annual management charges are a completely separate legal agreement, to
which it wasnt and isnt a party by way of finance or otherwise. But if Mr and Mrs G hadnt entered into the Purchase
Agreement, they wouldnt have been or be responsible for them. So, it strikes me as reasonable to include them in the redress
given the facts and circumstances of this complaint.158. So, assuming Mr and Mrs G havent been released from their FPOC membership, 
there is both a continuing benefit and detriment that I think it fair to address. I think 
that, as long as Mr and Mrs G agree to hold the benefit of their interest in the Allocated 
Property for Shawbrook (or assign it to Shawbrook, if that can be achieved), 
Shawbrook should indemnify them against all liabilities accruing from 
10 June 2021 onwards as a result of Mr and Mrs Gs purchase of FPOC membership. 
That will achieve, as closely as I can, the same financial situation as if they had never 
joined the FPOC.
My Final Decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and I direct 
Shawbrook Bank Limited to compensate Mr and Mrs G in keeping with the steps Ive set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 May 2023.
 
Morgan Rees
Ombudsman