DRN-3624528
The complaint
The estate of Ms P has complained that credit was irresponsibly provided to Ms P, by JAJA 
Finance Limited.
What happened
In July 2016, Ms P took out a credit card with a limit of £4,300. This was with another entity, 
but it subsequently migrated to JAJA. Therefore, for ease and clarity, I will refer to JAJA 
throughout. In September 2017, the limit was increased to £8,300. It was then reduced in 
March 2021, due to missed repayments. 
JAJA was informed that Ms P had sadly passed away in February 2021. Accordingly, the 
outstanding balance was passed to the estate.
The estate complained that the credit had been provided to Ms P irresponsibly. It said she 
had already had around £70,000 of debt/potential debt at the time, and was also made 
redundant.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. He agreed that JAJA had acted 
irresponsibly.
Our investigator looked first at the lending decision in July 2016. The opening credit limit was 
£4,300, which he considered to be significant. Therefore, he felt JAJA shouldve had a 
thorough understanding of Ms Ps financial circumstances  including her income and 
expenditure. He noted that Ms P completed the application to say she was employed, 
earning around £32,000 a year. However, he hadnt seen evidence of what consideration 
was given to her expenditure at the time, and whether repayments would be sustainable.
Our investigator said JAJA could have verified Ms Ps income and expenditure by, for 
example asking her for bank statements, copies of bills and/or payslips. Having looked at 
bank statements for the time, our investigator couldnt see that Ms P had any income, 
suggesting she may not have been working. The sum in her account was only decreasing in 
the period, as she continued to make minimum repayments to other credit providers - 
showing she wouldnt have been able to sustain repayments indefinitely. The statements 
show regular repayments to seven credit providers, highlighting concern about the amount of 
debt Ms P had elsewhere - and this should have been taken into account.
Our investigator said that Ms Ps employment status was unclear. But, her employer at the 
time has provided an email to say she was made redundant - casting significant doubt on 
whether she was working. But, regardless of Ms Ps employment situation, our investigator 
thought the statements alone were enough to cause concern, given the amount of 
repayments to existing lenders. Having looked into what these liabilities were, the overall 
credit limits were substantial  totalling around £58,000. So, even if Ms P had been 
employed, this was more than her annual income declared on the application form.
A lender is required to look at a customers ability to repay the maximum amount of credit 
available over a reasonable period of time. So, its not enough to just consider Ms Ps ability 
to make minimum repayments. As it seems Ms P was only making minimum repayments to 
each of her existing accounts, our investigator didnt think it would be sustainable to add a 
further £4,300 to her already substantial revolving credit.
Accordingly, our investigator didnt think JAJA should have given Ms P the credit it did in 
2016.
He then looked at the lending decision in September 2017, when the credit limit was 
increased. As there wasnt any persuasive evidence to suggest that there had been any 
significant and sustained improvement in Ms Ps financial circumstances since July 2016, he 
thought the credit increase in September 2017 shouldnt have been granted either. In fact, 
by this time, Ms Ps overall revolving credit limits totalled over £80,000. He thought it 
reasonable to say further questions and/or a review of Ms Ps credit file wouldve revealed 
this.
JAJA disagreed. In summary, it said:
a credit check was carried out and the score was 0999;
Ms P declared she was in full-time employment and had been for 23 years;
Ms P had indicated as part of her application that she did not wish to be exempt from 
any limit increases that may be available; and
Ms P maintained her minimum repayment on the account, and if she did so with all of 
her accounts, this would show a responsible attitude to managing her credit.
The complaints now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I would like to extend my condolences to Ms Ps estate. I understand this must be a 
very difficult time for Ms Ps executor and wider family.
Having looked at whats happened, I agree that the lending was irresponsible, for the same 
reasons the investigator gave. Ill explain further.
Ive taken, as a starting point, Ms Ps employment status. It seems that she was made 
redundant and was not in other employment. However, even if she were employed, her 
declared income is meaningless, if theres no corresponding understanding of what her 
outgoings were. Ive seen no evidence that JAJA made any enquiries into this at all. 
Although I can see it looked at her credit score, I dont think it was proportionate, given that 
the credit limit was significant. Id have expected it to look into outgoings. One way of doing 
this would have been to look at bank statements. There may well also be other methods, but 
this seems a reasonable one. And, had JAJA done so, it would have seen significant 
indebtedness, which Im satisfied should have prompted further investigation. This would 
likely have shown that Ms P had existing credit limits of some £60,000 at the time of the 
application  which had risen to £80,000 by the time of the increase. Further, Ms P was only 
making minimum repayments. This is strongly indicative of an unsustainable cycle of debt. 
Its not enough to consider constant minimum repayments as being sufficient, because it 
does not show the debt as sustainable. And Ms P indicating shed like to be offered future 
increases does not mean they should simply be granted.For these reasons, Im satisfied that the initial lending and subsequent increase were 
irresponsible  and should not have happened. So, interest, fees and charges should not be 
applied. Typically, Id also require any negative information to be removed from the 
consumers credit file, but because of the sad circumstances in this case, it wouldnt be of 
benefit here.
If there is still an outstanding balance, its unclear to me whether or not the estate will be in a 
position to repay it. I would urge the executor to contact JAJA to discuss this. If hes unhappy 
with its response, the estate of Ms P may be able to bring a further complaint to our service.
Putting things right
In order to put things right, JAJA must:
Rework Ms P's current credit card balance so that all the interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from July 2016 onwards are removed. 
If this leads to a positive balance, any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Ms P's estate, adding interest of 8% simple a year on any overpayments 
from the date(s) they were made to the date of settlement.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint. I require JAJA FINANCE LTD to take the steps 
set out above, in the section Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms P 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman