DRN-4423114
The complaint
Miss H complains that Helvetia Global Solutions Ltd (Helvetia) has declined a claim made
under her furniture warranty after staining was caused to her sofa.
What happened
Miss H purchased a sofa and alongside this, a five-year furniture warranty underwritten by
Helvetia.
In December 2022 Miss H contacted Helvetia to make a claim for a stain on her sofa.
Helvetia sent a cleaning kit so Miss H could attempt to remove the stain herself. However,
the cleaning kit caused further staining and damage to her sofa.
Helvetia appointed a technician to inspect Miss Hs sofa. They concluded the original stain
was caused due to head oils, and as this is excluded under the terms of Miss Hs policy, they
declined to do anything further.
Miss H was unhappy with Helvetias decision. She accepts the original stain was caused by
something which was excluded. However, Miss H says that the stain was made much worse
by the cleaning kit, and this should be covered under her policy.
Helvetias claim decision was maintained so Miss H approached this service.
One of our investigators looked into things, but she thought the claim decision reached by
Helvetia overall was fair. She said that the build-up of stains by head oils isnt covered. But
she accepted the cleaning kit sent by Helvetia had made things worse, so she
recommended they pay Miss H £50 compensation.
Helvetia agreed but Miss H didnt. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was
passed to me to decide.
I was minded to reach a different outcome to our investigator, so I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial findings before I 
reached my final decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive reached a different outcome to our investigator, Im issuing a provisional 
decision, to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial findings before I 
reach my final decision.
I think there are two main points of consideration here. The first is whether the 
original staining should be covered under the policy. The second, is whether the 
additional staining should be covered. Ill address each point separately.
The original staining
Miss H reported staining to one of the cushions on her sofa. Helvetia sent Miss H a 
cleaning kit to try to attempt stain removal, but this made things worse. Ill consider 
that specifically separately below.
After the staining was made worse, Helvetia appointed a technician to inspect the 
damage. During discussion, the technician was told by Miss H that she thought the 
cause of the staining was head grease built up over time. The technician was 
persuaded this was the cause too.
Miss Hs policy excludes:
Changes in colour of any part of the product caused by sunlight, perspiration; 
natural hair and body oils or wear and tear;
Therefore, as this is excluded, I dont think Helvetia would be acting unreasonably by
declining the claim on this basis if this was the only staining or damage.
The additional staining
When Miss H first reported the staining to her sofa, Helvetia sent her a cleaning kit. 
Miss H attempted to use this, but it made the stain and surrounding area worse.
Helvetia maintained that staining from head oils isnt covered. But Miss H isnt 
claiming for the original stain, instead she is claiming for the new stain caused by the 
cleaning kit, albeit partly in the same area.
Along with saying that the policy didnt cover staining caused by head oils, Helvetia 
also said that Miss H should have tested the cleaning kit before using it, so they said 
they werent responsible.
Our investigator thought the cleaning kit provided by Helvetia had made things 
worse, and she suggested Helvetia pay £50 compensation for this. Helvetia agreed.
However, I dont think this is enough here. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I accept the original stain wasnt covered for the reasons outlined above. 
However, when reporting the issue, Helvetia sent a cleaning kit and informed Miss H:Thank you for raising your claim online with us and Im pleased to inform I 
have processed this for you. I have now dispatched a professional cleaning 
product to you for you to attempt to clean and remove the stain on your 
furniture. This is a specialist cleaner aimed at removing your particular stain 
on your particular furniture.
Helvetia says this email response is standard and sent to customers who are sent a 
cleaning kit in the first instance. However, considering the wording and that this was 
in response to Miss H providing images of the stain, I can see why Miss H was under 
the impression Helvetia was reassuring her in relation to her stain on her furniture.
The file notes provided by Helvetia also say:
THIS IS ANILINE LEATHER CARE KIT SHOULD NOT HAVE BEEN SENT, I 
FEEL THIS IS HEAD OILS
So, it does seem that retrospectively Helvetia accept they shouldnt have sent a 
cleaning kit. And if they hadnt, then Miss H wouldnt have attempted to clean the 
stain and made the damage significantly worse.
Helvetia also said the cleaning kit contained instructions to test it first on an 
inconspicuous area, and if there was an issue, it would have been evident during the 
testing before it was then applied to the stained area.
Ive not seen a copy of the instructions which are on the cleaning kit, as this hasnt 
been provided. However, firstly, the email sent to Miss H notifying her of the cleaning 
kit said it was for her particular stain on her particular furniture. And Miss H had a 
previous incident in which a cleaning kit provided by Helvetia was successful, so she 
had no reason to think it would cause damage to her sofa this time either.
Crucially though, Helvetias claim notes say:
IT LOOKS LIKE THE HEAD OILS HAVE HAD A REACTION TO THE 
CLEANING PRODUCT IT ISNT DUE TO A FAULTY PRODUCT.
So, if Miss H tested it on another inconspicuous area as suggested by Helvetia, 
without head oils present, its likely no damage would have been caused by the 
cleaning kit. I say this because it was successful in removing non head oil stains 
during the previous incident without reaction to the leather. So even if Miss H tested if 
beforehand on another area, then its likely the additional stain and damage would 
always have been caused when she then went on to attempt to clean the head oil 
area as it is this that has reacted. Therefore, on balance, Im not persuaded not 
testing it first on another area has made any difference here.
With this in mind, if Helvetia hadnt sent the cleaning kit (as their notes confirm they 
shouldnt have) then the additional damage wouldnt have been caused. But as they 
did, this has then led to Miss H using the cleaning kit, as advised, which resulted in 
additional damage. And this additional damage, in my view, is more significant in 
terms of being visible, whereas the original stain was smaller and less prominent.
Miss Hs policy covers:
STAINING UNTREATED
Accidental staining to fabric and leather upholstery, cabinet furniture, carpet 
and beds from any substance except; mineral oils and soot.Whilst I appreciate some of the staining was present previously due to excluded head 
oils, as a result of the cleaning kit application, this has made the damage more 
significant and visible. And as the resultant damage here is due to the cleaning kit, 
rather than the head oils, I think it would be reasonable to consider this damage 
under the accidental staining policy cover  albeit I accept that some of the excluded 
damage is also in the same area and will need to be considered by extension when 
dealing with the cleaning kit staining.
Unless anything changes as a result of the responses to my provisional decision, Ill 
be directing Helvetia to consider the accidental staining caused by the cleaning kit in 
line with the remaining terms and conditions.
But to also clarify here, I recognise the policy also excludes:
Accidental staining or accidental damage caused by the use of incorrect or 
inappropriate cleaning products or cleaning methods
However, Helvetia sent the cleaning kit, and it was used by Miss H on their 
instruction, so I dont think this exclusion can be fairly applied here either.
Furthermore, I think that Helvetia should have considered this much sooner, rather 
than focussing on the head oil being excluded or Miss H not following the 
instructions. As a result of incorrectly providing a cleaning kit, and this then leading to 
damage which Helvetia then unfairly declined, Im also minded to direct Helvetia to 
compensate Miss H £100 (instead of £50 as recommended by the investigator) for 
the distress and inconvenience this caused.
So, I was minded to uphold the complaint in part and to direct Helvetia to consider the 
accidental staining claim for staining caused by the cleaning kit in line with the remaining 
terms, and to pay Miss H £100 compensation.
The responses to my provisional decision
Miss H responded and asked what would happen if Helvetia still said the staining wasnt 
covered.
Helvetia responded and agreed to the compensation and outlined what they would do to 
resolve the staining.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought carefully about the provisional decision I reached and the responses to it. 
Having done so, my final decision remains the same as my provisional decision.In response to the provisional decision, Miss H asked what would happen if Helvetia still said 
the additional staining wasnt covered. However, Helvetia responded to the provisional 
decision to confirm:
After reviewing the Ombudsmans provisional decision Castelan (the administrator)  
have agreed to the increased compensation amount of £100 and will cover the new 
staining to the surrounding area, due to where the staining is situated any repair will 
also resolve the staining from the head oils. As the leather is aniline a cosmetic repair 
cant be completed so a new back cover would need to be ordered from the original 
manufacturer. To resolve the claim Castelan would order a replacement back cover 
only. Just to confirm Castelan would maintain that if there was only head oils present 
then that stain would remain declined.
So, this explains what Helvetia will do (if Miss H accepts the final decision) to resolve the 
staining issue. If after this there are any new issues, Miss H would be free to raise a new 
complaint about those new issues, before referring the new complaint to this service in line 
with our usual rules and timescales.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part and direct Helvetia Global Solutions 
Ltd to:
Consider the accidental staining claim for staining caused by the cleaning kit in line 
with the remaining terms of the policy
Pay Miss H £100 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman