DRN-2834918
The complaint
Mr W and Miss W are complaining that Connells Limited gave them the wrong advice about
how much they could borrow on their mortgage. They say if theyd been given the correct
advice, they wouldnt have gone ahead with buying their property.
What happened
 Mr W and Miss W were interested in buying a new build property. They spoke to Connells
about financing the purchase after being introduced to them by the developer. In early
November 2019 Connells completed a data capture form which included details of Mr W and
Miss Ws salaries, including bonuses and commission, and the amount theyd need to
borrow on their mortgage.
Mr W and Miss W intended to remain with the same lender and port their existing mortgage
product. Mr W had recently changed jobs within the same company, and he says he gave
details of his new salary and new expected annual bonus of between £5,000 and £10,000.
Over the next few weeks some discussion took place about how Mr W and Miss W could
raise a 15% deposit on the purchase price of the property, as the maximum loan to value of
the new mortgage was 85%. Mr and Miss W explained theyd need some assistance from
their family to raise the deposit they needed. On 25 November 2019 Mr W and Miss W paid
the developer £1,000 to reserve the property. They said they also instructed solicitors in the
purchase, at a cost of £600.
On 29 November Connells adviser confirmed an agreement in principle (AIP) had been
given by the lender for the amount Mr W and Miss W needed to borrow. An appointment was
arranged for early December to complete the mortgage application. However, during the
appointment Mr W and Miss W were told they wouldnt be able to borrow as much as they
needed, because Mr Ws bonus couldnt be included by their lender for affordability
purposes. Their lender would only take the bonus into account if Mr W had received it for two
years before the mortgage application. Because Mr W had recently started in his new role he
didnt have a two-year history of receiving the bonus.
Mr W and Miss W did decide to go ahead with buying the property, but they said they had to
borrow the extra money they needed from family. They say they wouldnt have paid £1,000
to reserve the property, or instructed solicitors, if theyd known they couldnt borrow what
they needed beforehand. They said theyd been caused significant stress by what
happened.
Connells looked into Mr and Miss Ws complaint and gave their final response. They said
they didnt feel Mr Ws new employment details were properly considered and if they had
been considered at an earlier point, Mr and Miss W would have been able to make an
informed decision about whether to proceed. They offered Mr W and Miss W £200 for the
distress and inconvenience this caused them.
Mr W and Miss W werent satisfied with Connells offer, so they brought their complaint to us.
After looking into the complaint, our investigator asked Connells to increase their offer of
compensation. She said it didnt seem to be in dispute that Connells made an error in
handling Mr W and Miss Ws application, and if it had been handled correctly Mr W and 
Miss W probably would have made different choices. Because Mr W and Miss W did decide 
to proceed with buying the property, she didnt think theyd experienced a financial loss 
because the mistake didnt result in them incurring any additional fees. But she thought that
Connells offer of compensation should be increased to £400 to properly compensate Mr W
and Miss W for the stress of needing to borrow additional money from their family, and the
strain this had caused to their relationships.
Connells responded to say they thought their offer of £200 was enough to compensate Mr W
and Miss W. They said that on reviewing their notes they wouldnt have been able to provide
an indication of the amount Mr W and Miss W could borrow on their mortgage before 28
November because they didnt receive documents about Mr Ws bonus until that date. They
also said the time between Mr W and Miss W reserving the property and finding out about
the error with the mortgage amount was only ten working days. So they thought £400 was
too much compensation.
Mr W and Miss W didnt agree with the investigators opinion. They thought Connells should
pay more than £400 to compensate them for their financial loss and emotional distress.
Mr W and Miss Ws complaint was passed to me for review and a decision.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on 12 May 2021. I provisionally decided that the 
compensation payment of £400 recommended by the investigator was fair. This is what I 
said then:
Mr W says he told Connells from the start hed recently taken on a new role with a different
pay structure. He says he mentioned his expected annual bonus was between £5,000 and
£10,000. And Connells havent disputed they were aware Mr W was in a new role.
In their final response letter Connells accepted theyd made an error by not taking Mr Ws
new role into account earlier in the process, which meant he and Miss W couldnt make an
informed decision about whether to proceed with the purchase. However, in their response
to the investigators view Connells have taken a different position. They said they were
waiting for Mr W to provide documentation about his bonus before giving any indication of
the amount he could borrow, and that wasnt provided until 28 November, after Mr W and
Miss W had reserved the property.
Connells have recorded Mr Ws bonus as £5,000 and have included it in the notes on their
system, the affordability assessment and in the AIP. So it seems clear they thought his
bonus could be taken into account in working out how much Mr W and Miss W could afford
to borrow.
However, because Mr W was in a new role, and didnt have any history of receiving his
bonus, his lender wouldnt take it into account. And Connells dont appear to have realised
this until after the AIP was issued and Mr W and Miss W wanted to complete a full mortgage
application.
Its true that Mr W and Miss W reserved the property before they received the AIP. But I
dont think its fair to say theyd not been given an earlier indication of the amount they could
borrow. From everything Ive seen it seems theyd been upfront about their financial position
and Connells led them to believe there wouldnt be any issue with borrowing what they
needed. And I think this influenced their decision to put down their deposit to reserve the
property.I dont think Connells needed to wait for documentation of Mr Ws bonus before completing
an AIP, as they should have known the lender wouldnt take it into account. I think they
asked Mr W for this because they thought that it would be taken into account by the lender
and theyd need to provide evidence of it. But because it couldnt be taken into account, I
dont think they needed evidence of it.
When the AIP was completed, it showed, incorrectly, that Mr W and Miss W could borrow
what they needed, because Mr Ws bonus had been included in the AIP. So I think even if
Mr W and Miss W received the AIP before they reserved the property theyd still have gone
ahead with the reservation. The error with the bonus didnt come to light until Mr W and Miss
Ws appointment to complete the full mortgage application.
Overall I think Connells did make a mistake with the figures they used for Mr Ws income,
which led Mr W and Miss W to believe they could borrow more than they could. And I think
they should compensate Mr W and Miss W for the upset this has caused them.
Ive thought carefully about Mr W and Miss Ws points about their financial loss. Mr W and
Miss W chose to go ahead with buying the property after they learned of Connells mistake.
The costs theyd incurred up to that point went towards the purchase of the property and
would have been incurred during the purchase even if there hadnt been a mistake. So, I
dont think theyve suffered a financial loss. If Connells hadnt made a mistake they would
have found out theyd need to pay a higher deposit than they expected much earlier on
in the buying process. But they would always have needed to pay a higher deposit to
purchase the property.
As the investigator has explained, if Mr W and Miss W pulled out of the purchase when they
learned of the mistake then we might conclude theyd suffered a financial loss, if the money
theyd already spent couldnt be refunded. But this isnt what happened here. So I cant
decide that Connells should compensate Mr W and Miss W as if theyd lost the money theyd
spent up to the time the mistake was uncovered. I can only look at the position they are in
now.
Connells has objected to the compensation amount the investigators recommended
because they think its too much. But I dont agree. The stress Mr W and Miss W
experienced when they found out about the error would have been considerable. They were
already borrowing money from their family to fund the deposit, and after they had spent
money on reserving the property they discovered they would need to approach their family
for more money to go ahead with the purchase. So their choice was between approaching
their family to borrow more money, or potentially losing the money theyd already spent on
reserving the property and on solicitors fees. I can see how this would have put some strain 
on their family relationships.
Overall I think the compensation amount of £400 recommended by the investigator is fair
and reasonable. I do appreciate this isnt as much as Mr W and Miss W hoped for. But I think
its in line with the level of award we would usually make, taking into account the impact
Connells error has had on Mr W and Miss W.
I asked both parties to respond with any final points before I issued my final decision. 
Mr and Miss W replied to say they accepted my provisional decision. And Connells said they 
had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party had anything to add after my provisional decision. 
So I see no reason to change my provisional decision that compensation of £400 is fair and 
reasonable, taking into account all the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Connells Limited should pay Mr W and Miss W £400 in full and final settlement of their 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 June 2021.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman