DRN-4258881
The complaint
Miss M complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red Sands) 
declined a claim relating to her dog, under her pet insurance policy.  
What happened
In August 2022 Miss M says a vet recommended investigations to determine the reasons for 
her dogs urinary dribbling. She contacted Red Sands to request it cover the investigations. 
It responded to say her dog had a pre-existing condition. It said an exclusion had been 
added to her policy regarding any claims relating to her dogs urinary system. Miss M says 
this meant her claim was declined. 
Miss M says there was no diagnosis and the exclusion Red Sands had applied was very 
broad. She didnt think it was fair to decline her claim or apply an exclusion in these 
circumstances.  
Red Sands says its policy doesnt cover pre-existing conditions. An issue with Miss Ms 
dogs urinary system was noticed by a vet in October 2021. Its terms define pre-existing 
conditions to include when a pet shows any signs or symptoms before its policy cover 
starts. In its submission to our service Red Sands says it apologises for not responded to a 
later letter Miss M had sent. Because of this it offered £50 as a goodwill gesture. 
Miss M didnt agree with this outcome and referred her complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold her complaint. She says the policy terms are clear as to what a 
pre-existing condition is. She didnt think Red Sands had treated Miss M unfairly in declining 
her claim and applying the exclusion to her policy. 
Miss M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider the matter. 
It has been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint. Let me explain. 
Ive read Miss Ms policy terms and conditions to understand what cover is and isnt 
provided. The terms say:
What this policy doesnt cover
Pre-existing conditions
We dont cover pre-existing conditions. We consider a condition to be pre-existing if your pet 
showed any signs or symptoms of it before your cover start date, whether they needed 
treatment previously or not. For more information about pre-existing conditions, see the Pre-
existing conditions section.
I think the policy terms are clear. Where any sign or symptom of a condition is shown prior to 
the policy start date  no cover is provided. 
Ive read the clinical records relating to Miss Ms dogs. A record dated in October 2021 says:
History  licking at vagina, leaking urine  dribbling on couch. Urinating about the same 
amount. Started last night with licking. Peed in sons bed the other day. Eating and drinking 
as normal (encouraging to drink lasty night. Well in self).
A record from April 2021 says:
urine dribbles from vulva and also wet patch under [dogs name] after sleeping. Diagnosis  
incontinence. Owner concerned about physiological prob, eg ureter not implanted. I have 
advised that could be but would recommend starting with meds to see if these help, if not 
improving or fully improved then may need to look at referral for specialist imaging to see if 
the ureter is implanting in the wrong place. Owner happy with this plan and will start with 
insure, will call in 2 weeks to update on progress.
A clinical record in August 2021 shows Miss M wasnt satisfied that this treatment approach 
was working, and further investigations were discussed. She then contacted Red Sands to 
ask it to approve the investigations. It wrote to Miss M on 7 September 2022 highlighting the 
clinical history (detailed above) and confirming the pre-authorisation for the investigations 
her dog needed, had been declined. 
In its letter Red Sands confirmed the following exclusion had been applied to Miss Ms policy 
from inception:
Excludes cover on all claims with respect to the Urinary System with effect from 28 June 
2022.
From this evidence I think its clear signs of a urinary condition were noticed before Miss Ms 
policy started in June 2022. The clinical records refer to urinary incontinence. Ive read the 
underwriting criteria provided by Red Sands showing the exclusion that applies for urinary 
incontinence. It says, Excludes cover on all claims with respect to the Urinary System.
I note Miss M believes this exclusion is too broad and that cover shouldnt be declined as no 
diagnosis was made. But she agreed to Red Sands policy terms when taking out her policy. 
The terms are clear that a diagnosis isnt necessary. Prior signs of a condition are enough 
for cover to be excluded. Im satisfied the approach taken is consistent with Red Sands 
underwriting criteria. So, Miss M hasnt been treated differently from any other customer, 
which is what Id expect to see.
Ive thought about whether the exclusion for all claims relating to the urinary system is too 
broad. But its for Red Sands to determine what it is, and isnt, prepared to insure. It must 
make this clear to Miss M at the outset. But this information is clear in its policy terms. Ive 
also seen screen shots of the questions Miss M was asked when she was taking out her 
policy. This provides the definition of a pre-existing condition.  
Based on this, although Im sorry Miss Ms dog isnt covered for the investigations she needs 
under her policy, I cant agree that Red Sands treated her unfairly when declining her claim 
and applying the policy exclusion.
Red Sands has offered £50 compensation for its lack of a response to contact Miss M made after it had provided its final complaint response. I think this was reasonable. But I dont think 
Red Sands treated Miss M unfairly when relying on its policy terms and declining her claim, 
or when applying its policy exclusion. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 September 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman