DRN-3249577
The complaint
Mr M complains that Revolut Ltd incorrectly debited his account after two failed ATM 
withdrawals.
What happened
Mr M was abroad and used an Automated Teller Machine (ATM) to withdraw cash. Hes 
explained he attempted to withdraw a smaller amount on the first attempt, but the ATM only 
dispensed a portion of what hed asked for. Mr M then attempted to withdraw a much larger 
amount and again was only dispensed a small portion of the amount hed asked for.
Mr M has described how he was on his own when he used the ATM and there was no one 
else near him. He said he waited for a while to see if his remaining money would be 
dispensed, but no further funds were received. There were no error messages on the ATM 
and Mr M received his card back. Mr Ms Revolut account was debited with the full 
amount(s) hed requested but not received.
Mr M contacted Revolut by email shortly after the problem with the ATM withdrawals and 
was told to use the banking app to chat with staff because the email he was using wasnt 
appropriate for his type of issue. Mr M was then asked to complete a chargeback declaration 
to enable Revolut to challenge the operator of the ATM about the issue with his two 
transactions.
Mr M was left frustrated by the time it was taking Revolut to deal with his losses and 
complained to them. Revolut responded, but only looked at how they had dealt with Mr Ms 
complaint and not the actual loss of his funds. This was because the chargeback process 
was still being investigated.
Mr M remained unhappy with Revolut and complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
It was looked into by one of our investigators who sought additional information from both Mr 
M and Revolut about the withdrawals. Revolut offered Mr M £20 as a goodwill gesture which 
he didnt accept.
Mr M described how hed tried to make two withdrawals that both partially failed. On both 
occasions he received the same amount of funds from the machine in a local currency. 
Revolut contacted the operator of the ATM who sent information about the two withdrawals.
Our investigator thought it was reasonable for Revolut to hold Mr M liable for both of the 
transactions because the audit evidence showed the two withdrawals had been successful.
Mr M disagreed with the investigators outcome and asked for a further review of his 
complaint. Mr M thought a cash trap machine might have been responsible for the problem.
Mr Ms complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Revolut werent the owners of the ATM so they were relying on evidence from the actual 
operator which they received through the chargeback process. This evidence indicates that 
both transactions were successful.
I understand Mr M thought a cash trap device might have been responsible for the problem. I 
havent seen any evidence that shows any further enquiries were done about this, but I dont 
think it makes a difference to the outcome here. I say that because a cash trap would usually 
be designed to divert all the money and not allow a portion of the cash to be successfully 
dispensed. The whole point of such devices is to steal as much money as quickly as 
possible before theyre reported to the authorities, so I dont think a cash trap was 
responsible for Mr Ms difficulties at the ATM.
The audit evidence includes precise times the ATM was being used and which card was 
being used, how much was requested and a breakdown of the actual size of notes 
dispensed. Theres also a countback of the notes from the particular area of the ATM that 
they were drawn from. The number of notes issued matched the countback tally. The 
operator of the ATM also confirmed it was working properly. What that means here is that its 
more likely than not the ATM correctly dispensed the notes Mr M withdrew.
I appreciate Mr M has said no one else was near him and he waited at the machine after 
using it, but the audit evidence shows a different card was entered into the machine within 
two minutes of Mr Ms last use of it. That transaction was also successful and the countback 
tallies with the number of notes dispensed  which includes the two transactions that Mr M 
made. If there were a problem with Mr Ms transactions I would expect the ATM records to 
indicate this.
So, the evidence that Revolut were relying on indicated the two withdrawals were 
successful, including details of an additional (unrelated) withdrawal made only a few minutes 
after Mr Ms last one  also successful. I think it was reasonable for Revolut to rely on this 
information and I wont be asking Revolut to do anything further.
Mr M had made a complaint about how Revolut had handled their investigation and its 
apparent from the emails that Mr M sent, that he was in communication with Revolut some 
weeks prior to his issue being formally logged. Revolut wrote to Mr M and asked him to use 
a different channel to report his ATM issue because the email he was using was for a 
different purpose.
Once Mr M did this, Revolut acted on the information and launched a chargeback on Mr Ms 
behalf. It did take a little while for the response to be received, but thats often the case with 
such requests. Revolut offered to pay Mr M £20 as a goodwill gesture to recognise the 
earlier delays he experienced, and I think this was a reasonable was for Revolut to deal with 
the earlier confusion about lodging a dispute.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint concerning the disputed transactions 
and Revolut Ltd should pay Mr M £20 which was previously offered by them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
David PerryOmbudsman