DRN-2407367
The complaint
Mr H complains about the way Legal & General Insurance Limited and its agents handled his 
claim for subsidence on his landlords insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H had a landlords insurance policy with Legal & General for a property he rents out. In 
December 2018 his tenants moved out and he decided to renovate the property before 
renting it again. At the beginning of 2019 he discovered cracks in the property and instructed 
his own survey to be carried out. In March that year he made a claim on his insurance.
Legal & General appointed a contractor to investigate the claim and they visited later that 
month. In the months that followed there was little progress with the claim and in July 2019 
Mr H made a complaint to Legal & General about the delays. He also said it should pay for 
the lost rent he would have received during that time.
Legal & General upheld the service element of his complaint and offered £100 to make up 
for the poor service. However it said the policy didnt cover loss of rent where there was no 
current tenant or contract to show one was lined up, so it didnt agree this should be paid.
Following the complaint, progress on the claim continued to be slow and a scope of works 
wasnt agreed until the start of 2020. At this time Mr H made another complaint to Legal & 
General about the further delays.
Legal & General accepted that the delays had been unacceptable and offered a further £300 
compensation to make up for this. However it still said loss of rent wouldnt be covered so it 
would provide no money towards this element. 
Mr H didnt think this was fair as he said the delays caused by Legal & General had meant 
he hadnt been able to rent out the property. He brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. He 
thought Legal & General should pay an additional £100 compensation - £500 in total - to 
make up for the distress and inconvenience Legal & General had caused Mr H. However he 
didnt agree that it should pay towards the lost rental income.
Legal & General accepted our investigators view. However Mr H didnt agree it was fair. He 
said that if there hadnt been delays to the claim then he would have been able to rent the 
property out much sooner. And he had to make mortgage and council tax payments which 
would have been covered by the rent and payable by tenants if the claim hadnt been 
delayed. So he didnt think £500 compensation was enough. He asked for the complaint to 
be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree there have been significant delays in the claim progression and the 
service provided by Legal & General has been poor. So I need to decide what it should do to 
put things right. 
Loss of rent
One of the key issues in this complaint has been the rent Mr H has lost out on due to the 
claim taking longer than it should have. And the extra costs that he has had to pay during 
this time. Mr H has accepted that loss of rent isnt covered under the policy. However he has 
pointed out that it isnt just rent that he has lost, but that he has had to pay council tax for 
longer than he should have done due to the claim not progressing more quickly. 
I have considered this and although I do understand Mr H has suffered financially due to the 
claim, I dont agree that Legal & General should cover these costs. 
It is the unfortunate nature of subsidence claims, that they will take some time to resolve. 
And, where this involves a rental property, there will be some consequential loss of income 
during that time. While I agree that the claim has been subject to avoidable delays that may 
mean Mr H has had to put up with a loss of income and extra costs for longer, it isnt 
possible to know at what point the property would have been rented out if the delays hadnt 
occurred. It may have been rented out straight away after the claim concluded, or finding 
tenants may have taken a number of months. But during that time Mr H would have had to 
pay council tax and wouldnt have had income to cover the mortgage.  
It is for this reason that insurance policies, such as Mr Hs, will often only cover for loss of 
rent when there are tenants living at the property that have to move out, or where a tenancy 
agreement has been signed. As it is then possible to know how much income has been 
missed out on. We know the rental income that would be achieved and that tenants would 
have been paying rent had it not been for the claim and any delays. So it would be clear 
there is a direct financial loss. 
So as Mr H didnt have tenants lined up, I cant say for sure how long the property would 
have been unoccupied and therefore for how long he would have lost out on the income and 
had to pay council tax. However I agree that the financial strain would have added to the 
distress and inconvenience that Mr H has been caused. So I have considered this when 
coming to a conclusion about the compensation that should be paid.
I have also considered Mr Hs comments about renting the property out while work continued 
on repairs. I agree that it would have been difficult for Mr H to find a tenant to occupy an 
unfurnished property while work is ongoing. However it was his choice not to pursue the 
possibility of renting it out at a reduced rate. The policy covers only for loss of rent when the 
property is uninhabitable and not for when it is more difficult to rent out, and this is common 
in landlord insurance policies. So it would have been possible for Mr H to mitigate his losses 
by pursuing this route, even though it would have been more difficult. 
Impact
As I said, I agree that this claim has been progressed more slowly than it should have been. 
And that Legal & General has provided por customer service. Mr H has had to chase it and its agents up throughout and there have been periods of unexplained inactivity that has 
delayed the claim for a number of months. Further Legal & General originally said that the 
claim would be resolved by August 2019. But the final schedule of work wasnt signed off 
until the beginning of 2020. And there seems to be little explanation for why this substantial 
delay has been caused. From looking at the correspondence and evidence provided from 
both sides I think there has been around six months of unexplained delays throughout this 
claim that could have been avoided by Legal & General. 
I have considered the impact this has had on Mr H. I can see that he has had to contact 
Legal & General and its agents regularly in order to get updates and to move work along. 
And that it was only when he raised a complaint that the claim was proactively moved 
forward. This would have been very inconvenient for Mr H as he had to regularly chase 
Legal & General in order to make progress. 
However I have also considered that the property is a rental property and not Mr Hs 
residential home. So although the claim taking longer than it should, would no doubt cause 
him inconvenience, the impact of ongoing damage and repairs would have less impact than 
if it was taking place in his home. 
Mr H has explained the financial impact this has had on him and the on his plans for his 
retirement. I appreciate it would have been distressing for him to bear the burden of 
additional financial costs that he hadnt planned for. Particularly as the claim took longer to 
resolve than it should have.
Having considered everything I agree that the £500 compensation offered by our investigator 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances and is in line with our approach to other cases. I 
will therefore require Legal & General to pay Mr H a total of £500 compensation, including 
any amounts already paid.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I require Legal & General Insurance Limited to pay Mr H a total 
of £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused, to include any 
amounts already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman