DRN-3632540
The complaint
Mr M complains that he was given false and misleading information regarding the increase in 
overdraft interest rates and charges by TSB Bank plc (TSB).  
What happened
Mr M held an account with TSB with an overdraft facility. Following a review into the cost of 
credit TSB increased its charges for this facility from 2 April 2020. All customers were given 
two months notice of the increase in charges. Due to the pandemic support measures were 
put in place and the increase was delayed until 8 July 2020 and for customers who required 
additional support October 2020.
Mr Ms interest rate on his overdraft didnt increase until October 2020 and the following 
month he repaid his overdraft in full.
Mr M complained to TSB about the increase in its charging structure on his overdraft during 
a difficult time financially for him and that it mis-informed him of the reasons for the change.  
In particular that the FCA had put in place that every bank had to charge the same amount.
TSB apologised for the incorrect information Mr M was given for its reasoning in increasing 
its overdraft charges but said the increases were in line with the FCAs regulations and the 
correct notice was given.
Mr M was dis-satisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ms concerns and reached the conclusion that 
although TSB had mis-informed Mr M of its reasons for changing its pricing structure, being 
a commercial decision, it was entitled to do so. And that this didnt cause Mr M any dis-
advantage or loss as the pricing structure was going to change regardless of the reasons 
and so didnt think TSB needed to do anything more. 
Mr M disagreed. He says TSB repeatedly mis-informed him about his financial options which 
put him in a worse financial situation. So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I hope that Mr M wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint in the way 
that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service and Ive concentrated on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint  our rules allow me to do that.
And the crux of Mr Ms complaint is that he was given misleading information regarding the 
change in TSBs pricing structure of its overdraft facility. But before I go any further, I want to 
be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the various amounts TSB charged over 
the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the costs of the 
service provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services and its reasons why is a commercial 
decision. Just like it is up to Mr M to decide whether to accept what TSB is offering or to take 
his business elsewhere. And providing TSB notified Mr M of the change in its pricing 
structure in line with the terms and conditions of the account, it isnt something for me to get 
involved with. 
And from what I can see TSB did give Mr M two months notice (more than the 30 days 
notice that was required under the terms and conditions of his account), as well as offering 
him help additional support until October 2020. I accept Mr M was given incorrect 
information regarding the reasons for the change, but I dont think that this wouldve made a 
material difference to Mr Ms financial situation as the change in pricing structure was going 
to happen regardless of the reasons Mr M was given. 
Mr M says he was told by TSB that every bank was putting its interest rates up. But whether 
this was the case or not TSB is under no obligation to inform Mr M of what its competitors 
were offering. And by Mr Ms own admission he thought this sounded suspicious and called 
the regulatory body to check  so I think it is likely he understood charging rates werent 
necessarily going to be the same at other banks. Ultimately it is up to Mr M to manage his 
own finances and decide if he is happy with what TSB is offering or to shop around for a 
better deal.
That said, while Im not looking at TSBs various charging structures or processes per se, it 
wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr M if it applied any interest, fees and 
charges to Mr Ms account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to have been aware Mr M was experiencing financial difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where TSB didnt treat Mr M fairly and 
reasonably. I dont think that TSB did treat Mr M unfairly or unreasonably here though. I say 
this because having looked at Mr Ms bank statements I cant see anything to suggest that 
TSB ought to have realised he might have been experiencing financial difficulty prior to being 
notified of this in 2020. 
I can see from Mr Ms statements that he was able at times to repay his overdraft in full in 
the years leading up to this. And in November 2020, Mr M was able to use alternative forms 
of credit to repay his overdraft facility in full to avoid paying a higher rate of interest when it 
came into effect for him. 
One may argue that regular use of an overdraft was in itself an indication that they are 
struggling. But while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over Mr Ms 
expenditure, nonetheless there are significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual 
and discretionary transactions. And I can also see that Mr M while clearly making use of his 
overdraft facility he wasnt always at the top of his limit, had regular credits coming in and Mr 
M was able to transfer funds into his account from other accounts that held credit balances if 
he needed to. 
I accept this doesnt necessarily mean that Mr M wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. But 
there isnt anything in these transactions in themselves which ought to have alerted TSB to 
any potential financial difficulty.
So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for TSB to proceed with 
adding the interest, fees and charges it did in light of how Mr Ms account was being used. 
And although Mr M may have been incorrectly advised about the reasons for the change in TSBs charging structure, I dont think this wouldve made a difference to his financial 
circumstances.  
So it follows I wont be asking TSB to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman