DRN-1716713
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G says they were mis-sold a mortgage endowment policy by Britannia Building 
Society, which is now part of The Co-operative Bank Plc.
Any mention of The Co-operative Bank in this decision should be taken to mean Britannia 
Building Society where appropriate.
What happened
The policy started in August 1989; it was a with-profits policy, had a target amount of 
£30,000, a 25-year term, and the premium was £39 a month. 
Mr and Mrs G sold the house and repaid the mortgage in May 1992, and then Mr and Mrs G 
surrendered the policy in October 1997, receiving a £2,829.11 surrender value.
Unfortunately, due to the passage of time, only limited documentation is available from the 
time of the sale.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. He thought the policy wasnt unsuitable for 
Mr and Mrs G based on their circumstances and the general financial climate in 1989. 
Mr and Mrs G disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I go any further, I need to pick up on a point made by Mr and Mrs G. Theyve said 
We sold our first home a few years later and the mortgage ceased, but we had lost a lot of 
money which we had saved for our home and we have not afforded our own home since. I 
dont know what Mr and Mrs G sold their house for, and whether that caused the loss of 
money theyve mentioned. But I can reassure them that the endowment policy wasnt 
responsible as a repayment mortgage wouldnt have decreased by much at all in such a 
short period of time.
Mr and Mrs G only owned the house  and therefore had the endowment-supported 
mortgage  between August 1989 and May 1992. They took a £2,000 further advance in 
November 1991 which its recorded was for essential works to the property. It was also 
recorded that Mr and Mrs G werent living in the property when they took the further advance 
as they were living in accommodation provided by Mr Gs employers, and that the property 
was already on the market at that time. Although the further advance was taken on an 
interest-only basis, the endowment policy wasnt increased to cover the extra amount, nor 
was a further policy taken out.
As Mr and Mrs G had the mortgage and further advance for such a short period of time, if 
theyd taken a repayment mortgage the debt would only have decreased by about £1,000; 
that is, they would have owed around £31,000 rather than around £32,000 when they sold 
their house. And over that period the monthly mortgage costs would have been broadly the 
same; that is, comparing the monthly cost of Mr and Mrs Gs interest-only mortgage and 
endowment premiums to an equivalent repayment mortgage plus decreasing term 
assurance premiums.
I dont know how much Mr and Mrs G would have received if theyd chosen to surrender 
their endowment policy when they sold their house in May 1992 and whether that would 
have offset the £1,000 they lost by not having a repayment mortgage for that period. But I 
do know that when they eventually chose to surrender the policy in October 1997, they 
received a £2,829.11 payment.
Unfortunately, because Mr and Mrs G have left it so long to complain about this policy, much 
of the information and documentation that would normally be relevant is no longer available. 
But Ive looked at what both sides have said. As Mr and Mrs G are the ones bringing the 
complaint against The Co-operative Bank, to uphold the complaint Mr and Mrs Gs version 
needs to be more likely than The Co-operative Banks version; not just as likely. And having 
considered everything, on balance I cant say that Mr and Mrs Gs version is anything other 
than just as likely. 
It is not for me to re-advise Mr and Mrs G, or substitute what I think would have been best 
for them in 1989. All I can do is look at the evidence and form a view as to whether the sale 
was bad. I must also not use hindsight in making a decision. At the time of the sale these 
policies were seen as low risk. They were thought as suitable for most (but not all).
Mr and Mrs G say they wouldnt have taken a risk. Whilst I acknowledge what theyre saying 
its not unusual for consumers to say this now, when bringing a complaint about investment 
risk, despite their attitude to risk being discussed and them having been willing to take some 
risk at the time of the sale. Its unfortunate the documents to show what was discussed are 
no longer available, but thats understandable as the policys not been in force for so long. 
So I need to look at Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances at the time.
At the time of the sale Mr and Mrs G were in their 20s. Mr G was employed on a farm 
earning £8,840 a year, and Mrs G worked for a bank earning £6,000 a year. They were 
buying a house for £54,000 and putting down a £24,000 deposit, meaning they needed a 
mortgage of £30,000. Theres nothing in those circumstances that would indicate they 
couldnt take a low level of risk (as these policies were considered at the time).
Whilst the illustration isnt available it seems likely this would have been in the format that 
was standard across the industry at the time. This would have shown the potential maturity 
value at different growth rates; the lower likely showing a possible shortfall, the upper a 
possible surplus, and the middle showing the policy meeting its target amount. 
Ive no reason to think the illustration wouldnt have been in that standard format, or that 
Mr and Mrs G would have gone ahead with the policy without seeing an illustration showing 
them what they were buying and how much it would cost each month. As this illustration 
would have shown a possibility of a shortfall, I cant safely say Mr and Mrs G took the policy 
unaware of the risk.
The illustration would also have contained warnings such as:
These figures are only examples and are not guaranteed  they are not minimum or 
maximum amounts. What you will get back depends on investment growth.
You could get back more or less than this.Its not possible for me to know with certainty what was said at the time of the sale. Its 
difficult for me to conclude that, on balance, the policy was clearly unsuitable. It is also very 
difficult to be sure the policy was misrepresented to Mr and Mrs G such that now, over 30 
years later, the business should pay compensation. Certainly, I havent seen enough to 
conclude that a guarantee was given as to the policys performance. 
Ive no doubt the policy was spoken of in very positive terms. Whether that went too far isnt 
something Ive seen persuasive evidence of. In any event Id have to take into account that 
whatever was said at the time of the sale, at least some documentation would have given to 
Mr and Mrs G that would have shown them there was a risk with this policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs G to accept or reject my decision before 24 September 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman