DRN-3292926
The complaint
Mr T has complained about the service he received from Halifax Share Dealing Limited 
when he asked it to close his share dealing account.
What happened
Mr T asked Halifax to close his account on 29 March 2021 and was advised he would 
receive confirmation by letter that his account was closed within 90 days. Mr T felt this 
timeframe was excessive. 
On 1 July 2021 Mr T still hadnt received confirmation that the account was closed, so he 
contacted Halifax to raise a complaint. Halifax confirmed that the account was closed on 7 
April 2021 but due to a processing error the letter hadnt been sent. It sent a further letter 
that day and advised it would look into Mr Ts complaint. 
Halifax advised it sent a final response letter addressing Mr Ts concerns on 2 July 2021. But 
Mr T didnt receive this letter, so Halifax sent the letter again on 21 July 2021. It confirmed 
Mr T hadnt received the service it would usually expect and offered him £30 for not issuing 
the closure letter. Mr T remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ts concerns but she felt that Halifax had done enough to 
rectify the error it had made and the inconvenience it had caused Mr T. Mr T didnt agree 
and asked for the case to be passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. I will 
explain why. 
I appreciate that Mr T was under the impression that he would receive a letter to confirm his 
account had closed. And I agree that the timescale which was advised did seem slightly 
excessive. However, I acknowledge that this was during the pandemic when businesses 
were experiencing larger backlogs than usual. With this in mind, I can understand Mr Ts 
frustration when he hadnt received the letter in the time scale Halifax had advised.
However, I have also considered the fact that while Mr T hadnt received notification that his 
account had closed, his account actually closed on 7 April 2021. This was eight days after 
he requested it to do so. Having reviewed Halifaxs terms and conditions I am satisfied 
Halifax acted in accordance with them in relation to the closure of the account. 
I understand that Mr T was told he would receive a letter confirming the account was closed 
and I agree Halifax should have done this. But due to a processing error, unfortunately the 
letter wasnt sent. But when looking at the overall impact this had on Mr T I feel while it 
cause some degree of inconvenience with Mr T having to chase Halifax regarding the 
matter, I cant see that there was any other impact on Mr T. And I am satisfied there was no 
financial loss. With that in mind I am satisfied Halifaxs offer of £30 compensation puts this 
right. As such, I wont be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that Halifax Share Dealing Limited has already done enough to put things right for 
Mr T and is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his complaint. And Im not requiring it to do 
anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman