DRN-3139053
The complaint
Mr P has complained about Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy that it 
would only pay part of his claim under his motor insurance policy.
  
What happened
I looked at this case and provided my initial thoughts in my provisional decision as follows;
Mr P made a claim under his insurance policy after his car suffered damage to the sump and 
lost oil. Mr P initially didnt realise there was a problem but stopped immediately when his 
engine dashboard light came on and he got his car recovered.
Mr P initially thought his car would be fixed for less than his excess. But it later transpired 
that there were additional problems and eventually his engine seized. When Markerstudy 
looked into the claim it said it would only pay part of the claim (around £1,000) and wouldnt 
pay for the engine. This was because it felt that Mr P had caused drive-on damage as he 
drove the car about 14 miles after the initial incident. So Mr P complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him and upheld his complaint. She was satisfied that 
Mr P only drove about a mile after the incident and acted as soon as he noticed a problem. 
And as such she felt that Markerstudy should reconsider the claim in line with the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy; reimburse the costs Mr P has paid to date in attempting to 
repair his car; refund some of his hire car costs; cover any shortfall Mr P incurs when selling 
the car he bought to stay mobile once this claim is settled; and pay Mr P £400 compensation 
for the trouble and upset hes been caused by all of this.
As Markerstudy didnt agree, maintaining that drive-on damage caused the engine to seize, 
the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although this claim and complaint has been drawn out I dont propose to go over the finer 
detail of the case as this is well known to both sides. So Ill stick to the key issues in deciding 
this case, which is whether Mr P caused drive-on damage causing the engine to seize and 
what, if anything, needs to happen to put things right.
Markerstudy accept that Mr Ps claim is genuine and have offered to pay the initial damage 
costs of around £1,000 which Mr P paid initially to the repairing garage. However, it 
maintains Mr P caused additional damage by, in effect, recklessly continuing to drive his car 
after something caused damage to the underside of his car. It argued that Mr P drove for 
about 14 miles after the initial incident but that isnt correct.
Mr P was away from home working and maintains that he heard a small knock but didnt 
realise this was an issue while parking his car. And he later drove for about a mile after that 
before warning lights appeared on his dashboard and so he stopped. He then called a 
breakdown agent and was recovered to a garage for repair.
The repair of Mr Ps car was drawn out and I think this has impacted Markerstudys 
understanding about what happened. I say this as the car was returned to Mr P at a later 
stage when some repairs had been undertaken and it was at this point that Mr P drove 
around 14 miles before contacting the garage as he had further problems. But this was a few 
weeks later and not at the time of the incident. And Markerstudy havent reconsidered this 
when our investigator pointed it out, when I would have expected it to.
Instead, it maintained the damage was caused around the scene of the impact that Mr P 
described. But, as our investigator explained, I dont think Markerstudy have provided 
sufficient evidence to support its position. The sump was clearly damaged, and the recovery 
driver and Mr P clearly describe a trail of oil around the point the car was stopped and along 
the road before. As such I think Mr P acted reasonably and stopped his car when his 
warning light came on which is consistent with the spread of oil on the road.
I know Markerstudy feel the damaged caused to the sump was significant and that Mr P 
should have been aware at the point of impact. But I havent seen anything to say this is the 
case and I accept that Mr P didnt realise the level of damage initially. And stopped as soon 
as the engine light came on as he realised there was a problem. Indeed, I dont think the 
repairing garage would have even attempted to repair the sump and engine if it was clear 
there wasnt any oil in the engine and there hadnt been for a period of time as Markerstudy 
has suggested.
So, I agree that the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of this 
case is for Markerstudy to reconsider Mr Ps claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy. And it is only fair that it pays the additional costs Mr P has incurred 
and £400 compensation for the stress, trouble and inconvenience caused. Mr P has had to 
borrow money from friends and family in order to stay mobile and had to deal with the claim 
and his car being a long way from home, so I think this level of compensation seems fair.
Plus, he has incurred additional costs as he didnt have a car. So Markerstudy should also 
pay for the short period he had to hire a car when it was due to collect his car but chose not 
to. And cover any loss incurred on his replacement vehicle if he chooses to sell it when this 
claim is finalised.
Finally, I understand that Mr P has been approached by the original repairing garage about 
storage costs. And I agree with the investigator that Markerstudy should discuss this with the 
repairing garage and come to an agreement about these. It would appear that the garage 
never told Mr P about the possibility of storage costs during the early stages of this claim. 
But Mr P believed that he wouldnt be able to prove his claim if he removed the vehicle which 
he says was confirmed by Markerstudy. I know Markerstudy says it wouldnt be responsible 
for the storage costs, but I havent been provided with anything to say it told Mr P this and it 
was due to collect his car in order to inspect it and take on the claim. And had it have done 
so this problem wouldnt have occurred. So I feel it is fair for Markerstudy to take 
responsibility for this and negotiate the release of the vehicle with the garage.
Replies and developments
Both sides responded to my provisional decision. Mr P accepted the position outlined and 
didnt have anything further to add.
While Markerstudy said that it still thought that the damage was caused in the original 
incident. It said that the images of the damaged sump suggests that the original damage would not have been a slight knock implying that Mr P should have been immediately 
aware that there was a problem and not driven any further. And said that it shouldnt be 
responsible for any storage costs incurred before it was notified of the incident. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im still minded to uphold this complaint. Ive already considered in detail 
when the damage was caused. Markerstudy now accepts that Mr P didnt drive his car for 14 
miles. But suggest that Mr P should have stopped his car immediately given the level of 
damage his car sustained to the sump. 
But Im satisfied that Mr P wasnt reckless and wasnt aware of the level of damage 
sustained to his car when he heard a small knock. He later drove his car for about a mile and 
stopped the car as soon as the warning lights came on. Indeed, the recovery driver confirms 
that there was a trail of oil leading up to his car which is consistent with Mr Ps account. 
Given all of this I think Mr P acted reasonably and Markerstudy should deal with the claim as 
outlined in my provisional decision. And I agree that it should only be responsible for the 
storage costs incurred from the time Mr P notified it about the claim. 
  
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Markerstudy 
Insurance Company Limited to;
reconsider Mr Ps claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, 
adding 8% simple interest from the date of claim to the date of settlement if it makes 
a total loss payment;
reimburse the costs Mr P incurred when the first repairs were undertaken, less the 
excess due, adding 8% simple interest from the date of claim to date of settlement;
pay the hire car costs Mr P incurred subject to Mr P providing reasonable proof plus 
8% simple interest from the date of payment until the date of settlement; 
finalise any outstanding storage costs with the repairing garage from the date Mr P 
notified it of the claim;
refund any loss Mr P incurs if he sells the car he had to purchase in order to stay 
mobile; and
 pay Mr P £400 compensation.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman