DRN-3170948
The complaint
Mr S complains about the way American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL)  Ill 
refer to it as American Express  handled a chargeback claim he sought to make when he 
couldnt go on holiday during the Covid-19 pandemic.
What happened
Mr S used his American Express card to pay a deposit for a holiday overseas, which he 
booked through a third party A. Unfortunately, shortly before the balance fell due, the UK 
and other governments  notably, the one in the country to which Mr S intended to holiday  
brought in travel and other restrictions due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Mr S wasnt able to 
travel. He contacted A to see if it would refund his payment.
A wasnt willing to do so. It said the Covid-19 pandemic represented a force majeure event 
(one in which the contract could not be performed due to factors over which the parties had 
no control), but that it would be retaining his deposit to cover costs it had incurred. It said 
Mr S could make another booking but would have to keep to the payment schedule to avoid 
losing the deposit. Mr S was unwilling to pay further money towards the payment schedule 
and so his booking lapsed. He turned to American Express to see if it could assist in 
recovering his money.
American Express instigated a chargeback claim against A and credited his account with the 
deposit amount. It twice told him that the credit wouldnt be reversed, but this is what 
happened following As response to the chargeback claim. American Express has 
acknowledged it gave Mr S wrong information in this respect and offered him £75 
compensation. But it says it wasnt wrong to redebit Mr Ss account. It says its letters told 
Mr S this was a possibility, depending on As response. And A had come back with 
documents contesting the chargeback, including the booking terms that it said entitled it to 
retain the deposit.
Our investigator thought the £75 American Express had offered was a fair way to address 
the incorrect information it gave Mr S. But he didnt agree that As deposit retention policy 
provided a suitable defence in the circumstances at play in Mr Ss case. The investigator 
noted that at the time Mr S contacted A, the government restrictions were already in place in 
the country Mr S was planning to visit. Those restrictions prevented inbound and outbound 
flights as well as various activities that were the primary purpose of Mr Ss booking.
The investigator considered this meant A was unable to ensure performance of the contract 
it had with Mr S. That amounted to a frustrated contract, which was established prior to the 
point at which A had sought to terminate it (the date by which the balance was past due). 
The investigator further noted guidance from the Competitions and Markets Authority (CMA) 
that suggested where a contract couldnt go ahead because of lockdown laws, it would 
expect a business to provide a full refund. He felt this should apply in Mr Ss case, further 
noting that the contract between Mr S and A made no provision for retention due to fees or 
other costs.
The investigator concluded that American Express therefore hadnt treated Mr S fairly in 
accepting the defence A put forward in response to the chargeback claim. He proposed that 
in addition to the £75 offered, American Express should refund Mr S the £400 deposit hed 
paid, with interest.
American Express hasnt accepted the investigators recommendation. It maintains that A 
was entitled to retain the deposit under the booking terms.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im disappointed to note that despite several requests from our investigator, 
American Express hasnt engaged with the issue of the CMA guidance, or the inability of A 
to perform the contract as agreed. The detail of the holiday arrangements that form the 
contract between Mr S and A appear to meet the definition set out in the Package Travel and 
Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018, which among other things makes A 
responsible for performance of the included travel services.
Based on the timeline, there seems to me no question that the contract between Mr S and A 
was frustrated as a result of the restrictions put in place due to the Covid-19 pandemic. As 
own position in response to Mr Ss initial contact was that the pandemic restrictions 
amounted to a force majeure event. It appears to have accepted, then, prior to the balance 
becoming due, that it was not in a position to perform its obligations under the agreement.
Where this is the case, the usual remedy in law for a frustrated contract is that the parties 
are released from their respective obligations and as far as possible, their original positions 
are restored with the contract coming to an end. That would mean Mr S had no obligation to 
pay the holiday balance to A by the specified date, and that A had no contractual right to 
retain his deposit on the basis that he had failed to do so. The defence on which A relied and 
American Express accepted  that the booking terms entitled A to retain payment  doesnt 
appear to me to be supported by the evidence it had available at the time.
Im not entirely sure that the reason code used for the chargeback claim was the correct one. 
Although the services werent provided to Mr S, the obligation to do so no longer existed. As 
such, it might have been more appropriate to raise the claim on a credit not processed 
basis, should that be a valid chargeback ground in the American Express card scheme rules. 
I cant be certain of this as American Express has declined to provide a full set of the 
chargeback reasons. But it does seem even less likely that Mr S would have had full 
knowledge of the various reasons under which he might be able to raise a claim. So I think it 
was for American Express to ensure the most appropriate reason was used when it 
progressed the claim on his behalf.
I note that the CMA guidance is a) not a definitive explanation of the accepted legal position 
and b) was issued a week or so after American Express sent its letter informing Mr S that the 
chargeback claim had been defended. However, I do not think either of these things 
prevented American Express from taking the guidance into account when Mr S told it he was 
unhappy with the claim outcome. To me it seems to address directly the situation American 
Express was being asked to deal with, and as such informs whether American Express 
treated Mr S fairly in dealing with the dispute. Given that American Express hasnt suggested 
it considered the CMA guidance, Im sorry to say that I find it didnt treat him fairly.
Had it done so, I think its more likely than not that these two factors would have present a 
strong rebuttal of As position and the outcome of Mr Ss chargeback claim would have been 
quite different. The absence of any valid contractual provision entitling A to retain the deposit or fees/costs incurred suggests to me that it would be obliged to restore Mr Ss position by 
refunding him in full. Although it is potentially open to Mr S to seek recovery from A through 
other channels, such as a legal claim, this would undoubtedly put him to additional cost and 
inconvenience which would have been avoided had American Express dealt with his claim 
fairly.
Putting things right
In the circumstances, I think the fair way to resolve matters would be as the investigator 
suggested; that is, that American Express pays Mr S £400, with interest, in addition to the 
£75 it has offered for the other customer service shortcomings identified.
My final decision
My final decision is that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) should, within 
28 days of Mr S accepting my decision, take the following steps:
1. unless it has already done so, pay Mr S the £75 it offered representing suitable 
compensation for the distress he experienced due to the incorrect information it gave 
him
2. pay Mr S £400 representing the deposit A retained that he should have been able to 
recover via chargeback. Mr S should be aware that accepting this might well have an 
impact on any right he might have to seek recovery of this sum from A
3. pay interest on the amount in 2., calculated at 8% simple annually from 22 
September 2020 (being the point at which it should have represented the chargeback 
claim) until the date it pays this settlement. If American Express deducts tax from the 
interest element of my award, it should confirm to Mr S that it has done so and 
provide him with the relevant tax deduction certificate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman