DRN-1586578
 
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with how Bank of Scotland plc (trading as "Halifax") has treated him when 
dealing with his mortgage arrears. 
What happened
Mr A has been in arrears with his mortgage since 2008, and Halifax obtained an outright 
possession order in 2013. Despite the situation worsening over the years, Halifax hasn't 
enforced the order and taken possession of Mr A's property.
We've dealt with previous complaints from Mr A over time, and so this decision will only be 
dealing with what's happened since we last reviewed matters in 2016.
In March 2016 Halifax agreed to accept reduced payments of £670 a month (against the 
contractual payment of around £1,450 a month). Mr A says he asked to change his 
mortgage to interest-only but was told he couldn't do this, and so the reduced payment plan 
was set instead. Halifax says this was reviewable on a six-monthly basis, whereas Mr A says 
it was set for two years. He also says he was told if he didn't miss any of the (reduced) 
payments for the two-year period then Halifax could decide whether to allow him to move to 
interest-only and capitalise his arrears. He says he didn't miss any of the payments.
Mr A was unhappy when he received a statement later in 2016 showing arrears had built up 
(due to the reduced payments). Despite this, Mr A carried on paying the reduced amount 
until March 2018 (albeit some payments were paid late).
In June 2018 Halifax credited a refund to Mr A's account following a remediation exercise of 
how it historically handled mortgage arrears.
Mr A complained to Halifax. Some parts of the complaint Halifax said it had previously 
answered, so wouldn't be dealing with again. This left the following issues that can be dealt 
with here:
a call he received in March 2019 in which Mr A says the staff member was 
unprofessional, 
the June 2018 remediation exercise, and
the March 2016 payment arrangement.
 
Our investigator didn't think Halifax had done anything wrong and so didn't uphold the 
complaint. Mr A didn't agree and so it's been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be 
the crux of the complaint. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not 
considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right 
outcome.
This service is impartial between, and independent of, consumers and businesses. What this 
means is that we dont represent either party. Were required to decide whats fair and 
reasonable having assessed all the available evidence from the parties.
Mr A indicated he wanted to send some more information to us, but despite various chase 
ups for this (since January 2020) weve not received anything further. I cant keep complaints 
on hold indefinitely, and so Im issuing this decision without waiting any longer.
Mr A says the March 2016 payment arrangement was for two years and that he didn't realise 
his arrears would increase during that time. He also said he understood Halifax would 
consider switching the account to interest-only and consolidating the arrears at the end if all 
the payments were made. I've considered these points carefully but I'm not persuaded by 
them.
Mr A has said he asked for a switch to interest-only and Halifax said no, offering the reduced 
payment arrangement instead. So it follows, as his account was on a repayment basis 
(which had a contractual monthly payment of about £1,450) and Mr A was only paying £670 
a month then his arrears would increase each month. There's nothing to indicate this was a 
fixed two-year payment arrangement; it was noted at the time that it was set up on a six-
monthly reviewable basis. There's also nothing to show Halifax said it would consider a 
permanent switch to interest-only and/or a consolidation of the arrears. In fact the opposite is 
true, as both these points were dealt with in the previous complaints we dealt with where 
Halifax said neither was an option.
Mr A says he wouldn't have agreed to it if he'd known his arrears would continue to increase. 
But it seems Mr A had no other option as despite becoming aware of the increasing arrears 
situation a few months after the payment arrangement was put in force, Mr A still continued 
to make those reduced payments for another two years.
I've considered the call between Mr A and Halifax on 18 March 2019. The call was to follow 
up on the letter Halifax sent Mr A on 1 March 2019. That letter said that as Mr A hadn't kept 
to the terms agreed then an eviction order could be sought. It said Mr A needed to contact 
Halifax, and if he didn't do so then it may instruct its solicitors to enforce the possession 
order. As Mr A hadn't got in touch with Halifax, it got in touch with him.
Mr A says it was blackmail and unprofessional of Halifax to insist on payment that day but 
that's not the case. Whilst Mr A says Halifax allowed him to only pay £1,000 in February, that 
underpayment still breached the agreement which meant the 1 March letter and then the 18 
March call were both fairly due. By the time of the call a review had been undertaken with 
the decision made that the possession order would be enforced unless a certain amount was 
paid that day. That's a decision Halifax was entitled to make and it would be inappropriate 
for me to interfere with that.
Mr A has asked about the remediation exercise that was carried out in June 2018. One thing 
he has said is that the refund was made to the mortgage account, not the arrears. But that's 
correct. The remediation exercise was undertaken to refund some fees that shouldn't have 
been charged. As those fees didn't form part of the arrears balance the refund of them 
equally couldn't be paid to that balance. The exercise was set-up to put the account back in 
the position it would have been in had the fees not been charged, and had they not been 
charged then the arrears balance would have still been the same (as that amount relates to monthly instalments Mr A should have paid and hadn't). It would be entirely wrong of Halifax 
to take the fees refund off the arrears balance that Mr A owes.
Wed expect a lender to look at offering help to consumers going through a temporary 
problem, especially in situations where it can be seen their situation is likely to improve. The 
difficulty here is that Mr As difficulty in getting on top of his arrears has been anything but 
temporary. Theres no doubt he's gone through very difficult times, and continues to do 
so. The pressure to make his mortgage payments against such a backdrop must have been 
immense for Mr A, and Im not unsympathetic towards him in that regard. But our impartiality 
means we must also have regard for Halifaxs point of view. 
From Halifaxs side, Mr A owes it money and has been in arrears for a very long time. It's 
had an outright possession order in place since 2013 yet it's allowed Mr A to remain in his 
property despite the worsening arrears situation. Having considered everything it seems 
Halifax has showed patience and leniency towards Mr A for many years and it isnt obliged 
to do so indefinitely. I understand Mr A is already in contact with Citizens Advice and I can 
only suggest that he seeks further help from them if he feels he needs that additional advice 
and support in dealing with his mortgage arrears.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means well not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion on 
the merits of it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman