DRN-4471372
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (Clydesdale) rejected his claim against it under sections 75 and 140 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974
What happened
Mr C bought a solar panel system (the system) for his home in 2012. The purchase was 
funded by a loan from Clydesdale. In 2021, a claims management company (the CMC) 
made a claim to Clydesdale on Mr Cs behalf under sections 75 and 140 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (the Act).
Clydesdale rejected the claim on the grounds it had been bought too late due to the 
provisions of the Limitation Act 1980.
The CMC then made a complaint about Clydesdales response. Clydesdale rejected this 
complaint, so the CMC asked the Financial Ombudsman Service to look into what 
happened.
Mr Cs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. They recommended the 
complaint be upheld. The investigator thought that the claim under section 140 had been 
made in time, which Clydesdale has not disputed. And that the alleged 
misrepresentations were relevant to the fairness of the relationship between Mr C and 
Clydesdale under section 140 of the Act.
The investigators assessment was that Mr Cs recollection was likely accurate in terms of 
what he was told at the time of sale, and that the sales documents werent clear enough for 
him to realise this was wrong. And this made Clydesdales relationship with Mr C unfair on 
him so Clydesdale should put things right.
Clydesdale disagreed. It said it was unlikely that Mr C was told the system would be self- 
funding when the sales documents showed it would not be.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved by our investigator, Ive been asked to make a 
decision.
I issued a provisional decision explaining that I was not planning to uphold this complaint. 
This allowed Mr C and Clydesdale the opportunity to respond with anything further they 
wanted me to take into account when making my final decision. Clydesdale responded to 
say they had nothing further to add. Mr C nor the CMC responded by the given deadline. So, 
this final decision is in line with my provisional one  and I do not uphold this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have the power to look at this complaint about whether Clydesdales response to the claim 
was fair and reasonable. In doing so, I can take into account the representations of the 
supplier during the sale, because Section 56 of the Act says that any negotiations between 
Mr C and the supplier are deemed to have been conducted by the supplier as an agent of 
the credit provider. 
Since I can look at the allegations under section 140 of the Act, I do not need to consider 
section 75.
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I do not uphold this complaint.
I do not find Mr Cs recollection of events to be plausible and persuasive. The description of 
what he was told is inconsistent and/or contradictory, including the following statements 
made either in the letter of claim or when speaking to our investigator:
The system would pay for itself within eight years.
The benefits of the system would cover the monthly loan repayments.
The system would pay for itself within the ten-year loan term.
I think there is a clear difference between the systems benefits covering the monthly loan 
repayments, which would mean they met or exceeded the monthly loan repayments from the 
start, and the system paying for itself within 8-10 years, which would allow the benefits to be 
less than the monthly loan repayments at the start but increase over time to exceed them 
and the overall cost in the stated timeframes.
So, I dont think I can rely solely on Mr Cs recollection to determine what he was most likely 
to have been told. As such, I think the sales documents provide important information about 
what Mr C was likely told, as they would probably have been discussed when they were 
provided to him. I have seen the sales documents, including the sales contract and loan 
agreement  both of which Mr C signed.
This sales contract set out the cash price of the system (£9,895.50) directly underneath the 
total estimated year one (£696.25) and year five (£898.029) benefit of the system. 
These figures make it clear the benefits would not cover the monthly loan repayments from 
the start (or by year five), given that neither benefit figure is 10% or more than the cash price 
of the system (the loan being repayable over ten years). And this is before taking into 
account the loan interest, which increased what Mr C had agreed to pay overall.
The loan agreement sets out that the loan is repayable over 120 monthly repayments 
of £139.89 each and the total amount payable is £16,786.80. While this was not signed by 
Mr C until after the sales contract, I think this would reinforce or confirm the information from 
the sales contract which indicated the benefits would not cover the loan repayments for at 
least the first five years.
With all of this in mind, I think it is unlikely that Mr C wouldve been told that the benefits 
would cover the monthly loan repayments.
I am also not persuaded that it is likely Mr C wouldve been told the system would be self-
funding within eight years or within the ten-year loan term. The information in the 
documents do not suggest that is likely. And given Mr Cs contradictory descriptions of what 
he was told, I do not think his recollection is enough for me to conclude that he was told this 
despite what the sales contract showed.Overall, I am not persuaded there was a misrepresentation that created an unfair 
relationship between Mr C and Clydesdale. So, while Clydesdale couldve been more 
thorough in its response to the claim  by dealing with the section 140 claim which was 
bought in time  I do not think it acted unreasonably in declining Mr Cs claim. So, I do not 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman