DRN-2836166
The complaint
 Mr C is unhappy that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited terminated a successful 
claim hed made on his income protection policy. 
What happened
Mr C had an employers group income protection policy with L&G.  In January 2019 Mr C 
became absent from work as a global director due to anxiety, depression and presenting 
with suicidal tendencies. 
So Mr C made a claim on his income protection policy. L&G accepted the claim and started 
paying his benefit following the 26-week deferral period. 
In March 2021 L&G wrote to Mr C to let him know they were terminating his claim following 
an independent medical examiners (IME) report. L&G said Mr C wasnt suffering from a 
mental health condition, so he no longer met the policy definition of incapacity. They also 
raised concerns he wasnt engaging in the relevant support to return to work. So the benefit 
payments were stopped. 
Mr C appealed but was unsuccessful, so he raised a complaint. L&G said Mr Cs continued 
absence was related to his personal circumstances and issues relating to his close family, 
rather than an illness preventing him from being able to work. 
Unhappy, Mr C complained to our service. Our investigator looked into what had happened 
and upheld the complaint as she didnt think L&G had enough medical evidence to show Mr 
C no longer met the definition of incapacity She noted that he was still completing a course 
of Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT) and remained on medication. So, she thought L&G 
should reinstate the claim and backdate the benefit payments. She also said L&G should 
pay £200 compensation to Mr C for the distress and inconvenience he suffered during this 
time. 
Mr C accepted the decision. L&G said they hadnt had sight of one of the psychiatrists report 
the investigator has referred to in their view - so we provided a copy. After review of the 
psychiatrists report L&G maintained their position that Mr C wasnt suffering from a health 
condition that prevented him from working. So they asked for an ombudsman to review the 
case. 
In summary L&G said: 
Mr C is suffering from symptoms of stress caused by his family situation and a 
change in his wellbeing is to be expected until these family matters are resolved.
We hadnt given enough weight to the delays caused by Mr C in receiving treatment 
and his unwillingness to engage in support to help aid his recovery.
Mr C is capable of functioning in his role due to his ability to deal with other aspects 
of his life such as family legal proceedings, his role as a company director and caring 
for his children 45% of the time. They say if he was medically incapacitated, hed be 
unable to successfully engage in all these activities. They also pointed out Mr C 
seemed to be able to generally function at a high level in disputes relating to the 
claim. 
So the case has now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  The relevant rules and industry guidelines say L&G has a responsibility not to terminate 
claims unfairly. And, as L&G accepted the claim its for them to demonstrate that the 
decision to terminate the claim was fair. 
Im upholding Mr Cs complaint as I dont think it was reasonable for L&G to conclude he no 
longer met the definition of incapacity based on all the available evidence. And Ill explain 
why. 
L&G have largely based their termination of benefit on the IME report conducted by a 
consultant psychiatrist on 27 July 2020. It concluded Mr C is suffering from stress - which 
isnt an illness. However, Im less persuaded by what it says when I consider this opinion in 
conjunction with the other medical reports from around the same time, and more recently. I 
say that because all other reports indicate that Mr C was suffering, quite severely in some 
respects, with symptoms of depression and suicidal thoughts. 
To summarise, Mr Cs GP has diagnosed him with anxiety and depression throughout his 
absence and confirmed he takes various medications alongside counselling and therapy. In 
July 2020, around the same time as the IME report, the GP confirms a specific decline in Mr 
Cs mental health and says he was referred to the community mental health service in June 
2020 because of concerns over his health. Im satisfied this shows Mr C was suffering from 
an illness and receiving treatment for it. 
Mr C has also provided a psychiatrist report from February 2021 which says he is suffering 
from depressive symptoms and suicidal thoughts. The report highlights Mr Cs want for more 
psychological support and he is advised to alter his medication as the current combination 
may not be working. But Im not satisfied L&G assessed this piece of evidence fairly. I 
understand L&Gs arguments that the specialist involved isnt necessarily affiliated with 
occupational accreditations like the July 2020 practitioner. However, it is still a consultants 
opinion who is a specialist, so it should be taken account of and given appropriate weight. 
Around the same time as this evidence, there is a CBT clinic report from January 2021 and 
an occupational health (OH) report from February 2021 that both support Mr C was suffering 
from severe depression and unfit for work. 
As L&G had conflicting medical opinions, I wouldve expected them to conduct a more recent 
independent review of Mr Cs condition if they had outstanding concerns about the extent of 
Mr Cs functionality because of the earlier 2020 report. To simply disregard these more 
recent opinions and terminate the claim, without properly testing the current medical 
evidence is unfair. 
Having weighed up all the medical evidence L&G had sight of, Im persuaded Mr C was 
experiencing up and down symptoms of severe depression for which he was receiving 
treatment. And, for the reasons Ill go on to explain, I think this condition impacted his ability 
to do his job.Mr Cs job is a project manager at director level, interacting with global senior stakeholders 
and his role is to lead on providing operational excellence initiatives. The medical evidence 
shows Mr C is so consumed by his family situation, he doesnt have the mental capacity to 
focus on his work. This opinion is supported by physiatrists, OH and his GP. In addition, I 
note the IME report L&G has relied on doesnt comment on the impact of Mr Cs regular 
suicidal thoughts on his ability to perform in his role. This is a part of his condition that would 
play a significant role in his ability to work. Given the nature of his work, I think it is 
reasonable to conclude that having depression at this level would have an impact on Mr Cs 
functional ability to perform the material and substantial duties of his occupation. 
L&G have referred to Mr Cs ability to function in other areas of his life such as the family 
court cases, his role as a company director and caring for his children 45% of the time. They 
said if Mr C was medically incapacitated, hed be unable to engage in types of activities. But 
I disagree. I dont think any of the activities raised by L&G are unreasonable for someone 
suffering from depression and suicidal thoughts. And I dont think its fair to use them as 
reasons to show Mr C is no longer unable to work as a global director. 
L&G are sceptical of Mr Cs willingness to return to work, but based on the evidence Ive 
seen I dont think it was reasonable to conclude that he wasnt willing to engage with 
treatment. Mr C has been on a variety of medication throughout his absence and had 
already undertaken approximately 30 CBT sessions up until January 2020. Although there 
was a delay in continuing treatment, I dont agree this is due to unwillingness on his part. I 
appreciate there have also been occasions where Mr C has either cancelled or moved 
medical appointments which is frustrating, but I dont think this is unreasonable with his 
anxiety and current state of mind. Mr Cs GP confirmed in July 2020 that Mr C is engaged 
with his therapy and counselling and has consistently taken his medication so Im satisfied 
Mr C has demonstrated his willingness to engage with support mechanisms to hep aid his 
recovery and return to work. 
In summary, Ive taken into account everything L&G has said about Mr Cs ability to function 
in other aspects of his life and their concerns about his willingness to engage with treatment. 
However, for the reasons Ive explained, Im persuaded the medical evidence shows Mr C 
was suffering from an illness that prevented him from carrying out his high level occupation. 
And I havent seen enough medical evidence to show Mr Cs condition improved, so I think 
its unreasonable L&G concluded he no longer met the definition of incapacity when they 
terminated the claim.
I accept that there were issues relating to Mr Cs personal circumstances which may have 
been a barrier to him returning to work. But I also think those circumstances would have 
reasonably impacted on his mental health and, consequently, his ability to work. I dont think 
L&G, having accepted the claim, had enough new medical evidence to fairly conclude that 
Mr C no longer met the policy definition of incapacity.  
Putting things right
Im upholding Mr Cs complaint and directing L&G to put things right by reinstating Mr Cs 
claim and backdating the payments to when it was terminated. 8% simple interest from the 
date that the payments should have been made, up to the date that the claim was settled, 
should also be applied. 
L&G must also pay £200 compensation for unfairly terminating Mr Cs benefit and the 
distress and inconvenience caused by him not receiving his income during an already 
difficult time. My final decision
Im upholding this complaint against Legal and General Assurance Society Limited and 
direct them to put things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman