DRN-1742551
The complaint
Ms J has complained about Zurich Assurance Ltd. She says that she wasnt told about a 
deadline for withdrawal applications which meant she lost the chance to make a lump sum 
withdrawal from her pension in the 2018/2019 tax year when it would have been 
advantageous for tax reasons for her to do so.
What happened
Ms J held a pension plan with Zurich. She contacted them in February 2019 to discuss 
taking benefits from the plan. She was led to understand that she could make a cash 
withdrawal as a Small Lump Sum. When she contacted Zurich in March 2019 to say that she 
wanted to go ahead, she was told that it was too late and this couldnt happen before the 
end of the tax year.
This had a particular impact for Ms J as her income for 2018/2019 was such that a large 
portion of the pension lump sum could have been taken within her nil-rate tax allowance. Her 
income changed significantly later in 2019, and so she wouldnt have the same opportunity 
again.
Ms J complained to Zurich. It upheld the complaint and offered her £50 for the upset caused 
by its errors. It then provided a second response to her complaint with an increased offer of 
£100. Significantly, it also said that if Ms J took the lump sum in 2019/2020 it would consider 
a claim for any loss she had suffered. It said this would require consideration of the relevant 
P60s. Zurich said that whilst it would consider a loss, it wouldnt guarantee that it would pay 
it.
Ms J didnt accept and referred her complaint to this service.
During the investigation, Zurich was asked if it would consider assessing any loss to the end 
of the 2020/2021 tax year, but it said no. It said that the circumstances had now changed, 
but it did make an increased offer of £300 for any upset caused.
The adjudicators view was that this offer was fair. He felt that Zurichs offer to consider any 
loss to the end of the tax year 2019/2020 was fair. It had said it would consider any loss over 
that period, and although it had not given a guarantee it would pay it, the loss hadn't been 
quantified and Ms J had recourse to this service if it wasn't paid.
Ms J doesnt agree. She says that the loss is continuing, and she wont be in the same 
position again to have the same tax advantage. She had offered to cap her claim for loss but 
the investigator hadnt put that offer to Zurich.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been referred to me for a final decision.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the adjudicator and broadly with his reasoning.
Zurich has accepted that errors were made and that this led to Ms J being unable to make a 
lump sum withdrawal from her pension at a time when there would have been tax 
advantages if she did so. And in its second response to the complaint it offered to consider 
Ms Js losses if she went ahead with the withdrawal during 2019/2020. I think this was a fair 
offer.
Ms J chose not to accept that offer and referred her complaint to this service. I appreciate 
that she may have had some reservations about the offer as Zurich wouldnt guarantee to 
pay her losses. But I do think that was a fair way to resolve the issue. The loss wasn't 
quantified at that point and this service could have determined and dispute about the 
payment of, or level of compensation if necessary.
Also, since that time Ms J has decided to transfer this pension to a different provider and 
consolidate it with another pension she held. She has taken a lump sum payment, and 
entered into a drawdown arrangement. She didnt take this pension as a Small Lumps Sum 
as she had intended in March 2019.
Ms J hasnt suffered a loss due to Zurichs error to this point as she has not incurred any 
additional tax liability. She has also made a different choice about how she accessed the 
funds from this pension. I think this is a significant change in circumstances, and so I dont 
think it would be fair or reasonable to say that Zurich should pay compensation based upon 
what Mrs J had intended when she has now taken a different option. Her loss is currently 
notional, and not an actual loss that she's suffered. 
I think the offer Zurich has made to pay £300 for the distress and inconvenience its errors 
have caused Ms J is fair in all the circumstances. Her financial planning was disrupted, and 
she did lose the expectation of a potentially advantageous tax situation.
Putting things right
I uphold this complaint about Zurich in part. It must pay Ms J £300. Zurich may take into 
account any payments already made to her in respect of this complaint.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint about Zurich Assurance Ltd. It must pay redress as stated above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman