DRN-3890325
The complaint
A company which Ill call B complains that Elavon Financial Services Designated Activity 
Company (Elavon) treated it unfairly by increasing its card transaction fees. 
The complaint is brought on Bs behalf by its director, Mr E.
What happened
In 2015, B took out an agreement with Elavon for them to provide merchant services to the 
company.
B told us:
Elavon increased the charges for several card scheme provider Euro transitions 
without warning from October 2021.
The increase in charges was not in line with the terms and conditions it had agreed to 
in 2015.
This was only communicated to it via the July monthly statement sent to its 
accountant, which it didnt think was reasonable. It thought this should have been 
sent in a separate letter to the company due to the significance of the change. 
Elavon told us:
B had signed the agreement terms and conditions to say that it understood and 
accepted the fees which would be applicable.
The monthly charges are explained on each monthly statement and can be accessed 
online for free. 
Due to the impact of Brexit, from October 2021 onwards Bs company location was 
deemed to be a non-EEA location. Several card scheme providers had restructured 
their charges so that all debit transaction between the UK and EEA countries were 
now treated as non-EEA, so the costs had increased. 
As a service provider, they had no control over these charges being changed by the 
card scheme providers. And these changes were communicated in Bs July 2021s 
monthly statement before they took effect in October 2021. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said that Elavons terms 
and conditions explained that fees could change during the agreement period and that they 
would give two months notice of these changes. She said that Elavon had given B notice on 
its July statement about the increase in charges and that this had been more than three 
months before the increase took effect. So also said that Elavon hadnt had any control over 
the increase in charges and had simply passed this on, in line with their process. So she 
didnt think Elavon had done anything wrong.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. 
There isnt much more that I can add in addition to what our investigator has already said. B 
says that Elavon didnt make it sufficiently aware that the charging structure would change 
from October 2021 for some transactions. It says that Elavon should have sent specific 
notification of this to the company as it was such a material change. But I dont agree.
The terms and conditions of Bs agreement with Elavon makes it clear that if card scheme 
fees change/increase for any reason, they can pass on these changes to their customer. 
Elavon also say that they will give two months notice before these changes take effect. In 
this case I can see that Elavon told B about the increase in charges on their July transaction 
statement which was sent to their correspondence address in August. 
Ive looked at the statement and Im satisfied that this information was clear and prominently 
displayed at the top of the statement. I dont think Elavon tried to hide the changes that were 
being made. I acknowledge that B says Elavon should have sent specific correspondence 
about this. However, there is nothing in the terms that say this should be presented in a 
particular format and its a commercial decision for the business to decide how it meets its 
obligations. And B has confirmed that it did receive the statement, it appears it just didnt 
notice this update from Elavon until after the changes had already taken effect  which I 
cant reasonably hold Elavon responsible for.
Im sorry to disappoint B and I recognise it says these changes have affected it financially. 
But based on the evidence available I dont think Elavon has treated it unfairly by passing on 
the changes made by the card scheme providers. So, I wont be asking them to do anything 
more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman