DRN-1921596
The complaint
Mr K complains that PSA Finance UK Limited (PSA), trading as Free2Move, overcharged 
him for damages when he returned his car at the end of a finance agreement.
What happened
Mr K says hes unhappy with the end of contract charges that were applied to his account 
when he returned the car at the end of the finance agreement. Mr K told us:
He leased a car under a two-year hire agreement in April 2017. And he knew he 
needed to return the car undamaged at the end of the contract;
there were a few scratches on the car, so he contacted the main dealer for advice, 
and it recommended a third-party car body shop where the repairs could be carried 
out; and he paid £500 to have several car panels repainted;
he returned the car but was told the body repair work was substandard and hadnt 
been undertaken by an approved repairer, and he would be charged £441.
Mr K says he followed the advice he was given and did everything he was told to do, so the 
additional charges are unfair.
PSA rejected this complaint. It said under the terms of Mr Ks agreement, he needed to 
return the vehicle with no damage outside of fair wear and tear. And its inspectors had 
identified damage that it deemed to be beyond fair wear and tear. It explained that Mr K 
shouldve had any repair work undertaken by an approved repairer, and it said the 
undertaken repairs were of an unacceptable standard.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and she said it should be partially upheld. She 
explained that the standard for what constitutes fair wear and tear is set out in the British 
Vehicle Renting Leasing Association (BVRLA) guidelines and her role was to decide whether 
the charges applied by PSA were fair and reasonable.
She said shed looked carefully at the photographs submitted by PSA to support its position 
but in three of the four photographs, she couldnt see any damage. And because of this, she 
wasnt going to ask Mr K to pay PSA for damage that it had been unable to evidence. In the 
case of the fourth photograph she said the damage was visible and as a result it was fair to 
ask Mr K to pay the charge in respect of it.
PSA didnt accept our investigators view, so the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly 
the same reasons. And I think she set out the position very clearly in her view, so theres 
very little I can usefully add to whats already been said.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Mr K must return the car in good 
condition and that any damage which goes beyond acceptable wear and tear is the 
customers responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the BVLRA and these are accepted as an 
industry standard in determining whether any damage goes beyond fair wear and tear.
Theres no dispute that the four areas of the car in question were at some point damaged. 
Mr K acknowledges this, and says he repaired the four areas using a body shop approved 
and recommended by the dealer. Im satisfied of this because Ive seen a copy of the invoice 
from the body shop, a third-party, confirming that the repair was undertaken. And Ive seen 
an email to Mr K from the car dealership recommending the third-party as being suitable to 
carry out repairs before handing the vehicle back.
PSAs inspection report lists four areas of the vehicles paintwork that are deemed to be 
outside fair wear and tear:
1. Front door Left, Dirt in paint, poor repair £122.00
2. Rear door left, paint run, poor repair £122.00
3. Quarter panel left, Rippled finish, poor repair £122.00
4. Rear bumper, dirt in paint, corner bumper £75.00
Ive looked at the inspection report and Ive looked very carefully at the photographs 
provided and Ive had regard to the BVLRA guidelines as well.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that items 1, 2, and 4 (above) are not chargeable  I 
simply cant see any evidence of damage to the paintwork in the photographs provided. And 
I dont think it would be fair for PSA to charge Mr K for these items.
Im satisfied that item 3 (above) is chargeable. BVRLA guidelines say, Obvious evidence of 
poor repair, such as flaking paint, preparation marks, paint contamination, rippled finish or 
poorly matched paint is not acceptable.  Im satisfied theres evidence of a rippled finish in 
the photograph and that the damage exceeds fair wear and tear  so its fair and reasonable 
to charge Mr K for this.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for PSA to remove the 
charges that it's made in respect of:
1. Front door Left, Dirt in paint, poor repair £122.00
2. Rear door left, paint run, poor repair £122.00
3. Rear bumper, dirt in paint, corner bumper £75.00
My final decisionMy final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint in part and require PSA Finance UK 
Limited to reduce the invoice they have raised. The final bill should be £122.00 which is for 
damage to the left quarter panel.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman