DRN-4177052
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the service provided by Aon UK Limiteds when acting on his 
behalf in relation to an insurance claim.  
What happened 
Aon had arranged an office insurance policy for Mr B. In 2020, Mr B wanted to make a claim 
under the policy for business interruption losses suffered as a result of the Covid-19 
pandemic. Mr B said he could no longer see clients face-to-face, which meant his business 
was significantly impacted.
In June 2020, Aon contacted Mr B to offer its services to assist him with the claim. Aon said 
it had made an arrangement with the insurer that the insurer would pay Aons fees in 
representing policyholders in business interruption claims arising from Covid-19 but Aon 
would be acting on behalf of Mr B and, according to the terms of agreement, Mr B would be  
liable to pay the VAT element of Aons fees. 
Mr B is very unhappy with the service provided by Aon. He says it failed to help him, 
deliberately hindered his claim and discriminated against him. 
Mr B has also complained about the actions of the insurer. I will address that complaint 
separately. 
Mr B has made a number of submissions in support of his complaint against Aon. I have 
considered everything he has said and have summarised his main points below:
Aon was acting as the insurers agent while pretending to act for him; and acted 
in bad faith throughout.
Aon sided with the insurer during a disingenuous dispute over whether accounts 
he provided were inclusive of VAT. 
In June 2021 Aon said it would notify the insurer he had withdrawn his claim if he 
didnt respond to it within five days agreeing to take part in a telephone 
conference with Aon and the loss adjuster.
Aon later refused to act further for him unless he agreed to the telephone 
conference. 
Aons actions were in breach of the Equalities Act 2010, as he is deaf and asked 
for everything to be conducted in writing. 
Aon said the VAT issue was raised on 2 December 2020 and Mr B answered this query in 
early 4 February 2021 and it has not been an issue since. Aon also said it is normal for a 
telephone or online conference of the type it suggested to happen, so that any queries can 
be addressed more quickly, rather than correspondence being sent back and forth. Aon says 
the first time it was aware that Mr B is deaf was on 15 September 2021. However, Aon 
accepts that there was a reluctance to accommodate Mr Bs preference of not having a live 
conference call or meeting to discuss the claim and that this led to a breakdown of the 
relationship; it does not accept that there was any intention to hinder Mr Bs claim, or any 
discrimination. and says it has not affected the outcome of his claim. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. He did not think that there had been any 
deliberate discrimination against Mr B, as it did not know he was deaf when it suggested the 
telephone conference and it did not ask again once it was aware. However, the Investigator  
considered Aon had acted unfairly when continuing to press Mr B to have a live conference 
after it knew he said hed prefer to conduct the matter in writing; and it was unreasonable to 
threaten to withdraw his claim. The Investigator recommended that Aon pay £150 
compensation for this. 
Aon has not responded. Mr B does not accept the Investigators assessment, so the matter 
has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurer asked for certain information to support Mr Bs claim. Mr B was unhappy that the 
insurer queried whether VAT was included, as some of the accounts records were annotated 
nil VAT. Mr B says Aon disingenuously supported the insurer in this and falsely said the 
VAT position wasnt clear, when he says it would have been clear that VAT was not included 
in the figures hed provided. 
I have seen nothing to suggest that Aon acted unreasonably. The insurer raised a query and 
Aon asked Mr B for clarity. Given that some of the accounts had nil VAT marked next to 
them and some didnt, I do not think it was unreasonable for Aon to ask Mr B to confirm that 
the unannotated accounts did not include VAT. In addition, it appears this issue was 
relatively quickly resolved once Mr B answered the query and I cannot see that it caused any 
undue delay.  
Mr B also says that Aon had not supported him when he had complained about the insurers 
response to the claim. I can see in some correspondence that Aon explained its 
understanding of the cover provided by Mr Bs policy and the limitations of the cover. Mr B 
says Aon was trying to discourage his claim but I cant see that this is the case. In my 
opinion, Aon was trying to fulfil its responsibilities in explaining the cover and what Mr B 
would have to do to establish his claim.  
Mr B says that Aon then discriminated against him and treated him unfairly by refusing to act 
for him unless he took part in a live discussion with the loss adjuster about his claim. Ive 
summarised the main relevant communications between Aon and Mr B below:  
 
On 1 June 2021, Aon emailed Mr B and said it had been in discussion with the insurer and 
complained about the claims-handler; as a result, a new loss adjuster had been appointed. 
Aon asked if Mr B wanted it to resubmit his claim to the new loss adjuster but if he didnt 
respond within five days, hed tell the insurer he did not want to pursue his claim. 
I think Aon was entitled to seek to move the claim forward but I do not think it was 
reasonable to suggest that it would tell the insurer Mr B was not pursuing his claim. 
Mr B responded the same day to confirm he wanted to pursue the claim.  The same day, 
Aon then suggested that a live discussion take place with the loss adjuster so they could ask 
for anything they need and it would be good way to progress the matter. Aon asked Mr B for 
some dates and times.  Mr B responded on 7 June 2021, to say hed already provided all the information necessary 
but he wanted to proceed in writing so that neither side can deny or misrepresent what has 
transpired in the event that the matter eventually finished up n court. He did not say he was 
deaf. 
On 10 June 2021, Aon again said a live discussion would be beneficial. Mr B responded the 
next day and asked what information was needed from him. He also asked for full details of 
the insurers policy for settling claims like his and whether it complies with the law. 
Aon responded the next day in answer to these queries, and said that the purpose of the 
proposed discussion was to iron out what they needed 
On 23 July 2021, Aon wrote again and said it needed to move claim forward and if Mr B 
didnt respond in five days that a telephone conference could be arranged, itd close its file. 
Mr B responded the same day to say he was busy so would not be available in the next five 
days but would be in touch. He did not say he could not take part in a discussion because he 
is deaf. Aon acknowledged that and said it would wait to hear from him. 
On 15 August 2021, Mr B wrote to say wanted to conduct matter in writing so there could be  
no misrepresentation of what was said and mentioned possible legal action is Aon closed its 
file. He did not say he could not take part in a discussion because he is deaf. 
On 9 September 2021, Aon said a call would still be the best way forward and it could be 
recorded so there was no dispute about what was said. Aon also said in that email that if   
Mr B didnt agree to it in the next ten working days it would close its file and Mr B could 
pursue the claim himself direct. 
On 15 September 2021, Nr B said he would not take part in a phone call as he is deaf. And  
two days later, he asked for another person to deal with his claim at Aon. 
On 4 October 2021, Aon wrote and said as Mr B was dissatisfied with its service, it was 
withdrawing from acting for him but that he was free to pursue the claim himself direct with 
the insurer. 
I dont think it was reasonable for Aon to suggest on 1 June 2021 that it would tell the insurer  
Mr B didnt want to pursue his claim, if Mr B didnt respond within Aons deadline. However, 
Mr B confirmed the same day that he did want to pursue the claim and even if Aon had told 
the insurer this (which it didnt) it would not have precluded Mr B from pursuing his claim 
direct. So there was no detriment to Mr Bs position but I can understand that this would 
have caused some concern. 
Mr B has said Aon failed to make reasonable adjustments for him under the Equality Act 
2010 by insisting on a live discussion of the case.  Ive taken the Equality Act 2010 into 
account when deciding this complaint  given that its relevant law  but Ive ultimately 
decided this complaint based on whats fair and reasonable. As the Investigator explained, if 
Mr B wants a decision that Aon has breached the Equality Act 2010, then hed need to go 
to Court.
I am not persuaded that Aons request that Mr B take part in a live discussion of the claim  
amounted to discrimination on Aons part, given that Mr B didnt say that he was deaf until 15 
September 2021. No request for Mr B to take part in a conference call happened after this 
date. In response to the other requests, Mr B cited his concerns about Aon and the insurer 
misrepresenting what was discussed as his reason for not wanting to take part. Mr B says he 
had no reason to tell Aon he was deaf before this, given all other communication had been by email but in my opinion, Aons knowledge at the time is relevant to determining whether 
Aon acted unreasonably or in a discriminatory way. Having considered everything, I dont 
think it did.  
Overall, I do not think that Aon acted unreasonably in suggesting a conference call as an 
efficient way of dealing with any information the insurer needed to proceed with the claim. 
Aon tried to alleviate any concerns Mr B had, by saying the call could be recorded, which 
was also reasonable. However, I do not think it was reasonable to state it would no longer 
represent him unless he took part in the call. It seems to me that it would have been 
reasonable to ask the insurer to put its position in writing and then try and proceed with the 
claim. It would then be for the insurer to determine if a live discussion was essential. Aon did 
then withdraw from acting for Mr B. 
Having considered everything, I agree with the Investigator that Aon should pay some 
compensation for saying it would tell the insurer Mr B didnt want to pursue his claim and for 
insisting on a live discussion of the case otherwise it would no longer act for him. I also 
agree that the £150 proposed by the Investigator is reasonable. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Aon UK Limited and require it to pay Mr B £150 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of his insurance 
matter. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman