DRN-3247872
Complaint
Mr B has complained about an overdraft Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) provided 
to him. He says the overdraft shouldnt have been provided and the limit increased because 
it was obvious he wasnt going to be able to repay it.
Background
Halifax provided Mr B with an overdraft with an initial limit of £40. Between July 2018 and 
November 2018 Mr B made a number of overdraft limit increase applications and his 
overdraft limit was gradually increased until it reached £1,300.00. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr B and Halifax had told us. And he thought Halifax 
hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr B unfairly in relation to providing the overdraft. So 
he didnt recommend that Mr Bs complaint be upheld. Mr B disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Bs complaint.
Halifax needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Halifax needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr B 
could afford to repay any credit it provided. Our website sets out what we typically think 
about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its 
reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it 
gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Halifax says it agreed to Mr Bs initial overdraft application and his limit increases after it 
obtained information on his income and expenditure and carried out a credit search. On the 
other hand, Mr B says it was obvious he couldnt afford the overdraft and so shouldnt have 
been lent to. Ive carefully thought about what Mr B and Halifax have said. 
I have to start by saying that Halifax did ask Mr B about his income and expenditure before 
providing the overdraft and limit increases. And the information provided did suggest that 
what was being advanced was affordable. However, Im mindful that Mr B made a number of 
applications within a relatively short period of time. And in these circumstances, I think that 
Halifax should have taken a closer look at his circumstances before agreeing to the 
increases.
That said, having looked through Mr Bs statements, in the lead up to the overdraft limit 
increases being provided, I dont think that there was anything concerning in this period of 
time. In particular, there wasnt anything in Mr Bs account transactions prior to the increases 
which contradicted what Mr B had declared during his applications. If anything his 
statements supported him having the disposable income to repay what he was being lent 
within a reasonable period of time.
I know that Mr Bs position did worsen after the last increase was agreed. And that a number 
of limit increase applications made since have been refused. But this was after the limit 
increases in question had already been agreed. And it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for 
me to use hindsight here, or say that Halifax should have known this would happen  
especially as the available information indicates Mr B could repay the overdraft as long as he 
managed his discretionary spending. Its also worth noting that Halifax did refund some of 
the fees on the account when Mr B complained, in an effort to help him break out of the 
cycle of charges. 
So overall while I have doubts as to whether Halifaxs checks did go far enough, bearing in 
mind what Mr Bs statements in the period leading up to the increases showed, I dont think 
that Halifax treated Mr B unfairly or unreasonably when providing him with his overdraft or 
his limit increases. And Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mr B. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell 
at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman