DRN-3677101
The complaint
Mr L, who represents the estate of Mrs L, complains that Santander UK Plc failed in its duty 
to protect Mrs L after she fell victim to a fraud.
What happened
In May 2019, three cheques were debited from Mrs Ls Santander account totalling £42,000. 
Later, Mr L became aware of these cheques and discovered Mrs L had likely fallen victim to 
a fraud. So, he reported the matter to Santander and the Police. Sadly, Mrs L later passed 
away and Mr L was appointed as the administrator of Mrs Ls estate.
Santander investigated the matter but couldnt identify an error in its process. It pointed out 
that the cheques were legitimate and signed with Mrs Ls genuine signature on comparison 
with previous cheques. It also had no conclusive evidence Mrs L had fallen victim to a fraud.
Later, Police took action against those suspected of defrauding Mrs L. Mr L relayed this 
information to Santander who investigated the claim further. But again, it stood by its 
decision not to reimburse the funds lost. It did however apologise for the delay in 
investigating the claim and paid £75 for the inconvenience caused.
Mr L, unhappy with this, referred his complaint to our service. An Investigator looked at the 
evidence provided by both parties but concluded Santander hadnt made an error. Broadly, 
the Investigator pointed out that it was common for Mrs L to make high value payments by 
cheque, so Santander were reasonable in not intervening in the payments made to the 
fraudsters.
Mr L disagreed. In summary, he found it hard to believe that the bank had done nothing to 
help stop or recover the funds lost. He also found the regular cheque payments to 
associated accounts at weekly intervals was suspicious enough to question them. Mr L also 
mentioned that Mrs L had been victim to an attempted fraud in 2017/18 whereby an 
unknown third-party had taken Mrs L to the bank in an attempt to withdraw cash. He says 
this should have alerted Santander to Mrs Ls vulnerabilities.
As Mr L, on behalf of the estate of Mrs L, didnt agree with the Investigators findings, the 
matter has now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It has long been established in law that banks are expected to process payments in line with 
its customers instruction and the terms and conditions of the account. While, sadly, Mrs L 
has now passed away, there is no evidence to suggest she didnt authorise the cheques 
subject to this complaint. And while I acknowledge this was as a result of fraud, this does 
mean that Mrs Ls estate would be liable for the payments in the first instance. 
But there are circumstances where a regulated financial business, such as Santander, ought 
reasonably to have done more to prevent such circumstances.
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider Santander should 
fairly and reasonably: 
Have been monitoring accounts, and any payments made or received, to counter 
various risks, including money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism and 
preventing fraud and scams. 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk (among other things). This is particularly 
so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams, which banks are generally 
more familiar with than the average customer. 
In some circumstances, irrespective of payment channel used, have taken additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases 
declined to make the payment altogether. To help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Were the payments from Mrs Ls account unusual or out of character?
Firstly, I think its important to acknowledge that banks have to strike a sometimes-difficult 
balance between its obligation to process a payment in line with its customers instruction 
against the monitoring of accounts for unusual activity. And as this payment was made via 
cheque, there are further difficulties in that this payment method doesnt generally involve 
interaction with a bank or present potential red flags that would otherwise be picked up 
through other payment methods. This is broadly due to the nature of the cheque clearing 
process.
Mrs L issued three cheques as a result of the fraud shed fallen victim to:
1. £9,000  paid on 15 May 2019
2. £15,000  paid on 23 May 2019
3. £18,000  paid on 29 May 2019
While these are clearly substantial amounts, I dont find that they would have appeared out 
of character or unusual when comparing them to Mrs Ls normal account activity.
Having looked through Mrs Ls account statements, it was fairly common for her to make 
payments via cheque. And prior to, and between, the above payments being made, Mrs L 
had made several legitimate cheque payments ranging from £8,000 to £20,000. 
Furthermore, Mrs L had made a number of bank transfers in the twelve months prior to these 
cheques being debited from her account that were of equal or higher amounts. For instance, 
Mrs L had made two transfers from her account. One for a value of £20,000 and another for 
£99,999. These debits are considerably larger than the amount issued on most of the 
cheques to the fraudsters. 
Mr L has pointed out that some of the legitimate payments made were to known or trusted 
payees, and therefore its not appropriate to compare these to the three cheque payments. 
But as Ive said above, this wouldnt have been apparent in the cheque clearing process. 
Unlike other payment methods, cheques are processed without interaction between the 
customer and their bank. So it wouldnt have been able to identify the factors Mr L has 
referred to. So, when combining all the above factors, Im not persuaded that the payment method used 
by Mrs L, or the values paid, were unusual or out of character for her account in the 
circumstances.
Ive also been unable to identify any other factors that may have indicated Mrs L was at risk 
at the time of making the payment. While the payments were made relatively close to each 
other, they werent made within quick succession. And the account wasnt brought down to, 
or near, a zero balance after each payment. 
Ive also seen no evidence that Santander held information on its systems that suggested 
Mrs L was vulnerable or at risk of fraud at the time. Mr L has told our service of a previous 
incident that took place: indicating Mrs L was at risk. But Santander has no record of this 
incident occurring, and Mr L has also been unable to provide any evidence to the contrary of 
this being a legitimate payment or interaction with the bank. 
Taking all the above into consideration, I dont find it unreasonable that Santander didnt 
intervene in these payments. 
Mr L, who represents Mrs Ls estate, has made submissions that the lack of intervention on 
previous payments, that could equally have been as a result of fraud, highlights the relaxed 
security processes the business had in place. 
I do empathise with Mr L and understand the sensitive nature of the complaint he brings. But 
as Ive highlighted above, banks often have a difficult balance to strike in processing a 
customers payments without delay and identifying where a customer may be at risk. 
Where a customer makes regular high value payments from their account without issue and 
there are no additional risk factors for the business to consider, it would be unreasonable to 
expect a bank to intervene and question frequent payments from their account to ensure 
they are all for legitimate purposes. Not only would this be logistically unviable considering 
the number of payments a bank processes, but would place undue delay and frustration on 
customers carrying out transactions for legitimate purposes.
I appreciate Mr Ls comments and have considered them when reaching my findings. But in 
the circumstances of this complaint, Im not persuaded Santander made an error here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and the 
estate of Mrs L to accept or reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman