DRN-2099959
The complaint
Mr J complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance
(PPI) policy, when it was trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester Building Society.
What happened
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out in 1999. The policy was taken out in 
a branch and provided Mr J with cover for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr J didnt agree. He 
said, in summary, that:
The policy was added without his knowledge.
The policy was added fraudulently and, because of his disability, he feels he has been 
discriminated against.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Js complaint.
Lloyds doesnt have a full record of all the paperwork from the time of the sale, which isnt 
unreasonable or unsurprising given this took place so long ago. In cases like this, where the 
evidence is incomplete or contradictory, I make my decision on the balance of probabilities  
that is, to decide what is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and 
the wider circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Js complaint for the following reasons:
Overall, I think Lloyds made Mr J aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take 
it. I say this because the mortgage application form included a separate section about 
insurance. Under payment protection, it said I wish to apply for C&G Payment Protection 
Plus cover and have completed the relevant proposal form. There were equally clear Yes 
and No boxes and the Yes box has been ticked. Lloyds doesnt have a copy of the 
proposal form, but this must have been completed for the policy to be put in place. I think it 
was relatively clear  from the need to tick a yes or no box and the need to complete a 
separate application, that the PPI was a separate product. 
Mr J feels strongly that the PPI was added without his knowledge. I cant be sure exactly 
what was discussed at the time, but I have to take into account how long ago the sale was 
and how this might affect what Mr J recalls. And I find it unlikely that Mr J signed a PPI 
application form without the product being discussed.
Lloyds recommended the policy to Mr J, so it had to ensure that it was suitable for him. It 
doesnt look like the PPI was unsuitable based on what Ive seen of Mr Js circumstances at 
the time. I say this because:
Mr J was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the terms and conditions.
Mr J told us he would have received some sick pay from his employer, but he couldnt 
recall how long this would have lasted for. The PPI would have paid out for up to 12 
months in the event of a successful claim for accident or sickness in addition to his sick 
pay. It also covered him if hed become unemployed. The mortgage was a significant 
long-term financial commitment and Mr Js home was at risk if he didnt keep up with the 
repayments. So I think the PPI couldve been a useful benefit, in addition to Mr Js 
existing arrangements.
Ive taken into account what Mr J told us about an inheritance that hed received. But this 
money was in an account in his mothers name, so I dont think there was any guarantee 
that this was a source of funds Mr J could rely on.
Mr J wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits such as 
those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As 
he couldve benefitted from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely he needed better 
advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
Its not clear whether cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Mr J before he 
agreed to purchase it. Its possible he wasnt told it would cost £23.35 each month until 
after the mortgage had started. For this reason, I have considered whether clearer 
information about the cost would have affected Mr Js decision to purchase the policy. 
I've found that hed chosen to take out the policy and would have known he would have 
to pay something for it. The policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. 
So I think it unlikely he would have made a different decision if better information about 
the cost had been provided.
Ive taken into account Mr Js disability  hes told us he is partially sighted. I accept this 
may have made it more difficult for him to read the detail of the forms he was being 
asked to sign. But he told us his mother was at the meeting because he sometimes has 
difficulty in seeing some text. And he could have asked for the documents in a different 
format to suit his needs if he was unsure about anything. So this doesnt change my 
decision. 
Mr J suggests that the policy was added fraudulently. Im not able to look into allegations 
of fraud. If Mr J believes Lloyds acted dishonestly and wants to pursue that issue, hell 
need to do so through the appropriate authorities.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr J about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Lloyds recommendation was 
unsuitable and I dont think Mr J would have made a different decision about taking out the 
policy if better information had been provided to him  overall, I think he would still have 
taken out the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman