DRN-3196241
The complaint
Mrs and Mr B complain about Aviva Insurance Limiteds offer of partial settlement of their 
private medical insurance claim and about its service.
What happened
Mrs and Mr B had private medical insurance, insured by Aviva. Under the policy there were 
various options for a hospital list. The hospital list chosen by Mrs and Mr B determined the 
hospitals covered under their policy. Mrs and Mr B had the Trust hospital list.
In November 2019 Mr B called Aviva to make a claim about his hip problem. In summary 
Mrs and Mr B say:
Mr B told Aviva his named consultant could provide private treatment at a hospital Ill 
refer to as S. They say Aviva told Mr B the consultation and hip replacement was 
covered by the policy subject to a £500 excess and gave Mr B an authorisation code.
In March 2020, about a week before Mr Bs surgery, Aviva contacted Mrs and Mr B 
saying it had been contacted by S for authorisation of the surgery but S wasnt 
covered under their type of policy. Mrs and Mr B were shocked, they say theyd 
asked Aviva to send them written confirmation of the details but Aviva refused. 
Aviva told them to have the claim covered in full Mr B would need to cancel the 
planned surgery and start the process again with a different consultant. As Mr B had 
already waited three months in considerable pain he didnt accept that option. 
S quoted Mr B £10,965 for surgery as a walk in patient including physiotherapy 
charges. Aviva told Mr B that if he wanted to have the surgery at S he would need to 
pay the full amount to S then claim on the policy but it would only contribute £8,019. 
Mrs and Mr B say Aviva refused to confirm that information in writing and as they no 
longer trusted Aviva to pay the contribution they agreed S would bill Aviva at its  
contracted rate of £11,620, which increased Mrs and Mr Bs contribution by £655. 
They say they were very stressed by the whole situation and felt that was their only 
option for the operation to go ahead as planned. 
Aviva told them it was regrettable it hadnt given clearer advice to Mr B in the 
November call but it had told Mr B to keep in touch and they hadnt. But Mrs and 
Mr B say they werent familiar with the claim process and Aviva should have given 
written confirmation of calls and next steps, but it said it didnt have time to do so.
The list of covered hospitals in their area on Avivas website was unclear and 
confusing.
If Aviva had told Mr B in the November 2018 calls that it wouldnt cover surgery for 
the consultant at S they would have found an alternative that Aviva would have 
covered in full. Mrs and Mr B believe strongly that Aviva hasnt treated them fairly. 
Mrs and Mr B want Aviva to pay the full costs for the surgery (a further £3,600 on top of its 
settlement contribution). They also want Aviva not to apply the £500 excess as 
compensation for all their distress and inconvenience it caused. Also they didnt renew the 
policy in June 2020 so Mr Bs costs of the final appointment and x-ray in 2021 werent 
covered and they also want Aviva to pay those costs.
Aviva said in its second call in November 2019 it told Mr B it had authorised him to have a 
consultation only with the named consultant if he saw the consultant at a hospital which Ill 
refer to as H. It also told Mr B he needed to contact Aviva after the consultation took place. 
Mr B hadnt asked for written conformation which it would have provided if hed asked. S 
wasnt on Mrs and Mr Bs Trust hospital list and if Mr B had told it he had scheduled surgery 
at S it would have told him the treatment wouldnt be covered in full. It contacted him to tell 
him there was no cover for the full cost as soon as it knew he was planning surgery at S. 
Mr B went ahead with the surgery at S after hed been told Aviva wouldnt cover the full cost. 
Avivas contribution offer towards the treatment costs was in line with the policy terms so the 
shortfall in costs was Mrs and Mr Bs responsibility.
Our investigator said Avivas offer of partial settlement of the claim was fair, it had been clear 
to Mr B about the policy cover and it had given reasonable service.
Mrs and Mr B disagree. Their additional key points were:
They had no reason to go against Avivas instructions so it couldnt have been clear 
about cover. They hadnt claimed on the policy before and Aviva hadnt done enough 
to check their understanding; about which hospitals were covered; that the 
authorisation code only applied to the consultation; the importance of calling Aviva for 
authorisation for the surgery. 
Our investigator hadnt listened to all their calls with Aviva in March 2020 and we 
needed to do so as: Aviva agreed it could have been clearer in the November 2019 
calls; its refusal to put in writing the contribution it would pay for surgery at S 
disadvantaged them; Avivas refusal to put options in writing meant they didnt know 
how they could change consultant and restart the process for treatment.
We obtained the further calls. Another of our investigators looked at the complaint and  
listened to the additional calls. She said she agreed with our initial investigators assessment 
and explained the further calls didnt change that she thought Aviva had acted fairly. Mrs and 
Mr B want an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive read and considered Mrs and Mr Bs detailed comments in making my decision, which 
Ive summarised above. Ill focus on the reasons why Ive made my decision. Im sorry to 
disappoint Mrs and Mr B, I know they feel very strongly Aviva didnt treat them fairly. But 
I think Aviva gave them reasonable service and its offer to partially settle the claim was fair, 
so I dont uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive listened to the recordings of the November 2019 calls. In the 19 November call Mr B tells  
Aviva hes been referred to a specialist and they are considering whether to inject his hip or 
maybe he needs new hip. Mr B said he would check if the specialist did private work and 
Aviva asked Mr B to call back once he finds out the specialist name to see if hes covered by 
the policy.
In the 28 November call Mr B said his consultant does private work and gave the 
consultants name. Aviva said the specialist was registered with it and asked for the hospital. 
Mr B said the consultant did his private work at a hospital Ill refer to as F. Aviva told Mr B he 
wasnt able to use F as he had a Trust hospital list and it detailed what that meant. Aviva 
also told Mr B that he could use a hospital Ill refer to as H and it would authorise an initial 
consultation. It repeated that the authorisation was for a consultation later in the call. Aviva 
told Mr B that once he had the consultation he should call to update it and let them know the 
next steps, it repeated that information at the very end of the call.
Im satisfied that Aviva gave clear information to Mr B that it had authorised the consultation 
only, he would be covered to see the named consultant at H and after the consultation he 
needed to contact Aviva to tell it the next steps in his treatment. Mr B didnt tell Aviva that he 
was seeing the consultant at S and Aviva didnt authorise any appointment or treatment at S. 
In those calls Aviva also told Mr B how the policy worked. Mrs and Mr B say there was so 
much information, which they werent familiar with, Aviva should have written to confirm the 
details and if it had done so they would have known to call Aviva after the consultation. But 
Mr B didnt ask Aviva to confirm the information in writing so I think Aviva acted reasonably 
in not following up the calls with written confirmation. During the 28 November call Mr B had 
asked Aviva to clarify some of the details of their cover options and it had done so. Aviva 
was very clear to Mr B that he needed to call it after the consultation. I think Aviva 
reasonably believed Mr B had understood it had authorised consultation only and he need to 
call it once the consultation had happened.
Ive also listened to the 4 March 2020 call when Mr B told Aviva hed received a text from S 
to call Aviva and he was going to S for a hip operation in a few days.
Im satisfied from that call that once Aviva knew Mr B was booked to have surgery at S  
there was no unreasonable delay in it telling him he wouldnt be fully covered and why. It told 
him as S wasnt on Mr Bs hospital list Aviva couldnt give authorisation to the hospital so S 
may expect Mr B to pay the full cost of the surgery up front. It was clear to Mr B that he 
would be responsible for any shortfall in costs if he had the surgery at S. It told Mr B to 
contact S to ask its charge on a self-pay basis. Mr S said he couldnt remember the 
November conversation about cover and he saw the consultant at S who arranged the 
surgery at S. Mr B said Aviva should have written to him with the information about cover. 
Aviva told Mr B that if he asked for written confirmation it would do so and that the policy 
information and hospital list are online. It told Mr B to contact S to ask its charge on a self 
pay basis.
From that call it seems that Mrs and Mrs B had already looked at the hospital list which is on 
Avivas website as Mr B said S was on the list of approved places. But unfortunately Mrs and 
Mr B had misread the list. S isnt a ticked option in the Trust hospital list column. Their policy 
schedule is clear that they had the Trust hospital list option and in the 28 November call Aviva had reminded Mr B that was his option. Also at no point in the November calls had 
Aviva authorised Mr B being seen or having treatment at S.
The further calls in March 2020, before Mr B has the surgery, cover other matters Mrs and 
Mr B have raised.
Aviva told Mr and Mrs B that it would pay a contribution of £8,019 to the cost of treatment 
and how it arrived at that amount.  The policy says:
Hospital charges
If you receive treatment as an
 in-patient or
 day-patient
for a condition or suspected condition for which we dont have a network, in a 
hospital that is not:
 an NHS pay-bed at an NHS hospital recognised by us, or
 included on your hospital list and recognised by us for the treatment that you need
we will calculate the average cost of equivalent treatment across all hospitals on your 
list and that average cost is the maximum we will pay. This could leave you with a 
shortfall that the policy does not cover.
As Avivas evidence is that £8,019 is the average hospital cost for Mr Bs procedure at a 
hospital covered under Mrs and Mr Bs policy thats a fair contribution for Aviva to pay.
In a later call Aviva tells Mrs B its spoken to S which is going to invoice Aviva direct but it will 
invoice at the key hospital price at £11,620, so more than the self pay price. I dont think 
theres evidence to support Mr and Mr Bs suggestion that the invoice arrangement 
happened because Mrs and Mr B didnt want to take the chance Aviva wouldnt pay the 
contribution if they paid and claimed. But even if thats why the invoice arrangement was put 
in place I dont think there was any reasonable basis for Mrs and Mr B to doubt that Aviva 
would pay the £8,019 contribution it had told them it would pay. 
Mrs and Mr  B are frustrated Aviva didnt put the details of what it told them in writing, Aviva 
says it doesnt have the facility to do that for every call but will do so if asked to. Theres no 
evidence to support Mr and Mrs Bs suggestion that Aviva refused their request to put 
information in writing.
Aviva told Mrs and Mr B it believed it had clearly explained the cover available under the 
policy in the 28 November call, and I think it did. There is a conversation between Mrs B and 
Aviva about how the self pay process works. Mrs B asks how they were supposed to know 
that from the call on 28 November to which Aviva says that should have been advised then. 
But I dont think there was any reason for Aviva to give that information on 28 November as 
at that stage it didnt know Mr B would be having treatment at S which wasnt on the hospital 
list for his policy.
Aviva asked if Mr B would consider going to another hospital that was fully covered. Mrs B 
said they wouldnt know how long it would take, they may need to go through the process 
again and theyd already waited for three months. Ive seen no evidence that Mrs B asked  
Aviva to explain how they would go about changing consultant or hospital. I understand why 
Mrs and Mr B preferred not to delay the operation as Mr B was in pain. But they chose to 
continue with the surgery at S knowing Aviva wouldnt pay the full cost, that they would be 
responsible for the shortfall and how much that would be.  
I understand Mrs and Mr B have found the whole situation very stressful just before the 
stress of Mr S having an operation. I dont think Mrs and Mr B deliberately didnt call Aviva after Mr Bs consultation to tell it the next steps. But, as Ive said, I think Aviva was clear to 
Mr B that it only authorised the consultation and what he needed to do, and as they didnt 
ask for written confirmation of the call information Aviva reasonably didnt provide it. 
If Mr B has contacted Aviva after the first consultation to tell it the consultants plan was for 
him to have surgery at S Aviva would have told Mr B immediately that S wasnt on the 
hospital list on their policy so it wouldnt pay the full cost. When in March 2020 Aviva knew  
Mr S was going to S for surgery it acted promptly in telling Mr B it wouldnt pay the full cost, 
the contribution it would pay, his option to have the surgery at an approved hospital on his 
hospital list that would be fully covered. So I think Mr B had the surgery at S knowing Avivas 
position and the options open to him.
As I think Avivas contribution offer for settlement of the costs was in line with the policy 
terms, and fair, theres no basis for me to say Aviva must pay the full costs. And as I think 
Aviva gave reasonable service theres no basis for me to make a compensation award, or 
say Aviva must waive the £500 excess, for Mrs and Mr Bs distress and inconvenience. 
Aviva doesnt need to pay the costs Mr B incurred after the policy ended as once the policy 
ends there is no cover.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman