DRN-1271207
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that the final sum she received when surrendering her Wesleyan 
Assurance Society Whole of Life plan was less than the quotation on the surrender claim 
form. 
What happened
Mrs B took out a life insurance policy with Wesleyan in 1986. Wesleyan collected 
premiums in door to door collections, but these stopped in 2003. At that time, Mrs B was 
given options for how to move forward with paying for the plan. She selected the option 
which meant she didn't pay any further premiums until the policy paid out, when a deduction 
for premiums accrued would be made. 
In March 2019, Mrs B's son contacted Wesleyan for further details about the plan on her 
behalf, as Mrs B was considering surrendering it. She was sent a surrender value quotation 
which stated that the surrender value was £4885.08.
Mrs B decided to surrender the plan. When she did so, she received £4343.39. 
On Mrs B's behalf, her son Mr B contacted Wesleyan to complain. He explained Mrs B 
wasn't aware that the surrender amount would be reduced from the amount she'd been 
quoted. 
Wesleyan said the reason Mrs B received less than indicated on the quotation was because 
two deductions had been made from the surrender value. These were a daily market value 
adjustment of £1.31 and a deduction for unpaid premiums as agreed in 2003, of £540.38. 
Wesleyan acknowledged Mrs B may have been caused some upset by the situation and 
offered her £50 as a gesture of goodwill. Mrs B was unhappy with this, and Mr B brought her 
complaint to our service on her behalf. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didn't think it should be upheld. As Mr B 
disagreed, on Mrs B's behalf, the case has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I'm not upholding it. 
I've seen a copy of the surrender quotation Mrs B was provided with in March 2019. Above 
the surrender value, the quotation states: "This quotation is based on premiums being paid 
to 19 March 2019. The values shown below will change if the date to which premiums have 
been paid is varied." It's clear that the surrender value might differ from the one provided in 
the quotation, if premiums have not been paid up until the surrender date.
It's not in dispute that Wesleyan stopped their doorstep collection of premiums a number of 
years earlier. Mr B has provided us with a copy of the letter Mrs B received when this 
happened in 2003. The letter says: "as we will make this deduction for unpaid premiums from your final value you will receive less than the full policy value ... When your policy pays 
out, we will deduct your unpaid premiums off the final value. 
It's also not in dispute that Mrs B agreed to the deduction of premiums in 2003. And taking 
everything into account, I think the quotation itself is clear that the value quoted may change. 
I think this gives Mrs B sufficient notice that a deduction might take place.
I've considered that the quotation was accompanied by a covering letter. I think this 
letter could also have included an explanation that the settlement figure might be subject to 
change depending on premiums paid. But the fact this information wasn't included on the 
covering letter doesn't entitle Mrs B to the full amount quoted. It doesn't change the fact that 
the quotation page explains the value may differ. And - importantly - it also doesn't change 
the fact Mrs B agreed not to pay premiums from 2003, knowing that Wesleyan would deduct 
unpaid premiums from the surrender value.  
It wouldn't be fair to expect Wesleyan to honour the quoted settlement figure simply on the 
basis that their covering letter didn't remind Mrs B that the figure may be subject to change. 
This would equate to punishing the business which is not what our service is here to do. And 
it would leave Mrs B in a better position than she ought to be in. Whether Wesleyan 
put additional clarification on the covering letter or not, under this plan Mrs B remains entitled 
only to the surrender value which she received.
Mr B has stated that he'd liked to be compensated for the time and effort he's had to put in to 
follow up this complaint for his mother. While I appreciate this may have been a frustrating 
situation for him, he isn't a customer of Wesleyan Assurance Society and as such he's not 
the eligible complainant in this case. So I cannot ask Wesleyan to compensate him.
I appreciate Mr B has said his mother has been caused some upset due to the lack of clarity 
in the surrender documentation. I think the £50 compensation already offered by Wesleyan 
is fair and reasonable to recognise any trouble she's been caused by the circumstances. 
I've considered that a small part of the difference between the surrender quotation and the 
amount Mrs B received was not due to the premium deduction but due to a daily market 
adjustment. I understand this adjustment wasn't mentioned in the surrender documentation. 
But I've seen nothing to suggest Wesleyan were incorrect to deduct it in the way they did. 
And as this was a nominal amount of £1.31 I'm not minded to ask Wesleyan to do anything 
to recognise the fact they didn't specifically mention the possibility of this deduction on the 
surrender documents. I feel the £50 compensation already offered is sufficient to recognise 
any upset caused to Mrs B by this. 
Taking everything into account, I won't be asking Wesleyan to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint.  
If they have not done so already, Wesleyan Assurance Society should pay Mrs B the £50 
which they have already offered her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2020.
Artemis Pantelides
Ombudsman