DRN-1141885
The complaint
Mrs D says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mrs D bought the policy in 1998 at the same time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ds case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ds complaint for the following reasons.
From what we know about how Lloyds sold PPI with this type of credit card, I think Lloyds 
made Mrs D aware that she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take 
it. This is because shed have had to tick a box on the credit agreement to show she wanted 
the PPI. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs D, and it seems to have been right for her based on 
what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. While she had some sick pay, the PPI 
wouldve paid out on top of this for up to 12 months per claim, and covered redundancy and 
death as well as accident and sickness. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But Mrs D doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things the policy 
didnt cover  and based on what I know about her circumstances it looks like the policy 
couldve been useful to her. So, I dont think better information wouldve stopped her buying 
it. 
Ive taken into account Mrs Ds comments, including what shes said about only ticking the 
box on the credit agreement because she was told it would help her application  and about 
the benefits provided through her work. But these points dont change my conclusion. 
The sale was a very long time ago, so I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to uphold 
this complaint solely based on her recollection of what happened. Im mindful that a persons 
memory of events can change over time or be inaccurate. And Im not persuaded that the 
benefits she had through her work wouldve meant that she wouldve declined to take the 
policy if shed been given better information about it. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman