DRN-3351030
The complaint
Mr T complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited declined a claim made under 
his car insurance after his car was written off in an accident.
What happened
Mr T has car insurance underwritten by Advantage. He made a claim in September 2021 
after his car was involved in an accident and written off.
The accident happened because Mr Ts brakes failed and he ran into the rear of a car in 
front. Mr Ts car had been through an MOT relatively recently and the brakes had been 
serviced.
Advantage declined the claim. They said Mr Ts policy didnt cover mechanical or electrical 
failures. 
Mr T made a complaint to Advantage. They said the decision to decline the claim had been 
correct, but they paid Mr T £30 in compensation because in one phone call they hadnt been 
entirely clear with Mr T that he wouldnt be covered.
Mr T wasnt happy with this outcome and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into it and didnt think Advantage had been fair to Mr T.
He said the exemption theyd quoted when declining the claim didnt apply in this case and 
Advantage should reconsider the claim. 
He also said if the claim was then settled, Advantage should pay Mr T 8% simple interest on 
the settlement amount from the date the claim was declined to the date they made the 
payment. And  again if the claim were settled - they should also pay Mr T £400 in 
compensation for his trouble and upset.
Advantage didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no real dispute about the facts of this case. Whether we uphold Mr Ts complaint or 
not hinges entirely on whether the exemption Advantage used to decline the claim should in 
fact apply in all the circumstances.
Mr Ts policy requires him to maintain his car in good working order. Im satisfied he did 
everything possible to do this. The evidence shows that his car had an MOT relatively soon 
before the accident. And it shows that work was carried out on the brakes to make sure they 
met the required standard.
So, it seems to me that Mr T met his obligations under the terms and conditions of the policy.
Section One of the policy document sets out the cover provided for damage to the car 
(except by fire or theft). Section Two sets out the cover for damage caused by fire or theft. 
Mr Ts claim was under Section One. 
Theres then a list of things which arent covered under Sections One or Two. Its worth 
quoting the document at length because the outcome hinges on an understanding of the list. 
The document says:
Youre not covered for:
The excesses shown on your schedule.
Damage to your cars windscreen or glass windows.
Loss of or damage to any audio visual equipment.
Accessories to your Car.
Loss of use of your Car.
Wear and tear.
Failures, breakdowns, or breakage of mechanical, electrical, electronic or 
computer equipment.
Damage to tyres caused by braking, punctures, cuts, or bursts.
Loss of value following repair.
Theft or damage if the Car keys were left in.
Replacement of locks if the Car keys were left in.
Loss of damage if someone claiming to be a buyer or agent takes possession 
of your Car deceitfully.
Your Car being repossessed by its rightful owner.
Any amount greater than the manufacturers last list price. for any part or 
Accessories.
Repairs or replacements. that improve the condition of your Car.
Loss or damage as a result of your Car being driven or used without your 
permission by a member of your family or household. 
Loss or damage caused by an inappropriate. fuel being used.
Loss or damage as a result of malicious damage or vandalism, where the 
Police refuse to issue a crime number.
Any additional damage resulting from your car being moved by anyone 
insured under your policy after an accident, fire, or theft.
Loss or damage resulting from the legal confiscation of your CarThe exemption Advantage said applied to Mr Ts claim was the seventh one in that list, 
relating to failures, breakdowns, or breakage of mechanical, electrical, electronic or 
computer equipment.
Theyre saying essentially that Mr T isnt covered because the loss or damage hes claiming 
for is a result of a mechanical failure  in the brakes.
They say, in their final response to Mr Ts complaint:
We do not cover any incidents that are due to mechanical failure
And, in the same correspondence:
 youre not covered for an incident due to failures and breakage of mechanical 
equipment.
I agree with our investigator that the exemption quoted is wrongly applied in this case. This 
is shown by the different formulations of the exemption in the policy (as above) and in the 
final response (as quoted above). 
The policy says Advantage wont over  i.e. wont pay for repair of  failures, breakdowns, or 
breakage of mechanical equipment. They wont pay for repair of Mr Ts brakes, for example, 
if they break down or fail.
On the other hand, the final response says Advantage wont cover incidents due to 
mechanical failure or an incident due to failures and breakages of mechanical equipment.
Unfortunately for Advantage, the policy doesnt say what their final response letter claims it 
says.
The most natural reading of the policy suggests that Advantage arent going to pay for 
repairs to Mr Ts brakes if they fail. It does not say they arent going to pay for damage to his 
car if he has an accident caused by brake failure.
I bear in mind here that several of the listed exclusions begin with the words Loss or 
damage caused by or Loss or damage as a result of (see the list above). If Advantage 
had wanted the exemption theyre claiming in Mr Ts case to say what they now want it to 
say, one would have expected it would begin in the same way. 
It doesnt  and therefore, I think most readers would take the exemption in question to 
mean that Advantage arent going to pay for repairs to Mr Ts brakes if they fail or break 
down. They wouldnt take it to mean that Advantage wont pay for damage caused in an 
accident that was due to Mr Ts brakes failing.
Im sure different interpretations could be put on the list of exemptions quoted above. But I 
also have to bear in mind that where the wording of a policy is ambiguous, the benefit of any 
interpretation should be given to the customer. 
Its down to the business, who are after all the experts in insurance, to ensure that their 
customer is left in no doubt what theyre covered for - and what isnt covered  when they 
choose to buy the policy.  
In summary, I agree with our investigator that Advantage should reconsider Mr Ts claim, 
beginning with the assumption that the exemption they relied on to decline it originally does 
not reasonably apply.As I said above, Mr T has provided evidence to show that he did everything he reasonably 
could to maintain the vehicle, as he was obliged to do under the terms of the policy. I cant 
immediately see any other reason to decline the claim, but I am not a claims handler and Ill 
leave Advantage to apply the rest of the terms of the policy and make a decision on the 
claim accordingly.
Putting things right
Our investigator suggested that if Advantage now settle the claim, they should also pay Mr T 
£400 for his trouble and upset.
I am going to come to a slightly different conclusion, but it will not make a significant 
difference to the amount to be paid to Mr T in total (to settle the claim and to compensate 
him) if the claim is settled. 
Thats why Im not issuing a provisional decision in this case to invite further comment or 
information from Mr T and/or Advantage, despite coming to a slightly different conclusion to 
our investigator on the amount of compensation which may be appropriate. I note also that 
there is little dispute here about the facts of the case, so its difficult to see any information 
which could now be provided which would sway my thinking.
Mr T has provided evidence that he had an agreement in principle to finance to purchase a 
replacement car. But this was dependent on Advantage settling the claim, so that Mr T could 
pay off the existing car finance agreement and have some money to contribute to the cost of 
the new car.
Mr T has been without a car since the accident. Hes had to pay off the existing finance 
agreement month by month and hes incurred costs for travel by public transport. Hes also 
lost the facility of being able to do certain things, such as taking an elderly relative shopping. 
Hes also been paying his car insurance premium, on the assumption that he had to do so if 
Advantage were to re-consider the claim.
If Advantage would have settled the claim, but for the exemption they claimed, then their 
error has caused Mr T the trouble and inconvenience  and expense  of being without a car 
for several months. 
Im aware that loss of use isnt covered by the policy, but thats loss of use caused by loss or 
damage to the car. In this case, Mr T has been deprived of a car because Advantage didnt 
settle his claim.
That being the case  and assuming they do now settle the claim  Im going to require 
Advantage to pay Mr T £10 per day for the loss of use of a car in the period between the 
date of the decision to decline the claim and the date Advantage settle the claim. 
This is an amount generally used by the courts in cases where an individual has been 
deprived of the use of a car, to reflect the distress, inconvenience and expense that causes.
If it had been possible to precisely quantify the exact amount of Mr Ts travel expenses in 
that time, I might have suggested a different calculation. But whilst hes been able to provide 
evidence that he had to take public transport to work and for other reasons, he 
understandably hasnt kept an exhaustive log of his travel expenses.
Im not going to ask Advantage to refund any car insurance premiums Mr T has paid since 
the accident. They certainly didnt tell him he had to keep the policy on if he wanted his 
complaint considered. And if he were in any doubt about that, he could have enquired.Mr T has continued to pay off the finance on his previous, now written off, car. That simply 
means that hell pay less to settle that finance agreement if and when Advantage pay out on 
his claim. 
So, in summary, if  and only if - Advantage now settle Mr Ts claim and pay out for the loss 
of his car in September, theyll also need to pay him £10 per day  for loss of use of a car 
and for the distress, inconvenience and expense that has caused for Mr T - between the 
date the claim was originally declined and the date the settlement payment is made.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Advantage Insurance Company Limited must: 
reconsider Mr Ts claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of his policy; 
and
if they then settle the claim, add 8% simple interest to the settlement figure from the 
date the claim was originally declined until the date the settlement payment is made; 
and
again if they then settle the claim, pay Mr T £10 per day from the date the claim was 
originally declined to the date the settlement payment is made.
If Advantage Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr T how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr T a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman