DRN-2663179
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Ageas Insurance Limited hasnt settled in full a claim under a 
property owners insurance policy for storm damage.
What happened
In July 2020 Mr D made a claim to Ageas for storm damage. He said that rainwater had got 
into his flat through the French doors which opened out onto a balcony and also damaged 
the ceiling of the flat below. He sent Ageas a video showing the water coming in and two 
quotes for replacement doors.
Ageas contacted Mr Ds contractors to check the cause of damage. It said according to one 
contractor there was wear and tear which wouldnt be covered by the policy. It also said it 
had checked weather records around 16 July 2020 and there was no torrential rain around 
that time.
Ageas settled the cost of the internal damage. After Mr D complained, Ageas didnt change 
its decision regarding the French doors but it offered Mr D £100 compensation for delays in 
responding to him.
A complaint was brought to this service. Our investigator upheld it. She recommended that 
Ageas pay the cost of repairs plus interest and also pay the £100 compensation previously 
offered to Mr D.
As Ageas didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me. In the meantime Ageas has 
paid the £100 compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering a storm complaint, we generally take into consideration the following 
questions:
were there storm conditions on or around the date the problem occurred?
is the nature of the damage claimed for consistent with storm damage?
were the prevailing storm conditions the main cause of the problem?
If the answer to any of these is no, the complaint is likely to fail.
I note that Ageas refers to there being no heavy rain around 16 July 2020. Mr D made it 
clear to Ageas that the damage happened on 16 June 2020. Weather records show that on 
that date there was torrential rain in the relevant area. I think the rainfall was sufficiently 
intense to be considered a storm.
I accept that a build-up of water on a balcony during or after torrential rain can damage 
wooden doors. In addition Mr D has a video showing the rainwater coming in under the 
doors.
Ive looked at whether the torrential rain was the main cause of the damage claimed for. In 
doing so I place the most weight on the reports from people who inspected the damage and 
in this case the only people to do so were contractors who gave quotes to and/or carried out 
work for Mr D.
Ageas contacted both contractors who provided the first two quotes. In each case the 
contractor confirmed in writing that the damage had been caused by storm conditions, that 
the area in question had been well-maintained and that it was repairing on a like for like 
basis.
A third contractor confirmed the balcony as a whole and particularly the area around the 
doors was well maintained but storm damage suffered by the doors resulted in the need to 
replace them with new doors to prevent a repetition of water ingress.
The only evidence to contradict this comes from a note of a telephone call Ageas had with 
one contractor who said the partition under the door was rotten and there might be a leak 
under the decking but that was yet to be investigated. Mr D explained the contractor later 
said he got Mr Ds property confused with another one when he was speaking to Ageas.
I dont think that Ageas treated Mr D fairly in relying on one telephone conversation to 
decline Mr Ds claim. I think the three written reports throw sufficient doubt on its conclusion 
to make me think that Ageas should change its position. In my opinion Mr D has shown its 
more likely than not that a storm was the main cause of the damage to his French doors. My 
conclusion is that Ageas decision not to settle Mr Ds claim for storm damage was unfair 
and unreasonable.
Ive also looked at how Ageas handled Mr Ds claim. He had to chase Ageas several times 
and there were delays in getting back to him despite promises to do so. But for the trouble 
and upset caused by this I think that £100 compensation offered and now paid by Ageas is 
fair and reasonable. 
Putting things right
To put things right I think Ageas should pay the cost of repairs plus interest.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Ageas Insurance Limited to:
reimburse the costs of all repairs relevant to the claim for the French doors subject to the 
production of invoice(s); and
pay simple interest on that amount at 8 per cent a year from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement.
If Ageas Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from any interest due to Mr D, it should tell him how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr D a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman