DRN-3197149
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited should pay her claim on a
motor insurance policy.
What happened
The subject matter of this complaint is a sports utility vehicle first registered in 2018. In mid-
October 2019, Mrs Gs husband acquired it on finance. He agreed to pay about £1,100.00 
per month for it.
For the year from 17 October 2019, Mrs G insured the car through a broker. Markerstudy
was the insurer responsible for dealing with claims. Mrs G gave her address and postcode
as those of her mothers home.
Mrs G reported that someone had stolen the car on 14 October 2020 from outside a 
cottage in a neighbouring postcode rented by her husband and her.
In early November 2020, Markerstudy said that  when she took out the policy - Mrs G had
made a careless misrepresentation by failing to disclose that she had dual addresses. It said
that, under Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), her
policy was null and void from the start. It returned the premium she had paid.
In mid-November 2020, Mrs G complained to Markerstudy that it should pay her claim. By a
letter dated early January 2021, Markerstudy told Mrs G she had the right to bring her
complaint to us. Mrs G brought her complaint to us in mid-January. In late January,
Markerstudy wrote a final response turning down the complaint.
our investigators opinions
Our first investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that
Markerstudy had acted unfairly and unreasonably. He said Mrs G had been pregnant during
this ordeal as well as having to pay £1,103.00 per calendar month since her vehicle was
stolen. He recommended that Markerstudy should:
1. reverse the decision of voiding Mrs Gs policy; and
2. settle the claim brought forward by Mrs G; and
3. pay Mrs G the market value of the insured vehicle as at 14 October 2020; and
4. compensate £150.00 for the trouble and upset caused to Mrs G.
Our second investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think
that Markerstudy treated Mrs G fairly when it null and voided her policy. He thought
Markerstudy had caused Mrs G distress and inconvenience. He recommended that
Markerstudy should:
1. reinstate the policy; and
2. settle Mrs Gs claim in line with the policy terms and conditions; and
3. if a cash settlement is made then add 8% simple interest from the date the claim 
was made until its settled; and
4. compensate Mrs G with £150.00 for distress and inconvenience.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs G  
and to Markerstudy on 26 October 2021. I summarise my findings:
Mrs G had changed her address and where the car was normally kept overnight.
Markerstudy wouldve cancelled the policy if Mrs G had told it she was living at that 
address, even if she still lived at her mothers address some of the time.
The policy had a vehicle kept off road endorsement.
Markerstudy had said it had overturned the voidance of the policy.
I didnt consider that Markerstudy treated Mrs G unfairly by declining her claim.
Subject to any further information from Mrs G or from Markerstudy, my provisional decision 
was that I didnt uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct Markerstudy Insurance 
Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Mrs G disagreed with the provisional decision. She says, in summary, that:
She and her husband rented the cottage on 13 January 2020. Her name was only 
added to provide further financial guarantee to the landlord/estate agent that her 
husband and she could meet the monthly rental payments.
Her husband uses the cottage for respite away from her home living with her mother. 
The landlord is aware of this.
In January 2020, the landlord notified the council in error with both her and her 
husbands details, which is why the council tax and electoral details for her may have 
updated in May 2020 after the end of the financial year and unknown to her.
Her credit reference agency has advised her to attach her full report generated on 8 
November 2021 to provide proof that her home address is as she has stated.
Her credit file shows that she is unregistered for electoral registration. Markerstudy is 
incorrect that she is on the electoral register at the rental property.
She and her mother share the same address and are joint owners of that property.
Her drivers licence shows her home address as her mothers.
There was no mid- term change of her address or living arrangements.There was no change of garaging facilities or where the car was normally kept 
overnight as this was kept on her drive when she was at her home.
Markerstudy hasnt passed on to her or the broker any communication with regards 
to it overturning the voidance on the policy. As a result of this, she has incurred 
extortionate premiums and fees when obtaining new car insurance.
The policy endorsement about off-road parking only applied when she was at home 
overnight.
On 13 October 2020, she was visiting her husband at the rental accommodation 
when someone stole her vehicle outside the property.
The financial burden of the decision not to uphold her claim has caused both mental 
and emotional distress, both during her full pregnancy term and whilst suffering post- 
natal depression. 
The finance company has sent her a notice to settle the balance of approx. 
£52,000.00 for the stolen vehicle.
In response to our request, she has sent us the council tax bills for the cottage. 
These are in the names of her and her husband. This has not been changed as the 
landlord had informed the council and she was under the impression that this would 
need to remain the same as per the contact details listed on the rental agreement 
whilst under the rental contract.
In response to our request, she no longer has the council tax bills for her and her 
mothers home. The council tax is in her mother name's and always has been since 
they purchased their property (over 30 years+ ago). The division of the utility bills 
through different members of the household should not hold any bearing on the 
validity of her insurance policy as her home residence is where the car was normally 
parked.
She finds it decidedly inconvenient that whilst their circumstances and living set- up is 
not necessarily the norm, Markerstudy are trying to find a grey area not to pay out on 
a claim, when she has ensured that everything was in place accurately and her 
vehicle was with a valid insurance at time of theft.
Markerstudy hasnt responded to the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the telephone recording, I find that, when she took out the policy in 2019, Markerstudy
asked Mrs G her address. Markerstudy didnt ask Mrs G whether she had any other address.
Mrs G gave her mothers address. And theres not enough evidence that Mrs G had any
other address at that time.
So I find that the information she gave was correct. There was no misrepresentation (or
careless misrepresentation or qualifying misrepresentation) about her address at the start of
the policy.Mrs Gs husband was an additional driver on the policy. 
The policy had a vehicle kept off road endorsement. I accept that the endorsement only 
applied to exclude a theft claim when the car was parked overnight at (or near) Mrs Gs 
home but not off the road.
Markerstudys policy terms included the following:
Notification of changes
To keep your insurance up to date please notify us straight away via your insurance
intermediary about changes which affect your cover.
Some examples are:

 A change of postal address.
 A change of garaging facilities and/or where the insured vehicle is normally kept
overnight. ...
This is not a full list and if you are in any doubt you should advise your insurance
intermediary for your own protection.
If the information provided by you is not complete or accurate:
 we may cancel your policy and refuse to pay any claim 
In addition, CIDRA obliged Mrs G to take reasonable care to avoid misrepresentation not
only at the start of the policy but also on any variation.
In any event, I would expect a policyholder to notify her insurer of a mid-term change of
address.
Mrs G and her husband jointly took a tenancy of the cottage from 13 January 2020. Ive
considered Mrs Gs explanation that this was as a home for her husband, to give him respite
from living with Mrs Gs mother. 
Markerstudy has accepted that Mrs Gs driving licence, bank statements and mobile phone 
bill all bore her mothers address. And I accept that Mrs G and her mother jointly owned her 
mothers home.
I accept the landlords statement that he contacted the council. And I accept that the recent 
credit report shows no connection between Mrs G and the cottage.
But the tenancy was in joint names. And, from its file, Markerstudy has shown that from May
2020, both Mr and Mrs G were registered on the electoral roll at the cottage. Also, in October 
2020, Mrs G and the vehicle were at the cottage on the weeknight when someone stole the 
vehicle.
And from January 2020, both Mr and Mrs G were being charged council tax for the cottage. 
And the council tax bill shows that this continued long after Mrs G discovered what she says 
was an error. Mrs G hasnt shown us that she was being charged council tax on her mothers 
home. I dont regard the council tax evidence as a matter of division of utility bills between 
family members. Rather I regard it as strong evidence that the cottage was Mrs Gs main 
residence. 
So I find that Mrs G had  in about January 2020 - changed the address where she lived and 
where the car was normally kept overnight.
I accept Markerstudys evidence that the cottage was in a higher-risk postcode. I accept that 
Markerstudy wouldve cancelled the policy if Mrs G had told it she was living at that address,even if she still lived at her mothers address some of the time.
Mrs G can take it from us that Markerstudy has overturned the voidance of the policy. She 
may show this decision to her past, present or future insurers as evidence of that.
I accept that Markerstudys decision not to pay the claim has had serious financial and 
personal consequences for Mrs G. However, as shed changed her address without telling 
Markerstudy, I dont consider that it treated Mrs G unfairly by declining her claim. I dont find 
it fair and reasonable to direct Markerstudy to pay the claim or to pay compensation to Mrs G 
or to do anything more in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman