The complaint
Mr R complains that a car that was supplied under a hire purchase agreement was 
registered in his name by Arnold Clark Automobiles Limited - and not in the name of his wife.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have been set out by the 
investigator - so I wont repeat them again here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for 
my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
the order form for the car was in Mr R's name and he electronically signed the hire
purchase agreement - and the car was then registered in his name;
he says that he was very clear that the car was for his wife and was to be registered
in her name;
the investigator concluded that, if Mr R had been told that the car couldnt be
registered in his wifes name unless she was a party to the finance agreement, he
wouldve paid for the car in a different way - and she recommended that Arnold Clark
should pay him £150 due to the time spent trying to resolve this and for the stress
and inconvenience caused;
Arnold Clark has agreed to pay £150 to Mr R but he says that if the finance hadn't
been mis-sold then he wouldn't have agreed to it and the difference between taking
the finance and not is the interest so he considers that reimbursement of the interest
is fair - he also says that he's paid £96 for legal advice;
Mr R has been caused some distress and inconvenience by these events but the car
has been supplied to him and is available for him and his wife to use and I'm not
persuaded that he's provided enough evidence to show that he's been caused a
financial loss or distress and inconvenience that justifies an award of compensation
that's more than £150; and
it was Mr R's choice to pay for legal advice and I don't consider that it would be fair or
reasonable for me to require Arnold Clark to reimburse him for the cost of the legal
advice.
Mr R has also complained about some issues with the car. But the car was supplied to him 
by the finance provider (and not by Arnold Clark) and this service can only consider a 
complaint about the quality of the car in these circumstances if it's made against the finance 
provider. If Mr R wants to complain about issues with the quality of the car he should first 
DRN-1406993complain to the finance provider and then, if he's not satisfied with its response, he may be 
able to make a complaint to this service.
Putting things right
I consider that the £150 compensation that was recommended by the investigator is fair and 
reasonable compensation for the distress and inconvenience that Mr R has been caused in 
these circumstances. Arnold Clark has agreed to pay him £150 compensation and I'm not 
persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require it to increase the amount of 
compensation or to reimburse him for the interest that he'll be paying under the agreement.
My final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint and I order Arnold Clark 
Automobiles Limited to pay him £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman