DRN-3791052
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr C complain about their insurer, Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva). Their 
complaint relates to the rejection of a claim under their home insurance policy for damage to 
a wall at their property. 
Reference to Aviva includes their agents who administer the policy and assess claims. 
What happened
In August 2021 Mrs C and Mr C contacted Aviva to tell them a joint boundary wall with their 
neighbours had been damaged and was leaning dangerously. The damage was due to a 
water leak at the neighbours property, which Mrs C and Mr C said started in March 2021 
and continued until the water company fixed the leak in April 2021. However, during that 
time the ground had become saturated, leading the wall to lean dangerously towards Mrs C 
and Mr Cs property.
 
Mrs C and Mr C were told by their neighbours theyd made a claim to their insurer for their 
share of the cost of repairing the damage. The neighbours insurer agreed to cover 50% of 
the cost of repairing the wall, based on a surveyors report that concluded the damage was 
due to the leak and the saturated ground by the wall. 
However, Aviva declined Mrs C and Mr Cs claim on the grounds that the wall was already 
leaning and was generally in a poor condition and therefore compromised (for many years). 
As such, this led to the damage to the wall and (under the terms of the policy) wouldnt be 
covered as it was gradual deterioration and in a poor condition (the policy included a 
condition to keep the property in good condition). While acknowledging the neighbours 
insurer had accepted a claim for their share of the damage, Aviva said that was a decision 
for the other insurer.
Unhappy at their claim being declined, Mrs C and Mr C complained to Aviva. In their final 
response they confirmed their decision to decline the claim. While they appreciated Mrs C 
and Mr Cs attempts to obtain information and reports relating to their neighbours claim, they 
said they could only assess and validate Mrs C and Mr Cs claim against their policy terms 
and conditions. Based on this, they were unable to confirm the damage to the wall was the 
result of a one-off insured event.
Mrs C and Mr C then complained to this service. They said the wall had always leaned 
towards their property, but it was only following the leak at the neighbours property the wall 
began to lean dangerously. Their neighbours insurer agreed to pay 50% of the cost of 
repair, based on their surveyors report saying the damage was due to the leak. Mrs C and 
Mr C wanted Aviva to accept their claim (for 50% of the cost of repairing the damage).
Our investigator upheld the complaint, concluding Aviva hadnt acted fairly. While there was 
evidence of the wall leaning and being in poor condition, the presence of brick pillars on Mrs 
C and Mr Cs side of the wall indicated some mitigation of the lean. But overall, he thought it 
likely Mrs C and Mr C hadnt complied with the condition of the policy to keep their property 
in good condition. 
However, the investigator also thought the damage to the wall from the build-up of pressure 
from the leak would have been likely to cause damage to a wall in good condition (albeit less 
quickly). So, on balance, he concluded the damage would have happened irrespective of the 
condition of the wall. So, Aviva hadnt acted fairly in declining the claim on the grounds of the 
walls poor condition. He thought Aviva should assess the claim in accordance with their 
normal claim procedure, without the good condition clause.
Aviva disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. 
In my first provisional decision, I concluded the wall wasnt in a good condition and would 
have made it more susceptible to the impact of the leak. I also wasnt persuaded it would 
have had the impact on a wall in good condition that Mrs C and Mr C described it had on 
their wall. 
On the point about the neighbours insurer agreeing to pay 50% of the cost of repair, I 
concluded it wasnt possible to know the basis for the other insurers decision. In the 
circumstances, I concluded Aviva hadnt acted unreasonably in assessing the claim against 
the terms and conditions of Mrs C and Mr Cs policy.
Taking all these points into account, I wasnt persuaded the leak (and hydrostatic pressure) 
would have caused the same damage to a wall in good condition as that to Mrs C and Mr 
Cs wall. So, I concluded Aviva acted reasonably in declining Mrs C and Mr Cs claim. 
Mrs C and Mr C responded in detail to the first provisional decision, including additional 
photographs of the wall taken before the incident, in its immediate aftermath, as well as after 
it had been rebuilt. They also provided additional information about the wall, together with 
new points about how it could have been damaged and the causes of any such damage. 
They also took issue with some of the findings and conclusions set out in my provisional 
decision. In considering what this means for my findings and conclusions, I focused on what 
I thought the key points, particularly those new or additional to those available when I issued 
my first provisional decision.
I considered four main points. First, that the wall hadnt moved in the 25 years or so since 
they moved into their property. They thought the wall was stable (and not in bad condition). 
And it was the leak at their neighbours that caused the wall to move (to lean dangerously). 
Second, the level of the soil adjoining the wall on their neighbours side was higher than 
indicated in my first provisional decision. Combined with what Mrs C and Mr C said was the 
length of the area of wall affected by the leak (eight metres) and the length of time that the 
leak took place, they thought this would have led to a significant hydrostatic pressure on the 
wall (causing it to lean dangerously). 
Third, they disagreed with Avivas view that the wall had been significantly leaning for a 
considerable period of time prior to the incident. They also noted the wall didnt collapse 
during the incident  it leant significantly and dangerously, at which point they decided to 
remove the upper part of the wall. Fourth, they disagreed with what I said in my first 
provisional decision about bricks in the wall fracturing in the incident, specifically that the 
affected bricks were at some height above ground level, which didnt suggest it was likely the 
failure was due to hydrostatic pressure. Mrs C and Mr C pointed to publicly available 
information theyd found about vertical cracks in walls, suggesting they could indicate soil 
shifting underneath the walls foundations. Based on what theyd found, Mrs C and Mr C 
thought the hydrostatic pressure from the saturated soil caused by the leak could have 
significantly damaged the walls foundations. Which in turn would lead to a shearing force 
on the wall, resulting in vertical cracks that were wider at the higher level of the wall (compared to the lower level). They thought this was more likely to have caused the cracks 
in the wall (and failure of the bricks) than an underlying weakness in the bricks themselves.
Aviva initially responded to say they had no further information to add following receipt of the 
provisional decision.
However, given the detailed response to the first provisional decision from Mrs C and Mr C, I 
thought it reasonable to provide the response to Aviva for them to consider, including from a 
technical perspective. In particular, those aspects indicating new information to that 
previously available (the level of the soil adjoining the wall on their neighbours side being 
higher than indicated in my provisional decision) and the potential impact of the hydrostatic 
pressure on the walls foundations.
Aviva responded to say they acknowledged the detail of Mrs C and Mr Cs response, but 
their view was they werent saying the wall wouldnt have failed had sufficient force acted on 
it. Rather, their view was there was no evidence of a one-off incident or insured peril having 
occurred. They said the wall had failed because of hydrostatic pressure, being a gradual 
build-up of water pressure in the soil and not being relieved. This, coupled with the condition 
of the wall, accelerated its decline and caused the damage. The force acting on the wall 
wasnt in question  but the force hadnt acted in a one-off incident as defined by the policy 
wording. They added the height of the soil didnt change their perspective, nor the point 
raised by Mrs C and Mr C about the potential impact of the hydrostatic pressure on the walls 
foundation. 
I considered carefully the points made by Mrs C and Mr C and Aviva. I concluded that the 
new information, evidence and points changed my view of the complaint, such that I 
concluded it should now be upheld. 
Because I reached a different conclusion from that in my first provisional decision, I issued a 
second provisional decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider matters further. 
This is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments again to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Aviva have acted fairly towards Mrs C and Mr C.
Ive carefully considered the responses from Mrs C and Mr C, together with the responses 
from Aviva. On their first point, I dont have reason to doubt what theyve said about the wall 
not having moved in their time at the property. And that it moved because of the leak 
incident. This would also be consistent with what Aviva said in their response about the wall 
failing because of hydrostatic pressure.
The second issue, the level of the soil adjoining the wall on their neighbours side being 
higher than indicated in my provisional decision, I think this is significant. While I havent 
seen any specific evidence about the impact the greater height of soil would have had, on 
the balance of probabilities I think it would have meant greater hydrostatic pressure bearing 
on the wall. Together with Avivas acceptance of the wall failing because of hydrostatic 
pressure, I think this changes my provisional view about the significance of the hydrostatic 
pressure and its impact on the wall. So, Ive concluded the wall did lean (though not fail 
completely) from the hydrostatic pressure.On the third issue, the lean of the wall before the incident, having looked at the evidence 
provided by Mrs C and Mr C, together with the original information and photographs, Ive not 
changed my view the wall was leaning before the incident. However, I have considered the 
question of the condition of the wall and the extent to which it affected its ability to withstand 
the hydrostatic pressure from the leak. In doing so, Ive also considered Avivas point that 
their decline was due (coupled with their point about the hydrostatic pressure not being a 
one-off event as defined in the policy) to the condition of the wall.
Given what Ive now concluded about the likely greater significance of the hydrostatic 
pressure from the leak, Ive thought again about whether the condition of the wall is likely to 
have affected its ability to withstand the pressure. Or whether the wall would have been 
likely to be affected irrespective. Looking at the available evidence again, Ive changed my 
view on this point. Given the likely more significant hydrostatic pressure, I think (on the 
balance of probabilities) its likely the damage to the wall would have happened irrespective 
of its condition. So, Ive concluded it isnt reasonable for Aviva to decline the claim on the 
grounds of the condition of the wall (their original grounds for decline of the claim).
On the fourth point raised by Mrs C and Mr C, the likely impact of the hydrostatic pressure 
on the walls foundations, while theyve pointed to publicly-available information on this 
issue, they havent provided any specific, expert evidence to support its relevance or 
presence in the specific circumstances of the wall at their property. Without that specific 
evidence, Im not persuaded it changes my view. For their part, Aviva havent specifically 
commented on the issue, as they dont consider it changes their view about the hydrostatic 
pressure (coupled with the condition of the wall) being the cause of the damage.
Having considered each of Mrs C and Mr Cs points, Ive also considered Avivas point about 
the force acting on the wall not being in question  but the force hadnt acted in a one-off 
incident as defined by the policy wording. However, this wasnt one of the reasons given by 
Aviva when they declined the claim originally. They did so on the grounds that the wall was 
already leaning and was generally in a poor condition and therefore compromised. As such, 
this led to the damage to the wall and (under the terms of the policy) wouldnt be covered as 
it was gradual deterioration and in a poor condition.
However, as Ive changed my view about the likely impact of the condition of the wall on its 
ability to withstand the hydrostatic pressure, Ive considered Avivas view. However, Im not 
persuaded its reasonable. Having looked at the wording of the policy, I cant see any term of 
one-off event defined. Nor can I see an exclusion that would clearly apply to what seems to 
me to be an event involving (as Avivas case notes indicate) an escape of water (which 
would be covered). In the absence of a clear definition, I dont think its reasonable to say 
that the leak  even though it continued for some weeks before being fixed by the water 
company  wasnt a one-off event. Based on these factors, Ive concluded it isnt 
reasonable to decline the claim (now) on these grounds.
Taking all these considerations into account, Ive changed my view and have now concluded 
Aviva havent acted fairly in declining Mrs C and Mr Cs claim.
Having reached this conclusion, Ive gone on to consider what I think Aviva needs to do to 
put things right. As they have unfairly declined the claim (on the grounds of the condition of 
the wall and that there wasnt a one-off event or insured peril under the policy) they should 
settle the claim in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. My 
understanding is that the wall has been rebuilt following the incident, with Mrs C and Mr C 
having paid half the cost (the other half having been settled by the neighbours insurer). 
Given this, I think its reasonable for Aviva to settle the claim on the basis of half of the cost 
(subject to Mrs C and Mr C providing evidence of the cost and their having paid half). This 
should be subject to any policy excess, as appropriate.On the assumption Mrs C and Mr C have already paid half of the cost of rebuilding the wall, 
Aviva should also add interest at 8% a year simple from the date Mrs C and Mr C paid their 
share of the cost, to the date Aviva settle the claim.
Given whats happened, I also think its reasonable to consider the impact of the case on 
Mrs C and Mr C, in terms of the distress and inconvenience to them. Taking all the 
circumstances of the case into account, I think £250 would be reasonable.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, its my provisional decision to uphold Mrs C and Mr Cs 
complaint. I intend to require Aviva Insurance Limited to:
Settle Mrs C and Mr Cs claim in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions 
of the policy. On the assumption Mrs C and Mr C have paid half the cost of rebuilding 
the wall, Aviva should settle the claim on the basis of half the cost (subject to Mrs C 
and Mr C providing evidence of the cost and their having paid half).
Pay Mrs C and Mr C £250 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
On the assumption Mrs C and Mr C have already paid half of the cost of rebuilding the wall, 
Aviva Insurance Limited should also add interest at 8% a year simple from the date Mrs C 
and Mr C paid their share of the cost, to the date they settle the claim.
Aviva Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell them Mrs C and Mr C accept my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.
Mrs C and Mr C responded to say they had nothing else to add. But if Aviva responded with 
any additional information, they would like the opportunity to review any such information 
and respond.
Aviva responded to say they had no further comments to add to what they had already 
provided and their technical team hadnt commented further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Aviva have acted fairly towards Mrs C and Mr C.
As both Mrs C and Mr C and Aviva have responded that they have, respectively, nothing 
else to add and no further comments, then my final decision remains the same as my 
second provisional decision, for the reasons set out in the second provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Mrs C and Mr Cs complaint. I 
require Aviva Insurance Limited to:
Settle Mrs C and Mr Cs claim in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions 
of the policy. On the assumption Mrs C and Mr C have paid half the cost of rebuilding 
the wall, Aviva should settle the claim on the basis of half the cost (subject to Mrs C 
and Mr C providing evidence of the cost and their having paid half).Pay Mrs C and Mr C £250 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
On the assumption Mrs C and Mr C have already paid half of the cost of rebuilding the wall, 
Aviva Insurance Limited should also add interest at 8% a year simple from the date Mrs C 
and Mr C paid their share of the cost, to the date they settle the claim.
Aviva Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell them Mrs C and Mr C accept my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman