DRN-3717618
The complaint
Mr F complains that Omnio EMI Limited (Omnio) took too long when transferring him the 
balance from his pre-paid credit card.
What happened
Mr F had a pre-paid credit card provided by Omnio. Omnio let him know that they were 
withdrawing this product from the market and so he would need to withdraw any balance that 
was on the card.
Mr F tried to do this using an ATM but was unable to do so. He said there was around €15 
on the account. He asked Omnio to transfer him the money and said they asked him to 
provide various pieces of information to enable this, which he did, but he still didnt receive 
the funds back. He chased Omnio on several occasions asking to have the money 
transferred to him. 
Mr F says he eventually received the payment months later and complained to Omnio. They 
said there had been an uplift in requests to process refunds and they were relying on a third-
party partner to deal with these.
Mr F wasnt happy with this response and so brought his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator asked Omnio, to provide their complaint file on numerous occasions but they 
didnt. So, the investigator issued findings based on Omnios final response and the 
testimony of Mr F. He recommended Omnio pay Mr F £50 for the delays caused in returning 
his funds to him. 
Mr F accepted the findings. 
Omnio contacted us in December 2021 to say they would be paying Mr F £50 as a gesture 
of goodwill.
Mr F contacted us again in February to say Omnio had only paid him £40.86. Omnio said 
theyd made a mistake and paid Mr F €50 instead of £50 and so they would credit him 
another €20 to account for the exchange rate difference.
Mr F says he has never received the extra €20 and so has asked for the case to be 
considered by an ombudsman. Omnio have not responded to any further attempts at contact 
from our service. 
The matter has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the same outcome as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons, so theres not a lot I can usefully add here.
Its not disputed by Omnio that they took too long when transferring the balance of Mr Fs 
pre-paid card to his bank account. The £50 the investigator recommended Omnio pay for 
this is in line with this services approach and so I wont be increasing it here.
Omnio has told us they originally paid Mr F €50 instead of £50 and would pay a further €20 
to him to make up for the exchange rate. Mr F says they havent done this, and I have no 
reason to disbelieve him.
Putting things right
Omnio should now either show that the money has been paid to Mr F or if they arent able to 
do this, they should arrange for the €20 to be paid to him now.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require 
Omnio to put things right for Mr F as explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman