DRN-4517113
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC refuses to refund the money she lost to 
multiple investment scams. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only summarise key 
events. 
Mrs D saw a social media post from a friend stating theyd invested with a trading platform Ill 
call C and had made good returns. Mrs D invested approximately £26,000 with C (via two 
different banking providers) but Cs trading platform subsequently disappeared. Mrs D joined 
a social media group and people within that group recommended a company Ill call M. Mrs 
D understood that M would help recoup the losses from her C investment. Mrs D invested 
£10,000 with M who subsequently disappeared. Mrs D later discovered that scammers had 
infiltrated that social media group.
Mrs D joined a social media group for people whod lost out to M. She invested with 
companies Ill call A and E. Mrs D was able to successfully withdraw more than she 
invested with E and she was able to make smaller withdrawals from A but then she was 
unable to withdraw any funds. Someone from the social media group reached out to Mrs D 
and recommended another company called F. At this point Mrs D was desperate to recover 
her losses and an account manager for F was able to answer a lot of Mrs Ds questions and 
reassure her they would be able to help. 
Mrs D was offered access to a private investigator called Chris who claimed to be an expert 
in recovering losses. He explained that Mrs D would first need to open a numbered account 
which came with a fee. Mrs D agreed and then made numerous payments to Chris until she 
was persuaded this was also a scam. 
A company Ill call G reached out to Mrs D showing her a screenshot of her money from F. 
They said they could get it back if she paid them. Mrs D agreed but G disappeared. Barclays 
intervened towards the end of the scam. 
Mrs D referred her complaint about Barclays to this service and claims it didnt do enough to 
protect her from financial harm. 
Whilst Mrs D was scammed by various companies, she paid these companies in crypto. And 
in order to facilitate the payments, she was guided to open a crypto exchange account in her 
name with a company Ill call S. Mrs D therefore disputes a total of 28 payments she made 
from her Barclays account to S to fund the various scams from April 2022 to October 2022. 
The disputed payments total £185,236.71 (Ive deducted the amounts Mrs D was able to 
withdraw). 
Barclays declined to refund Mrs D. It said she did not do enough due diligence when making 
the transfers and did not check whether the investment returns were viable. Barclays 
advised Mrs D on 2 September 2022 that it believed she was being scammed and referred 
her to a branch but she didnt heed the warning from its staff members.
One of our investigators looked into things. He felt Barclays should have intervened sooner 
than it did. But he didnt think a warning would have likely made a difference. He noted that 
Mrs D also made payments to the same scam via another third-party bank account. He 
noted that bank warned Mrs D in April 2022 but Mrs D was comfortable with her decision to 
proceed with the payment. 
In July 2022, Mrs D contacted the third-party bank to let it know she believed she was the 
victim of a scam. The third-party bank advised she was liable for the loss. And our 
Investigator felt at this point, she ought to have reasonably been aware of this type of fraud 
and should have recognised red flags when she was contacted in the same manner again. 
Our investigator further noted that when Mrs D visited a Barclays branch in September 2022, 
the branch advised this was a scam and called the police to attend  who also advised Mrs 
D she was being scammed. But Mrs D continued to make further payments to the scammer. 
Our investigator highlighted that after Mrs D reported the scam to her third-party banking 
provider in October 2022, she decided to make a further payment to the scam three months 
later. 
Overall, our investigator didnt think that Barclays could have prevented Mrs Ds loss and 
she would have likely continued to pay the scammer, even if Barclays had intervened 
sooner. 
Mrs D didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsman to consider the complaint. She said in 
summary:
She only wanted transactions up to 1 September 2022 to be reviewed, not after, 
which she accepts were her responsibility. 
Had Barclays blocked earlier transactions, she was abroad and wouldnt have been 
able to unfreeze her account. Towards the end of the scam, shed paid the 
scammers so much, she was convinced she had to continue.
She doesnt agree she could have found that Chris was a fraudster as there was no 
adverse information about him.
Paying £5,000 to open a numbered account seemed reasonable and she checked 
the bank was reputable.
At the point she paid £42,000 tax to access a £70,000 investment, she was shown 
she had access to an account (which she didnt know was fraudulent) which 
contained €718,500  so the payment she made sounded reasonable. 
Had she been in the UK when the scam with Chris was occurring, she would have 
been in a better position to do a lot more investigating but couldnt as access to her 
internet abroad was limited.
She doesnt think Barclays should refund all the money but she wants to know why it 
blocked the 20th payment when there were payments of much larger amounts earlier.
When she was scammed by F, she was going to pay another £16,000 into the 
account but she spoke to someone in the UK who had a look into the company and 
told her not too. Had she been able to contact that person again (if she were in the 
UK at the time) things would have been different. If Barclays blocked payments and 
she had to wait until she was back in the UK, things would have been very different.
On 28 November 2023, I issued a provisional decision not upholding Mrs Ds complaint. For 
completeness, I repeat my provisional findings below:Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint but before I explain why, I want to make it clear 
that I believe Mrs D is the victim in what I consider to be cruel multi-layered scams. But 
being the victim of a scam, doesnt automatically entitle Mrs D to a refund. 
Banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) have duties to protect customers 
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large 
transactions to guard against money laundering (see below). But when simply executing 
authorised payments, they do not have to protect customers against the risk of bad bargains 
or give investment advice  and the FCA has confirmed that a fraud warning would not 
constitute unauthorised investment advice. 
Theres no dispute from either party that Mrs D was the victim of multiple scams. Having 
concluded that these were scams rather than just bad bargains I must now go on to 
consider three more issues in order to determine the outcome of the complaint:
1. Were any of the payments Mrs D made out of character and unusual and should 
Barclays have intervened before processing them?
2. If so, would Barclays intervention have made a difference and prevented or reduced 
the loss?
3. And if so, should Mrs D bear some responsibility for the loss such that it would be fair 
and reasonable to reduce compensation proportionately.
Were any of the payments out of character and unusual and should Barclays have 
intervened before processing them?
It is common ground that the disputed payments were authorised by Mrs D for the purposes 
of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. This is 
because they were made by Mrs D using the legitimate security credentials provided to her 
by Barclays. These must be regarded as authorised payments even though Mrs D was the 
victim of a scam. So, although she did not intend the money to go to scammers, under the 
Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of her account, Mrs D is presumed liable 
for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Barclays should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accountsand any payments made or receivedto counter 
various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the financing of  terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Ive noted there were interventions early on by Barclays and Mrs Ds third-party bank. Ive 
seen notes that Mrs D attempted to make a payment of £301 to S on 9 April 2022 (early on 
into the scam). Barclays say it had a telephone conversation with Mrs D on 11 April 2022 and she confirmed the transaction was genuine. The notes say Mrs D cancelled the payment 
(presumably as shed already sent this money via her third-party bank) but she said it was 
safe to be released. The notes also say that Barclays had a scam conversation with Mrs D. 
But Barclays hasnt provided a copy of this call, so I cannot say with any certainty how 
meaningful the scam warning was. But I have noted the third-party bank also intervened 
when Mrs D tried to send a payment of £301 to S and she was given a written warning. 
However, I dont think this warning was relevant to the scam Mrs D found herself the victim 
of, so I dont think it was all that meaningful.
I also think there were other points that Barclays could have intervened based on the size 
and frequency of the payments to S and Ill list these points below:
21 April 2022  payment of £10,000
22 August 2022  three payments totalling £45,000 were sent on to S
Whilst there were other payments to S in between the above dates, they didnt exceed 
£10,000 and they were to the same payee and were in keeping with Mrs Ds pattern of 
spend. So, I dont think any payments between 21 April 2022 and 22 August 2022 were 
unusual or uncharacteristic enough for Barclays to have intervened. 
Barclays also intervened on 2 September 2022 when Mrs D was sending a payment to S. It 
felt she was being scammed, so it invited her to visit a branch where the police were called. 
I appreciate Mrs D would like an explanation as to why Barclays didnt intervene sooner. Ive 
seen that it did (albeit I dont have detail around what was exactly discussed). But I also 
agree with Mrs D that Barclays could have done more at different stages. Its not for me to 
explain why Barclays systems didnt detect some of her payments as unusual because I 
consider the payments Ive highlighted were unusual for Mrs D. I am satisfied Barclays ought 
fairly and reasonably to have intervened by calling Mrs D to ask some questions about the 
nature and purpose of the payments before agreeing to process them. 
Although Barclays intervened at a later stage, I think there were some missed opportunities 
for Barclays to have intervened earlier on. 
Would Barclays intervention have made a difference and prevented Mrs Ds loss?
If Barclays had fulfilled its duties by asking suitably probing questions, there is no reason to 
doubt that Mrs D would have explained what she was doing and that the purpose of the 
payments were to invest. Ive seen that in conversations with Barclays and with her third-
party bank, she explained that she was investing these funds.
In such circumstances, whilst Barclays had no duty to protect her from a bad bargain or give 
investment advice, it should have reasonably asked Mrs D some further questions to 
ascertain whether she was likely to be at risk of financial harm from fraud. Ive thought 
carefully about the sorts of questions Barclays shouldve asked, bearing in mind the features 
of investment scams at that time  particularly crypto scams. 
At the time Mrs D fell victim to the scam, investment scams carried common features. For 
example, these included rates of return which were too good to be true, receiving the 
opportunity to invest via an unsolicited offer or cold call (this could be contact via social 
media); with fraudsters often applying pressure to their victims to invest quickly.
Against this backdrop Id have expected Barclays to ask Mrs D some questions to see if 
there were any signs that this was an investment scam (as described above). At the point of the initial intervention Barclays say it made on 11 April 2022, I think Mrs D 
would have explained that one of her friends suggested via social media that C was a good 
investment opportunity and theyd earned profits. I dont think Barclays would have 
necessarily been concerned that Mrs D was falling victim to a scam. Shed received the 
opportunity from someone she considered to be a friend who had earned profits. She also 
hadnt yet experienced any issues with being unable to withdraw any profits. However, given 
the risks associated with crypto scams, I think Barclays ought to have explained the various 
risks of crypto trading and that C could have difficulties withdrawing her profits and may lose 
them entirely. 
Barclays notes suggest that a verbal scam warning was given prior to Mrs D making any 
substantial large payments and Mrs D proceeded with making more substantial payments 
despite these warnings. Im also mindful that there were no credible warnings about C at the 
point Barclays say it intervened, so based on the evidence that Mrs D didnt heed a warning 
when she hadnt paid substantial funds to C, I think she would have proceeded with the 
payment even if Barclays had provided a meaningful warning.
At the point of Mrs Ds payment of £10,000 to S on 21 April 2022, I think Barclays ought to 
have reasonably expressed similar concerns to Mrs D about common investment scams 
involving crypto. But I also dont think any meaningful warning would have dissuaded Mrs D 
from investing with C. At this point, she had no concerns that C was a scam company, she 
trusted the advice she was receiving by individuals she believed to be friends and she 
believed what she was investing in was real. As I explained above, there was no credible 
adverse information published about C, so I dont think Mrs D could have been persuaded 
not to invest with them, even with a meaningful warning from Barclays. 
Had Barclays intervened on 22 August 2022, when Mrs D made payments of £45,000 in one 
day. I think Mrs D would have been honest about what she was doing  she would have 
explained shed been the victim of a scam and was paying money to a private investigator 
who was helping her to recover her payments. With this information, I think Barclays would 
have likely concluded - as it did in September 2022 - that Mrs D was almost certainly the 
victim of a scam and would likely have invited her to come into branch so that it could 
discuss the payments face to face. I think after this conversation, Barclays would have likely 
called the police (as it did in September), who I think would have explained that Mrs D was 
the victim of a scam. Ive taken account of the fact that Mrs D says she was abroad at the 
time and would have had time to reflect whilst her account was frozen until she returned. But 
I agree with our investigator that I dont think this would have deterred Mrs D from investing. 
I think Mrs D was so bought into this multi-layered scam and had already loss substantial 
sums of money that she was willing to believe that someone could help her. 
I say this because after Mrs D lost approximately £10,201 (from her Barclays account) to the 
scam involving C, she started investing with M in order to recoup her losses. She was 
introduced to M in the same manner that she was introduced to C but this didnt deter her 
from investing. And when she lost money with M in the same way, she decided to invest with 
A and E. Whilst she says she was successfully able to withdraw with E, she made smaller 
withdrawals with A until the same pattern repeated itself. The same thing repeated when Mrs 
D was introduced to F  at which point she realised shed been scammed and tried to 
contact her third-party bank for help with recovering her payments. She was then 
subsequently introduced to Chris. I think by the point Mrs D met Chris, shed already lost 
substantial sums to scams and in her words, was desperate to recover her payments. I dont 
think the difference of a week would have made a difference because despite Barclays and 
the police advising Mrs D that she was the victim of a scam, she continued to make further 
payments to Chris one month after these warnings. I think Barclays did all it could have reasonably done in September 2022 to warn Mrs D and I 
acknowledge she doesnt expect payments after this warning to be returned to her. But I still 
have to consider that Barclays did provide meaningful warnings in September 2022 but Ive 
seen these warnings and the addition of police involvement didnt stop Mrs D from sending 
further payments to Chris. 
In other words, I am satisfied those earlier warnings from Barclays probably would have 
made no difference to Mrs D. Any failings by Barclays were not the dominant, effective 
cause of her losses; they were just part of the background history or occasion that led up to 
them.
In light of my conclusions above on whether a warning would have made a difference, it is 
unnecessary for me to go on to consider whether Mrs D herself was partly to blame for what 
happened (contributory negligence). Indeed, I have already concluded that she was 
responsible for her own investment decisions, and that such choices were the proximate 
cause of her losses.
But I want to be clear that I understand Mrs D fell victim to a very sophisticated scam. She is 
not to blame for this; the cruel scammers are to blame.
Recovery
Ive thought about whether Barclays did what it ought to have done to recover Mrs Ds 
payments. 
Mrs D transferred funds to an account in her name and control with S. From there, she 
purchased crypto and moved it onto a wallet address of her choosing (albeit upon the 
scammers instructions). So I cant say that Barclays could have likely recovered her losses. 
Barclays only option to recover Mrs Ds payments would have been to recover them from S 
but by the time she reported the scam, shed already moved her money from S to the 
scammers. And even if she hadnt, shed have had access to the funds in her S account as 
they were in her control. So, I dont think there was any reasonable prospect of success had 
Barclays tried to recover Mrs Ds losses. 
Responses to my provisional decision 
Barclays nor Mrs D responded to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had anything further to add, I see no reason to depart from my provisional 
decision (which forms part of this final decision). 
My final decision
My final decision is, despite my natural sympathies for Mrs Ds loss, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Dolores NjemanzeOmbudsman