Page 1 of 4The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) 
irresponsibly gave him a credit card that he couldnt afford.
What happened
In November 2017, Mr C applied for a credit card with Barclaycard. He was given an 
initial credit limit of £400. The credit limit was increased on 20 August 2018 to £800. 
In 2022, Mr C complained to Barclaycard to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened for him because it wasnt affordable.
Our adjudicator thought the initial credit provided was not unreasonable but thought the 
credit limit increase was not reasonable. Barclaycard agreed and has offered to calculate 
redress if Mr C agreed to this as a fair outcome. Mr C did not agree. So, the complaint 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Barclaycard will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Our adjudicator thought the initial credit provided was not unreasonable but thought the 
credit limit increase was not reasonable. Barclaycard agreed and has offered to calculate 
redress if Mr C agreed to this as a fair outcome. Mr C did not agree. Mr C thinks the initial 
lending was not reasonable as he was unemployed and he is unhappy with the partial 
offer.
DRN-3861882So, it is my job to see if I think Mr C is entitled to more redress than he has already been 
offered. So, I need say no more abo ut the cre dit limit increase exce pt to say that I agree 
that that lending decision wa s unreasonable. So, thi s decision will now focus on the initial 
provision of credit in 2017. 
Having considered all the submissions made in this case, I dont think that Mr C is entitled 
to more than he has already been offered. Ill explain wh y I say that.
The Initial lending decision in 2017
Mr Cs complaint is th at Barclaycard made cre dit available th at was unaffordable. 
Barclaycard has explained that it relied in part on information that Mr C provided at the time 
of application to assess affordability. Whilst Mr C told Barclaycard that he was unemployed, 
he also tol d Barclaycard that he had an income of £16,000 a year. Mr C thinks this lending 
decision was unreasonable because he said he wa s unemployed. 
Barclaycard was entitled to rely on the information Mr C declared to the m in the completion 
of his application. Even so, Barclaycard tested the income by referring it to a credit 
reference agency that compared the income information with previous applications or, as in 
this case, obtained satisfactory validation of Mr Cs monthly net income from his current 
account turnover. From that Barclaycard had confirmation that money was indeed coming 
into Mr Cs bank account. Based on the very modest lending that Barclaycard was offering I 
do not think they needed to look more deeply into Mr Cs finances at that time. But had they 
done so I dont think Barclaycard would have changed their mind about the income for such 
modest initial lending. I say that because, having seen the bank statements that Mr C has 
provided, I have noted that they show that Mr Cs account enjoyed regular payments made 
into it.
I have also considered that Barclaycard said they carried out a cred it search in Mr Cs name 
to assess his level of d ebt at that time and to understand how he had been managing that 
debt. With that information and using their own scoring metric, Barclaycard decided to agree 
to the credit limit of £400. So, there was some assessment of affordability at the time of the 
lending decision. And I consider the checks to have been proportionate for such a modest 
amount of credit. 
I say th at because the income that Mr C declared and that Barclaycard confirmed, was 
sufficient to have made affordable the very modest initial credit limit of £400. I say this 
because the initial credit limit was modest and the maximum monthly payments for that 
credit would have been relatively modest. 
The Barclaycard checks showed that Mr C had only a modest amount of other borrowings 
compared to his declared income. And I have noted that Barclaycard tol d us they found no 
adverse records on Mr Cs credit file was very clean at the time of the application. When I 
say this, I mean that Mr Cs management of his existing credit showed no recent history of 
CCJs, defaults or any late payments. So, it seemed from the credit file that at the point that 
the lending decision was made, Mr C was affording his existing credit. And so, Barclaycard 
were not put on notice of any reason not to agree the lending from that. And so, I dont think 
that the information that Barcl aycard had at the time of the lending decisio n, would have led 
them to feel they ought to make more searching enquiries of Mr Cs financia l situation. 
I have to look at the information that was available to Barclaycard at the time it made its 
lending decisions and not to use hindsi ght. And I have seen insufficient evidence that the 
other information that Barclaycard acquired or had presented to it at the time of the lending 
decision, would have led them to think that the relatively modest credit they were offering 
was unreasonable. 
Page 2 of 4Page 3 of 4So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, I have seen insufficient 
evidence to think that the credit Barclaycard provided to Mr C was unreasonable. 
Because I think the initial lending was reasonable, I think the redress should be as below. 
Barclaycard should put things right on Mr Cs account from the time of the increase to the 
credit limit on 20 August 2018. 
Putting things right  what Barclaycard needs to do
Barclaycard should:
 Rework Mr Cs Barclaycard account to ensure that from 20 August 2018
onwards interest is only charged on balances up to the total credit limit of £400,
(being the credit limit in place before that date) to reflect the fact that no further
credit limit increases should have been provided. All late payment and over limit
fees should also be removed; and
 If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments
have been made Barclaycard should contact Mr C to arrange an affordable
repayment plan for these accounts. Once Mr C has repaid the outstanding
balance, it should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file
from 20 August 2018 onwards for the Barclaycard account.
OR
 If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments
and returned to Mr C, along with 8% simple interest per year on the overpayments
from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement.
Barclaycard should also remove any adverse information from Mr Cs credit file
from 20 August 2018 onwards.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclaycard to take off tax from this interest. 
Barclaycard must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks 
for one.
Mr C had suggested a different version of the redress. But for reasons given above I think 
the initial lending was reasonable and the lending decision in August 2018 was 
unreasonable. As such, I have seen insufficient reason to depart from our standard redress 
in such matters. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im partially upholding Mr Cs complaint. Barclays Bank UK 
PLC trading as Barclaycard should put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.Page 4 of 4Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman