DRN-2752100
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H say they were mis-sold their life and critical illness policy from The Royal 
London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (then trading as the Co-operative) in 2003. They 
said that they were told their monthly premiums would reduce as the sum assured 
decreased through the life of the policy but this didnt happen.  
To resolve their complaint, they want a full explanation as to why the policy they were 
recommended was deemed suitable for their needs, when they believe it wasnt. They feel 
they should be offered appropriate compensation and a refund of premiums as appropriate. 
What happened
In December 2019, Royal London rejected the complaint. It looked at wider sales of two 
policies, one from 1999 and one from 2003. It said on the occasion of each sale, Mr and Mrs 
H were sold policies which were appropriate for their needs and matched the term, value 
and type of their respective mortgages.  
Mr and Mrs H brought their complaint to this service. They clarified that they only required a 
review of the sale of the 2003 policy.  
An investigator reviewed the complaint, but he did not think it should succeed. He said that 
Mr and Mrs Hs existing provisions didnt provide full cover for their mortgage and the 
recommendation had been appropriate in the circumstances. 
He also explained that decreasing term policies had a reducing sum assured, but not a 
reducing premium. In his view, he could not see any clear evidence that Mr and Mrs H had 
been treated unfairly by Royal London in relation to the sale of their cover in 2003. 
Mr and Mrs H made some further points  they said:
they couldnt understand why their payments only reduced slightly since 2003;
why this policy was considered the most suitable for them;
a cost breakdown for the cover wasnt given;
they werent contacted in later years to see if the cover was still suitable;
having no experience in decreasing term policies, they found the description of the 
policy confusing when the premium only reduced from £56.19 to £52.04;
they believe that the business did not do all it could to make sure they fully 
understood what they were buying and it is for that reason they consider the policy 
mis-sold.  
Though he reconsidered the complaint in light of the further comments, but wasnt 
persuaded to change his view.   
Mr and Mrs H asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. They said a previous 
case handler from this service said that premium payments for policies of this nature rarely 
decrease. They cannot understand why they were sold a policy with a misleading title, as it 
suggests the premium will naturally reduce too when this was not the case. 
Royal London didnt have any further comments to add.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed all of the information carefully, I am of the view that this complaint should 
not be upheld. I know that wont be the outcome Mr and Mrs H have hoped for but Ill 
summarise my reasons for that below.   
In October 2003, Mr and Mrs H met with a Co-operative adviser to review their protection 
needs, as they had changed since the previous advice. In 1999, theyd had an endowment 
mortgage (where the lump sum is repaid at the end of the term) which had level life 
assurance running alongside it. However, by the time of the advice in 2003, Mr and Mrs H 
had a £56,600 capital repayment mortgage. 
I have no reason to dispute Mr and Mrs Hs recollection, and I can see theyve gone into 
some detail about what happened at the time. However, whilst this evidence is something I 
take into account, I must also weigh up Royal Londons version of events as well as any 
other evidence such as contemporaneous documentation from the times of the sale. Where 
there is conflicting evidence, I have concluded what I believe is most likely, on the balance of 
probabilities.
There is evidence that the adviser took specific details of Mr and Mrs Hs personal 
circumstances and existing provisions and recorded these in a fact find document. That 
document also made record of Mr and Mrs Hs requirements at that time as well as financial 
areas they didnt want advice about. It was stated that they wished to have appropriate 
insurance for their mortgage liability in the event one of them was to fall seriously ill or pass 
away.     
On that basis, the adviser recommended they take out an initial £56,600 of life and critical 
illness cover for a 17 year term and a premium of £56.19. it was set up on a decreasing 
basis, which meant that the policys sum assured would reduce each year broadly in line 
with the mortgage repayments.  
Notwithstanding the issue Mrs H is particularly concerned about (the decreasing term, which 
I will explain specifically below) I believe the policy was suitable to recommend in the 
circumstances. Mr and Mrs H had a dependent child and it is recorded that they wished to 
continue to ensure provisions were in place in the form of appropriate insurance cover. 
Insurances such as life and critical illness cover are a prudent step to take to provide 
security for a significant liability such as a mortgage. Though Mr and Mrs H had other life 
policies at the time of the advice these were due to end in 2014 and did not have the same 
value as their mortgage liability. In any event, Mr and Mrs H were free to refuse the 
recommendation if they didnt want to pursue with it. 
It follows that I do not believe the proposal for insurance of this nature was unreasonable. 
Further, I believe the recommendation was specific and appropriate for Mr and Mrs Hs 
documented needs  I can see Mrs H has questioned this, and doesnt understand why the 
proposal was a best fit for them, particularly because of the decreasing term.  
To explain, there are two variations with of term assurance, those being level term and 
decreasing term. Level term assurance pays out the same sum on death at any time during the term  so in the example of Mr and Mrs Hs previously policy, for example, a valid claim 
during the term would have been for £44,000 at any time from its inception in 1999 to when it 
was cancelled in 2003.
For decreasing term assurance, the death benefit reduces during the term. The Key 
features booklet Mr and Mrs H received at the time explains this. It says CIS Decreasing 
Temporary Assurance with Critical Illness Cover is a protection policy which pays out a lump 
sum, known as the sum assured, on death or earlier critical illness during the term of the 
policy. The cover starts at the initial loan amount and gradually reduces to zero as the loan is 
repaid over the term. It is sufficient to cover the balance of a loan repayable by level 
instalments calculated at any rate of interest up to 12.5%. 
Decreasing term assurance is, on general grounds, notably cheaper than level term 
assurance. It is the most appropriate recommendation for applicants with capital repayment 
mortgages because as the amount outstanding on the lending decreases, so does the cover 
on the policy meaning the policyholders are not paying for extra cover they don't need 
beyond their documented mortgage liability. 
When a business calculates a policy premium following an application for either level or 
decreasing term assurance, that premium will be fixed from the outset. On occasion 
premiums can be increased proportionately, to account for inflation for example. Mr and Mrs 
Hs policy allowed for that after the first five years, though it was not exercised. 
A fixed premium is agreed at the start of the policy term so its clear what policyholders have 
to pay each month. This will be based on a total cost for the life of the policy as set by the 
insurer (based on actuarial variables such as age, health, lifestyle factors such as smoking 
and family medical history) divided by the number of months in the policy term. This is the 
most sensible way to set premium payments for decreasing term cover - if the premiums 
also reduced, then they would need to be larger at the outset and therefore could be 
prohibitively expensive at the start of a policy.
To address Mrs Hs concern specifically, decreasing term assurance policies do not have 
corresponding reducing premiums. I realise she says the policy is confusing, but on the first 
page of the Key Features, it sets out one commitment from policyholders, which is you 
agree to pay a regular premium for the term of the policy. It is not set out anywhere in the 
documentation that the premium will reduce proportionately, and though I know she and Mr 
H feel strongly that the adviser told them this, I have to weigh that recollection against the 
balance of other evidence suggesting otherwise.
The policy documentation says we guarantee that the premium will not change for the first 
five years of the policy. If the policy term exceeds 5 years, we may review the policy in light 
of our claims and expense experience. The premium may increase if we apply a general 
increase to all similar policies. 
In fact, in 2015, the premium reduced to £52.04 from £56.19, but this wasnt a reflection of 
any decreasing nature of the policy premium itself. Royal London applied an adjustment to 
Mr and Mrs Hs policy (and other similar policies) because it had revised its cost 
considerations for women and this meant the cost of providing cover was fractionally 
cheaper  so that cost saving was rightfully passed on to its customers.  
Im sorry that Mr and Mrs H feel they didnt properly understand the policy they took out. But 
having looked at all of the information, I believe their circumstances were reasonably 
assessed and an appropriate recommendation was made to them for a policy best suited to 
their term, value and type of mortgage liability. And as Ive said above, the decreasing 
aspect of the policy is the sum assured over the term, the policy tile and documentation do not refer to a reducing premium. 
Finally, I note Mr and Mrs H have since cancelled the cover, but they had the benefit of the 
insurance until that point; so, they could reasonably have pursued a claim under the policy if 
required. As such, I dont agree that the policy premiums ought to be returned to them when 
were paid for insurance that Royal London reasonably provided during the term.  
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint or make any award.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman