DRN-4174833
The complaint
E complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) unfairly declined a legal expenses 
insurance (LEI) claim under its management liability policy.
Any reference to E or AXA includes respective agents and representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known by all parties, so Ive summarised events.
E held an AXA management liability policy that includes various cover.
In January 2020, E was investigated by the police. Around this time, Es director 
(Mr F) was arrested and interviewed. 
In October 2020 the management liability policy renewed.
On 11 November 2020, Mr F was asked to attend a voluntary police interview, which 
he did. And on 20 November 2020, a summons was issued against E.
In January 2021, a summons was issued against Mr F directly. 
E contacted AXA around February 2021 to make a claim on the company legal 
liability and directors & officers sections of its management liability policy.
AXA considered these and declined the claims. It said E was aware of circumstances 
that would lead to a claim prior to the policy period (that renewed in October 2020), 
and these events were excluded in line with its policy terms. AXA said there is no 
power of arrest for a company, and if only E had been under investigation (not the 
director too), the first interview wouldve been conducted by invitation to a 
representative and not under caution as was the directors arrest.
E disagreed, saying the allegations against E were not likely to give rise to a claim 
due to limited disclosure and evidential weaknesses. So, it said it had acted 
reasonably by first notifying AXA of the action when it did. And until November 2020 
Mr F had only been interviewed in the capacity of a representative of E.
Our Investigator looked into what happened and initially didnt uphold the complaint. 
She was satisfied the circumstances of both claims fell outside of the 2021 policy 
period, and so considered AXAs declination to be fair. 
E disagreed, and made the following points:
oCompany legal liability claim: It would not be fair for AXA to decline Es claim 
as it has not been prejudiced by the late notification of the claim.
oDirectors & officers claim: It said there were no rule to prevent a 
representative of a company being arrested to answer questions on behalf of 
that company. And here, Mr F was the only person who couldve been 
required to attend an interview to answer questions about company offences. 
oE quoted rules around arrests and said Mr F wouldve needed to be 
interviewed separately as an individual to his interview representing E. 
oIt provided a copy of the police invitation from November 2020 and transcript 
notes that it said showed this was the first knowledge Mr F wouldve had that 
he was being investigated as an individual. 
Following some back and forth, our Investigator looked at it again. She explained she 
was satisfied E was bringing the complaint on behalf of both claims and seeking its 
own losses, not those of Mr F as it was E that had incurred the losses related to the 
directors claim. And she upheld the complaint, saying:
oThe prior claims exclusion related to the 2021 policy year. And so given the 
circumstance had occurred in the previous year, AXA needed to consider the 
claim under the 2020 policy.
oIn doing so, she directed AXA to outline any impact of the late notification in 
relation to a claim being made under the 2020 policy.
oAXA hadnt provided evidence or reasoning as to how the late notification 
wouldve had any material bearing on the claims. So, she directed it to 
reconsider the claims under the 2020 policy.
AXA responded to say:
oMr Fs claim was not able to be considered by this Service as he was a 
director and not a consumer.
oFor the Company legal liability claim it said while the circumstance in 
question existed in the 2020 policy period, this did not trigger a claim during 
this time until it received a charge sheet in November 2020  under the 
following policy year. And it argued the question of prejudice was therefore 
not relevant as it was a claims made policy. And it said prejudice is not a 
consideration when a matter is excluded under a policy  and its clauses set 
out specific risks which will be covered  and in this instance prior 
circumstances are not covered.
The Investigator reiterated her earlier comments about E bringing the complaint on 
behalf of both claims and seeking its own losses, not those of Mr F. 
AXA provided nothing further. E reached out to say all charges against Mr F had 
since been dropped.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
E has brought this complaint about both the and company legal liability claim and the 
directors and officers claim. E has demonstrated it has paid the associated legal 
costs related to both claims. So, Im satisfied E is seeking its own losses and not any 
losses on behalf of Mr F himself.
AXA has put forward its reasons for declining these claims under the 2021 policy. 
These relate to an exclusion that says We will not cover any claim, or circumstance 
which you were aware of before the start of the period of insurance. The word 
circumstance is defined in the policy as Any verbal or written complaint made against you or an insured person that could give rise to a claim. This does not include 
any routine employee disciplinary action or employee dismissal.
AXA argues the events that took place prior to the renewal of the policy  namely, the 
police interviews related to E and Mr F  means E was aware of the respective 
circumstances before the start of the period of insurance.
If I agree that the circumstance did take place prior to period of insurance (the 2021 
policy year)  then it appears to me that E would be unable to make a claim under 
the 2021 policy. So, Ive thought about the 2020 policy that preceded it. To my 
knowledge, from what AXA has presented, E held cover with AXA continuously 
across these two years with no gap in cover. 
So, it seems to me  under the FCA principle of treating customers fairly  AXA 
should be considering the impact of this claim falling between two stools. That is to 
say, AXA argues E cannot make a claim under the 2020 policy due to the 
circumstances of the time, but also cannot make a claim under the 2021 policy due to 
the date the claim was made. Doing so leaves E in a position where it seemingly 
cannot claim under either policy.
Our Investigator has put to AXA that it would therefore need to demonstrate why the 
claim under the 2020 policy would not succeed  and put forward any reason as to 
why any such late notification of the claim wouldve had an impact. 
AXA has been clear it believes it does not need to present such a reason. But I 
disagree. Here it appears to me E has demonstrated an insured peril has taken place 
and has suffered a loss in relation to that peril. And as AXA is seeking to rely on an 
exclusion, it is for AXA to demonstrate that relying on the exclusion would be fair. 
Here  this means AXA needed to demonstrate that a late notification of a claim 
under the 2020 prejudiced its position. And given it has had the opportunity to do so 
and decided not to provide a response to this point  Im satisfied it hasnt 
demonstrated it can fairly rely on any exclusions related to late notification. 
My final decision
For the above reasons Im upholding this complaint. I direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
Reconsider both of claims - including consideration of all costs E has incurred related 
to the claims (the company legal liability and directors and officers claims) under the 
remaining terms of the 2020 policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman