DRN-2411075
The complaint
Mr P complains about Guarantee Protection Insurance Limited (Guarantee Protection) for 
declining to compensate him for damage to a rug and wall after a leak to his property. He 
wants Guarantee Protection to pay for redecoration of his wall and replacement of the rug. 
What happened
In 1999 Mr P purchased a conservatory which was installed at his home. He received a 
warranty to guarantee the structure for 10 years. 
When this warranty expired in 2009, Mr P purchased an extended warranty from Guarantee 
Protection. This renewed on a yearly basis and provided limited cover for the structure of the 
conservatory. 
Around September 2019, Mr P became aware of a leak from the central beam of his 
conservatory and he informed Guarantee Protection. 
An engineer from Guarantee Protection attended Mr Ps property and inspected the 
conservatory. He noted that water ingress had damaged the rug and had stained the wall 
near to the leak. The structure of the conservatory was subsequently repaired.
Mr P contacted Guarantee Protection in December 2019 to ask that they compensate him 
for the items damaged by the leak. 
Guarantee Protection responded immediately, requesting details of the damaged items, 
which Mr P provided. 
A short time later, Guarantee Protection responded and declined to compensate Mr. It 
pointed to the limited nature of the cover, which excluded consequential loss.
Mr P was not happy with this and contacted us. 
One of our investigators has looked into the complaint and set out her views in detail to the 
parties.
This was that the policy did not extend cover beyond the structure of the conservatory, and 
that it did not include cover for items kept in the conservatory, or damaged as a 
consequence of failures to the conservatory structure. 
She also did not consider that there was evidence of unreasonable delays in the repair of the 
conservatory because the parts required to repair the conservatory had to be specially 
made. She therefore did not recommend that Guarantee Protection do anything further.
Mr P did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Ps feelings about this claim, and I can see why he believes he should be 
compensated when he has sustained a loss.
However, I have to look at what was included within the warranty and whether the business 
has acted reasonably in applying its policy terms. 
The business has provided details of the policy cover which makes clear that the warranty 
protection is for the structures of the conservatory only. This also makes clear that the 
warranty protection does not cover:
Any loss that does not relate to the physical rectification of the insured works or
any loss of use, consequential loss or any other costs that are directly or indirectly
caused by the event which lead to the claim, unless specifically stated in this policy.
I agree with my colleague that this is clear, and that items inside the property, or damaged 
as a result of a leak, are outside of the scope of this agreement. 
I note that Mr P has argued that Guarantee Protection asked for details of the items and he 
says that they delay in his learning that they would not be covered by Guarantee Protection 
meant that he was then unable to claim on his household insurance. I do not, however, 
consider that there is a failing from Guarantee Protection. 
Mr P alerted them to the claim in early December and, as a matter of course, the 
administrator asked for details of the claim. I do not think that this suggested that the claim 
would succeed, and rather it was a way of avoiding delays in obtaining information which 
might be relevant. 
Guarantee Protection responded within a reasonable time to decline Mr Ps claim.
Mr P is also concerned that Guarantee Protection took too long to make repairs to the 
conservatory roof, and he feels that this exacerbated the damage caused by the leak. I do 
not agree. I have considered the evidence provided to show that custom parts were required 
for the repair and I agree with the investigator that the periods taken for parts to be obtained 
were not unreasonable. 
As a result, whilst I sympathise with Mr P about the damage he has incurred, I do not 
consider that this is the fault of, or responsibility of, Guarantee Protection Insurance Limited, 
and I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint and do not ask Guarantee 
Protection Insurance Limited to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman