DRN-2417816
The complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) have treated him unfairly by 
stopping several of his current account transactions over the last two years. He feels hes 
been the victim of prejudice. And is unhappy with the way his complaint has been handled 
by Halifax. He said he has been given inaccurate and misleading information by the 
complaints department. 
What happened
Our Investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said he appreciated that 
Mr Hs transactions being stopped would be inconvenient, and Halifax couldve been clearer 
about whether Mr H could escalate his complaint to the executives office. But overall, he felt 
Mr H hadnt been treated unfairly or unreasonably by Halifax. 
Mr H disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsman review. He says he was given false, 
misleading and inaccurate information by Halifax when he asked whether he could escalate 
his complaint to the executives office. He feels he hasnt received a genuine apology or 
explanation from Halifax about it stopping his transactions. He added Halifax has failed to 
take into consideration the time it has taken him to pursue this matter, and the implications of 
being given false and inaccurate information. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr H feels very strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome.
I note Mr H had a conversation with a complaint manager at Halifax in late August 2020 after 
a final response to his complaint had been sent. He was made aware of a possible solution 
to the issues he had experienced. Im afraid Halifax has confirmed this will need to be a new 
complaint and doesnt form part of this complaint. So, I cant consider that here. 
Im also unable to consider the issues Mr H has raised about the information Halifax 
provided to this service for its consideration. Mr H has been in touch with the Information 
Commissioners Office already about this issue. Because theyre the regulatory authority for 
data protection complaints, they would be best suited to investigate any complaint Mr H 
wishes to raise about this matter. 
Halifax acknowledges Mr H had several transactions stopped this year. Im satisfied it has 
tried to explain why the system blocked Mr Hs transaction on 1 July 2020, and why he 
wasnt sent a text. 
Halifax has said its fraud prevention system flagged this transaction with a high alert which is 
why it didnt send a text message. Having reviewed this complaint, I agree with what Halifax 
and the Investigator have said. Transactions flagged by the fraud prevention system are 
random and can be based on how high risk the payments are. They can also be flagged 
based upon what transactions have taken place or been stopped previously. So, Im satisfied 
Mr H hasnt been the victim of prejudice here.  
After listening to the calls, I appreciate Mr H was trying to resolve his complaint by speaking 
to a senior manager. But I believe he was told on one of the calls his concerns would be 
passed on to the manager, and they would contact him if they deemed it necessary. And 
Halifax confirmed his concerns had been passed to a manager in a later call. 
I think its worth mentioning that its not this services role to change the internal policies of 
Halifaxs complaints department. And I note there was some confusion about whether 
Mr H could escalate his concerns to the executive office at Halifax. But I dont think he was 
treated unfairly or unreasonably when discussing his complaint.  
Halifax did tell Mr H it was within his rights to consider whether he wanted to continue to 
bank with it. Mr H has said he found this comment offensive. But I dont think the comment 
was meant to be offensive. Halifax did explain this was only to highlight that he did have the 
option to take his account/s elsewhere if he wanted, and that it doesnt want to lose 
customers. Ive noted Halifax did apologise for this comment in a later call. And Im satisfied 
thats a fair response. 
So, I do appreciate having transactions stopped can cause inconvenience and 
embarrassment, but Im not satisfied there is any evidence to suggest they were stopped 
unfairly or because Mr H has been the victim of prejudice. 
So, Im not going to ask Halifax to do anything more here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman