DRN-3050662
The complaint
Mr Ms representative has complained, on his behalf, about the pension transfer of his 
preserved benefits in the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension 
policy (PPP). It says that Mr M was advised to transfer by Carnwyllon Wealth Management 
Ltd (CWM) and another financial business (which Ill call Firm B). 
The representative considers that the advice provided to Mr M was flawed and has resulted 
in him suffering a significant financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd (Tata Steel) announced that it would be examining
options to restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The
consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits,
one of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory
fund designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes
when their employer becomes insolvent. Tata Steel closed the BSPS to further benefit
accrual from 31 March 2017.
In May 2017, the PPF announced that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement 
(RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that, if risk-related qualifying conditions 
relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ms 
employer would be set up  the BSPS 2. 
This was, however, intended to receive deferred benefits only. The main defined benefit 
OPS had been replaced by a new defined contribution scheme. The existing scheme was 
due to be closed in the near future, with the options being set out in a subsequent letter in 
October 2017 for deferred members to either transfer their benefits to the successor 
scheme, the BSPS 2, the PPF or into a private arrangement, such as a PPP.
A deadline was set for members to notify the scheme administrators as to their choice in 
December 2017.
Mr Ms circumstances at the time of the meeting with CWM, and subsequently Firm B, were 
as follows:
He was 53 years old, married and had one financially dependent child. 
He was employed, earning £42,000 pa and Mrs M was self-employed, earning 
around £8,000 pa.
He owned his home, valued at £400,000, with an outstanding mortgage of £120,000. 
He planned to sell the property to downsize and repay his mortgage 
He had cash savings of £15,000, along with shares worth £7,000.
His attitude to risk was recorded as being moderately cautious.
Mr M had been a member of the BSPS for 36 years.
Mr M had an anticipated retirement age of 58.
Mr M had minor health issues, but they werent expected to affect his life expectancy.  
In terms of Mr Ms deferred benefit entitlement, he had a normal retirement age of 65, at 
which he could expect an annual income of £34,567.
As CWM didnt have the necessary permissions to provide pension transfer advice, it 
referred Mr M to Firm B in early July 2016. But it was envisaged that Mr M would continue to 
be a client of CWM after that transfer advice had been provided.
Mr M received a transfer value from the BSPS for his deferred benefits of £307,453 in 
August 2016, guaranteed for three months.
Within the suitability report produced in October 2016 by Firm B, Mr Ms preferences and 
priorities were recorded as follows:
To control his pension fund. Mr M was concerned about the future of both his 
employer and the pension scheme. 
To not expose a significant proportion of his retirement benefits to anything other 
than limited risk where there was a reasonable potential for rewards.
A lump sum death benefit  although he had life cover, he wanted his wife to benefit 
from 100% of the fund value, rather than 50% of the scheme income.
Flexibility with the level of income he would receive in retirement and the format of 
spouses benefits.
The flexibility to manage his withdrawals from his pension funds  he may or may not 
need a tax free lump sum to, for example, repay his mortgage.
He wanted to continue working for at least another five years, but to have early 
retirement as an option, especially considering that the future of the steel company 
and his pension was at risk.
He didnt wish to expose himself to anything other than a minimal amount of risk in 
the hope of increasing his pension benefits.
Firm B recommended that Mr M transfer his deferred benefits to a PPP in order for him to 
achieve his objectives, and Mr M accepted the recommendation
The fee to complete the transfer was £7,000, which would be taken from the pension fund. 
There was a product charge of 0.7%, a guarantee charge of 0.65% and a secure income 
charge of 0.55% pa. A 0.5% ongoing advice fee would be payable to the CWM.
Mr M complained to both CWM and Firm B, through his representative, in July 2019, saying 
that he didnt think hed been given the right advice and that hed suffered considerable loss 
as a result.
CWM didnt uphold the complaint, saying that it hadnt provided transfer advice to Mr M, and 
the matter was subsequently referred to this service.
One of our investigators considered the matter and said the following in summary:
He was satisfied that there was a relationship between Mr M and CWM, as Mr M 
became a customer of it in November 2016 when CWM took over as servicing 
agents and began receiving a fee for ongoing advice.
The complaint related to events before the transfer and there was no fault or loss 
alleged after CWM took over as the ongoing advisory firm. CWM only introduced Mr 
M to Firm B, which wasnt a regulated activity as per article 30 of the Regulated 
Activity Order  as Mr Ms representative would be aware.
He noted, however, that the representative had argued that the CWMs involvement went beyond simple referral and that it was responsible for persuading Mr M to 
transfer out of the BSPS at meetings held with him. 
The investigator said that it wasnt possible to know exactly was discussed at the 
meetings held with CWM, so he could only rely on the documentary evidence 
provided. 
He accepted that it was possible that CWM had made comments to the effect of 
transferring being a good idea, but he also took into account the fact that CWM didnt 
have the permissions to offer transfer advice. All the paperwork provided indicated 
that Firm B, as the transfer specialists, provided the transfer advice, and this didnt 
seem to be in dispute.
For a personal recommendation (as per COBS 9) to have been given by CWM, it 
would have needed to take into consideration Mr Ms individual circumstances. But it 
made no such assessment  this was undertaken by Firm B.
And so even if CWM had conveyed the impression to Mr M that transferring was a 
good idea, it would still have fallen to Firm B to follow the regulations and make its 
own conclusions regarding suitability. He noted that a separate complaint had been 
raised against Firm B, and so the suitability of the advice it had given would be 
considered under that complaint.
Although, when bringing the complaint, Mr Ms representative had correctly referred 
to the regulations which applied to an assessment of the suitability of the transfer, it 
wasnt for CWM to follow these, given that it hadnt provided the transfer advice. And 
he hadnt seen any evidence that CWM had overstepped the bounds here and 
provided advice.
The investigator noted a further point made by the representative regarding the email 
exchanges between CWM and Firm B. But he didnt think that these rendered CWM 
equally responsible for the transfer advice. He said it wasnt uncommon for transfer 
specialists to get in touch with introducers in circumstances where the latter had had 
detailed conversations with the client, and it would also provide the ongoing 
servicing.
The investigator concluded that any concerns about the transfer advice should be referred to 
Firm B and, as such, he didnt recommend that this complaint be upheld against CWM.
Mr Ms representative disagreed, however, making the following points:
It didnt accept that it was permissible for CWM to have made statements to the 
effect that transferring would be a good idea but then be completely immune from 
any losses arising from Mr Ms reliance on such statements.
The FCA wrote to 148 authorised advising businesses in November 2017 setting out 
its expectations of them when referring clients to transfer specialists. It assumed that 
CWM would be one of them, given the extent of its involvement in BSPS transfers.
The regulators letter said that it expected businesses such as CWM to treat your 
customers fairly and ensure that you do not inadvertently lead or influence a 
customer to take a particular course of action. The representative said that it was 
acting for a number of clients who had said that CWM had persuaded them to transfer, in some instances without any direct contact with a pension transfer 
specialist.
It noted that Firm B had said, in response to the complaint about it, that CWM had 
been advertising seminars to encourage people to transfer and so Mr M had been 
mentally prepared to transfer before it met with him. This allegation, if true, 
specifically transgressed the regulators expectations and supported Mr Ms account 
of his experience with CWM.
Other complaints had been referred to this service relating to CWM and a common 
thread was that it was aggressively marketing the recipient PPP product for the 
transferred funds. It requested that I consider the number of referrals made by CWM 
and whether it treated its customers fairly in light of the volume of business 
transacted.
It accepted that it was Firm B which provided the personal recommendation to Mr M, 
but the paperwork indicated that CWM continued to have significant involvement in 
the pension transfer after the referral was made to Firm B. CWM also received 
£3,500 immediately after the transfer and this could only be explained as a 
recognition of CWMs role in advising on and facilitating Mr Ms pension transfer.
It noted that no comment had been made on Mr Ms concerns expressed about the 
different version of the confidential client review which had been provided to Firm B. 
That version contained no note which said that CWM had informed Mr M that it 
couldnt undertake any pension transfer cases, but that it would refer him to a 
transfer specialist if that was his wish  and that he confirmed that it was and gave 
permission to pass on his contact details.
The representative said that this had led it to conclude that this note was added after 
Mr Ms transfer, and possibly in response to his complaint. And it requested that 
confirmation be provided that this had been raised with CWM.
It further said that, if it were ultimately concluded that CWM only introduced Mr M to 
Firm B, and the latter bore the whole responsibility for the transfer, CWM should 
nevertheless be required to refund the £3,500 which was paid to it upon the transfer 
of Mr Ms pension funds.
In support of this point, it said that Mr M agreed to pay this amount on the 
understanding that CWM was advising him on the pension transfer alongside Firm B. 
But it were found that CWM gave no advice and bore no responsibility for the 
transfer, this would mean that it had been unjustly enriched at Mr Ms expense.
As agreement hasnt been reached on the matter, its been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law
and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and codes of practice, and what I consider to
have been good industry practice at the time.
I think it would be helpful if I firstly set out the scope of my assessment in this matter  that is, what I can and cant consider when deciding the outcome of the complaint. And given that 
the complaint isnt about Firm B, I can only comment on that business responsibilities in the 
most general sense, and where relevant to the involvement of CWM in this matter. I wont be 
able, and it wouldnt be appropriate, to comment on whether or not it fulfilled those 
responsibilities.
Did CWM provide transfer advice to Mr M?
CWM has confirmed that it didnt advise Mr M on the transfer, and the reason that it referred 
the matter to Firm B was because it didnt have the necessary permissions to do so. And 
although Ive noted the comments of Mr Ms representative relating to statements made by 
CWM in support of the transfer, along with the testimony of other clients who have also said 
that CWM persuaded them to transfer, theres no documentary evidence in this complaint 
that it advised Mr M to transfer. 
In respect of the point about the fee of £3,500 paid to CWM  an introducers fee for the 
referral to Firm B - this also doesnt point to it having given any transfer advice to Mr M. I 
acknowledge the possibility of discussions having taken place prior to the referral which 
might have given Mr M the impression that transferring would be in his best interests, but it 
was Firm B which was responsible for the formal advice. And I think its more likely than not, 
or at least to be reasonably expected, that Mr M would have placed more store in a written 
recommendation, which would, or at least should, have taken into account his circumstances 
and objectives, than he would in any prior discussions with CWM about his options.
Ive also noted that, due to the number of pension transfer complaints referred to it about 
CWM, the representative would like me to consider Mr Ms complaint in the context of the 
many other individuals its representing where CWM introduced them to a Firm B because 
each of the testimonies provided are similar and corroborate the others. 
I understand why Mr Ms representative would like me to do this. But Im afraid that this isnt 
the basis upon which this service operates. Mr Ms representative will understand that, 
although similarities may exist, the individual details of each case are always different  
which is why this service decides each case on its own particular facts and merits. The right 
outcome in one case may not be the right outcome in another as individual circumstances 
can  and will - vary.
So, in deciding this complaint, Ive considered the individual facts and merits applicable to             
Mr Ms dealings with CWM. It wouldnt be appropriate for me to consider CWMs acts or 
omissions in other cases where it may have introduced individuals to a Firm B.
The note in the confidential client review
Mr Mrs representative has said that this note - about the referral by CWM of Mr Ms case to 
Firm B - was absent in the confidential client review form provided to Firm B. But Im not 
certain as to the relevance of any conclusion I might in any case be able to draw on this to 
the outcome here. Its not disputed that CWM referred Mr M to Firm B, so even if the note 
was absent in the document passed to Firm B, it would make no difference to the underlying 
facts of the case.
I suspect it may be the representatives position that this is indicative of practices lacking 
somewhat in transparency, hence the reference to the note perhaps being added to the 
document after the complaint had been raised. But I still dont see how this would in any 
case aid CWMs defence of its position. As illustrated by my point above, its not disputed 
that Mr M had initially talked to CWM about his situation and concerns about the scheme, 
and that he was then referred to Firm B as CWM wasnt a transfer specialist.And so I dont think this has a material bearing on the outcome here.
The £3,500 fee
Mr Ms representative has further requested that the £3,500 fee paid to CWM be returned to 
Mr M. But my understanding is that the overall fee of £7,000 was deducted from the 
transferred funds by Firm B. Firm B then paid half of that to CWM, and so, given that the 
former was responsible for assessing the suitability of the transfer in the first place, it would 
be a matter between Mr M and Firm B to recover the amount which it deducted from his 
transferred funds. 
Summary
On a fair and reasonable assessment of this complaint, my conclusion is that CWM didnt 
provide the transfer advice to Mr M. As such, I wont be requiring CWM to pay any 
compensation to Mr M or take any further action in relation to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman