DRN-3927593
The complaint
Miss C complains that Zopa Bank Limited gave her incorrect information several times.
What happened
Miss C says that she transferred money from her Zopa savings access pot to her Zopa 
savings boosted pot. She says she rang Zopa to query what happened with the interest on 
the boosted pot as she wished to withdraw this each month. Miss C says she was advised 
that each month it would automatically get transferred to her access pot to withdraw. She 
says that the following month, as the interest had not been automatically transferred to her 
access pot, she contacted Zopa again, who advised she could withdraw the interest only 
from the boosted pot, but she would need to wait until the notice period expired for it to arrive 
in her access pot. 
Miss C says she tried to do this, but it appeared that the only way to do this was to withdraw 
the full amount in her boosted pot. She says she spoke to Zopa, and the call handler advised 
her that there was a way to extract the interest each month without having to withdraw the 
entire pot. Miss C says they tried to do this on the phone, but the only way to do this was to 
empty the boosted pot. She says she was unable to cancel the request. Miss C made a 
complaint to Zopa.
Zopa did not uphold Miss Cs complaint. They said she was told the correct information on 
the phone calls and that they made no error. Miss C brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator upheld Miss Cs complaint. She said that shed listened to the available call 
recordings, and she could see how Miss C wouldve been confused by the information she 
was given. She said the call handler on 9 August 2022 raised a complaint without trying to 
resolve the issue first. So she said that Zopa should pay Miss C £50 compensation.
Zopa asked for an Ombudsman to review Miss Cs complaint. They said whilst the call on 
the 9 August 2022 may have posed some confusion, the customer was provided with the 
correct information the previous day  and then again in the final response letter shortly 
afterwards. So they did not agree with her recommendation to award £50 compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to a call that Miss C had with Zopa on 8 August. Miss C says that she was told 
when she rang Zopa in the previous month, that the interest on her boosted pot would be 
paid automatically into her primary account each month. She asks about the call last month 
and if the notes were there. The call handler initially gives Miss C incorrect information when 
she told Miss C normally what happens is any interest that accumulates, erm, accumulates 
over the period of time, err, for the specific pot that you have. It normally gets paid into the 
primary pot, so Im not sure why it was paid into the savings account.
The call handler places Miss C on hold to find out further information. When she returns, she 
tells Miss C she has told her incorrect information and she clarifies the interest would be paid 
into the 95 day notice pot. The call handler says she is not sure why Miss C was advised 
incorrectly in the previous month. She confirms that Miss C would still be able to take the 
interest out of her boosted pot each month, but she would have to wait 95 days to receive 
this.
Miss C rings Zopa the following day as she tried to withdraw just the interest and she tells 
the call handler that the system said she could only withdraw all the money in the boosted 
pot. She tells the call handler that she feels she has been misled twice already by the 
information she has had from the last two call handlers. When the call handler returns after 
placing Miss C on hold to find out further information, she tells Miss C that she is able to 
withdraw the amount of interest. So Miss C accesses her smart saver online and asks the 
call handler how she can remove the interest. The call handler says you would then put in 
the amount you would like to withdraw in there, does it not give you an option to do so? 
Miss C says it says add money, withdraw. Miss C says when she tries to withdraw the 
interest it says this means youll get, youll need to give notice or wait until (inaudible) before 
you can access the money, okay, got it. 
The call handler asks her what it says after that. Miss C replies that it looks like all of the 
money is being withdrawn from the boosted pot. She says that it looked like she had the 
option to cancel it, but now its going to withdraw all of the money. The call handler then says 
she would raise a complaint for Miss C. But the call handler didnt try and find out the 
position of any withdrawal, whether this had been confirmed or what Miss C would need to 
do on the system to rectify this, whereas previously, the call handler spoke to a member of 
the smart saver team to try and help Miss C. So Im persuaded as a minimum, she could 
have done this again to try and resolve the situation if she didnt know how to do it herself, 
before a complaint was registered.
It appears from the emails Ive seen between Zopa and Miss C that Miss C actually didnt 
request the full withdrawal on 9 August 2022. I say this as she asks the complaint handler on 
22 September 2022, (in response to her complaint) if all of the money from her boosted pot 
to her primary pot had been stopped. The complaint handler responds that they havent got 
access to that information as the product is completely self-serving. The complaint handler 
says that if the banner is not showing and Miss C only gets an option to give notice, it means 
that Miss C has not selected for the notice period to begin. 
Miss C replies I gave notice on 09/09/22 and it isnt showing that (although it would appear 
she meant August as that is when she had the phone call). Again, the complaint handler 
explains on 28 September 2022 that they dont have a visibility of notice periods. But then 
the same complaint handler emails Miss C nearly a month later to tell her that I can now see 
a notice date on your 95-day pot of 1 January 2023.
So it would appear to Miss C that Zopa had not told her the truth if they had said they didnt 
have visibility of her notice period, then the same complaint handler emailed her a month 
later to tell her that she could see the notice period. This would add to her frustration when 
she says that she was told originally her interest would be paid to her access pot from her 
boosted pot every month. As the notice date ended on 1 January 2023, this would also 
indicate that when she was on the phone on 9 August 2022 and spoke to the call handler, 
that she didnt actually give notice on that day as the funds would have been in her account 
in November 2022 as opposed to January 2023.
So if the call handler took ownership of the issue on 9 August 2022, as I would expect her to 
do given the frustration of Miss Cs experience which she informed the call handler about her 
previous issues, then she couldve told Miss C how to cancel the notice, if the notice had 
been actually given (as the complaint handler confirmed on 26 September 2022, that there is an option to cancel this - although its likely the notice wasnt actually given as detailed 
above). But either way, the call handler could have walked her through how to withdraw the 
exact amount of the interest if this was an option available to her. 
This had been confirmed on both the 8 and 9 August 2022 calls that she could just withdraw 
the interest amount (as long as she manually entered the amount of the interest to 
withdraw). Miss C would then know how to do this each month and the account would work 
for her as she intended it to. Alternatively, if she was unable to withdraw just the interest and 
she had to withdraw the full amount of the boosted pot, then they told her incorrect 
information on the two August phone calls. So either way, Im persuaded that Zopa caused 
Miss C inconvenience. And as a result, she received her money months after she would 
have done if the call handler took ownership of the issue on 9 August 2022, which would 
have been more proportionate in the circumstances as opposed to just raising a complaint 
for Miss C without trying to assist her to resolve her issues. 
So Im persuaded that Zopa should compensate Miss C for the inconvenience she suffered. 
Im satisfied that £50 is proportionate for the impact this would have on her. Im satisfied that 
it was in Zopas control to take ownership of the issue and Im persuaded that this could 
have easily been resolved either way on the call on 9 August 2022. If this happened, then 
Miss C would have received her funds in November 2022. So it follows Zopa should put 
things right for Miss C.
Putting things right
Our investigator has suggested that Zopa pays Miss C £50 compensation which I think is 
reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Zopa Bank Limited should pay Miss C £50 for inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman