DRN-3244838
Complaint
Mr K has complained about the overdraft fees and interest Santander UK Plc (Santander) 
applied to his current account. Hes said he was told that hed only be charged if he 
exceeded the limit on his agreed overdraft.
Background and my provisional decision of 16 December 2021
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that Santander shouldnt have 
continued providing an overdraft to Mr K from November 2020 and it needed to refund all the 
interest, fees and charges it added from this point as a result. Santander disagreed so the 
complaint was passed to an ombudsman for review.   
On 16 December 2021, I issued a provisional decision setting out my initial findings on       
Mr Ks complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of my 
findings. 
I started off by saying that I hadnt considered whether the various amounts Santander 
charged Mr K over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the 
costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a bank charges for services is a 
commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get involved with here.
That said, I did go on to say that while I wasnt looking at Santanders charging structure per 
se, it wouldnt have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr K if it applied these interest, fees 
and charges to Mr Ks account in circumstances where it was unfair to do so.
Mr K said it was unfair for Santander to charge him the fees it did because it led him to 
believe that hed only pay interest, fees and charges if he exceeded his overdraft limit. And if 
he stayed within his agreed overdraft limit he wouldnt pay anything at all. 
I carefully thought about what Mr K said. I started my consideration of this matter by saying 
that I didnt know what Mr K was told. But Mr Ks account was initially opened as a student 
account in 2011 and it was opened with an agreed overdraft facility. As Mr K was a student 
at this time, he would have benefitted from student overdraft terms and he wouldnt have 
paid any interest, fees or charges as long as he kept with his limit. I hadnt seen anything to 
suggest that Mr K did pay any arranged overdraft charges at this point.
However, Mr Ks student terms expired in July 2015. At this point he was switched to a 
graduate account. And as far as I could see Mr Ks overdraft facility was removed completely 
in November 2015. Mr K then made a new application for an overdraft facility in May 2019. 
But by this stage, he was no longer eligible for graduate terms and hed been switched to 
one of Santanders standard current accounts. As a result, Mr Ks new overdraft was 
provided on Santanders standard terms where hed pay interest/charges whenever he used 
it, even on an arranged basis. And the terms and conditions did clearly set this out.
I accepted that it was possible Mr K didnt pay too much attention and instead assumed that 
his new overdraft would be provided on the same terms as his previous student one had 
been provided in 2011. But even it if this was the case, I couldnt hold Santander responsible 
for this especially as Mr K continued using the facility even when he ought to have seen that 
he was being charged for doing so. 
As this was the case, I set out that I hadnt seen enough to be sufficiently persuaded 
Santander misled Mr K into believing that hed only be charged if he exceeded the limit on 
his agreed overdraft. And as the terms and conditions Mr K signed up to permitted 
Santander to charge Mr K in the way it did, I wasnt intending to uphold this part of the 
complaint.
Notwithstanding this, I also went on to say that it would nonetheless have been unfair for 
Santander to have charged or continued charging Mr K where it was aware, or it ought fairly 
and reasonably to have been aware he was experiencing financial difficulty. I noted that 
Santander had already refunded a significant amount of the charges applied in 2020 as a 
result of a review of its processes.
So I also looked through the transactions on Mr Ks account to see if Santander ought to 
have been aware that Mr K might have been struggling and therefore needed to refund more 
of the charges it added to Mr Ks account. And having done so, I didnt think that it did need 
to do that here. In doing so, I acknowledged that Mr K did use his overdraft regularly once it 
was provided in 2019 and he may have argued that this was in itself an indication he might 
have been struggling. 
But while I wasnt seeking to make retrospective value judgements over Mr K expenditure, I 
didnt think that this was Mr Ks main account. I said this because his salary didnt appear to 
have been credit to it and there didnt appear to be any bills going from it either. In effect,   
Mr K appeared to have been using this account to make non-committed, non-contractual 
and discretionary transactions.
I accepted neither of these things in themselves (or taken together) meant that Mr K wasnt 
experiencing financial difficulty. But there wasnt anything in Mr Ks transactions in 
themselves which ought to have alerted Santander to potential financial difficulty. On the 
contrary what was going on on the account suggested that Mr K was using it for 
discretionary expenditure and that he had the capacity to significantly reduce his expenditure 
and ensure the facility could be repaid within a reasonable period of time.
 
So, in these circumstances, I didnt think that it was unreasonable for Santander to have 
proceeded with the interest, fees and charges it did add to Mr Ks account. And I didnt think 
Santander unfairly charged Mr K in circumstances where it ought to have realised that he 
may have been experiencing financial difficulty. As this was the case, I didnt think that 
Santander needed to refund any of the interest, fees and charges, which hadnt already 
been refunded and I set out that I was intending to issue a final decision which didnt uphold 
Mr Ks complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr K. But I hope hell understand the 
reasons for my provisional decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been 
listened to.
Santanders response to my provisional decision
Santander didnt respond to my provisional decision or provide anything further for me to 
consider.
Mr Ks response to my provisional decision Mr K called us to confirm that hed received my provisional decision. He said that he never 
received a refund in 2020.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mr K for his response. I know that Mr K says that he didnt receive a refund of some 
of the charges added to his account in 2020. I dont know how Santander communicated the 
result of its review into its historic practices was to Mr K. But what I can see and whats most 
important here is that Mr Ks account transactions show Santander did made a credit for just 
over £200 entitled alert fee refunds on 12 August 2020. 
So while its possible Mr K may not have received a full explanation of what this was refund 
was for, Im nonetheless satisfied that he was refunded a proportion of the charges added to 
his account in 2020. 
Furthermore, I set out, in some detail, the reasons why I wasnt intending to uphold Mr Ks 
complaint in my provisional decision. As neither party has provided any new arguments or 
information in relation to these matters, Ive not been persuaded to alter my conclusions. 
And Im still not upholding Mr Ks complaint. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing 
for Mr K. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel 
his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained and in my provisional decision of 16 December 2021, Im not 
upholding Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman