DRN-3350247
The complaint
Mr an Mrs Gs complaint is about a mortgage they held with Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as 
Virgin Money. They are unhappy that Clydesdale wouldnt lend on the property they wanted 
to buy and so they had to pay an early repayment charge (ERC) when they paid off their 
existing mortgage. In addition, Mr and Mrs G dont consider the nature of the ERC to be fair, 
as it is a static figure throughout the interest rate product term, rather than reducing on a 
sliding scale as theyve had with other lenders.
What happened
In 2016 Mr and Mrs G took out a repayment mortgage with Clydesdale. They attached an 
interest rate product to it which ended on 1 August 2021. The mortgage offer detailed that an 
ERC was payable if the mortgage was repaid before that date. The ERC was documented 
as 5% of the outstanding balance at the date of repayment. Examples of the amount payable 
were given for different dates. The latest date being 1 June 2021 with an ERC of £17,051.10 
payable.
The mortgage offer went on to explain in section 10:
Provided that we are willing to accept a mortgage application from you in the future we will 
allow you to transfer the remainder of this mortgage product to your next property.
This Offer of Loan does not guarantee acceptance of any future mortgage application.
In the middle of April 2021 Mr G spoke to Clydesdale about the possibility of a new 
mortgage. He confirmed that they had accepted an offer on the existing property, had an 
offer accepted on the new property and already had a mortgage offer in place for that 
purchase. Completion was expected to happen in around six weeks time. Mr G went on to 
say that they would prefer to stay with Clydesdale and so had decided to see if that was 
possible. Details of the property and the size of the required mortgage were given. It was 
explained that the property had an equestrian tie, which would allow them to stable their own 
horses and their daughter would be running an equestrian business at a property. Mr G was 
told that Clydesdale only offered mortgages on purely residential properties and so it 
wouldnt be able to lend on the new purchase. Mr G was reminded about when the interest 
rate product was due to end and that an ERC was payable until then.
Mr G spoke to Clydesdale again two days later. He asked to book an appointment to book in 
with a mortgage adviser. He explained that he and Mrs G were buying a new property so 
they could stable their horses rather than pay for livery. Clydesdale asked if the new property 
had less than five acres of land with it and Mr G confirmed it had fifteen acres. He was told 
that the property was outside its lending policy as Clydesdale only offered lending on 
properties with less than five acres of land. It was again highlighted that if the mortgage 
completed after 1 August 2021 there wouldnt be an ERC payable. There was then a 
discussion about making an overpayment before redemption in order to reduce the ERC.
The mortgage was repaid in June 2021 and an ERC of nearly £16,000 was paid. 
Mr and Mrs G complained.
Clydesdale responded to the complaint in a final response letter of 21 July 2021. It confirmed 
that when Mr G had called to discuss a potential new mortgage, he had been told the 
proposed property fell outside its lending policy because it was going to be partially used for 
commercial purposes (and Clydesdale only offered purely residential mortgages) and the 
property included more than five acres of land. As such, while it understood that it being 
unable to offer Mr and Mrs G was disappointing for them, it was satisfied that the ERC was a 
valid charge. However, Clydesdale noted that it had sent the initial complaint 
correspondence to the previously mortgaged property, rather than Mr and Mrs Gs new 
address. It apologised for this and offered them £75 compensation. 
Mr and Mrs G werent satisfied with Clydesdales response and they asked us to consider 
the complaint. They said that their main area of complaint was the lack of clarity on the types 
of property Clydesdale would port to. They pointed out that there was nothing mentioned in 
the terms and conditions and the five acres seemed to be an arbitrary figure plucked out of 
thin air. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend that the 
complaint be upheld. She was satisfied that the ERC was a reasonable pre-estimate of the 
cost to Clydesdale of early repayment and that Clydesdale had fairly applied its lending 
policy when declining to offer lending on the new property being purchased.
Mr and Mrs G didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked that the complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman. They reiterated that they had read the terms and conditions 
provided when they took out the mortgage and it didnt include any reference to future 
lending criteria on the types of property and, therefore, the portability of the mortgage. They 
said it was impossible for them to foresee that the property they wanted to buy wouldnt 
comply with lending criteria. In addition, they explained that when they bought their previous 
property it hadnt been their intention to stay in it and they had always intended to move to 
somewhere with some land where they could keep horses. They said that if they had known 
about the restriction on the amount of land Clydesdale would lend on, they would have gone 
to a different lender. They asked whether the onus was on Clydesdale to make their lending 
criteria clear at the outset.
Before the complaint was referred for review by an ombudsman our investigator highlighted 
to Mr and Mrs G where in the mortgage offer Clydesdale had detailed that porting the 
interest rate product was subject to a new mortgage being granted, which was in turn subject 
to lending criteria. She also expanded on her explanation about lending criteria in relation to 
the type of property an individual lender would accept  that this was an individual choice by 
the lender based on its commercial judgement and that it could change over time. As there 
were many factors incorporated in lending criteria and it is commercially sensitive, it was 
acceptable for a lender not to set out the criteria in full in documentation, but simply to 
confirm that an application would be subject to the current criteria.
Mr and Mrs G repeated that they wanted an ombudsman to review the complaint. They said 
that they believed that Clydesdale should have detailed the lending criteria that would apply 
in the future to any potential further mortgage application, within the mortgage offer for the 
property they were buying in 2016. If the lending criteria was not set out in that document, 
Clydesdale should have provided instructions on where to find it, so they could fully review 
before deciding to accept the mortgage offer.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A lender will decide what types of property it is willing to provide mortgages for. Many 
lenders wont lend on a property that has a mix of uses  partially commercial and partially 
residential. It is also common for high street lenders like Clydesdale to have a limit on how 
much land that can be attached to a property. It is also common for lenders not to lend on 
properties with agricultural ties. A lender is entitled to decide what types of risk it is willing to 
take when it lends, and thats not something this service would normally look to interfere 
with. 
When Mr G spoke to Clydesdale about the possibility of a mortgage it told him at a very early 
stage on both occasions that the property didnt fit with its lending criteria and it wouldnt be 
willing to lend. As it was applying its lending criteria, I cant find it declining to allow an 
application to proceed was unreasonable. 
I note that Mr and Mrs G have said the ability to port the mortgage was a key consideration 
when they chose the mortgage with Clydesdale. Firstly, I would comment that the advice 
they received when taking the mortgage was not provided by Clydesdale, but rather an 
independent broker. Clydesdale was only responsible for the information it gave when the 
mortgage was applied for. That information said that porting the interest rate product would 
be possible if it accepted a new mortgage application, but that acceptance of a new 
mortgage application wasnt in any way guaranteed and was subject to the lending criteria in 
place at the time of application. 
Porting is always dependent on the property the borrower wants to move to being 
acceptable to the lender. Future lending and porting were not something that was 
guaranteed when Mr and Mrs G took their mortgage out in 2016, they were simply a 
possibility.
The ERC was clearly documented in the mortgage offer that was sent to Mr and Mrs G 
before the mortgage was advanced. They accepted that offer and the ERC that was 
associated with it, even if they thought, at the time, it was unlikely they would have to pay it.
Mr and Mrs G have said that they never intended to stay in the property they bought in 2016, 
as they always wanted land to be able to stable their horses. So there would always have 
been the possibility that theyd want to move before the end of the interest rate product to a 
property that included a significant amount of land. That may be the case, but their future 
needs and preferences is something that should have been discussed with their mortgage 
adviser and factored into the advice given. As Clydesdale didnt provide the advice, it wasnt 
responsible for whether the mortgages it could offer would fit with any possible future 
requirements.
Our investigator explained to Mr and Mrs G that lending criteria is subject to change, and so 
when they took out their mortgage in 2016 it wasnt known what the criteria would be if they 
decided to move at some point in the future. That is correct. Lending criteria is subject to a 
lenders assessments of the mortgage and property markets and is also influenced by 
regulatory and industry body rules and guidance. It wouldnt have been possible in 2016 for 
Clydesdale to say what its lending criteria would be in 2021. In addition, as lending criteria is 
commercially sensitive, a lender isnt expected to publish it in full. While I know that 
Mr and Mrs G wont be happy with this, but until a consumer has decided to move and 
knows what type of property they want to buy, a lender wouldnt be able to confirm whether it 
would lend on the property. Indeed, it is often not until further through an application, and a valuation has been completed, that a lender becomes aware of whether that property fits 
within its lending criteria. 
As I have said above, I dont consider Clydesdale acted inappropriately in declining to 
progress a mortgage application for the new property, as it the property clearly fell outside its 
lending criteria and wouldnt have been suitable security. So when Mr and Mrs G paid off 
their mortgage, it was not unreasonable for Clydesdale to charge the ERC that 
Mr and Mrs G had accepted as part of the mortgage they had entered into.
As for Mr and Mrs Gs concern that the amount of the ERC is unfair, I would explain that in 
order to be able to lend to consumers, lenders will borrow money themselves. As with loans 
made to the lenders customers, there are costs associated with borrowing that money. 
When the lender decides the format of the loans its going to use a tranche of money for, it 
has to include an assessment of the potential risks associated with doing so. Included in 
those risks is that some customers may repay their borrowing early. When that happens 
some of the money expected to be received by the lender will not be, but the lender remains 
liable for its own cost of borrowing the money. In addition, if the lender repays its borrowing 
early, there may be costs associated with that too. 
In light of this, lenders are allowed by the regulator to charge ERCs to cover the costs to it of 
consumers repaying borrowing early. This can be done on an individual mortgage basis, but 
is more commonly calculated for a tranche of money or group of mortgages (of a similar 
type) and based on a proportion being repaid early. This calculation will be based on the 
lenders experience of the likelihood of early repayment and assessment of future conditions. 
The regulations allow a lender to calculate ERCs in this way. It also fulfils the lenders 
requirement that a consumer is told in advance of taking the mortgage what the ERC will be 
and is given an example of it in monetary terms. 
The cost of an ERC can also vary. A lender might be able to justify a reducing ERC, but this 
would be dependent upon the type of product and estimation of costs. The fact that one 
product might have a reducing ERC doesnt meant that all products should have or that a 
static percentage ERC is wrong.
I have seen the evidence of the ERC calculations, although it cant be made publicly 
available as its commercially sensitive and confidential. I am satisfied the amount charged in 
this case was a reasonable pre-estimate of loss. As such, I dont think the charge should be 
refunded.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs G to accept or reject my decision 
before 23 May 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman