DRN-3658468
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D & G) didnt provide a proper 
standard of service when he made a claim under his policy and he wants a refund of his 
premiums.
What happened
Mr M contacted D & G under his policy in April 2022 as his washing machine had developed 
a fault.  
They arranged an engineers visit which took place four days later. 
Mr M reported two days after the visit that following the visit the machine had started to leak. 
Mr M says that a further appointment was arranged for a Sunday but was then cancelled and 
rearranged for a weekday which was inconvenient for Mr M because of his work. 
Mr M complained to D & G about not being offered an appointment that suited him and 
asked for a refund of premiums as he didnt think he was receiving the service that he was 
paying for. A complaint was raised. 
D & G offered a further appointment for the following day or an alternative for the next week 
but Mr M said these were inconvenient as he couldnt take time off work. 
In their final response D & G explained that they were unable to refund premiums as the 
policy had been used for a repair, but they did pay £10 as a good will gesture. 
Mr M was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mr Ms complaint and thought D & G had acted 
fairly.    
Mr M disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am not upholding this complaint, and I will explain why below. 
D & Gs policy says that:
Repairs will be carried out within the engineers normal working hours (which are 9am  5 
pm, Monday to Friday) on a date agreed without you.
D & G have confirmed that on occasion engineers may work weekends, such as over bank 
holidays or when they are working overtime, but this is not guaranteed. 
As I think it is clear in the policy that engineers will normally visit during on weekdays, I dont 
think D & G have acted unreasonably in the appointments they have offered as there is no 
obligation on them to offer weekend appointments. 
By not accepting a further weekday appointment, Mr M hasnt given D & G the opportunity to 
re-examine the machine or to put right any further defect. Its also not possible to 
conclusively say whether the first repair caused the leak, or whether the leak was co 
incidental. And so, I cant fairly say that the further problem was caused by an agent of D & 
G.  
As Mr M was unhappy with the appointments offered and the service provided, he has 
decided to cancel his policy. He is entitled to do this under the terms of the policy. However, 
I agree with D & G that he is not entitled to a refund of premiums as he has utilised the policy 
for the repair on 16 April. In addition, the policy says  If you cancel your policy after the 
cooling off period, your policy will remain in place until the end of the period for which you 
have already paid and you will not receive any refund. 
In view of the above, I cant fairly say that D & G have done anything wrong in this case.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and Domestic & General Insurance Plc dont 
need to do anything further.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman