DRN-3163199
The complaint
Mr A complains about the advice he received from Insight Financial Associates Limited 
(Insight) to transfer the value of several personal pension plans (PPPs) to a self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP), which was set up to allow him to invest in a hotel development in 
Cape Verde.  
What happened
Some of the background as set out below has been challenged by Mr As representative, 
and where this is the case, its addressed within the text of the previously issued provisional 
decisions, as included further below.
I understand that Mr A met with someone at another FCA regulated business which was 
representing a property development company. The property development company was 
building a hotel in Cape Verde and looking for investors. Mr A completed a reservation 
form for a hotel room within the development, agreeing to pay a reservation fee of 
€2,000. The form was entitled Pension funded reservation form and indicated that the 
next instalment of the €104,950 total purchase price would be paid through a SIPP that 
was to be set up. The form was dated 31 July 2009.
Mr A then seems to have approached Insight in September 2009, on the recommendation 
of the property development company. It appears the referral was made to Insight 
because the other regulated business did not have the necessary FCA permissions to 
advise on pension transfers.
Insight completed a Confidential Financial Review Form, commonly referred to as a fact 
find, which was dated 8 October 2009. This said that Mr [A] only wanted to facilitate
purchase of Cape Verde pty thru a SIPP.
It recorded that Mr A owned his home, worth £350,000 and didnt have a mortgage. It 
also recorded he had two buy to let properties he had bought eight years earlier.
In the other assets section it recorded that Mr A did not fully disclose his assets, 
but had told Insight they were in excess of £500,000.
It went on to say Mr A wanted to retire at 65 and held executive pension plans and 
personal pensions with a combined value of around £59,000. On page 11 it recorded 
the following:
Mr [A] has equity + cash investments but these were not disclosed. Only discussed 
the purchase of a Cape Verde pty thru a SIPP.
On page 13, under the section recording his priorities, it said:
Arranging the purchase of an overseas Cape Verde property through a SIPP was Mr 
[As] only priority.
Mr As attitude to risk was recorded as 5 on a scale of 1-5 where 5  this was described as: 
HIGH RISK
5. you are prepared to accept the risk attached to extremely volatile investments that 
can both fall and rise substantially.
In the notes section below it said Mr [A] has undertaken overseas property 
investment before and is aware of the associated risks.
Mr A signed the fact find declaration, which asked him to confirm that the information 
contained in the fact find was accurate and that he was aware the information in it 
would form the basis of the advice given.
A financial planning report was completed and dated 19 October 2009. It recorded that 
Mr As only priority was retirement planning. It said the following:
You were referred to me by [property developer] with whom you are dealing with regards 
to a purchase of an overseas property in Cape Verde. You have been made aware by 
them that you have a variety of options with regards to funding this purchase one of which 
being through a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and have requested that I find a 
suitable provider who can accommodate this.
I can confirm I have not provided any advice or recommendation with regards to 
the purchase of the Cape Verde property.
It also said:
When advising clients on pensions and investments we normally complete an attitude to 
risk questionnaire, however, as you are only interested in discussing a Cape Verde 
commercial property purchase this full questionnaire was not felt necessary. However, 
based on your previous overseas investment experience (Morocco) you are fully aware 
this type of investment would be considered high risk.
Mr As attitude to risk was recorded on this document as 9-10 on a scale of 1-10, again 
indicating he was prepared to take a high risk and accepted the risk attached to 
extremely volatile investments.
On page 7, a risk warning was highlighted, in bold, and in a box, saying:
I have made you aware that the purchase of a SIPP and utilising only the investment of a 
commercial property such as your Cape Verde property will increase the risk level of your 
investment as factors such as the lack of liquidity of the property asset and you only have 
one asset class. You stated that this is suitable to fulfil your objective of purchasing the 
Cape Verde property and you are aware of the risks involved.
A further risk warning was contained on page 12, in bold font and highlighted in a box:
I also wish to emphasise the risk when purchasing any form of property that the 
developer could go bust. You have acknowledged your understanding of this risk and 
you remain convinced that utilising a SIPP to purchase commercial property is an option 
you wish to pursue.The transfers were arranged by Insight and Mr A invested in the Cape Verde property. 
Mr A complained to Insight in 2019. He said he had lost everything and his SIPP was 
now worthless.
Insight didnt uphold his complaint. It said that Mr A had already made the decision to 
buy the property and had paid a reservation fee by the time Insight became involved. It 
was only asked to find a SIPP provider. It highlighted the risks involved with the 
investment. It also thought the complaint had been made too late and was not one we 
could consider under our rules. Under our rules a complaint needs to be brought within 
six years of the event complained of (the transfer of his pension to a SIPP and 
investment in Cape Verde property), or, if later, three years from the date he became 
aware he had cause for complaint.
In particular, Insight said that in 2014/15 Mr A had changed his investment from a whole 
hotel room to a part share of a hotel room and he would have received new documents 
and had new discussions about the investment at that point. Insight also said it had 
ceased to be Mr As advisers more than three years before he complained. His new 
adviser, if he had one, should have reviewed his investments and Mr A could have made a 
complaint at that point (or within three years of that point) if it was thought there was a 
problem with the initial advice.
An ombudsman considered the jurisdiction arguments raised by Insight but decided this 
was a case we could consider under our rules. None of the correspondence on file 
suggested to the ombudsman that Mr A was aware or ought to have become aware of 
cause for complaint earlier than 2019. She noted that the SIPP provider statements 
showed the value of the investment increasing until 2017, so Mr A wouldnt have thought 
there was a problem with the investment. The ombudsman considered the points Insight 
raised about Mr A having received a refund of over £6,000 in 2015. This was because the 
property wasnt fitted with a kitchen, whereas he was told it would have one. The 
ombudsman didnt think that would have given him cause to believe the SIPP had been 
mis-sold.
The complaint was then considered by an investigator, who thought the complaint should 
be upheld. He explained that Insight ought, in accordance with the regulators rules, to 
have advised Mr A on the underlying investment in Cape Verde property. He also thought
it should have recommended that Mr A should not invest because the risks were high and 
this was not a suitable investment for someone in Mr As circumstances. He considered 
that if Mr A had been properly advised, he would not have transferred his pensions funds 
to the SIPP and invested in the Cape Verde property.
Insight didnt agree and asked for a review by an ombudsman. It said it still felt Mr As 
complaint had been brought outside our time limits. It said Mr A changed his investment from 
a whole hotel room to a part share in a hotel room in 2014/15. It said he would have needed 
to complete new documents and this should have made him question what was actually 
happening to his investment. It asked whether he took further advice at that point. It didnt 
comment on the investigators view about the merits of Mr As complaint. 
I issued a provisional decision on 18 November 2020, in which I set out the following:
Is the complaint within our jurisdiction?
Firstly, Im satisfied the complaint is one I can consider. While Insight has suggested that 
Mr A ought to have become aware he had cause for complaint as a result of changes to 
his investment in 2014/15, Im not persuaded thats the case. Insight says that Mr A seems 
to have made some changes to his investment in 2014/15 and switched from an investment in a whole hotel room to a part share of a hotel room. But theres no indication 
that Mr A sought or received further advice about that or that he did so because he had 
any concerns about the investment.
I also havent seen any evidence that he engaged new advisers before 2019, or that his 
investment was reviewed. It seems he received statements from the SIPP provider each 
year up to and including 2018 indicating his investment was stable or growing in value, 
and I havent seen anything to persuade me that he ought to have had cause for concern 
before that.
Even as late as October 2018, Mr A had received a statement which showed that his 
investment was performing well. Theres therefore nothing in my view which supports the 
position that Mr A either knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that he had cause for 
complaint more than three years before he actually raised his concerns. So Im not 
persuaded that he has brought his complaint too late  and Mr As complaint is therefore 
one we can consider.
Ive therefore considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mr A, but my current view differs from that of the investigator. I dont 
currently consider that his complaint should be upheld.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The following isnt a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied to a 
business when giving advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Insights 
actions here. COBS 2.1.1R required a business to act honestly, fairly and professionally 
in accordance with the best interests of its client'. And in order to ensure this was the 
case, and in line with the requirements in COBS 9.2.2R, S4 needed to gather the 
necessary information for it to be confident that its advice met Mr As objectives.
It also needed to ensure that Mr A had the necessary experience and knowledge to 
understand the risks he was taking. Broadly speaking, that section sets out the 
requirement for a regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find process.
Once the fact finding was complete, COBS 9.4.7R required a business to explain why 
the firm has concluded that the recommended transaction is suitable for the client" - in 
other words, it needed to provide its client with a suitability report outlining its advice 
and the reasons for it.
In this case, Insight wrote to Mr A in October 2009, recommending that he transfer to the 
SIPP for the purpose of investing in the overseas property. On the basis of that report 
and other information relevant to the case, I therefore consider in the following sections 
whether Insight adhered to its regulatory obligations and gave Mr A suitable advice.
Did Insight meet its obligations in recommending the transfer to the SIPP?
Its Insight position that it only advised on the SIPP and not the underlying investment in 
Cape Verde property. But to make a suitable recommendation about whether Mr A 
should transfer his existing pensions to a SIPP, Insight ought to have considered the 
suitability of the underlying investment that was being proposed. It didnt say, one way 
or the other, whether it thought the investment in the Cape Verde property was suitable 
for Mr A. So I consider Insight didnt fulfil its obligations in that respect.Mr A was transferring from his existing designated investments (his PPPs) to another 
designated investment (the SIPP). And as Ive said above, Insight had to obtain the 
necessary information to have a reasonable basis on which to decide the SIPP met Mr 
As investment objectives (COBS 9.2.2R). That included Mr A having the experience and 
knowledge to understand the risks of the proposed investment and that he was able to 
bear those risks.
Mr As investment objective was to invest in Cape Verde property and the SIPP was 
recommended by Insight to allow Mr A to make that specific investment. So, the risks of 
the Cape Verde property investment were a fundamental part of the risks of the 
recommended product. It was not open to Insight to just advise him on the suitability of 
the SIPP without advising on the suitability of the underlying investment.
The FCA alert in January 2013 about unregulated investments made through SIPPs was 
published to draw attention to this issue. In essence, it said that an adviser cannot advise 
on the suitability of a SIPP without considering the suitability of the underlying investment.
Whilst this was published in 2013 and the recommendation in this case happened in 
2009, the FCA was clear that this was not a new position it was taking. It was drawing 
attention to what it expected advisers to do under the existing rules.
Insight was in a position to make a clear recommendation about whether or not Mr A 
should invest in the Cape Verde property. But the closest it got was to indicate that the 
disadvantages outweighed the advantages.
Overall, I think Insight should have made a clear recommendation about whether Mr A 
should invest in the Cape Verde property, so I think it failed to follow the regulators 
rules.
Was the recommendation suitable?
Insight was aware that this was a high-risk investment. It mentioned this a number of times 
in the suitability report. It noted that this was investment in one asset class, there was a risk 
the developer could go bust, and that commercial property wasnt a readily saleable asset. 
There was no guarantee of consistent and acceptable performance and it said the 
disadvantages outweighed the advantages.
A number of other risks could be added to this list, but I think its clear the property 
could only have been suitably recommended to investors who were prepared to risk 
losing all of their investment and who could afford to take that risk.
Mr A appears to have had some experience in overseas property investment. There is 
some suggestion he had invested in a property in Morocco before and he had some buy 
to let properties as well. The fact find and suitability report record that he was aware of the 
associated risks as a result of his previous overseas property investment.
But having weighed up the available evidence, I dont think this was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr A, or at least that Insight didnt have enough information to 
determine whether it was suitable for him. Im not persuaded an investment in one 
overseas property necessarily meant Mr A was familiar with the risks that might be 
involved in investing in a yet to be built commercial property, using all of his pension 
provision. There is no record of what type of property the Moroccan property was, how 
much had been invested, how he had funded it, whether he still owned it, or any real 
detail about the circumstances of that investment.I think it would have been fairly clear that Insight thought this was a high-risk investment 
and those risks included the property developer of the unbuilt property going bust - the 
implication being that Mr A could lose his whole investment. Ive also noted that Mr As 
attitude to risk was assessed as high-risk and that he was willing to accept the risks 
associated with extremely volatile investments.
But Insight also needed to consider whether Mr A had the capacity to bear the investment 
risk he was taking (COBS 9.2.2R). Mr A was investing the value of all of his existing 
pensions, so from that perspective it might appear that he couldnt afford to bear this risk. 
At 59 years of age and intending to retire at 65, he would have very limited time to build 
up another pension pot of £59,000, should the investment fail.
The fact find does record that he had buy to let properties and other assets totalling
£500,000 in value. It should be noted it isnt clear from the fact find whether there were 
mortgages on the buy to let properties and what income was generated from them. Nor 
is there much detail about the other assets. But it does appear he might have had other 
savings, investments and potentially other sources of income.
But overall, I consider that, given the lack of clarity about his exact financial position, his 
other assets and the extent of his overseas property investment experience, Insight 
would have had difficulty in determining that Mr A had the capacity to bear the loss of all 
his pension provision or that he fully understood the risks.
Furthermore, given Mr As seemingly limited experience with investments that carried 
this level of risk and the lack of detail about his financial circumstances, I consider Insight 
ought to have advised him not to transfer the value of his personal pensions to a SIPP 
that was set-up so he could invest in the Cape Verde property.
Would suitable advice have made a difference?
Where I differ from the investigator is my view on what Mr A would have done 
differently if hed been suitably advised.
If Insight had advised Mr A not to invest, Im currently not persuaded that Mr A wouldnt 
in any case still have gone ahead. Ill explain why.
In order to act in Mr As best interests, Insight should have explained why it didnt 
recommend that the transaction should go ahead and then determined if he still wanted to 
proceed. Its possible that, if Insight had made a clear recommendation not to invest in 
Cape Verde property and gone into more detail about the reasons why he shouldnt, along 
with greater detail about the risks, it might have persuaded him this investment wasnt in 
his best interests.
But if he had decided to still proceed, Insight could then have treated him as an insistent 
client. It would have needed to meet the bar for this, which, in terms of establishing that a 
client is truly insistent, and is aware of the consequences of what they propose, is quite 
high. This was, nevertheless, a possibility. Alternatively, if Insight felt that even proceeding 
on an insistent client basis was entirely contrary to Mr As best interests, which I consider 
is a conclusion which might have been open to Insight here, it could have declined to 
transact the business at all.
But there are aspects to this case which have led me to conclude, at present, that Mr A is 
more likely than not to have proceeded, either as an insistent client, or through 
alternative means such as an execution only transaction, which requires no assessment 
of suitability, with a SIPP provider which would accepted this proposal.In explaining my thinking here, I firstly note that, having invested in buy to let  and 
overseas - property before, Mr A might have had some confidence in the proposed 
investment. Additionally, my understanding is that, if Mr A didnt proceed with the 
investment, he would have lost the €2,000 reservation fee he had already paid. Whilst its 
possible that he might have been prepared to forego that if he had been advised not to 
invest by Insight, I think it would have been a significant factor in his decision making.
It does appear he had already made his mind up to invest and to use his pension to 
fund it even before he met with Insight. He had signed the reservation form, paid the 
reservation fee and had indicated on the form that he was going to fund the purchase 
through a SIPP.
It also seems that Mr A wasnt put-off by the risk warnings that were contained in the 
suitability report after hed met with Insight. I say this because there were some clear 
risk warnings in that report and some indication in the documents that Mr A understood 
those risks and accepted them.
For example, the financial planning report said, at page 12, in bold font and highlighted in 
a box:
I also wish to emphasise the risk when purchasing any form of property that the 
developer could go bust. You have acknowledged your understanding of this risk and 
you remain convinced that utilising a SIPP to purchase commercial property is an option 
you wish to pursue.
So Mr A had already paid the reservation fee, implying that the decision to invest had 
already been made on the basis of his discussions with the other regulated entity here, 
and proceeded in the knowledge that there was a risk the developer could go bust i.e. by
implication, that there was a risk he could lose all his money. He had also been told that 
the disadvantages outweighed the advantages.
From the evidence Ive considered and set out above, I dont think I can currently 
conclude that the outcome would have been any different if Insight had given advice on 
the underlying investment and then recommended that Mr A should not proceed  or even 
declined to transact the transfer on Mr As behalf.
However, Id also comment as follows. My view is that there was a chain of causation 
here which began, not with Insight, but with the other regulated business with whom Mr 
A met, and then signed the reservation form and paid the non-refundable fee. As both 
parties will note, that fee is a key factor in my decision making here.
And my current view is that any act or omission on behalf of Insight, i.e. in failing to give 
suitable advice or not transacting the business at all, would not have altered the 
ultimate course of events once Mr A had decided to invest and paid the reservation fee. 
So if my conclusions on this complaint ultimately remain the same, but Mr A is of the 
view that fault may lie with the other regulated business, it would be open to him to 
pursue that matter accordingly.
Insight didnt respond to that decision, but Mr As representative disagreed with my 
provisional conclusions, for the following summarised reasons: 
There was no referral from a second regulated business. Although the 
introduction to Insight occurred in the office of a mortgage provider, this was because the mortgage provider was a client of Insight and the office was close 
to Mr As home. Mr A was introduced to Insight by The Resort Group  an 
unregulated entity.
Although Mr A signed the reservation form on the day of meeting with the 
Resort Group, he didnt pay the 2,000 euros deposit.
The Resort Group then referred Mr A to Insight for the purposes of 
transferring his existing pensions into the SIPP. A letter of authority 
(provided by Mr As representative) for The Resort Group to be given 
access to Mr As pension details, including information requests to both 
Insight and the proposed SIPP providers, was signed by Mr A on 31 July 
2009.
Following an initial call with Insight on 31 July 2009, it reassured him that he 
could use his existing pensions for the purpose of the property investment and 
Mr A sent Insight information relating to his pension plans in August 2009. It 
was only after the advice given by Insight that Mr A paid the deposit.
It wasnt accurate to say that Mr As objective was to facilitate the purchase of 
property in Cape Verde. This was recorded as being the objective, but for Mr A 
was simply a means to an end of retirement provision  and one which had 
been first presented by The Resort Group, and then recommended to him by 
Insight. This was one aspect which had been typed into the fact find, rather 
than other parts which had been handwritten. This implied it was the pre-
determined outcome of the advice process.
The fact find wasnt accurate. Mr A wasnt financially experienced and he 
didnt have investments totalling in excess of £500,000. He and his wife had 
in the region of £100,000 in shares and ISAs. It was also completed after the
application forms for the property purchase were signed and dated on 28 
September 2009. Mr A also didnt sign the fact find to attest to its accuracy.
The financial report, which included the risk warnings, was also issued after 
the application forms had been submitted.
Mr A hadnt previously employed the services of a financial adviser and he 
had no prior awareness that his pension funds could be used for this 
purpose.
It wasnt suitable, by any measure, to recommend that a retail client invest all 
of their pension funds into a hotel room on an island complex. He was 
expecting to receive independent financial advice, but there were conflicts of 
interest between The Resort Group and Insight which compromised this.
Insight could not claim that Mr A was an insistent client in this instance - 
and it hadnt met the regulatory requirements for demonstrating this.
Mr A did have two buy to let properties, bought to supplement his 
retirement income, valued at around £260,000, but they were encumbered 
by mortgages totalling around £206,000.
It wasnt tenable that Mr A wouldnt have disclosed his investments, which 
had been fictionally portrayed as being in excess of £500,000.
There was no supporting evidence to corroborate Mr As categorisation as a 
high risk investor  number five on a risk rating from one to five, where five was 
the highest risk. Hed previously been invested in managed funds, which 
suggested a medium risk at most.
Mr A had never previously owned an overseas property. The reference to 
the property in Morocco was fiction.
Insight said it wasnt giving any advice on the purchase of the property, but 
the regulations required it to consider the suitability of the proposed 
underlying investment when transferring Mr A into the SIPP.
Mr A hadnt appointed a new adviser when Insight was removed as his adviser 
in November 2015.Even if Mr A had wanted to invest in overseas property, this could have been 
accommodated through the existing Executive Pension Plans (EPPs) he held, 
but which were unsuitably transferred into the SIPP.
The sole driver for Mr A was that the property was to be used as a holiday 
home for him and his family for five weeks of the year. This was why the 
property was to include a kitchen. This would have been revealed by proper 
fact finding. But there would have been a tax charge for such personal use  
and so the purpose of the investment was wholly undermined.
Even if Mr A had paid the 2,000 euros deposit before receiving advice from 
Insight, it wasnt correct to say that, if suitably advised to not proceed, the loss 
of this through not proceeding would have been a significant factor in Mr As 
decision making. It was also likely that Mr A could have obtained a refund if he 
was told within a short space of time that he couldnt use the property as a 
holiday home.
The worst case scenario for the deposit would have been that Mr A would 
have sought compensation from Insight.
It wasnt accurate to say that Mr A had already made up his mind to invest in 
the property. He was acting on the recommendation given by Insight in that 
regard. And if hed been suitably advised, Mr A would not have proceeded. 
The transfer had already happened by the time Mr A received the suitability 
report, which included the risk warnings.
Had Mr A been adamant that he wished to proceed for reasons of personal 
use  which couldnt be accommodated by funding the purchase with pension 
funds  he could have taken benefits from his pension plans under the trivial 
commutation rules and used the cash then at his disposal, or other cash 
resources.
At my request, the investigator asked further questions of both parties relating to 
some of the information provided by Mr As representative. Specifically, I asked for 
evidence of when the reservation fee was paid. I also enquired further as to why Mr A 
didnt dispute the information contained within the suitability report about his 
experience with overseas property  the reference to that held in Morocco  and the 
prohibition on using the property for personal use. I noted that it seemed Mr A could 
have put a stop to the process as the ceding scheme hadnt yet confirmed that it had 
received the transfer requests.
I also noted that it appeared Mr A had signed the fact find on 8 October 2009 to attest 
to the accuracy of the information contained therein.
In respect of the date the reservation fee was paid, Mr As representative 
provided evidence that this had been paid on 12 August 2009, which it said was 
after the first contact with Insight, and the reassurance that this brought.
With regard to the record of the Moroccan property previously held by Mr A, his 
representative provided background to what it agreed had been an oddly specific 
reference in both the fact find and suitability report if indeed it wasnt true. It said that 
Mr A works abroad quite often, sometimes for months at a time, and had become 
accustomed to overseas living. Against this backdrop, he began researching possible 
property purchase overseas and, in 2007, following an introduction to a sales 
representative for property in Morocco, he paid a reservation fee of £1,000 for a 
property in a beach resort.But this had been a spur of the moment decision, and upon reflection and 
consultation with his solicitor, Mr A decided not to proceed and consequently lost his 
£1,000 deposit.
Mr As representative said this turned out to be a wise decision, as some 800 UK 
based investors subsequently lost everything in the project. This led Mr A to become 
overly cautious and he only became involved in the Cape Verde investment due to all 
parties to the transaction being based in the UK. He was nervous due to his previous 
experience, which was why he didnt pay the reservation fee immediately  he wanted 
to reflect on the decision and speak to a representative of Insight further about his 
pensions.
The representative said that Mr A was assured that, as one of the largest and most 
respected firms in the UK, Insight would tell him if it wasnt right for him, that hed 
receive independent advice and that the SIPP provider wouldnt be able to accept the 
investment if it wasnt right for him.
When he initially spoke to Insight, he was told that it was right for him and that it was a 
much better way to use his pensions. He told Insight that he was keen to not replicate 
his Moroccan property experience and had not said that he owned property  rather 
that hed not proceeded as hed been fearful of losing everything. He was, however, 
reassured by Insight that this was safe and it was the right thing to do with his pension 
funds.
Mr As representative said that his prior willingness to forego the £1,000 deposit 
upon receiving advice to do so was indicative of him being prepared to also forego 
the 2,000 euros paid for the Cape Verde property if hed been advised not to 
proceed.
The representative then addressed my question relating to any contact between Mr A 
and Insight once hed become aware of the mention of him holding Moroccan property 
and the realisation that the Cape Verde property couldnt be held for personal use. It 
said that Insight was aware that Mr A worked abroad for months at a time and the 
transfer paperwork was completed hurriedly before he left the UK. Mr A only received 
the paperwork on his return and after the transfer had completed and the transfer had 
been made. He hadnt seen the handwritten note referring to the Moroccan property 
until his representative had obtained the file from Insight.
In response to my question as to why Mr A didnt stop the transfer after receiving the 
suitability report dated 19 October 2009  which was sent before the transfer 
requests were acknowledged by Zurich at the end of November  Mr As 
representative said that as he was working abroad, he didnt receive the 
documentation until after the transfer was complete. He didnt have the opportunity 
to cancel the transfer.
In answer to my question relating to its contention that Mr A hadnt signed the fact 
find which contained the reference to the Moroccan property, Mr As representative 
maintained that the documents it had seen hadnt borne his signature, nor was 
there a dedicated space for him in the document to do so.
And finally, in answer to a further question relating to the comment by Mr As 
representative about his other assets, the representative confirmed that Mr As 
main residence was mortgage free and worth around £450,000 and he also had 
savings amounting to about £100,000.I issued a further provisional decision, in which I set out the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im persuaded that my conclusions on this case should alter and 
that it should be partially upheld. Ill explain why.
To recap, my provisional determination was that Insight had demonstrated considerable 
failings in the advice process here. But in mitigation of this, given the circumstances 
which I understood to be prevailing at the time, I considered it more likely than not that, 
even if Insight had adhered to its regulatory obligations and provided suitable advice to 
not invest, Mr A would nevertheless still have proceeded.
Following my further enquiries into the aspect of Mr As prior experience with overseas 
property, Ive taken on board the comments made by Mr A and his representative in 
response. But Im afraid some of the account of what happened is problematic to Mr As 
case that he wouldnt have invested in overseas property if hed been advised not to. 
And my initial observation is that it would have been helpful to know the background to 
the Moroccan property reference in the fact find without needing to pursue this further 
with Mr As representative. I think simply saying that the Moroccan property was a 
fiction is somewhat misleading, given the actual circumstances and their potential 
relevance to the issues at hand here  not least that another reservation deposit had 
previously been paid and lost.
Mr As decision making process
Mr As representative has portrayed his abortive property investment experience in 2007 
as being indicative of Mr As willingness to forego a deposit if it transpired that the 
investment wasnt in his best interests. Its also been argued that this experience made 
Mr A very cautious about such investments.
But if Im to accept that the prior experience of paying a deposit in 2007 for overseas 
property investment and then losing it when deciding not to proceed made Mr A cautious 
about repeating this  a prospect with which I have no issue as it seems entirely plausible 
 then I must assume that he employed that degree of heightened caution in considering 
whether to pay yet another not insignificant deposit amount for the Cape Verde property 
proposition in 2009, just two years later.
This must reasonably mean, therefore, that, by the point of paying the 2,000 euros deposit 
on 12 August 2009, Mr A had satisfied himself that this was the right investment for him, 
perhaps on the basis as set out above by the representative that this was a broadly UK- 
based proposal, and/or perhaps on the basis of what he was told by Insight between the 
end of July and 12 August 2009. He must also have satisfied himself that the property 
could be used for his and his familys personal use  referred to as the sole driver behind 
his decision to invest in overseas property - and as no suitability report had yet been 
issued, this must have been either on the basis of his own assumption or verbal 
assurance from Insight that this was the case.
Its unclear as to what conversations between Mr A and Insight had actually taken place 
between 31 July and 12 August 2009. And I acknowledge the comment from Mr As 
representative there was contact before Mr A paid the deposit. But I must in any case 
assume that, on the basis of the information provided by The Resort Group and any 
assurances given by Insight in those 12 or so days, that Mr A had decided the overseas 
property was the right investment for him. Otherwise, it seems inconceivable to me that Mr A would have been willing to pay a further deposit, given his prior experience of losing one 
in similar circumstances just two years earlier.
Crucially though, this was before any formal advice process had taken place. As the 
cautious investor Mr A has been portrayed as being following his prior experience, it 
seems reasonable to me that Mr A might await the receipt of the suitability report so that 
he had received formal advice in a written format for him to assess. That is, of course, 
unless Mr A had already made his mind up to invest before receiving the report.
And there are further aspects of the responses of Mr As representative which lead me to 
the conclusion that Mr A had in fact already decided to invest before receiving written 
advice from Insight. Mr A - as a reminder, having been described as a cautious investor 
due to his prior experience of losing his deposit - is said to have signed all the transfer 
paperwork hurriedly before he left for overseas work. But this doesnt strike me as being 
typical of the actions of a cautious investor who hadnt yet received the suitability report  
unless the investment decision had already been made.
Would a written recommendation to not invest using pension funds have made a 
difference?
So if Mr A had already made a decision to invest before receiving the advice in the 
suitability report, I must then consider whether a recommendation not to proceed  at any 
point, not necessarily only within the suitability report - would have affected that decision.
As Ive said above, Mr A can only have based his decision upon information received 
from The Resort Group and perhaps, as his representative has argued, Insight, in the 
short time period between the end of July and 12 August 2009. And on the basis of what 
Mr As representative has told us, this would have included reassurances around the 
safety of the investment (the absence of which has been described as the catalyst for 
pulling out of the Moroccan property investment in 2007), assurances that it was the right 
investment for him from Insight, and confirmation that he could use the property 
personally.
But even if I accept that Mr A didnt receive the suitability report until after the transfer and 
investment had taken place, it seems likely that, as a cautious investor, he would still have 
read it to satisfy himself that it was consistent with his understanding of the investment. 
And its fair to say that there were several risk warnings about this proposal, representing 
the same type of investment risk as those which might have been present with the 
Moroccan property  for example the potential total loss of capital. But this didnt prompt a 
complaint from Mr A once hed received the suitability report, even if by this time it was too 
late to stop the transfer. Nor did the revelation in the suitability report that the property 
couldnt be held in the SIPP for personal use.
So I must then consider what information about the investment Insight could have 
conveyed to Mr A which would in fact have made him change his mind, if also couched in 
a recommendation to not invest. But its unclear to me what format this further information 
about the investment itself might have taken. On the basis that Im confident that Mr A had 
made a decision to invest by the point of the deposit payment on 12 August 2009, and if 
this was as a result of verbal information provided by Insight as to the security of the 
investment and the facility for personal use  both of which proved to not be the case as 
set out in the suitability report  this didnt seem to trouble Mr A once hed received the 
report. If it did, and as Ive said above, it might reasonably be expected that, even if he 
didnt complain about this, he would have at least queried it with Insight. But theres no 
evidence of this, and no explanation, other than the investment already having taken 
place, from Mr As representative has been forthcoming as to why.I think a fair and reasonable conclusion would therefore be that Mr A was comfortable with 
the features of the investment once he was in receipt of the suitability report. And that the 
revelation of such information at an earlier point wouldnt therefore necessarily have 
deterred him from investing.
Verbal advice before 12 August 2009
I think the payment of the 2,000 euros deposit, and the timing of the payment before any 
formalised advice had been received, is important here. I accept that Mr A might have 
been willing to forego a deposit once again if he was advised in writing not to invest, 
although for the reasons given above, I think thats unlikely. And given his prior 
experience with the Moroccan property, Mr A must surely have satisfied himself that this 
was the right investment for him before he paid the further deposit.
So Ive then thought about what form this verbal advice, if any, from Insight might have 
taken and the significance which Mr A, as an investor who was cautious about overseas 
investment, would have attributed to it. And for context here, if any verbal advice had been 
given by Insight before 12 August 2009, this was before Mr A had even signed to accept 
the terms of business with Insight on 12 September 2009, at which point the servicing 
rights transferred to Insight as well. This was also comfortably in advance of the ceding 
plan provider sending information about the existing plans to Insight on 17 and 24 
September 2009. And although Mr A has said that a particular representative of Insight 
had been the individual who had told him that the property investment was safe and the 
right thing for him to do before he paid the deposit  Mr As representative has in fact said 
that this was the only individual who gave Mr A advice - theres quite strong evidence that 
the first contact, or at least meaningful verbal and written contact, with that individual didnt 
take place until 11 September 2009. A letter of the same date to Mr A from the individual 
concerned said the following:
It was good to speak with you briefly this afternoon. As mentioned I enclose a change 
of servicing authority to be signed and returned to myself. Once received I will chase 
through the pension information as soon as possible.
My view is that this bears the hallmarks of an introductory letter following an initial phone 
call, with the intention of obtaining information about Mr As pensions. This is consistent 
with the typical chronology of advice provision. A fact finding process would then be 
followed by a written recommendation.
Insight has said that the first record it has of contact with Mr A was in September 2009. 
And in the response to my provisional findings, Mr As representative has said that the 
form authorising The Resort Group to access information relating to his pension details  
extending to information requests of Insight and the SIPP provider  was faxed to Insight 
on the same day. Mr As representative further said that Mr A had signed the form on the 
basis that Mr A would be introduced to the SIPP provider and Insight  not that this 
introduction had already taken place.
And if Insight were keen, as has been suggested by Mr As representative, to shoe horn 
Mr A into the investment, and initial contact and verbal advice had been given before 12 
August 2009, its unclear as to why the process of information gathering didnt then begin 
until over a month later.
But even if a different interpretation of this is possible, and I were to accept that the 
reassurances about the suitability of the property investment  or verbal advice - had 
been given before 12 August 2009, Mr A would nevertheless have known that any such advice given by Insight in respect of his suitability for the investment was being given on 
the basis of little actual information being known about him or his financial situation by 
Insight  the fact find also wasnt completed until 8 October 2009, some two months after 
the deposit had been paid.
I think its also important to note that, in its description of what Mr A was told in the first 
conversation with Insight before 12 August 2009, his representative has said that Insight 
confirmed that he could use his pension funds to invest in the overseas property  not 
that he should or that this would be a suitable course of action for him. The 
representative said the pressure to invest and sign the reservation form at the end of 
July 2009 derived of The Resort Groups representative.
So my view is that its more likely than not that, if there was communication between Mr A 
and Insight before he paid the deposit on 12 August 2009, its likely to have been in the 
form of confirmation that it would be possible to use pension funds towards the property 
purchase. If Mr As recollection is that an actual verbal recommendation had been given, I 
think its more likely than not that, as a cautious investor, Mr A would have realised that 
this was being given in the absence of important details about his financial circumstances. 
There had also at this point been no formal written input from Insight that the investment 
was right for him.
As Ive said above, Mr A may still have been willing to lose another deposit, but I do 
also need to take account of the likelihood that hed satisfied himself that overseas 
property investment was the right thing to do, and to what extent a rationale for not 
investing might have influenced his decision making. To summarise the findings from 
my provisional decision, the rationale for him not investing in the way that he did would, 
or should, have been along the following lines:
This was a high risk investment in one asset class  Mr A could lose all his money.
He had no direct experience of investing in overseas property  other than 
the abortive experience with the Moroccan property.
There was no guarantee of any consistent performance for the benefit of his 
pension funds.
He was using all of his pension funds to invest, and at 59 would have very 
limited scope to replace them if they declined in value or were lost.
There was little detail about other assets held, which might have mitigated any loss 
on the pension funds  and two buy to let properties which produced an income 
were mortgaged. And this further investment would in any case only serve to 
increase his reliance on property to maintain his standard of living in retirement.
And so, addressing these, I think to begin with that Mr A would have appreciated, when 
signing the reservation form on 31 July 2009, that this was a high risk investment in just 
one asset class. And given the stated rationale for withdrawing from the previous 
Moroccan property purchase, I think he would have realised the risks attached to 
overseas property investment.
And continuing this theme, whilst he had no experience of owning overseas property, he 
would nevertheless likely have appreciated what was involved from the experience with 
the Moroccan property.
Mr A was also already a property investor  he had two buy to lets, in addition to owning 
his own home. And so, given his likely knowledge of the rental income market, I think he 
would have been aware that returns arent guaranteed and that they can move in line with 
market forces.And Mr A would have also been aware that he was placing most of his investment eggs in 
one basket when the proposal was first put to him by The Resort Group. The appearance 
of these aspects in a suitability report as reasons not to invest wouldnt I think therefore 
have come as a surprise to him. In terms of them potentially deterring him if explained by 
Insight, I must also take into account that Mr A had previously been seeking opportunities 
to buy an overseas property  hence the interest in the Moroccan development two years 
earlier. And so I think its doubtful that these potential pitfalls being pointed out to him in a 
suitability report, or why his investments would lack the kind of diversity which would 
usually be recommended in a portfolio, would have altered his view on whether to invest.
And finally, despite being potentially overweight in property investments, this seems to 
have been a category of investments with which Mr A felt comfortable. Having sought 
advice on a previous investment opportunity in overseas property, Mr A had decided not to 
proceed. So he was likely aware of the potential drawbacks. But having been presented 
with a further opportunity which he deemed to be safer on the basis of the parties involved 
being UK based  a notion which wouldnt in any case have been undermined even in a 
recommendation not to invest along the lines detailed above  Mr A was more comfortable 
with The Resort Groups offering.
For a potential investor who hadnt had prior experience with UK property investment, 
who hadnt already paid and lost a deposit on a previous overseas property, and who 
hadnt already paid another deposit to invest in the current opportunity, I think its 
possible, if not probable, that a formal recommendation to not invest, for the above 
detailed reasons, would have constituted a robust deterrent.
But Mr As situation was different, for the reasons set out above. And so, overall, I 
remain satisfied that Mr A had decided, by 12 August 2009, to invest in the overseas 
property.
Whether or not this was based upon any verbal advice from Insight, and which itself went 
beyond simply confirming that it would be possible to use the pension funds towards the 
investment objective, Mr A would nevertheless have known that any such advice 
wouldnt have been based upon any detailed understanding of his situation, and was in 
the absence of any formal written recommendation.
And so for the reasons given, I dont think I can fairly and reasonably conclude that a 
later formal recommendation to not invest in the overseas property would have 
changed Mr As mind on this occasion.
The use of pension funds for the investment
For the reasons given above, Im satisfied that Mr A had decided to invest in the 
overseas property before any meaningful or formal advice had been provided by Insight. 
And as explained, I think its more likely than not from the available evidence that nothing 
which might later have been revealed about the investment itself would necessarily have 
changed his mind about the proposal.
But theres an additional consideration here  the actual means of investing. Mr A may 
have made his decision to invest, but Insight then facilitated the purchase through the 
transfer of Mr As pension funds to a SIPP.
For all the reasons given in my provisional decision, I dont think Insight acted 
appropriately here. Mr A should have been advised, in a written format, not to invest his 
pension funds in the overseas property. Mr A only received a formal written communication from Insight (which didnt in any case fulfil its regulatory obligations) in 
October 2009, at which point the application for the SIPP had been received and it had 
been opened. But the transfers hadnt occurred by that point, and so it would have been 
possible for Insight to have suitably concluded that this wasnt the right course of action 
for Mr A and paused any pension transfers until it had heard from him following a written 
recommendation along those lines.
In essence, even taking account of Mr As overseas travel, the process could have 
been halted until either Mr A had confirmed that he agreed the pension transfers 
shouldnt proceed, or that he had acknowledged the advice but wished to proceed 
anyway.
Mr As representative has suggested that, if Mr A was insistent on investing in the 
overseas property, he could have taken the cash from his pension plans under the small 
pots provision (trivial commutation) and invested directly into the property, rather than 
through a SIPP. But my understanding is that, to qualify for this in 2009, Mr A would have 
needed to be at least 60 (he was 59) and the total value of all of his pension benefits 
would need to be lower than £18,000. Mr As combined pension funds were considerably 
higher than this.
The representative has also said that Mr A had other cash which he could have used. The 
specific nature of these savings wasnt recorded at the time of the advice. But my view is 
that, had Insight advised Mr A not to use his pension funds to invest in the overseas 
property, an obvious alternative from both its and Mr As perspective would have been to 
use other assets at his disposal. I think its arguable as to whether holding the asset 
outside of a SIPP wrapper would have been the better route. There are tax advantages 
within a pension wrapper which dont exist in non-pension investments. But there would 
also be no pension- related consequences in terms of trying to wind up a SIPP in the 
event that the investment became difficult to sell or illiquid.
So I think that Insight should have enquired further as to whether the investment could 
be achieved using non-pension funds. Insight recorded Mr As assets as being in 
excess of £500,000. Mr As representative has confirmed that his main residence was 
mortgage free  valued at around £450,000 - and that he had savings amounting to 
around £100,000 at the time of the advice. And so, following a suitable 
recommendation to not use pension funds and to explore other means of investing, it 
would have become clear that Mr A did have such funds at his disposal, and Insight 
should suitably have recommended that he not use his pension funds to invest in the 
property. I think Mr A would still have invested in the property, for the reasons given 
above, but this could have been facilitated from non-pension funds.
What should Insight do to put matters right?
My conclusion is that Mr A would have invested in the overseas property, but with non- 
pension funds. The effect of Mr A using other assets to invest  namely cash  may be 
broadly neutral, depending upon the returns Mr A would have obtained from his savings 
compared to those he would have achieved with his pension funds had they remained 
where they were. Im prepared to consider further arguments relating to this from either 
party. But if Mr A or his representative wish to argue that he would have been better off in 
terms of pension fund investment growth, they will need to provide evidence of the returns 
being achieved by his cash savings from 2009 onwards for a proper comparison to be 
undertaken.
But there would also be the potential aspect identified above relating to SIPP fees. And so, 
if the investment cannot be sold, or otherwise cannot currently be attributed a value, Mr W would likely encounter difficulties in accessing his pension benefits and winding up the 
SIPP  a key risk to his pension funds and one which would have significantly impacted on 
his retirement planning. Insight should therefore pay to Mr A an amount representing five 
years SIPP fees to reflect the position of him having used pension funds rather than other 
assets to invest in the property. I think this is a reasonable amount of time in which Mr A 
will have the opportunity to sell his investment.
In response to that provisional decision, whilst reiterating Mr As view that he wouldnt have 
invested in the property if properly advised, Mr As representative agreed that a SIPP 
shouldnt have been used to invest in it as Mr A had other resources he could have used.
It further said the following in support of this position:
There were insufficient funds in the pension to buy the property and no additional 
lending was available or arranged to fund the balance of the purchase price.
Additional fees were incurred in the use of the SIPP  namely setup and ongoing 
costs.
Additional personal contributions from Mr As own funds needed to be made to the 
SIPP to buy the property.
The property could have been used for personal family holidays.
The taxation of income, expenditure and capital gains or losses would have been 
different if the property had been held outside the SIPP. Significant unrelievable 
losses have been incurred by buying the property within a SIPP as opposed to 
buying it personally.
 
Mr As representative expanded on the last point in particular, saying that had the property 
been held outside the SIPP, the losses incurred on it could be offset against the capital gains 
on his other property.
As such, it said, the remedy should also include a rectification of Mr As tax position, which 
the representative should be an allowance of 20% (Mr As marginal tax rate) of the losses 
incurred by subtracting the propertys current value from the purchase cost.
Insight reiterated, in response to the provisional decision, that it didnt give advice to invest in 
the overseas property and it challenged the assertion of Mr As representative that there had 
been any conflict of interest between it and The Resort Group. 
It further said that it had never claimed that Mr A had been insistent client, but that it wouldnt 
have recorded him as a high risk investor had this not been the case.
It also said that the rules relating to Mr As EPP wouldnt have allowed him to hold 
commercial property within it, and that the presentation given to Mr A would have made him 
aware that the rules relating to ownership within a SIPP wouldnt have allowed for personal 
use.
As it had been removed as the adviser, it was unable to obtain details relating to five years 
worth of SIPP fees, but it had nevertheless asked the SIPP provider to provide confirmation 
of this.
Further investigation
Mr As representative had raised the issue of further costs incurred as a result of the 
property being held in the SIPP, as opposed to it being held personally by Mr A. And I 
appreciated the point being made. But I thought there was a problem with its proposal. Mr A hadnt sold the Cape Verde property, and there was no way of knowing whether, if and 
when it is sold, Mr A would in fact incur a loss. Furthermore, my understanding of the rules 
around offsetting losses against gains for capital gains tax purposes was that any loss must 
be reported within four years of the financial year in which the loss was made.
I therefore considered that Mr A would need to sell one of his other buy-to-let properties 
within that timeframe to use any loss incurred on the sale of the overseas property, if it had 
been held outside of the SIPP.
And so I asked the investigator to contact Mr As representative to determine whether Mr A 
had sold either of his buy-to-let properties, and to enquire about the current valuation of the 
overseas property along with details of the rental income received from it into the SIPP. 
The representative responded to say that the four year period applies to the reporting of the 
loss, rather than the act of offsetting that loss against a capital gain. The loss can be carried 
forward indefinitely. It also said that the disposal of a property doesnt need to be a sale  it 
could be transferred into the name of a child, for example, or a limited company, and this 
would crystallise a loss.
It confirmed the rental income Mr A had received from the property, along with the current 
valuation - at £22,000  but it remained of the view that Mr A shouldnt have been advised to 
invest in the property at all. It nevertheless considered that the next best advice would have 
been to not use his pension funds to invest, as any loss could have been carried forward to 
offset a future gain.
It further said that Mr A had already disposed of one of his properties to access the equity as 
he had lost his pension. He would also dispose of the other property at some stage.
I therefore issued a further provisional decision, taking account of the further submissions, 
with my findings set out as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My view remains that Mr A would have invested in the property, for all the reasons 
previously set out. 
As regards the matter of Mr A being able to offset any loss incurred on the sale of the 
overseas property, had it been held outside the SIPP, against any gains on the sale of either 
of his buy-to-let properties, my thoughts are as follows.
I acknowledge the comments made by Mr As representative and am mindful of the likely 
course of events if Mr A hadnt used pension funds to invest in the Cape Verde property.
Mr As pension funds which were used to buy the property were relatively modest, and so I 
think its likely that, even if he still had these, as he would have used other cash savings to 
buy the Cape Verde property, its likely that he would in any case have needed to sell one of 
the buy to let properties to bolster his pension income.
But it seems unlikely to me that he would have sold the Cape Verde property given the 
current loss situation, the regular rental income and the facility which would have otherwise 
existed outside of the pension scheme for him and his family to use it. 
So my view is that he would in any case have likely sold one of his other properties and 
released, as he has done, equity to bolster his pension. But had the property been held outside of the pension, he could have transferred the Cape Verde property to one of his 
children before he sold the buy to let property. And the reported loss on the disposal of the 
Cape Verde property could then have offset the capital gain which he paid on the sale of his 
UK buy to let property.
As Ive said above, the Cape Verde property is currently valued at £22,000. I think its 
reasonable to assume that this valuation wont have changed considerably from the time that 
Mr A sold his buy to let property.
And so Im currently minded to direct Insight Financial Associates Limited to pay Mr A five 
years SIPP fees, as set out in the previous provisional decision, but to also calculate the 
capital gains offset which could have been produced by Mr A disposing of the Cape Verde 
property before he sold his UK buy to let property, had the former been held outside of the 
pension wrapper.
If Mr A would have paid a lower amount of capital gains tax than he did due to the Cape 
Verde property being held outside of the pension wrapper, Insight Financial Associates 
Limited should pay the difference to Mr A, with the addition of 8% interest from the date the 
tax was actually paid until the date of settlement.
Im mindful that theres a fair amount of speculation here as to how Mr A would have acted, 
had he held the Cape Verde property outside of the pension wrapper. And its difficult to 
arrive at a perfect solution in terms of redress. But I think that, faced with the prospect of 
needing to sell one of the buy to let properties, as Mr A has done, it wouldnt have been an 
unreasonable, or particularly unusual, course of action to capitalise on the loss situation 
which existed with the Cape Verde property to mitigate the capital gains tax due on the buy 
to let property sale. 
I acknowledge that this would result in Mr A having paid lower CGT on the sale of the UK 
property, but still having the Cape Verde property in his pension, rather than it now being 
owned by one of his children. I cant of course require Mr A to pay any proceeds of the 
eventual sale of the Cape Verde property from his pension to one of his children. And so it 
could be said that the proposal overly benefits Mr A personally. But on the basis that there 
would be no net increase in the family wealth, and that it must be assumed that, in the 
event of the deaths of Mr and Mrs A, any residual benefit would in any case pass to their 
children, I dont think this renders the proposal unreasonable. 
Further, my understanding is that, if Mr A wished to still own the property and receive the 
rental income, there would also be nothing to prevent the Cape Verde property being gifted 
back to Mr A by the recipient child once the capital gain had been offset by the loss.
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, my view remains that the complaint should be partially 
upheld. My understanding is that, although the property may retain a value, it would currently 
be difficult to sell. And so I maintain that the appropriate remedy here would be the payment 
by Insight Financial Associates Limited to Mr A of five years worth of SIPP fees, to allow Mr 
A time to sell the asset and wind up the SIPP within that timeframe if he wishes.
My further current view is that Insight Financial Associates Limited should calculate the lost 
advantage to Mr A of holding the Cape Verde property outside of the pension funds, as set 
out above.
In response to that provisional decision, Mr As representative had nothing further to add. 
Insight made no further comment on the merits of the complaint, but said the following regarding the redress proposal:
To enable it to calculate the capital gains tax liability, it would need further 
information. It queried as to whether the £22,000 valuation of the Cape Verde 
property related to the original property, or the one Mr A eventually invested in within 
his SIPP in 2014/15 when there were insufficient funds to complete on the original 
property.
It also enquired as to whether the value had been obtained from a Cape Verde 
agency, or had been placed on the investment by the SIPP provider.
It said it would need details of the capital gains tax relating to the buy to let which 
was sold, together with details of the dates.
It would also need a letter of authority to approach the SIPP provider to calculate five 
years SIPP fees.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has submitted further comments on my revised findings, they remain the 
same, as set out above. I maintain that the complaint should be partially upheld, for the 
reasons previously provided. 
Putting things right
Insight Financial Associates Limited should pay Mr A five years SIPP fees (he will need to 
provide authority for it to contact his SIPP provider), but should also calculate the capital 
gains offset which could have been produced by Mr A disposing of the Cape Verde property 
before he sold his UK buy to let property, had the former been held outside of the pension 
wrapper.
If Mr A would have paid a lower amount of capital gains tax than he did due to the Cape 
Verde property being held outside of the pension wrapper, Insight Financial Associates 
Limited should pay the difference to Mr A, with the addition of 8% interest from the date the 
tax was actually paid until the date of settlement.
The part of the redress relating to the capital gains tax would be subject to Mr A, or his 
representative on his behalf, providing Insight Financial Associates Limited with the 
information it requires, as set out above, to calculate any loss. 
But in answer to the question posed above by Insight about the party which undertook the 
valuation, this was Cape Verde Property. A copy of the valuation letter can be provided by 
Mr As representative, or this service, if required.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint in part and direct Insight Financial Associates 
Limited to pay redress to Mr A as set out above.   Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman