DRN-3317064
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC closed her account without her knowledge and with 
the service that she received from Lloyds when she telephoned them about this. Miss H also 
feels that there was more money remaining in the account than Lloyds eventually forwarded 
to her.
What happened
Miss H lives overseas. When the UK left the European Union, Lloyds were no longer able to 
offer banking services to customers living in the country in which Miss H resides. Lloyds 
wrote to Miss H about this at the overseas address they held on file for her, but because 
Miss H was no longer residing at that address, she didnt receive the letter.
As such, Miss H only discovered that Lloyds had closed her account when her expected 
banking services from Lloyds stopped and she called Lloyds to find out why. Miss H then 
asked to be sent the money that was in her account at the time of closure and was told that 
a cheque would be sent to her updated address. This was an error on Lloyds part, and Miss 
H was later informed that she needed to follow a specific process, which included Miss H 
providing certified identity documents to Lloyds.
Miss H wasnt happy with the amount of time and effort that it took for her to be sent the 
money from the account, and she also felt that there had been more money present in her 
account than Lloyds had eventually sent her. So, she raised a complaint.
Lloyds looked at Miss Hs complaint. They acknowledged that they hadnt provided correct 
information to Miss H about the steps she needed to take to recover the money in her 
account in the first instance, and they apologised to Miss H for this and made a payment of 
£350 to Miss H which included £180 as compensation for any trouble and upset the matter 
had caused as well as £170 to cover Miss Hs overseas telephone costs. However, Lloyds 
confirmed that they had sent Miss H the full balance that had been present in her account at 
the time of the account closure, and so they didnt uphold that aspect of Miss Hs complaint.
Miss H wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that Lloyds response to Miss 
Hs complaint, including the compensation and costs payments made, already represented a 
fair and reasonable resolution to what had taken place, and so they didnt uphold Miss Hs 
complaint.
Miss H remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Miss H feels that as her account statements and communication preferences 
were set to paperless, Lloyds should have contacted her by paperless means, rather than by 
sending a letter to the address that they held on file for her, when informing her of their 
upcoming intention to close her account.
I can appreciate Miss Hs position here, but while a customer may have a communications 
preference, its at the discretion of the business as to how they issue individual items of 
communication, and in this instance Lloyds have confirmed that they wrote to all their 
affected overseas customers to advise them that the changing political situation meant that 
their accounts would have to be closed. And I must note that it isnt unusual for a business 
such as Lloyds to issue formal letters to customers when making important announcements 
to them.
Unfortunately, Miss H hadnt updated her address with Lloyds so that the letter that Lloyds 
sent to her was sent to an address where Miss H no longer resides. Its the responsibility of 
an account holder to update their address with their bank, and in consideration of this point I 
dont feel that I can fairly or reasonably hold Lloyds accountable for Miss Hs account being 
closed without her knowledge.
However, its clear that when Miss H did contact Lloyds and asked for the money that had 
been present in her account to be sent to her, that she wasnt given the correct information 
on the process that she needed to follow in the first instance. Lloyds dont dispute this, and 
theyve apologised to Miss H for this and made compensation and costs payments totalling 
£350 to Miss H as a result.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered as being fair and 
reasonable by one person not being considered as being such by someone else. But, while I 
acknowledge that Miss H may disagree, I do feel that the £350 that Lloyds have already paid 
to Miss H is a fair amount in this instance, and I can confirm that its commensurate with 
what this service would expect, given the circumstances.
It also must be remembered that this payment was made only in consideration of Miss H not 
being accurately informed of the process she needed to follow to be sent the money that had 
been present in her account. 
Im aware that Miss H considers that the process she had to follow was unnecessarily 
convoluted and that she was inconvenienced because of this. But given that Miss Hs 
account had closed, I dont feel that the process Miss H was belatedly instructed to follow  
including the provision of certified identity documents  was unreasonable, and it would be 
expected that Lloyds would undertake the requisite steps necessary for them to be assured 
that they were sending the money held over from Miss Fs account to the correct person. 
And, as explained previously, given that I dont feel that Lloyds can be fairly or reasonably 
held accountable for the account being closed without Miss F being aware of it, which Im 
satisfied occurred as a result of up to date address records not being maintained on the 
account, it follows that I also dont feel that Lloyds can fairly or reasonably be held 
responsible for Miss H having to complete the process that was ultimately necessary for her 
to be sent the money that had been held over from her account.
Finally, Im aware that Miss H feels that there was more money in her account than Lloyds 
have sent to her. However, the statements of Miss Hs account that Lloyds have provided to 
this service confirm that the amount of money that they forwarded to Miss H was correct.
All of which means that Im satisfied that the response that Lloyds have already issued to 
Miss H in relation to her complaint, including the compensation and costs payments totalling 
£350, do represent fair resolution to the aspect of Miss Hs complaint that I feel Lloyds can reasonably held accountable for  specifically, that Miss H wasnt given correct information 
on how to recover the money held over in her account in the first instance and incurred upset 
and inconvenience because of this.
It follows that my final decision will be that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing 
Lloyds to take any further action at this time. I realise that this wont be the outcome that 
Miss H was wanting, but I hope that shell understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive 
made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman