DRN-2332571
The complaint
 Mr L is seeking to recover £4,000 from HSBC UK Bank Plc, which he transferred from his 
bank accounts as a result of a third-party scam. 
HSBC says it is not liable for the loss because Mr L authorised the payments and it carried 
out his instructions to send the money. It did manage to recoup £750 from a recipient bank. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I have concluded that the fair and reasonable outcome, in all the circumstances, would be to 
uphold this complaint for the following reasons:
1. It is common ground that, in March 2019, Mr L authorised two separate scam 
payments totalling £4,750. He was duped by scammers into sending money for a 
supposed investment opportunity (an initial £1,000) and was told he needed to pay 
further money (£3,750) in order to release profits and settle the trade. They deceived 
him into believing it was a genuine investment opportunity by contacting him via 
social media, having telephone conversations with staff, being given a video tour of 
their offices, and being shown other investors successes.  
2. I accept these were authorised payments even though Mr L was the victim of a 
sophisticated scam. He used his security credentials to request the payments 
through the mobile banking app. Under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the 
Regulations), in conjunction with the standard terms and conditions of accounts, a 
bank should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay  and 
Mr L is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
3. However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes 
of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I 
consider HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to 
counter various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the 
financing of terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams. 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs 
that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud. This is particularly 
so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, which 
banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or 
in some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect 
customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
4. In this case, Im not considering the first £1,000 payment made to the scammers. 
Thats because it was made from a joint account and the other party to the account 
hasnt joined this complaint. My consideration is therefore limited to the second 
payment for £3,750 (of which £750 was recovered). So, £3,000 is in dispute here. 
5. Im satisfied the payment for £3,750 out of Mr Ls account ought to have triggered 
HSBCs fraud systems as unusual or uncharacteristic. I say this because:
This payment followed the £1,000 payment which had been made to a 
company that specialises in pre-paid cards  a well-known fraud method. 
This payment was the second new payee in two days. Mr Ls account wasnt 
regularly used to make payments to new payees. 
The amount sent, although maybe not high in and of itself, was nevertheless 
higher than any other payment made in the previous six-months operation of 
the account. The only other sizeable transaction was for £1,300 which Mr L 
had transferred into his savings account (so wouldnt trigger any alarm).
The payment took the account into an overdraft which hadnt been used at all 
in the previous six months. Further, the payment not only cleared the 
available credit balance, but also used all of the available overdraft facility  
which was highly unusual for this account. 
6. In response to the investigators initial assessment upholding the complaint, HSBC 
said the payment of £3,750 was relatively modest and wouldnt have stood out; Mr L 
had made a transfer of £1,300 to the savings account. I have already set out above 
that it was higher than any other payment made in the previous six-months. And Im 
mindful that the payment  which was made to the second new payee in two days  
was a far different transaction from a transfer to a savings account. HSBC has also 
said it could not reasonably have intervened or made any difference to the ultimate 
outcome. I disagree. I have already set out the reasons why this payment was 
uncharacteristic for Mr L such that it ought to have triggered HSBCs fraud systems 
or at the very least prompted enquiries about the payment. That HSBC did not 
intervene doesnt mean it could not have done, as it has sought to argue.
7. HSBC didnt ask Mr L any questions about the payment. This is a well-known scam, 
the characteristics of which were known to HSBC (in a telephone call with Mr L after 
the scam was discovered, it told him an investment company wouldnt act in this way 
or make contact via the social media platform used).  If HSBC had probed about the 
payment  e.g. asking for details of what the payment was for; how he was 
contacted; why he was making the payment so quickly after an initial investment  it 
seems likely staff would have realised something was amiss before it was too late. 
That is, but for HSBCs failure to probe appropriately, the scam probably wouldnt 
have succeeded. 
8. I make this finding about what is likely to have happened because Mr L immediately 
reported the scam to his bank when the scammer next asked him for more funds. It 
was the request for further payment that alerted him to the scam. As Mr L himself 
realised this was unusual and suspect, I think the bank alerting him to an earlier 
payment also being unusual and not how an investment company would 
communicate or attract business, would have stopped the payment being made. The 
fraud would have failed, and Mr L wouldnt have lost a further £3,750. In other words, 
I am satisfied that HSBCs failure to intervene in breach of its duty caused the loss. 
9. In light of the above, it isnt necessary for me to consider whether the bank also 
exercised enough care and urgency in trying to recover the stolen funds before they were irretrievably removed by scammers. But for completeness, HSBC acted on the 
information quickly but only £750 remained which was returned to Mr L in April 2019. 
10. I have also considered whether Mr L should bear some responsibility for the loss by 
way of contributory or gross negligence as HSBC has argued. However, it is clear 
that up until the time of the scammer asking for a third payment, Mr L believed he 
was making a genuine investment. It has already been set out that he had calls with 
the scammer, saw examples of investment returns and had a video tour of the office. 
I think all of these things would have reassured him he was dealing with a legitimate 
trading business. We have seen many cases where people have fallen victim to 
investment scams and Im not persuaded Mr Ls actions fell so far below that of a 
reasonable person, such that I would conclude he had been negligent. I am satisfied 
that he simply didnt foresee this type of loss when he was authorising the payments. 
This isnt a case of someone recognising a risk but courting it anyway, e.g. by taking 
inadequate or no steps to avert it. So, whilst it isnt in dispute that he authorised the 
payments, Im not persuaded there was any contributory negligence  he was the 
unwitting and blameless victim of a sophisticated scammer. 
11. Gross negligence isnt strictly relevant in this case  as that test applies under the 
Regulations in cases of unauthorised transactions, i.e. where a customers security 
credentials were obtained and used by a scammer without his consent  in which 
case, the bank must refund the customer unless he acted fraudulently or with intent 
or gross negligence failed to comply with his obligations to keep security credentials 
safe and use his payment instrument in accordance with its terms and conditions. 
This case is about an authorised push payment, not an unauthorised transaction. But 
in any event, gross negligence is a very high threshold for a bank to prove  and I am 
not persuaded Mr L was even negligent, let alone grossly negligent.  
12. Im satisfied HSBC should fairly and reasonably reimburse Mr L for the £3,000 loss 
he suffered in relation to this particular account, which includes a reduction for the 
£750 already recovered from the receiving bank. HSBC should also reimburse any 
overdraft charges hes paid as a result of that loss and add 8% interest paid on the 
amount in credit he actually lost (as opposed to borrowed via overdraft) as a result 
of the scam. 
13. HSBC has argued that if interest is awarded, it should be at the rate applied to the 
account. I agree that approach might be fair and reasonable with regard to a loss 
from a savings account. But it has long been our approach that 8% simple interest 
per annum is a fair award for loss of use rather than loss of investment opportunity. 
In other words, it represents a fair average over time of what it might cost a 
consumer to borrow funds equivalent to monies lost as a result of the wrongdoing; it 
doesnt represent what returns he might have got by investing or saving the money, 
which have tended to attract low interest rates for many years now. Mr L regularly 
used the money in that current account for everyday use, which he has been 
deprived of  and could have legitimately mitigated his loss through borrowing at 
interest rates higher than 8%. 
14. HSBC should also remove any data recorded on his credit file in relation to this 
matter  in order to put Mr L back to the position he would have been in but for the 
banks failure to act on these unusual and uncharacteristic triggers of fraudulent 
activity. 
 
My final decision
 For the above reasons, I uphold this complaint. I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to:Pay Mr L £3,000 within 28 days of receiving notification of his acceptance of my 
decision; plus
Refund any overdraft usage charges made as a result of this scam;
Pay Mr L 8% simple interest per annum on his personal loss from the date of loss 
until the date of settlement; and
Amend any data recorded on Mr Ls credit file as a result of this matter. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman