DRN-3582416
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complained about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA). They 
arent happy about the way it dealt with a claim under their home insurance policy including 
the poor service provided and general delays. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs C made a claim under their home insurance policy following an escape of water 
that caused damage to their property. RSA were notified of the claim in 2017 but Mr and Mrs 
C faced a number of issues and difficulties in advancing their claim. 
RSA accepted it got things wrong, delayed the claim and also offered compensation in 
relation to issues that pre-dated this complaint. But as things still didnt run smoothly Mr and 
Mrs C advanced this complaint in relation to additional delays and poor service RSA caused. 
It offered £1,000 in acknowledgement of its additional poor service between April 2021 and 
the date of its final response letter (FRL) of 25 May 2022. But as Mr and Mrs C remained 
unhappy about the level of compensation offered and the fact that the claim still wasnt 
settled they complained to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr and Mrs C, but he felt RSAs offer of £1,000 
compensation, for the delay and poor service it provided between April 2021 and May 2022 
was fair. He accepted its service had been poor but highlighted that any additional ongoing 
problems Mr and Mrs C faced would have to be advanced as a separate complaint. And that 
he thought RSAs offer of compensation was fair for the period outlined only. As Mr and Mrs 
C didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt disputed that RSA provided a poor service here and caused delay in the settlement of 
the claim, so I dont propose to go over the finer detail of this. I will just focus on the 
compensation level offered and whether I feel it is fair in the circumstances of this claim. And 
it is important to point out that I will just be focussing on the period of time relevant to this 
complaint (April 2021 to the date of the FRL, May 2022) and not the complaints before this 
(that have been considered separately) or any ongoing complaints. 
I also think its important to explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been 
said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the 
crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to 
reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I 
dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question 
raised unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint. 
I can understand Mr and Mrs Cs position and their frustration and disappointment about how 
their claim has been handled by RSA and its appointed contractors. It is clear RSA 
contributed to a number of delays and poor service in dealing with the claim. But, RSA has 
offered £1,000 by way of compensation, in addition to the £300 it had already offered in 
relation to earlier complaints, so I think it has taken Mr and Mrs Cs complaint seriously. And 
I can see there were times Mr and Mrs C requested that works be delayed, which was 
understandable in the circumstances, but I cant hold RSA responsible for these delays.
However, RSA was responsible for the various delays caused by its contractors (a number 
were appointed) and suppliers which affected the timely advancement of the claim. And 
there were issues around the scope of works and items that had been agreed but werent in 
the settlement which must have been frustrating. All this confusion added to the delay in 
advancing Mr and Mrs Cs claim which should have been relatively straightforward.
A lot of what Mr and Mrs C have said in response to our investigators view relates to things 
that cant be considered under this complaint. They have raised further points in relation to 
delays and problems that are either ongoing or stemmed from the period before this 
complaint that RSA dealt with separately. 
Given all of this, although I understand that there was a lot of time and energy put into this 
by Mr and Mrs C in the form of calling, chasing by email and having unnecessary meetings 
with their agents, I think that the £1,000 offer of compensation, solely in acknowledgement of 
the delay and poor service between April 21 and May 22, seems fair. There is always a fair 
degree of stress and inconvenience in advancing an insurance claim and this level of 
compensation is in line with the kind of award this Service would ordinarily make.
I know this will be disappointing to Mr and Mrs C who feel they took out a higher end 
Bespoke policy and that this claim has impacted upon their enjoyment of the family home. 
But, as Ive already mentioned, this doesnt cover any further issues they faced after RSAs 
FRL of 25 May 2022 which they are free to advance as a complaint separately.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I think Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limiteds 
offer to pay £1,000 compensation in addition to the £300 it already offered is fair. And Ill 
simply leave it to pay this now if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman