DRN-2860961
The complaint
 Mr M complains about the offer Black Horse Limited (BHL) trading as Land Rover Financial 
Services made when it allowed him to reject his car. He would like a counter offer accepted.
 
What happened
 The details of this case are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again here. 
Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
.Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons:-
When we uphold rejection of vehicles, we typically consider issues such as deposits 
and installments made, loss of enjoyment and distress and inconvenience. I felt BHL 
made a reasonable offer (totaling (£9,258.57) along these lines when Mr M wanted to 
reject the car. 
When Mr M then wanted to keep the car BHL made a second offer. I understand the 
issues with the car have now been addressed, presumably to Mr Ms satisfaction if 
he now wishes to keep it. I felt this second offer was reasonable. It totalled £1,529.94 
including a partial refund of payments made, a partial refund of the balloon payment 
due at the end of the agreement and a payment for trouble and upset.
As I understand it Mr M would like to receive the total payment offered for rejection   
but to keep the car and have a discounted final payment at the end of the agreement. 
I dont feel this is a reasonable. I appreciate Mr M took out an agreement for a new 
car so could reasonably have expected there to be no issues to deal with. But the 
issues that did arise didnt stop him using the car (except when they were being dealt 
with) and although it took some time for them to be resolved during most of this time 
Mr M did have use of a courtesy car. I think the offers BHL has made are reasonable 
in the circumstances.
Given the time that has elapsed BHL has revised the rejection offer to consider up to 
date mileage. It hasnt revised its offer if Mr M wishes to keep the car as it feels the 
issues were relatively minor and must have been addressed to Mr Ms satisfaction if 
he chooses to keep the car. And of course, he can still choose to reject the car. I feel 
both these offers are reasonable. I leave it to Mr M to decide which he wishes to take
 My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final if Mr M wishes to go ahead 
with rejection  Black Horse Limited should  :-
Take back the car at no cost to Mr M, cancel his agreement and show this as settled 
on his credit file
Make a total payment of £10,978.66 to Mr M comprising: - 
o£5,850 deposit refund
o£3,371.75 partial refund of installments made
o£161.85 for 13 days loss of use of the car in August 2020
o£1,145.06 8% statutory interest on the above sums
o£150 for any trouble and upset caused
o£300 for any loss of enjoyment
Or if Mr M prefers to keep the car Black Horse Limited should :-
Make a total payment of £1529.94 comprising of: -
o£302.74 for impaired use
o£1,077.20 representing 5% of the balloon payment due at the end of Mr Ms 
agreement 
o£150 for trouble and upset   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman