DRN-3116520
The complaint
Mr D complains that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) hasnt paid his travel insurance 
claim.
Any reference to URV also includes its agents.
 
What happened
In July 2019, Mr D purchased an annual multi trip travel insurance policy with URV. A couple 
of months later he booked a trip abroad, buying flights and accommodation separately. He 
was due to depart on this holiday in early July 2020.
On 17 March 2020 the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  
formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all but essential travel 
abroad due to the Covid-19 pandemic. This advice remained in place until after the 
departure date of his trip. As a result of this advice, his flights were cancelled by the airline. 
This meant Mr D was unable to use his accommodation and so he had to cancel the 
booking. The accommodation provider refused to provide a refund or a voucher, so Mr D 
made a claim to URV.
URV said that it couldnt consider the claim as there was no cover under the policy for 
cancellation due to changes in the FCDO advice. Unhappy with this response, Mr D 
complained to URV and then brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into the matter and said he didnt think the claim was covered under 
the policy terms and conditions. But he found that URV should still assess Mr Ds claim 
under the cancellation section regardless. 
Mr D accepted the investigators opinion but URV disagreed. It said that the policy terms are 
clear in stating that there is no cover for this circumstance. And URV stated that there were 
other policies on the market that could cover this type of event, but Mr D had chosen to 
purchase this level of cover which doesnt provide this protection. It also said that the 
exclusion relating to FCDO advice was written prior to the pandemic and so it didnt agree 
this should be used as a basis for cover.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, relevant industry rules and guidance. I agree those 
are the relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. Ive 
also considered the relevant law (including the unfair terms provision in the Consumer Right 
Act 2015). 
The policy terms and conditions
 
The policy Mr D held includes terms and conditions relating to the cover provided. On page 
16 of the policy, under the heading Section A1  Cancellation charges, the policy says that 
URV will pay for certain costs if a trip is cancelled for any of the following reasons:
1. The death, bodily injury, illness, disease, or complications arising as a direct result of 
pregnancy of:
a) You
b) Any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with
c) Any person who you have arranged to stay with
d) Your close relative
e) Your close business associate
2. You or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with being
quarantined called as a witness in a court of law or for jury service attendance
3. Redundancy of you or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel 
with (which qualifies for payment under current United Kingdom redundancy payment 
legislation, and at the time of booking the trip there was no reason to believe anyone 
would be made redundant
4. You or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with, are a 
member of the armed forces, territorial army, police, fire, nursing or ambulance 
services or employees of a government department and have your/their authorised 
leave cancelled or are called up for operational reasons, provided that cancellation 
could not reasonably have been expected at the time when your purchased this 
insurance or at the time of booking any trip.
5. The police or other authorities requesting you to stay or return to your home due to 
serious damage to your home caused by fire, aircraft, explosion, storm, flood, 
subsidence, fallen trees, collision by road vehicles, malicious people or theft.
On page 12, the policy terms say, under the heading What is not covered  applicable to all 
sections of the policy:
We will not pay for claims arising directly or indirectly from
14. Travelling against FCO advice
Your travel to a country, specific area or event when the travel advice unit of the 
Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) or regulatory authority in a country 
to/from which you are travelling has advised against all, or all but essential travel.
In addition to the policy terms, URV provided Mr D with an Insurance Product Information 
Document (IPID) designed to provide a summary of the cover.
On page two of the IPID it includes a section titled Where am I covered? and within this 
section it states:
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region when the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office has advised against all travel or all but essential travel. For 
further details, visit: www.gov.uk/foreign-travel-advice
Was the claim declined unfairly?The policy terms detailed above show that cancelling a trip as a result of FCDO advice isnt 
one of the specific, listed events for which cancellation cover is provided. And having 
reviewed the remaining terms and conditions, I dont think there is another section of the 
policy which would provide cover for the circumstances Mr D found himself in. So, I agree on 
strict interpretation of the policy terms, Mr Ds claim simply isnt covered by the terms of his 
contract.
But I must also consider what I think is fair and reasonable in the overall circumstances of 
the case, taking into account the industry rules Ive already mentioned and the relevant law. 
Having thought about this case very carefully, I dont think that applying the strict 
interpretation of the policy terms produces a fair and reasonable outcome here. Ill explain 
why.
The exclusions that Ive outlined above mean, if Mr D had travelled abroad as intended (if it
was possible for him to do so), he wouldnt have been following FCDO advice. So, he is
unlikely to have been covered by the policy terms and conditions at all. But, under the terms
and conditions of the policy, cancellation of a holiday due to changes in FCDO guidance also
isnt covered by the policy. I dont think that was made sufficiently clear to Mr D within the
policy documents that were provided to him.
URV has said that Mr D chose to purchase this policy without this protection. However, Im 
not persuaded this is the case. Mr D would have needed to read the full policy terms and 
conditions in order to understand that the situation he found himself in wasnt covered. And, I 
dont think that this information was brought to his attention in a clear, prominent and 
transparent way. So, I dont think the combined effect of the policy terms were made 
sufficiently clear to him.
I think this created a significant imbalance in the rights and interests of Mr D and URV. Im of 
the opinion that, if Mr D had realised there was no cover under the policy if he needed to 
cancel his trip because FCDO guidance changed, its likely hed have been able to find an 
alternative policy elsewhere which did provide the cover he needed.
URV has commented that the FCDO exclusion was already in place prior to the pandemic 
becoming a known entity and so it doesnt think this should be used as a basis for cover. But 
I dont think this is the case here. Rather the pandemic has merely highlighted that the 
exclusion relating to changes in FCDO advice has not been detailed in a clear and 
prominent manner.
So, therefore, I think it would be fair and reasonable for URV to treat Mr Ds claim as
covered under the cancellation section of his policy. URV should assess the claim under the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I uphold this complaint.
Union Reiseversicherung AG needs to treat Mr Ds claim as covered under the cancellation 
section of his policy and assess the claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Jenny GilesOmbudsman