DRN-3806327
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with what hes been charged for early termination and excess mileage when 
he terminated his hire agreement with Lex Autolease Ltd.
What happened
In 2018, Mr D was supplied with a car through a hire agreement with Lex. He paid an initial 
rental of £318.98 and the agreement was for 48 months; with monthly payments of £318.98. 
If the agreement ran its full term, Mr D was due to pay a total of £15,630 in rental payments.
The agreement stated a maximum total allowable mileage of 20,416 miles. It also stated that 
Mr D would be charged 12.95 pence (including VAT) for every mile that exceeded this 
amount.
On 6 October 2020, Mr D contacted Lex to ask about ending the agreement early and 
handing the car back. Lex asked for the mileage on the car, which Mr D supplied on 15 
October. Lex provided Mr D with an early termination quote on 20 October, which Mr D 
signed to accept on 16 November, sending it to Lex the following day. Lex dealt with Mr Ds 
request, and the car was collected on 2 December 2020.
Mr D wasnt happy with how Lex had dealt with the termination of the agreement. He felt the 
agreement shouldve been terminated in September 2020, and that Lex had unfairly delayed 
this. He also wasnt happy that Lex wouldnt agree a payment plan, for him to clear the 
outstanding amount under the agreement, that lasted for more than 12-months.
Lex didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint, so he brought it to the Financial Ombudsman Service for 
investigation.
Our investigator explained why Lex were able to charge an early termination charge and a 
charge for pro-rated excess mileage on termination. He also explained, and provided 
calculations for, why he thought the charge for terminating the agreement was fair and 
reasonable, and why Mr D didnt pay more on termination than he wouldve done had the 
agreement run its full term. 
The investigator also said that he didnt think Lex had unreasonably delayed in collecting the 
car, which took place a little over two weeks after Mr D had accepted the termination quote. 
And, as no payment was due in this period, Mr D wasnt financially impacted by this.
In relation to the payment plan, the investigator said that Mr D completed an income and 
expenditure form which showed he had a disposable income of £1,297 a month. And, while 
Mr D wanted to pay Lex £300 a month over 15 months, because Lex had a policy that 
outstanding balances needed to be repaid within 12-months, and this was affordable to Mr 
D, the investigator also said that Lex hadnt acted unreasonably by asking Mr D to repay the 
balance within 12-months.
Given all of this, he thought Lex had acted reasonably and he didnt think they needed to do 
anything more.
Mr D wasnt happy with the investigators response. Hes said the disposable income of 
£1,297 showing in the income and expenditure form he completed was not a true picture of 
his financial circumstances at the time. And hes provided a detailed explanation as to why 
this was the case. Hes also said that the £375 a month Lex were asking him to pay was 
around £57 a month more than the monthly rental payments under the agreement.
Mr D has said that he thinks it would be fair for Lex to provide him with a replacement car of 
their choice, remove any adverse entries from his credit file, and he would pay back the 
missing payments.
Because Mr D didnt agree, this matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint, Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr D was supplied with a car under a hire agreement. This is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement which means we can look into complaints about it.
However, before I address Mr Ds complaints, I think it would be useful to address the 
charges themselves. And, in doing so, Ive considered the following:
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA)
Section 101 of the CCA refers to a consumers right to terminate a hire agreement by giving 
notice. It states:
Right to terminate hire agreement:
(1) The hirer under a regulated consumer hire agreement is entitled to terminate the 
agreement by giving notice to any person entitled or authorised to receive the sums 
payable under the agreement.
(2) Termination of an agreement under subsection (1) does not affect any liability 
under the agreement which has accrued before the termination ...
(7) This section does not apply to
(a) any agreement which provides for the making by the hirer of payments 
which in total (and without breach of the agreement) exceed £1,500 in any 
year
Section 132 of the CCA enables the court to grant relief to a hirer where the owner has 
recovered possession of the goods otherwise than by action. It states:
Financial relief for hirer:
(1) Where the owner under a regulated consumer hire agreement recovers 
possession of goods to which the agreement relates otherwise than by action, the 
hirer may apply to the court for an order that
(a) the whole or part of any sum paid by the hirer to the owner in respect of 
the goods shall be repaid, and(b) the obligation to pay the whole or part of any sum owed by the hirer to the 
owner in respect of the goods shall cease, and if it appears to the court just to 
do so, having regard to the extent of the enjoyment of the goods by the hirer, 
the court shall grant the application in full or in part.
(2) Where in proceedings relating to a regulated consumer hire agreement the court 
makes an order for the delivery to the owner of goods to which the agreement relates 
the court may include in the order the like provision as may be made in an order 
under subsection (1).
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)
The CRA sets out a schedule of non-exhaustive examples which might be considered to be 
unfair. The effect of this section is that terms used in contracts and notices will only be 
binding upon the consumer if they are fair. It defines unfair terms as those which put the 
consumer at a disadvantage, by limiting the consumers rights or disproportionately 
increasing their obligations as compared to the traders rights and obligations.
Part 2: Unfair Terms. What are the general rules about fairness of contract 
terms and notices?
62. (1) An unfair term of a consumer contract is not binding on the consumer .
(4) A term is unfair if, contrary to the requirement of good faith, it causes a significant 
imbalance in the parties' rights and obligations under the contract to the detriment of 
the consumer.
The CRA provides guidance on the expected clarity of wording within a contract, and the 
potential impact that any ambiguity within the contract would have:
68: Requirement for transparency
(1) A trader must ensure that a written term of a consumer contract, or a consumer 
notice in writing, is transparent 
(4) A term is unfair if, contrary to the requirements of good faith, it causes a 
significant imbalance in the parties rights and obligations under the contract to the 
detriment of the consumer.
69: Contract terms that may have different meanings
(1) If a term in a consumer contract, or a consumer notice, could have different 
meanings, the meaning that is most favourable to the consumer is to prevail.
The CRA then goes on to list examples of terms that might be considered unfair:
Schedule 2: Consumer contract terms which may be regarded as unfair.
Part 1 list of terms 
(4) A term which has the object or effect of permitting the trader to retain sums paid 
by the consumer where the consumer decides not to conclude or perform the 
contract, without providing for the consumer to receive compensation of an 
equivalent amount from the trader where the trader is the party cancelling the 
contract.
(5) A term which has the object or effect of requiring that, where the consumer 
decides not to conclude or perform the contract, the consumer must pay the trader a 
disproportionately high sum in compensation or for services which have not been 
supplied.
(6) A term which has the object or effect of requiring a consumer who fails to fulfil his 
obligations under the contract to pay a disproportionately high sum in compensation.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)The FCA Principles for Businesses (PRIN) also apply and are of relevance to this complaint. 
PRIN 6 says A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
The Hire Agreement
The hire agreement sets out Mr Ds contractual obligations. Regarding early termination, the 
agreement states:
10. Default
If: (a) you fail to pay two consecutive Rentals (as explained in clause 2 (b)) or you 
breach this agreement in any other way; or
(b) you have given us or any intermediary incorrect or misleading information which 
would have affected or affects our decision to do business with you and on what 
terms; or
(c) you have made against you a bankruptcy order or you enter into a scheme of 
arrangement or voluntary arrangement or you are subject to the equivalent of any of 
these proceedings in any jurisdiction or you cease to trade as a result of financial 
difficulties; or
(d) the Vehicle is seized or detained by anyone having legal authority to do so as a 
result of your failure or wrongdoing; or
(e) you abandon, part with day to day control of, use for a purpose that is expressly 
not permitted, sell or attempt to sell the Vehicle; or
(f) you do any act or thing which in our reasonable opinion may prejudice or 
jeopardise our rights in respect of the Vehicle;
we have the right to take any of the actions described in clause 11 but we will not do 
so if it is clear to us that the circumstances are such that our interests under this 
agreement are not prejudiced.
11. Our rights on your default
(a) If any of the events set out in clause 10 occurs, we may serve a default notice on 
you explaining that you are in default under this agreement and (if it is possible to put 
it right) how you can do that and when you must do it by. If it is possible to put the 
default right and you manage to do so within the time allowed, then this agreement 
will continue. If you do not put the default right within the time allowed, or if it is not 
possible to put the default right, we may terminate this agreement and/or the hiring of 
the Vehicle.
(b) As soon as we terminate this agreement or the hiring under this agreement you 
will no longer be in possession of the Vehicle with our consent and you must 
immediately arrange for us to collect the Vehicle from you. If you do not do so we 
may repossess it immediately.
(c) Our rights will not be affected if we have relaxed or not previously enforced this 
agreement or by any delay or attempt to recover overdue amounts.
(d) We may keep any refund of licence duty when we sell the recovered Vehicle.
12. Liability on termination
If under clause 11 we terminate this agreement and/or the hiring under this 
agreement, you will immediately pay us:
(a) any Rentals or other sums which have already fallen due under this agreement 
but have not yet been paid; plus
(b) 50% of the remaining Monthly Rentals which would have been payable up to the 
end of the Minimum Period if the hiring had not ended; plus
(c) damages for any cost or loss we have suffered as a result of your breach; plus
(d) any other sums due under this agreement, including but not limited to any repair costs as set out in clause 9 and any extra mileage charges as set out in clause 13; 
less
(e) if yours is a Terminal Pause Agreement, the amount (if any) of the Initial Rental 
which relates to the future remaining part of the Minimum Period.
Regarding excess mileage the agreement states:
13. Mileage
(a) The Vehicle has the Contract Mileage Allowance shown on page 2.
(b) If, on expiry or termination of the hiring, the Vehicles mileage exceeds the 
Contract Mileage Allowance (calculated on a pro-rata basis if the hiring terminates 
before or after expiry of the Minimum Period) you must pay us a charge per extra 
mile as shown on page 2.
(c) You will not be paid any money back or get a reduction in any charges payable by 
you under this agreement if, on its return, the Vehicle is under the Contract Mileage 
Allowance (calculated on a pro-rata basis if the hiring terminates before or after 
expiry of the Minimum Period).
The first point I need to consider is whether these charges are legally enforceable on early 
termination. Unlike a hire purchase agreement, the hire agreement Mr D entered into doesnt 
have the same rights in legislation to terminate an agreement early. And, while section 101 
of the CCA gives consumers the right to terminate a hire agreement, this doesnt apply to 
agreements where the hirer is required to make payments exceeding £1,500 a year. Which 
Mr D was. So, Im satisfied that section 101 of the CCA doesnt apply.
So, as the charges, on the face of it, arent unenforceable, Ive also considered if what Mr D 
is being asked to pay is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that both parties agreed to terminate the hire 
agreement early. And, as a result, Lex charged both an early termination charge and a 
charge for exceeding the total allowable mileage (calculated based on a pro-rated allowable 
mileage for the length the agreement was in force).
Clauses 10, 11, and 12, of the hire agreement provide for an early termination charge. 
However, these clauses dont include the circumstances applicable here  where early 
termination was mutually agreed between the parties. So, its not clear whether these 
clauses actually apply. And, while clause 13 allows for an excess mileage charge to be 
applied, the hire agreement isnt clear as to what basis fair compensation will be calculated 
when both an early termination and an excess mileage charge are applied.
Taking everything into consideration, I think its fair to presume that Lex are charging both 
the early termination charge and excess mileage charge to compensate themselves for both 
Mr D not paying all the originally agreed contractual payments and for any devaluation of the 
car caused by the expected mileage (the total allowable mileage specified in the hire 
agreement) being exceeded. But the fact that the car potentially has a different (higher) 
value on early termination, as opposed to the value at the end of the hire agreement, also 
needs to be considered.
As the hire agreement doesnt provide a transparent and fair way of calculating this 
compensation, and so ensuring that Lex arent overcompensated to the extent that it 
wouldnt be fair and proportionate to their actual loss, Im satisfied that PRIN 6 should be 
applied to the circumstances. Which would also involve the need for Lex to be both clear and 
transparent about what theyre charging; and not charging more than its fair and reasonable 
to do so.In his view on Mr Ds complaint, the investigator looked at the difference between the 
position Lex would be in upon early termination compared to the position theyd be in had 
the agreement run its full term (and the car having done no more than the total allowable 
mileage). In doing so, the investigator also considered the value of the car at both stages, 
with valuations taken using the motor trade guides. Using these guides is in line with 
standard practice for the Financial Ombudsman Service, so I dont think the investigator 
acted unfairly when doing so. Whats more, Mr D hasnt provided any evidence to show that 
these valuations were incorrect.
As such, I see no reason why the investigators calculations shouldnt be relied upon.
When Mr D returned the car, there was around eighteen months left on the agreement, and 
had the agreement continued to its natural end, Mr D wouldve paid an additional £5,741.64. 
As it was, he paid an early termination charge of £2,870.86, and a pro-rated excess mileage 
charge of £312.55.
So, had the agreement run its full term, Lex wouldve received £5,741.64 in payments from 
Mr D, and the car wouldve been valued at £15,113 (assuming the total allowable mileage 
hadnt been exceeded  if it had, then any reduction in this value due to mileage would be 
offset by any excess mileage charge). So, Lex would be receiving goods and payments to 
the value of £20,854.64.
However, as the agreement was terminated early, Mr D was charged a total of £3,183.41 in 
charges, and the car was sold for £14,269.75. So, Lex received goods and payments to the 
value of £17,453.16. As such, charging what they did on early termination, Lex received 
£3,401.48 less than the minimum they otherwise wouldve done if the agreement had run its 
full course.
Given this, Im satisfied that the charges were fair and reasonable, and Lex werent 
overcompensated. Im also satisfied that they havent breached the requirements of PRIN 6.
Was there a delay in early termination?
The evidence shows that Mr D contacted Lex 6 October 2020 to ask about ending the 
agreement early. However, Lex needed the mileage on the car to produce an early 
termination quote. Which Mr D provided on 15 October 2020. Lex then produced the quote 
on 20 October 2020. Given that this period included a weekend, I dont think that Lex 
unreasonably delayed in producing the quote.
Mr D didnt sign the termination quote until 16 November 2020, and he returned this to Lex 
the following day. The car was then collected from Mr D on 2 December 2020  15 days 
after he returned the quote. Given that arrangements needed to be made to collect the car, I 
also dont think this was an unreasonable period of time.
As such, Im satisfied that there wasnt any undue delay in the termination of the agreement.
Should a payment plan have been arranged by Lex?
Mr D spoke to Lex in February 2021 to discuss the outstanding amount on the account. 
During this call, he said he would need more than 12-months to repay the balance, and said 
he was looking to pay £300 per month for 15 months then clear the rest with a payment from 
his pension. So, Lex asked him to complete and income and expenditure form, so they could 
assess what they could do for him.Mr D didnt make any payments to Lex and, in May 2021, he provided Lex with an income 
and expenditure form. This showed that he had a disposable income of £1,297 a month. And 
he again asked to repay the balance over 15-months. However, Lex said that repaying the 
balance over 12-months, the maximum they usually allow, was affordable for Mr D. So, they 
didnt agree to his request.
While I appreciate Mr Ds comments about the disposable income he actually had at the 
time, the information he provided Lex showed that he could clearly afford to repay the 
outstanding balance over 12-months, even if this meant the payment was higher than the 
rental payment under the agreement. Id only expect Lex to base their decision on the 
information thatd been provided to them. And, if Mr D hadnt, for whatever reason, provided 
them with the full picture, it wouldnt be fair for me to say that Lex did something wrong by 
not taking into consideration something they were unaware of.
Its also the case that, had Mr Ds financial circumstances changed over the course of any 
payment arrangement that had been put in place, and he told Lex about this, then Lex would 
have considered this as part of any potential payment change.
Lex are required to treat customers in arrears or default with forbearance and due 
consideration. Im satisfied that, by asking Mr D to confirm his income and expenditure, and 
by making a decision based on the information they were provided, Lex complied with this 
requirement.
In an ideal world, Lex couldve accepted Mr Ds offer to repay the balance over 15-months. 
But, as the income and expenditure information provided by Mr D shows that repayment 
over 12-months was affordable, I dont think that asking Mr D to repay the amount within 
their usual maximum timescale was so unreasonable that its unfair in the circumstances.
Ive seen that, when Mr D spoke to Lex about the outstanding amount in February 2021, 
they explained to him the impact of his options (a payment plan or a debt write-off) on his 
credit file. While Mr D was keen to avoid any impact to his credit file, especially as his 
income was then affected by Covid-19, Ive seen that Lex defaulted him due to non-payment 
in February 2021. This default was subsequently removed from his credit file in May 2021.
However, its my understanding that Lex recorded a default in October 2022 as Mr D hadnt 
made any payments towards the outstanding amount. While I appreciate that Lex wanted 
more than Mr D was initially prepared to pay on a monthly basis, this didnt stop Mr D 
making any payments i.e. the £300 a month he was prepared and able to pay, towards the 
outstanding amount while this dispute was ongoing. But, by not doing so, Im satisfied that 
Lex acted reasonably by defaulting the agreement in line with the terms Mr D agreed to.
Mr D also wants Lex to provide him with a car of their choice, and the agreement reinstated. 
But I dont think its fair for me to ask Lex to do this. I say this because Lex provide finance 
for cars, but they dont provide the actual cars themselves  this is usually done by a 
dealership. Whats more, Mr D wanted to return the car in 2020 and did so in the knowledge 
that he would still have an outstanding balance to pay to Lex. Had he wanted to keep the 
agreement running, and remain with a car financed by Lex, then he couldve done so at this 
point. And I consider that looking to reverse this situation more than two years later is too 
late.
As such, I wont be asking Lex to provide Mr D with a replacement car. However, given his 
comments and that his affordability is likely to have changed since completing the income 
and expenditure form in 2021; Id remind Lex of their obligations of forbearance and due 
consideration when pursuing him for any outstanding balance he still owes.My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint about Lex Autolease Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman