DRN-2962859
The complaint
Miss B has complained about the way Covea Insurance Plc handled an escape of water 
claim she made under her home insurance policy.
What happened
Miss B made a claim to her insurer, Covea follow an escape of water in her home. Some 
contents were damaged and for the most part, Covea settled the claim. However, Miss B 
complained that Covea had given misinformation in relation to what it would contribute 
towards a matching sofa as a chair in the set had been damaged. She was also unhappy 
about Coveas decision to arrange for the cleaning of damaged carpets rather than replace 
them. She said she was given misinformation about the carpets from the contractor and 
Covea. 
Covea said it was reasonable to allow it the opportunity to clean the water damaged carpets 
 or it could pay a cash settlement equivalent to what it would pay a contractor to do the 
same. But it said if Miss B chose her own contractor and she wasnt satisfied, she wouldnt 
be able to come back to Covea as she hadnt used their approved contractor. 
Covea agreed to pay 50% toward the costs of a matching sofa based on its supplier costs 
and apologised for the misinformation it gave Miss B and some delays in the handling of the 
claim. For this it paid him £75 compensation. 
Ms B accepted the final settlement for her claim. And as agreed, Covea paid Miss B a cash 
settlement for her preferred contractor to carry out a clean to the remaining damaged dining 
room carpet. But Miss B wanted us to look at her complaint. 
Our investigator thought Covea had done enough to resolve Miss Bs complaint. 
Miss B didnt agree. She said the compensation doesnt reflect the way Covea dealt with him 
during the claim. So shed like an ombudsman to decide. She feels £500 compensation is a 
fairer sum to reflect the upset Covea caused him. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that the service Miss B received from Covea at times fell short. However, 
I think it has dealt with the settlement of her claim in a reasonable way. And Ive made a 
distinction between this complaint against Covea and a separate complaint Miss B raised 
against the business responsible for the escape of water which caused damaged to her 
home. 
The awards which we give for compensation are modest. I understand Miss B is very 
unhappy with discussions she had with agents at Covea. Covea acknowledges it gave Miss 
B incorrect information at times during the claim  and for a failure to call her back by its 
contractors. For this it apologised, it agreed to contribute 50% toward the costs to match her 
sofa with the replacement chair, and pay £75 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. The contribution toward the sofa in order to have a matching suite is 
in line with our approach to these types of complaints. 
As Miss B has made a claim against her policy , the excess is correctly due. Covea, like any 
insurer, cannot guarantee it will be able to recover its costs in full from the at fault third party 
for the claim. But it said it will look to recover the excess costs from the business responsible 
for the damage. I think Coveas approach here is fair. 
I understand Miss B will be very disappointed with my decision. And I understand that having 
to make a claim and deal with the disruption  even when things dont go wrong  is 
inconvenient and time consuming. But overall I think Covea has done enough to resolve her 
complaint. So Im not asking it to pay any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman