DRN-3806928
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that they were mis-sold a Flex Plus Account (FPA) in 2014 by 
Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide).
What happened
I have previously issued a provisional decision regarding this complaint. The following 
represents excerpts from my provisional decision, outlining the background to this complaint
and my provisional findings and forms part of this final decision:
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my provisional
decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs L say that they were told they had to open an FPA to get a better mortgage rate
when they were buying a property. They say they didnt need any of the benefits of the FPA,
so this was a mis-sale.
Nationwide says that Mr and Mrs L chose to take out the FPA based on relevant information
about the cost and benefits it gave them, which included better rates on mortgages.
There has been some confusion in this case about the relationship between the FPA and
obtaining better mortgage rates.
Both parties now agree that Mr and Mrs L obtained a better deal for their mortgage as a
direct result of taking out the fee-paying FPA. The deal they got was not available with a fee
free account.
Mr and Mrs L have been clear that they do not think they should have had to pay for the
other benefits of the FPA such as travel insurance when they didnt need or use them.
Ive thought about this carefully. In my view Nationwide is entitled to offer a product into the
marketplace which offers reduced mortgage rates as part of an account package. This is a
commercial proposition and is commonly available from other banks and financial
institutions.
So, in my view the fact that Mr and Mrs L wanted the better mortgage rates and not the rest
of the benefits does not entitle them to a refund.
Mr and Mrs L already had a fee free account with Nationwide and they could have obtained
a mortgage with that account but with a less attractive rate. So, I think its more likely than
not that they knew they had a choice and they chose to take out the FPA.
Ive not seen any evidence such an assessment of Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances as I would
expect to if Nationwide was giving advice in this sale. And this service is aware that
Nationwides sales were generally non-advised.
So, I think its more likely than not that the sale of the FPA was non-advised. This means
that the only requirement on Nationwide was to give Mr and Mrs L enough information to
make an informed decision whether to but it.
And I think it did. I say because both parties agree there was a lengthy discussion on the 
day of sale. And Nationwide has provided evidence Mr and Mrs L received the information 
pack with the details of the product following the sale.
Mr and Mrs L say they were given the comparable mortgage rates with and without the FPA.
And it was for them to decide whether it was better value for money to have the FPA or not.
So, I think its more likely than not that Nationwide didnt do anything wrong in this matter.
For clarity Mr and Mrs L have referred to recent issues with downgrading their account, but
these are not covered by this provisional decision. Those issues need to be taken up with
Nationwide first and them if unresolved could come to this service later.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr and Mrs L had no further comments and 
Nationwide accepted my provisional conclusions.
So, my conclusions remain as in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 December 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman