DRN-4234743
The complaint
Mrs A and Mr A complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) wont 
refund the full amount of money they lost after they say they fell victim to an authorised push 
payment (APP) scam. 
Mrs A and Mr A are being represented by a third party. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. But in summary and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as 
follows.
Mrs A and Mr A complain that in August 2018 they made two payments from their account 
held with Halifax to what they believed was an investment company. 
 Date Amount
Debit 20 August 2018 £25,000
Debit 20 August 2018 £10,050
Credit 16 January 2019 £816.99
Mrs A and Mr A say in August 2018 they were cold called by an Independent Financial 
Advisor/Introducer and offered an investment into an affordable housing bond. Mrs A and Mr 
A say they used their pension pot and invested a total of £35,050 into the bond. The 
payments were sent to an administrator, then on to the company offering the investment. 
Mrs A and Mr A got one credit back from the investment before the company went into 
administration, and Mrs A and Mr A believe they have now been scammed. So, they logged 
a complaint with Halifax.
Halifax looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. Halifax said that as the payments were 
in line with previous spending, it hadnt found the bank had made any error when it hadnt 
prevented Mrs A and Mr A from making the relevant payments. As Mrs A and Mr A remained 
unhappy, they brought their complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Our 
investigator thought that even if Halifax had discussed the payments with Mrs A and Mr A 
before they were sent, this likely wouldnt have made a difference  she thought Mrs A and 
Mr A would most likely have made them anyway. 
Mrs A and Mr A via their representative didnt agree with the investigators view, so, the 
complaints been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint for materially the same reasons as our investigator. 
Im sorry if Mrs A and Mr A lost money but this doesnt automatically entitle them to a refund 
from Halifax. It would only be fair for me to tell Halifax to reimburse Mrs A and Mr A if I 
thought it reasonably ought to have prevented the payments or it unreasonably hindered 
recovery of the funds.
Prevention
Banks have various and long-standing obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act 
in their customers best interests. These are predicated on there having been a fraud or 
scam. So, a first consideration in determining Halifaxs obligations here would normally be: 
were Mrs A and Mr A scammed as they allege? 
Here though, I dont think the answer to this question makes a difference to the fair outcome 
to this complaint. This is because if Mrs A and Mr A werent scammed, Halifax had no 
obligation to prevent Mrs A and Mr As payments, and so I couldnt reasonably hold it 
responsible for not preventing the payments. On the other hand, if Mrs A and Mr A were 
scammed:
Im satisfied Mrs A and Mr A authorised the relevant payments. Halifax would 
generally be expected to process payments a customer authorises it to make. And 
under The Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the 
account, Mrs A and Mr A are presumed liable for the loss in the first instance, in 
circumstances where they authorised the payments. That said, as a matter of good 
industry practice Halifax should have taken proactive steps to identify and help 
prevent transactions  particularly sufficiently unusual, uncharacteristic or suspicious 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, there are 
many payments made by customers each day and its not realistic or reasonable to 
expect a bank to stop and check every payment instruction. Theres a balance to be 
struck between identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent and 
minimising disruption to legitimate payments. 
In this case, having considered the circumstances of the payments Mrs A and Mr A 
made, both payments were unusual and extremely large compared to other 
payments they had made from their account in the previous six months. I understand 
that Halifax have highlighted some larger payments going back to 2017 to support 
the fact its payment system didnt flag the two payments in question for further 
checks, but Im satisfied these are too far back to be relevant in these circumstances. 
So in these particular circumstances, in order to meet its obligations summarised 
above (assuming, for the sake of argument, that Mrs A and Mr A were scammed), I 
would reasonably expect Halifax to have flagged the payments, and then called Mrs 
A or Mr A to ask who the payments were for, what they were for, and for the basic 
surrounding context, and to then have proceeded appropriately from there, with the intention to disturb or unearth a potential fraud or scam. 
Mrs A did speak with Halifax on 20 August 2018 as she was unable to make a 
payment of £35,050 in one amount from their account. On the call Mrs A said she 
was attempting to make a payment to an investment company. Mrs A was told there 
was a daily limit of £25,000 on her account, and she would need to split the payment. 
Having listened to the call, no scam warning or further advice was given. Mrs A didnt 
give any personal information to allow the advisor to log into their account, and it was 
more a general enquiry.
So, Ive gone on to think about whether appropriate intervention or further questions would 
likely have made a difference. Ultimately, I dont think any intervention by Halifax would have 
made a difference or prevented the payments. I say this because when Mrs A and Mr A 
made the payments, they were led to believe they were investing into a legitimate company 
and product. Im not aware of any information Halifax could or should have known at the time 
from which it ought to have been concerned Mrs A and Mr A were being scammed. It could 
have given Mrs A and Mr A general fraud and scam advice in relation to investing in 
particular. But ultimately, I dont think I can fairly say it would have been able to give Mrs A 
and Mr A any information that would have led them to doubt what they already knew about 
what they were doing, including if theyd undertaken further reasonable research at the time. 
So, even if Mrs A and Mr A had been questioned in more detail about the investment by 
Halifax, I dont think it wouldve highlighted anything that wouldve caused concern or led 
Halifax to believe Mrs A and Mr A were at risk of financial harm from a fraud or scam. So, 
even if Halifax did intervene and tell Mrs A and Mr A to conduct further checks on their 
investment, Im not persuaded they would have found any negative information online. 
Recovery
Ive also looked at whether Halifax took the steps it should have once Mrs A and Mr A 
contacted them to dispute the payments.
After the payments were made, I couldnt reasonably expect Halifax to have done anything 
further until Mrs A and Mr A alleged to Halifax that they had been scammed. 
As the company Mrs A and Mr A sent the money to is now in administration, I find it fair and 
reasonable that Halifax have directed Mrs A and Mr A back to the administration/liquidator to 
log a claim rather than try and recover funds through the bank. 
I realise this means Mrs A and Mr A are out of pocket. And Im sorry they lost this money. 
But I think this was ultimately caused by the investment company here, and not Halifax. I 
cant reasonably ask Halifax to reimburse Mrs A and Mr A in circumstances where I dont 
think it ought reasonably to have prevented the payments or recovered them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman