DRN-2143140
The complaint
Mr H complains that Vanquis Bank Limited gave him incorrect information about a balance 
transfer which meant he paid excessive interest.
What happened
Mr H says he spoke to Vanquis about eligibility for a balance transfer offer and says he was 
given incorrect information. He says as a result of that incorrect information he paid 
excessive interest and would like that interest refunded.
Vanquis accepts that Mr H called it in March 2020 and accepts it gave Mr H advice about 
improving his chances of receiving a credit limit increase rather than about balance transfer 
eligibility. It says there is no advice it could have given Mr H about improving his prospect of 
being offered a balance transfer. Vanquis has apologised for its mistake and paid £50 
compensation and says it gave Mr H the correct advice in April 2020.
Mr H brought his complaint to us and says the same issue took place some two or three 
years ago. He says he would have transferred his debt sooner if given the correct 
information. Our investigator thought Vanquis had dealt fairly with the complaint by paying a 
reasonable compensation amount and didnt think there was any evidence of previous 
misleading advice and thought the other occasion Mr H spoke to Vanquis was about a 
declined transaction.
Mr H doesnt accept that view and says Vanquis shouldnt have assumed he wanted to 
make a balance transfer to it and says it ought to have made sure it understood what he 
wanted.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the overall view that Vanquis has dealt fairly with this 
complaint. I realise Mr H will be disappointed by my decision.
I have listened to the calls between the parties. Having done so Im satisfied the call in 
February 2020 is about a declined transaction and not about a balance transfer. I accept that 
during the call in March 2020 Mr H was given incorrect advice about improving his balance 
transfer eligibility. But Im also satisfied that Vanquis has fairly apologised for that mistake 
and paid what I think is a fair and reasonable level of compensation. I think Vanquis 
explained the correct position within a matter of days to Mr H and that he didnt suffer any 
financial loss as a result of the incorrect information.
I appreciate that Mr H says he paid excessive interest as a result of the information he was 
given. But Im satisfied he still owed money to Vanquis and I cant see from his account 
statements that he acted on the incorrect information by, for example overpaying on his 
account or paying significantly more that the minimum payments required.
I appreciate Mr H says that he was given similar incorrect information some two or three 
years ago. I can see no evidence for similar misleading information on Vanquiss records. I 
also appreciate Mr H says Vanquis ought to have clarified his understanding when he called 
and shouldnt have assumed any balance transfer was to it. But I dont think Vanquis is 
responsible for other credit providers offers and could only tell Mr H if he was eligible for a 
balance transfer to it. Im satisfied Vanquis made that clear and told Mr H that he was not 
entitled to a balance transfer in the March 2020 call.
Overall, I dont think Mr H suffered a significant impact as a result of the incorrect information 
or that he suffered a financial loss. For those reasons I cant fairly order Vanquis to refund 
any interest Mr H paid as Im satisfied it was money that was owed to it in line with the credit 
agreement. I also find that its up to Vanquis to decide if a customer is offered a balance 
transfer and is not a right.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman