DRN-4062150
The complaint
Mr W complains about the way that Key Retirement Solutions Limited trading as Key Equity 
Release dealt with his application for an equity release mortgage. As a result of the delays, a 
new mortgage offer had to be issued with a higher interest rate.
What happened
In April 2022, Mr W approached Key Equity Release for advice on taking out an equity 
release mortgage. 
In June 2022, a mortgage offer was produced with an interest rate of 5.85%. The offer was 
conditional on the lender receiving evidence of Mr Ws health. But Mr W said Key Equity 
Release did not send the correct forms until after the offer had expired. 
In November 2022,  a new mortgage offer was produced with an interest rate of 9.05%. 
Frustrated with the delays and poor service, Mr W decided not to proceed.
Mr W complains that Key Equity Release delayed the application. He said it filled in incorrect 
forms and a member of staff left during the application. He wants Key Equity Release to pay 
him the difference between the initial rate of 5.85% and the later rate of 9.05%. He also said 
that the stress and anxiety of this matter has affected his health.  
The investigator thought that Key Equity Releases offer of £500 was a fair to reflect the 
distress and inconvenience caused by the delays. Mr W did not accept what the investigator 
said.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that Key Equity Release handled Mr Ws application poorly and has not 
treated him fairly. There were delays and poor administration that meant the original 
mortgage offer could not go ahead. 
Where I have found that  a business has not acted fairly or reasonably  as in this case  I 
will look to put the affected party back in the position they would have been in had the 
mistake not occurred. The difficulty here is that Mr W did not go ahead with an equity release 
mortgage  and as I understand it, the lender was not able to obtain the necessary 
information from Mr Ws doctor about his health. So it is not clear, even if Key Equity 
Release had handled things in a timely manner, that the lenders requirements would have 
been satisfied so that the mortgage could go ahead. 
In any event, as Mr W did not take an equity release mortgage then, as things stand, he has 
not suffered any financial loss. He is effectively better off as there is no debt. Of course, if 
Mr W had gone ahead and was able to satisfy the lenders requirements in relation to his 
health, then potentially I could have told Key Equity Release to pay the difference in rates. 
But as he has not done so, there is no financial loss for Key Equity Release to compensate 
him for. 
I understand Mr Ws reasons for not proceeding with the mortgage. But Im afraid there is no 
basis on which I could make an award for financial loss. That leaves compensation for any 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr W by the way that Key Equity Release handled this 
matter. I accept what Mr W has told us about the stress and anxiety he suffered when 
dealing with this matter  and that it has affected his health when he was already seriously 
ill.
After considering everything Mr W has told us and the overall circumstances here, I consider 
that £500 is a fair amount to compensate Mr W for any distress and inconvenience caused 
by Key Equity Releases acts and omissions in this case.
My final decision
Key Retirement Solutions Limited  trading as Key Equity Release has already made an offer 
to pay Mr W £500 to settle this complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that Key Retirement Solutions Limited  trading as Key Equity Release 
should pay Mr W £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman