DRN-4350312
The complaint
Miss R complains that Lloyds Bank Plc hasnt refunded her after she reported an Authorised 
Push Payment scam (APP scam).
What happened
The facts of this case arent clear cut. In what follows, I have set out what appears to be the 
sequence of events as best as can be established given the evidence available to me.
Between November 2022 and January 2023, Miss R made five payments from her Lloyds 
account, totalling £3,540. These payments were all made to a company which I will refer to 
as T. She has given two different explanations for these payments. 
In the first and second calls Miss R made to Lloyds, she told the bank shed paid T this 
money to obtain a better exam grade in a term paper. She said T was a writing service and 
shed paid their highest price in order to receive a top grade. But when her paper had been 
marked she received a low grade. She therefore wanted T to provide a partial refund, 
because she hadnt received the expected service from them.
She told Lloyds she was negotiating with T for a partial refund. She thought the right amount 
for the grade shed received was around £200  much less than shed paid. She had 
provided T evidence to support this claim, including her lecturers marks on her submitted 
paper.
In response, Lloyds said it wasnt liable to reimburse her. Miss R had made these payments 
by bank transfer so the protections that might have applied had she paid by card werent 
available. And the bank didnt think this had been an APP scam. Miss R seemed to have 
received at least part of what shed paid for. Rather this appeared to be a matter of poor 
service on the part of T. Lloyds suggested approaching Trading Standards or the small 
claims court, but it could not help further.
Miss R didnt accept this. When shed asked for a T partial refund, she didnt receive one, so 
she thought shed been scammed. 
Dissatisfied, Miss R ultimately referred her complaint to this service for an impartial review. 
Our Investigator asked Miss R for more information about what shed paid for. Miss R now 
said that shed actually been paying T for a training course. Shed been told the training 
course would cover real estate rentals, and that this was a rapidly growing market. 
Having contacted T through a secure messaging app, shed been given a link to a training 
website. However, shed not received any of the training shed paid for. 
Given the conflicting versions of events, the Investigator researched T. He found T listed on 
the Companies House website and located Ts website. This appeared to show that T 
offered a custom essay writing service for students. This appeared to match the initial story 
Miss R had given Lloyds when shed first reported the matter.
Weighing the facts, the Investigator thought it most likely Miss R had paid T for an essay 
writing service in order to obtain a better grade in a term paper. He said this wouldnt meet 
the definition of an APP scam, which required that the payer must have believed they were 
paying for a legitimate service. He said paying for a term paper to be written as a means of a 
student gaining an inflated mark could not reasonably have been considered a legitimate 
transaction. So, this wasnt an APP scam and Lloyds didnt need to reimburse Miss R.
Miss R didnt accept this. While she couldnt explain the discrepancy between the stories 
shed given, she said shed got mixed up when explaining things. She still needed the bank 
to refund her. 
In light of the ongoing disagreement, I have been asked to reach a final decision on the 
matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to determine whether Lloyds was at fault or unfair in how it has treated 
Miss R, and if so, what it should do to put matters right. This is not a straightforward 
complaint to decide. The evidence before me is contradictory. In particular, Miss R has given 
conflicting versions of events, during different calls. 
Ive thought about what Miss R has submitted to our Investigator, including her explanation 
that she simply got mixed up in relaying the story to her bank and why she believes that 
might have happened. But ultimately, I find that the differences between these two stories is 
a fundamental one rather than a matter of the finer details. I also find that the first story 
(which Miss R now says was a mistake) was consistently and coherently explained  which 
seems less likely to have resulted if the details of the story had simply been mixed up.
When considering a fair outcome here, Ive had to take all of this into account. I will explain 
why I have reached the findings I have.
Firstly, based on what Ive seen, I cant safely conclude that Miss R was the victim of an APP 
scam. The only evidence supporting this being an APP scam stems from Miss Rs own 
testimony, and given the significant and unexplained change in stories, I find that I cannot 
reasonably give that much weight. 
I also cant safely conclude that Miss R believed what she was doing had a wholly legitimate 
purpose. All considered, I agree with our Investigator that the most likely version of events is 
the one Miss R gave Lloyds when she first called to report the matter. That explanation 
matches the limited information I have been able to establish about T. It is unclear to me why 
Miss R would have given this story at the time if it were not true  I am not persuaded this is 
simply a matter of mixing up the details given the degree of difference between the two 
versions of events.
Miss R made the relevant payments as bank transfers. Lloyds correctly explained that 
paying a company in this way means the usual protections available to card payments (for 
example chargeback) simply dont apply  they arent available when paying by bank 
transfer.
There is a voluntary code for APP scams (the CRM Code) to which Lloyds is a signatory. But 
that code only applies where the payments meet the codes definition of an APP Scam. The relevant part of that definition requires that the payment was made in the belief it was for 
legitimate purposes. As Ive explained above, I cannot safely conclude that Miss R made the 
disputed payments for legitimate purposes.
But even if I thought differently on that point and accepted that Miss R believed that paying 
someone to write her term paper was somehow legitimate, I dont think this would mean the 
CRM Code would apply to her payments. 
I say this because the CRM code specifically excludes what it describes as private civil 
disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, services, or 
digital content but has not received them, they are defective in some way, or the Customer is 
otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier. 
Here Miss R argues that what she received was not to the standard she paid for. I am not 
persuaded by the evidence I have available that Ts intention in the transaction was other 
than to carry out the service Miss R paid it for  whether it failed to do so, or did so to a lower 
standard than Miss R expected, it seems to me this would fall within the bounds of a private 
civil dispute (excepting of course the primary question of the very legitimacy of the service 
Miss R was contracting for).
Lloyds has no obligation to protect its customers from a bad bargain or from poor or 
defective service when a payment is made by bank transfer. So, it is not liable to Miss R if T 
has simply failed to fulfil the service Miss R paid for.
In either scenario, I do not find that these payments were within the scope of the CRM Code. 
They do not meet the definition of an APP scam. I cannot fairly find Lloyds to have been at 
fault here or otherwise liable to refund Miss R.
While I appreciate this will not be the answer Miss R wants, I dont find Lloyds was at fault, 
that it has treated her unfairly, or that it now needs to do more. I cant fairly require Lloyds to 
reimburse Miss R.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman