DRN-4253676
The complaint
Mrs L complains about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) handling of her claim, and mis-advice 
following an accident she was involved in, under her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
In June 2022 Mrs L was driving on a roundabout when another vehicle collided with her car 
causing damage. She says the other driver was at fault. She also suffered injuries as a result 
of the collision. Mrs L told UKI there was CCTV footage of the incident. She provided the 
information it needed to obtain this. But it didnt do so. Mrs L says UKIs agent told her she 
didnt have legal cover under her motor policy. But she does have legal cover under her 
home buildings insurance with UKI. She says this shouldve been explained to her.  
In her complaint Mrs L says UKIs agent told her she could instruct her own solicitor to 
pursue her injury claim. UKI would then follow the instructions provided by her solicitor in 
relation to her claim. She says despite instructions not to  UKI agreed a 50/50 split liability 
outcome with the third-partys insurer. 
In its complaint response UKI says its policy terms allow it to settle Mrs Ls claim. This is 
what it did here. It says Mrs Ls account of the incident differed from the third-partys version. 
It says there was no CCTV footage, which was confirmed by the local council. Based on this 
evidence it decided to settle the claim on a 50/50 split liability, on a without prejudice basis, 
with the third partys insurer.
UKI says Mrs L wasnt adequately informed of the possibility for claiming legal expenses 
under her policy. Because of this misunderstanding it says it offered £250 compensation. 
Mrs L didnt think shed been treated fairly. She says any personal injury payment she 
receives will, in part, be used to pay her solicitor. She says she has legal cover under her 
buildings insurance policy with UKI. But it didnt mention this to her, which could have meant 
avoiding these fees. Mrs L also disagrees with the liability outcome UKI agreed with the 
third-party insurer. Because of this she referred the matter to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ls complaint. She says UKI handled the claim reasonably 
based on the available evidence. She noted UKI had requested CCTV footage. But none 
was available. Our investigator says UKIs agent had incorrectly stated Mrs L had motor 
legal expenses cover. But she thought £250 was fair compensation to recognise this 
misunderstanding.  
Mrs L didnt accept our investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to consider her 
complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs Ls complaint. Im sorry to disappoint her but Ill 
explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Ive read Mrs Ls policy terms to understand the cover she had in place and what is expected 
to happen when a claim is made. The terms under the section Other conditions you need to 
know about on page 33 of the policy booklet say:
When we can act on your behalf 
Were entitled to do either of the following: 
Take over and carry out the negotiation, defence or settlement of any claim in your name, or 
in the name of any other person covered by this policy. 
Start legal proceedings in your name, or in the name of any other person connected to this 
policy. This can be for your benefit or our own benefit.
These are common terms found in most motor insurance policies. It essentially means its up 
to UKI to decide how to settle Mrs Ls claim. This doesnt mean it can do whatever it wants. It 
must still treat her fairly. But based on the evidence, I think it did. 
I say this because Mrs L and the third-party driver blamed each other for the collision. There 
were no independent witnesses. The records show UKI asked the local council for any 
CCTV footage it might have from the location of the accident. This was requested within a 
week of Mrs Ls loss. So, if there was video evidence UKI acted promptly to get hold of it. 
But the council confirmed it had no footage of the incident. 
Under its policy terms and conditions, UKI is responsible for paying the cost of a claim where 
Mrs L is found to be at fault or partially responsible. Its reasonable that it acts to minimise 
the cost of any claim. Where theres little probability of success in proving the other party is 
at fault, it will settle the claim based on what it considers to be the best terms. This is what it 
did here as it didnt think the evidence supported a different outcome.  
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think UKI behaved unfairly when agreeing to settle 
the claim as it did.   
Ive thought about Mrs Ls comments that she did have legal cover available. Albeit this was 
under her buildings insurance policy with UKI. She says this is at odds with what its agent 
told her about having no cover. I couldnt see that the business had responded to this aspect 
of Mrs Ls complaint. So, I asked it to. 
In its response UKI says when Mrs L spoke to its agent(s) they were expected to discuss the 
cover available under her motor insurance policy. It says its unlikely that a motor trained 
agent would discuss any other policies Mr L may have had. Including any potential cover this 
provided.  
Having thought about this, I agree with what UKI says. Mrs Ls claim related to her motor 
insurance policy. I dont think cover under another policy would reasonably be expected to 
be discussed by UKIs agent(s) here.      
In its final complaint response, I note UKI says Mrs L wasnt adequately informed about the 
possibility of claiming for legal expenses under her motor insurance policy. This seems to 
imply that she did have legal cover in place. In a later submission to our service UKI says its complaint handler had incorrectly stated Mrs L had motor legal expenses cover. It says this 
is why compensation was awarded. However, Mrs L is adamant that UKIs agents told her 
there was no legal cover. 
I didnt think it was clear what UKI had told Mrs L about legal cover, or why it had offered 
compensation. So, I asked it to comment further on this point.   
In its response it clarifies that there is no motor legal cover in place under Mrs Ls policy. It 
says its complaint handler had made a mistake when writing its final response letter. 
Ive listened to the call recordings UKI provided. During one of the calls UKIs agent says 
shes been trying to see if Mrs L has legal cover. Mrs L then interjects and confirms she 
doesnt. The discussion moves on, apparently in agreement that legal cover isnt in place. 
UKIs agent tells Mrs L she can appoint her own solicitor to pursue her injury claim. She also 
says UKI will follow instructions provided by Mrs Ls solicitor, saying that the injury claim is 
more important than its accident claim. 
Ive not seen or heard evidence showing UKIs agent told Mrs L she had motor legal cover in 
place. Its clear from Mrs Ls policy schedule that she doesnt. 
The agent I heard in the call recording gave inaccurate information about how the claim 
would be settled. This was decided by UKI  as per its policy terms  it didnt follow Mrs Ls 
solicitors instructions when settling the claim. However, I dont think it was expected to. UKI 
was entitled to settle the claim on the best terms it thought it could reasonably achieve. 
Having considered all of this, I dont think UKI treated Mrs L unfairly when relying on its 
policy terms and settling her claim as it did. Its agent confused matters when telling Mrs L it 
would follow her solicitors instructions with regards to her claim. This was incorrect. But I 
think its offer of £250 compensation is fair to acknowledge this. I dont think it was UKIs 
responsibility to discuss any legal cover Mrs L may or may not have had under other 
insurance policies. So, I cant fairly ask it to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman