DRN-2802138
The complaint
Mrs R has brought this complaint on behalf of herself and the estate of the late Mr R. She 
says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R took out a PPI policy in 2009, to protect a mortgage theyd had since 1997. 
The PPI was sold as part of an insurance package called a Total Mortgage Protection Plan, 
or TMPP for short. Mr and Mrs R paid for the PPI with a regular monthly premium, which 
didnt attract interest. It covered Mrs R, in case she was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Having done that, I have not found this policy to have been mis-sold  Ill explain why.
This sale was over a decade ago and the accounts involved have long since closed. So 
I think its understandable that neither side still have all the original documents from the time. 
Indeed, under data protection rules, Halifax were required to dispose of Mr and Mrs Rs data 
rather than hold onto it for too long. And it was common to only keep such information for 
around six years. Ive thought carefully about whats most likely to have happened based on 
the evidence I do have.
From what Ive seen of Halifaxs sales process from the time, it would have presented the 
policy as optional; and in order to get it, Mr and Mrs R would need to have actively chosen it. 
And the PPIs cost wouldve been set out separately to that of the mortgage itself  it wasnt 
part and parcel of the lending. It also looks like Halifax wouldve sent Mrs R a letter 
confirming what she chose, describing the PPI as optional, and reminding her she could 
cancel it if she changed her mind. Mrs Rs representative queried why a policy would be 
added so long after the original mortgage was set up, but it was not unusual for customers to 
review their needs as time went on, or for the bank to offer useful products down the line. 
And here, it means that Mr and Mrs R wouldve known they didnt have to take PPI to get 
approved for their mortgage, since theyd already had the mortgage for a number of years by 
that point. Further, Ive not seen any wider problems with Halifaxs sales process from the 
time, nor any evidence which shows that Mr and Mrs R were misled into buying it here. So 
I think its most likely that Halifax made them aware they had a choice about buying the PPI, 
and that they chose to take it at the time. 
Halifax recommended the PPI for Mrs R, so it had to check it was right for her. And based on 
what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it looks like 
Mrs R was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or 
limitations. The PPI wouldve paid out on top of her work benefits and offered her more 
comprehensive cover, especially for when her benefits reduced to just a fraction of her 
normal pay. It also meant she could protect her limited savings and use them for other 
things, instead of potentially needing to sacrifice one asset to save another. I understand 
Mrs R felt secure in her job, but accidents, illnesses, and redundancies can and do happen  
even in situations that feel secure. And ultimately, if Mr and Mrs R had fallen behind on their 
mortgage, they couldve lost their home. So the PPI couldve been useful for them in 
protecting their home and providing some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs R about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. But as I explained above, Mrs R wasnt affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful in case something went 
wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out in a claim. And 
the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr and Mrs R could cancel it at any time 
without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely to have put them off 
taking out the cover.
This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So Halifax doesnt need to refund everything 
that Mr and Mrs R paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give some of the cost of the 
PPI back to Mrs R and the estate of the late Mr R. I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
I understand Halifax has already paid this.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and the 
estate of Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman