DRN-1395015
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R, represented by their daughter-in-law, Ms C, have complained that they were 
pressured into buying three 'Post Office Money Over 50s' insurance policies by Bank of 
Ireland (UK) Plc trading as Post Office Financial Services ("the Post Office"). 
What happened
Mrs R was sold her first policy in 2011. Later, in 2014, she was sold a second policy. At the 
same time Mr R was also sold his own policy. 
In 2019 Ms C complained to the Post Office that all three policies had been mis-sold. She 
said, in brief, that Mr and Mrs R had been vulnerable and pressured into buying the policies, 
which had put a strain on their finances for little return.
The Post Office didn't uphold the complaint. It said:
No advice had been provided to Mr and Mrs R, only information about the products 
on which they would've based their decision to proceed.
Documentation was provided to them after the sales, which would've given them the 
chance to check the policies and cancel if they'd wished to.
The key features document showed how much they would pay and that it was 
possible the total amounts paid might exceed the sums assured.
All the risk factors were listed in the documentation.
It was made clear that the policies weren't savings policies.
Choosing to take out more than one policy wasn't unusual.  
 
Ms C didn't accept the Post Office's response and referred the complaint to this service. Our 
investigator considered the matter and concluded that Mrs R's policies hadn't been mis-sold. 
He felt that sufficient information had been provided for her to make an informed decision 
about whether to proceed. And that, although the investigator accepted Mrs R may have felt 
pressured, he noted that she was given the opportunity to cancel after the sale, away from 
the branch.
But the investigator didn't think that Mr R, being older and in poorer health, would've been in 
a position to ask for, or agree to, his policy. So, he suggested the Post Office refund the 
premiums Mr R had paid to his policy, with interest at 8% simple. The Post Office agreed to 
do this and I understand payment is in the process of being made.
Ms C, while grateful for the offer made in respect of Mr R's policy, remained of the view that 
Mrs R's policies had also been mis-sold. As the investigator wasn't persuaded to change his 
view, the matter's been referred to me to review.    
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, while I recognise Ms C 
will be disappointed, I find I've come to the same conclusion as the investigator and for 
broadly the same reasons.  
I'm satisfied that the sales of the policies were 'non-advised'. This is a formal term meaning 
that Mrs R wasn't recommended the policies after a process of establishing her needs and 
circumstances. Rather, she was provided with information about the policies, so she could 
make her own decision about whether she wanted to proceed.
I note what Ms C has said about Mrs R feeling pressured into taking out the policies. I have 
some sympathy with this and can imagine a situation where she spoke with a member of 
staff in the Post Office who was perhaps very positive and persuasive about the benefits of 
the policy. And I can see how that sort of interaction might have led to Mrs R feeling obliged 
to start the application process. 
But ultimately Mrs R did then have the opportunity to re-evaluate the matter, after the event, 
and cancel if she had second thoughts. What's important is that she was able to do so in 
possession of clear information about how the policies worked, their costs, their benefits, 
and their risks. I'm satisfied that the documentation Mrs R would've receive would have 
provided all that information. The 'welcome letter' for both policies included contact details 
for the insurer if Mrs R had any concerns and also a cancellation form to be returned, in the 
event of a change of heart. 
Putting things right
As the Post Office has already agreed to make payment in respect of Mr R's policy, I don't 
require it to do anything else. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint in part, in that I find 
that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc trading as Post Office Financial Services mis-sold Mr R's 
policy, but not Mrs R's policies.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 April 2020.
James Harris
Ombudsman