DRN-3013972
The complaint
Mr M complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt treat him fairly after he fell victim to a 
scam.
  
What happened
In June 2020, Mr M fell victim to a cruel scam, in which he was tricked into believing he 
needed to move the balance of his Nationwide account plus most of his overdraft facility to a 
safe account.
The scammers impersonated Nationwide and Mr M was persuaded to make a payment of 
£230 from his account. When the new account Mr M had been told about by the scammers 
didnt materialise, he contacted Nationwide directly, and it came to light that hed been 
scammed.
Nationwide is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances.
Nationwide was unable to recover the money Mr M had sent. It didnt think it was liable to 
refund him under the CRM Code.
Mr M wasnt happy with this outcome. He complained to Nationwide and said he shouldnt 
be responsible for the overdraft balance, because he hadnt previously used the facility and 
didnt recall asking for it. 
Nationwide maintained its position, but after Mr M referred his complaint to this service, 
Nationwide said it would fully refund Mr Ms loss both the overdraft balance and the money 
hed lost from his credit balance. Nationwide also offered to add interest and a further £100 
for the distress and inconvenience caused. It said it would also refund the overdraft interest 
and charges Mr M had incurred.
Mr M didnt accept this offer. He explained hed been extremely distressed to have been 
called about the overdraft debt by Nationwide. He suffers from depression and anxiety which 
had been made worse by Nationwides calls. In particular, hed been upset when Nationwide 
said it would record adverse credit data against him unless he repaid the debt. While hed 
been able to borrow money from a friend to repay the sum due in time, this had caused him 
additional distress.
Our investigator looked into everything, including the medical information Mr M had 
submitted. She found Nationwide hadnt initially handled Mr Ms claim fairly in line with the 
requirements of the CRM Code.
But she accepted that the overdraft facility was one Mr M would be liable for and that 
Nationwide was entitled to make contact with debtors regarding putting their accounts back 
into order. She noted though that if Nationwide had appropriately handled Mr Ms scam claim 
under the CRM Code then the disputed debt would have been repaid far sooner.
Overall, the investigator therefore thought Nationwide was at fault in how it had handled 
matters. She didnt think its offer of £100 fairly reflected the impact on Mr M. The investigator 
recommended Nationwide should pay an increased award of £250 to cover the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Nationwide accepted the investigators findings. But Mr M didnt agree the investigators 
findings were fair. He didnt think the amount she recommended was sufficient. He still 
believes he should receive a significantly higher amount of compensation. So, his complaint 
has been referred to me to reach a final decision on the matter.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to acknowledge the account Mr M has given of the full impact he suffered 
following the fraud. This was a cruel and sophisticated scam ultimately designed to steal his 
money. It must have been extremely distressing to have lost this money and to have ended 
up in debt as a consequence. I have considerable sympathy for the situation Mr M found 
himself in as a result.
Nationwide has now agreed to refund Mr M in full for the amount he lost. Its also agreed to 
reimburse interest and charges on that amount. What it has offered to reimburse is in line 
with what I would expect it to do under the CRM Code.
The issue outstanding, and which I must decide here, is what would be a fair award for the 
distress and inconvenience Mr M suffered as a result of Nationwides handling of the matter.
Ive reviewed everything weve been sent by both sides to the complaint. In particular, Ive 
carefully reviewed Mr Ms testimony about the impact he suffered and the medical 
information he has provided.
The primary source of the distress Mr M suffered here were the criminal actions of the 
scammer, rather than Nationwide. I know Mr M has raised concerns that Nationwide might 
have been responsible for the scam - in part because the scam call he received appeared to 
come from Nationwides own phone number. 
But Ive not seen anything to make me think the scammer had any connection with 
Nationwide. Unfortunately, many scams like this one involve what is called number spoofing 
 which is a way the scammer can appear to be calling from a legitimate phone number such 
as Nationwides real phone number. In other words, the use of Nationwides number doesnt 
actually show any link to Nationwide itself (although I can understand why Mr M thought it 
did at the time). 
Mr M has also recalled earlier calls he received from a private number - which now seem 
likely to have been designed to gather information about him and his account to later use in 
the scam. 
Ive carefully reviewed everything, and I can reassure Mr M that the evidence here doesnt 
lead me to think that Nationwide (or rather, an employee of Nationwide) was responsible in 
any way for this scam.
But it remains the case that Mr M was the victim of a cruel and cynical crime here. While I cannot see any reasonable grounds to hold Nationwide responsible for the criminal 
actions of the scammers, there is part of what happened over which Nationwide did have 
control. 
In thinking about what is fair here, I therefore need to consider the actions Nationwide took 
and what share of the impact Mr M suffered was due to Nationwide alone  and not a result 
of the criminal actions of the scammer or other reasons.
Mr M has detailed his health conditions, including that he suffered from anxiety and 
depression. Hes explained how this was made much worse by the consequences of the 
scam, and that at points he felt unable to leave the house through fear of being scammed or 
tricked. I have considerable sympathy with Mr M for the impact the actions of the criminals 
responsible have had on him.
Taking account of his circumstances, Ive thought about how Nationwides handling of his 
scam claim and the disputed debt impacted Mr M at this time. 
While Nationwide has now offered to reimburse Mr M fully, it initially declined to reimburse 
him under the provisions of the CRM Code. That left Mr M out of pocket and overdrawn. Mr 
M then was contacted on numerous occasions about that debt. He was left concerned about 
what he owed and that this would potentially affect his credit record.  
The CRM Code sets out timescales for reimbursement and I find Nationwide reasonably 
ought to have reached the decision to reimburse Mr M under the CRM Code at the time it 
first considered his claim. Had Nationwide refunded Mr M at that point, then the further 
impact Mr M describes could have been substantively avoided.
In thinking about what is a fair and reasonable outcome here, I have taken careful account of 
our approach to these types of awards, and our published guidance. Mr M has described 
that impact in some considerable detail. I am persuaded that Nationwide could have 
mitigated this had it acted as it should sooner. But as explained above, I do not find it solely 
responsible for the impact of the scam on Mr M  the predominant blame here lies with the 
criminal acts of those who deceived him.
In all the circumstances, and thinking about the share of the impact on Mr M attributable to 
Nationwide, I consider an award of £250 is fair and reasonable compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint about Nationwide Building 
Society and require it to settle his complaint as follows:
- In line with the offer it has now made, it should refund Mr M the amount he lost 
through the scam, adding interest on that sum from the date of the scam payment 
until the date the funds are reimbursed, at the rate of 8% simple per annum. It should 
also refund any interest or charges Mr M incurred on the overdraft balance that 
resulted from the scam; and in addition,
- pay Mr M a total of £250 in respect of the material distress and inconvenience 
caused to him by its handling of his claim under the CRM Code including the 
consequences that flowed directly from that;
- settle these amounts within 28 days of receiving notification of his acceptance of my 
final decision.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman