DRN-2731220
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs R complaint is about how Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) settled their claim 
under their home insurance policy. 
What happened
In 2020, Mr S and Mrs R suffered a leak at their home. They contacted Aviva to make a 
claim. The claim was accepted and flooring was laid in various rooms. 
Mr S and Mrs R found that the flooring was incorrectly installed and complained to Aviva. 
Aviva carried out an inspection of the flooring and agreed that the standard of the fitting of 
the flooring wasnt as it wouldve liked. It made a cash settlement of £6148.61, to Mr S and 
Mrs R to have the floor re-fitted independently, as they didnt want Aviva to carry out the re-
fit. 
Mr S and Mrs R were unhappy about the cash settlement as it didnt allow for a payment for 
re-decoration costs (as they believed that damage would be caused to various items of 
decor) or the removal the skirting boards. So, they raised a complaint to Aviva. 
In its final response, Aviva said that insurance polices are re-active rather than pro-active 
and it could only pay for damage that has been done and not damage that may be done. It 
acknowledged that once the flooring had been replaced, if there was any further damage 
caused, it would inspect that and complete a schedule of works. From which, a cash 
settlement would be offered. 
Mr S and Mrs R were not happy with this outcome and so referred their complaint to this 
service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She 
concluded that it would be unfair for Aviva to pay for the re-decoration costs without those 
costs being determined, as there was no damage to the dcor of the property. And if after 
the flooring had been re-fitted and damage happened, Mr S and Mrs R could contact Aviva 
so that this could be addressed. 
Mr S and Mrs R didnt agree with our investigator as they felt that a cash settlement was 
required and so asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr S and Mrs R, Ive decided not to 
uphold their complaint and Ill explain why. 
I have reviewed the policy documents and can see that Mr S and Mrs Rs policy covers them 
for unforeseen events that could happen in their home. Both parties agree that such an 
event took place (the escape of water) and damage occurred. Aviva accepted the claim and 
as part of the claim, the flooring in the property and some re-decoration were completed. But 
the initial flooring wasnt installed to the standard that Aviva wouldve liked and it was 
decided to replace that flooring. 
I can understand that Mr S and Mrs R were reluctant for Aviva to re-fit the flooring and so a 
cash settlement of £6148.61, was agreed between both parties. I think the main issues of 
this complaint are whether Aviva ought to make a cash settlement for damage that hasnt 
happened. And whether Aviva ought to pay for the removal of skirting boards or remove 
those boards within the property, to allow for the installation of the replacement flooring. 
Mr S and Mrs R said that they have been told by their independent contractor that it is likely 
that damage will be caused to dcor during the installation of the replacement flooring. Aviva 
whose expert advises that it is possible to re-fit flooring without causing damage to the dcor 
except minor filling of holes in skirting boards and the re-painting of those boards. 
Aviva has offered to assess any damage that may occur after the flooring is replaced, and to 
prepare a schedule of works which it will then offer a cash settlement. I have considered 
whether this is fair in the circumstances and I think it is and Ill explain why. 
The terms and conditions of the policy dont allow Aviva to make cash settlements for 
damage that hasnt happened. So, Im not satisfied that Aviva were unreasonable when it 
declined to offer a cash settlement before any damage has occurred. 
I have next looked at whether Aviva ought to either pay for the removal of the skirting boards 
or remove the skirting boards as Mr S and Mrs R have sought. Mr S and Mrs R said that 
when the flooring is removed and re-installed, the skirting boards will have to be removed 
and it is likely that this will cause damage to the walls as it previously did. So, that there are 
no delays, they would like Aviva to pay them a sum of money which they can then use to 
rectify any damage. 
Avivas position is that if skirting boards or any other damage is caused during the removal 
and installation of the new floorboards, then it will pay the costs to rectify the damage 
caused on production of invoices from Mr S and Mrs R. It has said that it will need to see 
that damage has actually been caused as a result of the removal and re-installation. As in its 
experience, theres no guarantee that the skirting board would need to be removed to
lay the new floor or would be damaged during the installation. It has also confirmed that it 
would only pay for this damage, on receipt of an invoice for the work.
Given that the policy Mr S and Mrs R have with Aviva covers for damage that has happened, 
I think its reasonable for Aviva to agree to reimburse Mr S and Mrs R only if damage occurs. 
So, I dont think its fair that Aviva pay for the skirting boards to be removed as there is no 
guarantee that they will become damaged and there is no guarantee that damage will be 
caused. 
Overall, I think that Aviva has dealt with Mr S and Mrs R reasonably and I am satisfied that 
its actions were fair. So, I cant reasonably ask Aviva to do anything more to resolve this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman