DRN-3355484
The complaint
Mr M complains UK Credit Limited irresponsibly accepted him as a guarantor to a loan.
What happened
Mr M was accepted as a guarantor for a loan approved for another party, the borrower, in 
April 2018. The loan was for £5,000 over a term of 60 months with a monthly repayment of 
around £220. 
In February 2021 Mr M complained to UK Credit. He said it had irresponsibly accepted him 
as the guarantor to the loan; because had it completed reasonable and proportionate checks 
it would have identified he wasnt able to sustainably afford to repay the loan, should the 
situation arise. Mr M has also said he felt pressured by the borrower into standing as 
guarantor to the loan.
Our investigator reviewed Mr Ms complaint and didnt uphold it. He said he didnt have 
information to consider the borrowers financial situation. So, he couldnt say UK Credit 
shouldnt have approved the loan based on the borrowers circumstances. He went on to 
consider if UK Credit acted fairly by binding Mr M as guarantor to the loan; and ultimately 
concluded it had. Our investigator didnt think UK Credit had completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ms ability to sustainably afford the repayments to 
the loan. But he concluded UK Credit would likely have come to the same outcome to 
approve him as guarantor based on the evidence it would likely have had available to it at 
the time. Our investigator considered Mr Ms argument about being pressured by the 
borrower to stand as guarantor; and concluded there was no evidence to suggest UK Credit 
were  or ought reasonably to have been  aware Mr M felt pressured into acting as the 
guarantor for the borrower. As such, our investigator concluded UK Credit make a fair 
decision when accepting Mr M as guarantor to the loan.
UK Credit didnt reply to our investigators outcome. Mr M responded and said he didnt 
agree. In summary, he said he couldnt afford to meet the repayments to this loan when the 
borrower stopped making payments and he had to step in. And he said he used credit to 
meet these payments and borrowed money from family to settle the loan in full. 
Mr M asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint, so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ms complaint. Bearing in mind
the complaint before me, I think that there are a number of overarching questions I need to
consider in order to fairly and reasonably determine Mr Ms complaint. These are:
1. Did UK Credit complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that the 
borrower would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
a. If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
b. If not, would those checks have shown that the borrower would have been able to 
do so?
2. Did UK Credit complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr M to satisfy itself he 
was in a position to afford to repay the loan sustainably?
a. If so, did it make a fair decision?
b. If not, would those checks have shown Mr M would have been able to do so?
3. Did UK Credit obtain Mr Ms properly informed consent before binding him to the 
guarantee and indemnity agreement?
4. Did UK Credit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive gone on to answer these questions in turn.
Did UK Credit complete reasonable and proportionate checks on the borrower to satisfy itself 
they would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? 
The relevant rules, regulations and guidance at the time UK Credit lent required it to carry 
out reasonable and proportionate checks to assess the borrowers and Mr Ms ability to 
afford the loan and repay it sustainably over its term, without causing them financial 
difficulties.  
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they should be proportionate, 
taking into account things like the type, amount, duration and total cost of the credit, as well 
as the borrowers and guarantors individual circumstances. 
It isnt sufficient for UK Credit to just complete proportionate checks  it must also consider 
the information it obtains from these checks to go on and make a fair lending decision.
Our investigator said he didnt have enough information to assess whether the loan was 
sustainably affordable to the borrower. 
I asked UK Credit to provide the details it obtained as part of its checks on the borrower; and 
I asked Mr M to provide any details he had or could obtain from the borrower to evidence 
their financial circumstances around the time of the loan. 
UK Credit provided details of the checks it completed on the borrower; Mr M wasnt able to 
provide any evidence as he said he hasnt had contact with the borrower since payments 
were missed. He did say that he believes the loan was taken to clear arrears on another of 
the borrowers debts, but he cant provide any further details. 
Having reviewed the information UK Credit obtained, I dont think it did complete reasonable 
and proportionate checks on the borrower. I say this because the credit check it obtained at 
the point of the application showed the borrower wasnt managing their finances well. There 
were indications that the borrower had recently struggled to maintain payments to existing 
credit and was utilising other credit in excess of agreed limits. I understand the purpose of 
this loan was largely to consolidate the borrowers existing debt; but UK Credit still needed to 
ensure the borrower could sustainably afford to repay the loan over the full term.The negative markers on their own arent enough for me to safely conclude the loan would 
have been unsustainably affordable for the borrower. So, based on the information UK 
Credit had I think it ought to have verified the borrowers expenditure in addition to their 
income (which it did via payslips) to obtain a full understanding of their financial situation. 
Would further checks have shown the borrower would have been able to meet any 
repayments sustainably?
As UK Credit didnt look to verify the borrowers expenditure, it follows that it isnt able to 
provide any information evidencing the borrowers actual expenditure. Mr M has confirmed 
he cant obtain any evidence from the borrower as he is no longer in contact with them. So, 
as I only have the evidence UK Credit has from the application  and Ive already explained 
why this information isnt enough to safely say the loan wasnt sustainably affordable to the 
borrower  Im unable to obtain a thorough understanding of what the borrowers financial 
circumstances were at the time of this loan. And, it therefore follows I cant say what UK 
Credit would have seen had it completed more detailed checks at this time. 
Therefore, I cant safely conclude that the loan wasnt sustainably affordable to the borrower 
and that UK Credits decision to lend to the borrower was unfair.
Did UK Credit complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr M to satisfy itself he 
was in a position to afford to repay the loan sustainably?
UK Credit has said it completed a number of checks before approving Mr M as a guarantor 
for the loan. Its said it obtained Mr Ms declaration of his income and essential expenditure, 
as well as completing a credit file check. UK Credit says it completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks before making a fair decision to approve Mr M as the guarantor for this 
loan.
Ive carefully considered UK Credits argument; but Im not persuaded it did complete 
reasonable and proportionate checks. UK Credit could see from the credit file check it 
completed that Mr M had been managing his finances reasonably well in the years leading 
up to this loan. But the value of his outstanding borrowing totalled around the same amount 
as his declared yearly income. By committing Mr M as the guarantor to this loan, UK Credit 
was increasing his potential liability by around a further £13,200. And this would mean 
Mr Ms total liabilities would be around 150% of his declared income.
I consider UK Credit needed to obtain a full understanding of Mr Ms financial circumstances 
before approving him for this loan; to ensure it was sustainably affordable and wasnt 
increasing his overall indebtedness in a harmful way. I consider reasonable and 
proportionate checks should have led UK Credit to verify Mr Ms actual income and 
expenditure to ensure this loan was sustainably affordable to him across the full term.
Would further checks have shown Mr M would have been able to meet any repayments 
sustainably?
As I dont consider UK Credit completed reasonable and proportionate checks, Ive gone on 
to consider what further checks would have shown.
UK Credit could have looked to verify Mr Ms income and expenses in a number of ways. 
Mr M has provided our service with his bank statements covering the months leading up the 
loan. Ive reviewed these statements to understand the information UK Credit would have 
had available to it, had it completed reasonable and proportionate checks. Ive also listened 
to the telephone calls Mr M had with UK Credit as part of the application process. During one of the calls UK Credit went through an income and expenditure assessment with 
Mr M, where he declared his income to be around £1,400 per month as a minimum, and his 
rent to be around £120 per month. UK Credit took into account payments to Mr Ms existing 
credit commitments and calculated he would be left with around £550 of disposable income 
per month, after taking into account the potential payments to this loan. 
Having reviewed Mr Ms bank statements it does appear that this loan would be affordable to 
Mr M. I say this because the income and essential expenditure evidenced within Mr Ms 
bank statements does largely match what he declared. 
On review of the bank statements I can see Mr M was paid weekly. His salary averaged 
around £1,700 per month across the three months leading up to the loan. Mr M made UK 
Credit aware that his salary did fluctuate based on him being on call. But UK Credits 
affordability assessment was based on Mr Ms declaration of his minimum monthly income of 
around £1,400, which I consider feels fair given what was said during the call. Mr Ms 
statements show he had regular payments to a loan and mail order account UK Credit had 
identified, averaging around £490 per month. Ive also seen regular payments to Mr Ms 
mobile company for around £60 per month; and theres another regular commitment for 
around £145 per month which appears to be an insurance. There are no payments 
referenced as rent; but given Mr Ms testimony that he was living at home I think UK Credit 
would likely have been provided with information along the lines of what was declared in the 
call. Taking into account the lower figure for Mr Ms average income, and the documented 
essential expenditure and credit commitments from his bank statements, it appears Mr M 
would have been left with around £360 disposable income per month, after taking account of 
the payment to this loan. 
I therefore consider had UK Credit completed reasonable and proportionate checks it would 
likely have reasonably come to the same decision that payments to the loan would have 
been sustainably affordable to Mr M had he needed to step in and make them, as turned out 
to be the case. 
Therefore, Im satisfied UK Credit made a fair decision when assessing Mr Ms affordability 
to repay the loan and accepting him as the guarantor. 
Did UK Credit obtain Mr Ms properly informed consent before binding him to the guarantee 
and indemnity agreement?
Mr M has said he felt pressured into being the guarantor by the borrower  largely due to the 
borrowers mental health. 
Ive listened to the phone calls between Mr M and UK Credit at the time of the loan. Mr M 
confirmed he understood his responsibilities under the guarantee and indemnity agreement; 
and didnt make UK Credit aware of any pressure that had been put on him to act as 
guarantor. 
Therefore, Ive no reason to believe UK Credit ought reasonably to have been aware of any 
pressure put on Mr M to act as guarantor.
Did UK Credit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive not seen any information which suggests UK Credit acted unfairly in any other way in 
relation to Mr Ms complaint.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint 
about UK Credit Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman