DRN-2195355
Summary and background to the complaint
Mrs K has complained to us that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold her a single 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy shed taken out to go with a £10,000 
loan on 5 October 2002. The PPI cost £2019.88.
The loan and PPI were both cancelled on 26 October 2002. 
On 28 October 2002 Mrs K took out a new loan, without PPI, for £15,000.
 
Our adjudicator looked into Mrs Ks complaint and said that because the PPI had been fully 
refunded, Mrs K hadnt lost out, so she wouldnt be upholding her complaint. 
Mrs K didnt agree with our adjudicators findings and so asked for her complaint to be 
looked at again by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ks complaint.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
I know Mrs K  feels strongly about her complaint. In particular she says she didnt know 
shed been sold PPI with her initial loan. She also says she was told she had to have PPI to 
get her loan and couldnt cancel it. 
HSBC has sent us information from its systems that shows the loan and the PPI she took out 
on 5 October 2002 was cancelled before the first repayment date was due on 4 December 
2002. Ive also seen correspondence that HSBC sent Mrs K which includes a breakdown 
showing what happened when the first loan was cancelled and the second loan was taken 
out.
I think the key factor here is that the PPI was cancelled before Mrs K had paid for it. So its 
important to clarify that Mrs K was only refunded her PPI single premium in the sense that 
the credit for the loan amount and the charge for the PPI were each reversed so that she 
didnt owe anything to HSBC. In other words, Mrs K didnt receive an actual refund for the 
PPI but was put back into the position of not having paid for it. 
Ive also taken into account what Mrs K has told us about being made to feel she had to take 
out PPI and not being able to cancel it. But from what Ive seen the PPI was cancelled. And 
given that Im satisfied the PPI was cancelled, I cant see that Mrs H has suffered any loss. 
It follows that I dont need to investigate the merits of this sale. Even if I was to find that the 
PPI had been mis-sold to Mrs K, our approach to compensating her would be to put her in 
the position shed be in if the PPI hadnt been sold. And that thats exactly the position that 
HSBC put her in when it gave her back the cost of the PPI. 
To sum up, from what Ive  seen there is no evidence or information to show or suggest that 
Mrs K has lost out financially, or in some other way.
Ive also seen that Mrs K has raised other concerns regarding the way HSBC handled a 
separate account. Thats something thats outside the scope of this decision. But I see that 
HSBC has provided Mrs K with some details from its systems about the other account. If 
Mrs K still wishes to make a complaint to HSBC that sets out her concerns, it may be 
something we can help her with. But HSBC would need to respond to her concerns first. 
It follows that I wont be upholding this complaint. Im sorry that were unable to help Mrs K 
on this occasion. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2021. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman