DRN-1190673
The complaint
Miss M says Elevate Credit International Limited trading as Sunny lent to her irresponsibly. 
She says that she had a large amount of loans and she was in continuous debt with it over a 
long period of time. She thinks Sunny shouldve stopped lending to her. 
What happened
This complaint is about one running credit and 30 instalment loans Sunny provided to 
Miss M between September 2013 and July 2018.
The running credit ran from 24 September 2013 to December 2014. Ms B took the 
instalment loans, with very little break in between them, shortly after the running credit 
ended. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He thought that Sunny shouldnt have 
approved any further lending from the fifth drawdown on the running credit which was on 28 
December 2013. He thought it likely that Miss M was reliant on credit at this time and so she 
was unlikely to be able to make any further repayments sustainably. 
Sunny disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said that didnt think that the repayments 
on the running credit account were likely to be unaffordable as it made comprehensive credit 
and affordability checks before approving each loan. 
But it did accept that Miss M fell behind with her repayments and it shouldve done more to 
check her circumstances after 18 months of lending. So it has offered to refund the interest 
and charges Miss M has paid on loans 2 to 31  that is all of the instalment loans, plus 
interest, and less the capital amounts she hadnt yet repaid on loans 18, 19 20 and 31. 
Miss M didn't accept this offer and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss M could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ms complaint. Ive decided to uphold Miss Ms 
complaint in part and have explained why below.
Miss M has accepted our adjudicators opinion that Sunny was acting reasonably when it 
approved loan 1. And Sunny has offered to pay compensation in respect of loans 2 to 31. 
Because of this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So I 
wont look at the initial decision to start loan 1 and I agree with the offer Sunny has made in 
respect of loans 2 to 31. So Im only looking here at whether it was right for Sunny to 
approve the all of the drawdowns Miss M made in the running credit account. 
As our adjudicator outlined Miss M borrowed the maximum she could, that is £500, within 
the first week of the arrangement. She went on to repay this in part but she took the amount 
borrowed back up to £500 very soon after this. She did this four times over the first two 
months of the arrangement, either repaying the loan in part or in full each time. And on the 
28 December 2013 she did this for a fifth time in three months. 
I think this lending does point to longer term, more serious, financial problems rather than a 
short term need for credit. In particular, I think its relevant that Miss M was failing to make 
any inroads into her debt over a number of pay periods. And as far as I can see Sunny was 
given no indication that this would change going forward. 
And Ive borne in mind that the illustrations for this product show a single drawdown repaid 
over five months. Even accepting the flexibility this plan offers Miss Ms borrowing and 
repayment history was very different to this. 
So I agree that Sunny shouldn't have continued to approve drawdowns from 28 December 
2013 and Im upholding Miss Ms complaint from this point onwards. 
Sunny has said that it did rigorous checks before lending and these showed that Miss M 
could afford the repayments to the loans. Given how the running credit account had been 
managed I also think that it wouldve been proportionate to fully review Miss Ms financial 
situation on 28 December 2013 before approving further lending. And I think that Sunny 
needed to verify the information it found out where possible. This is to make sure Miss M 
was in position to make the loan repayments sustainably.I think a proportionate check at this point wouldve shown Sunny that Miss M was having 
problems managing her money. She was borrowing significant amounts from a number of 
other short term lenders and she had been doing this for some time. She also looks to have 
other debts she was having problems repaying and her expenditure could be very high. 
I think that Sunny wouldve found out this information if it had made proportionate checks.  
And I think it wouldve seen Miss M wouldn't have been able repay the loans in a sustainable 
way. And this was borne out going forward when Miss M continued to borrow for over four 
and a half years. All of this strengthens my decision to uphold the complaint in respect of any 
lending from 28 December 2013.  
Putting things right
What Sunny needs to do:
refund all interest and charges Miss M paid on the lending from (and including) 
28 December 2013;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative information about the lending on the running credit from 28 
December 2013 from Miss Ms credit file;
the amount of borrowing from loan 2 onwards means any information recorded about 
it is adverse. So all entries about loans 2 to 31 should be removed from Miss Ms 
credit file.
If Miss M still owes Sunny any of the principal balance she borrowed on some of her loans 
Sunny should remove all the interest and charges applied to the outstanding balance. Sunny 
should then re-work the account as if all payments made by Miss M went to towards the 
principal. But importantly, Sunny needs to make sure that Miss M doesnt repay more than 
the principal amount borrowed.
If after doing this Miss M hasn't repaid the principal she borrowed Sunny can deduct this 
from the remainder of the compensation. If, Miss M has already paid enough to repay the 
principal then any overpayment should be refunded to her with 8% simple* interest from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement
And if Sunny no longer owns this debt, and it wants to make a deduction due to the amount 
owed, then it should buy it back. If it doesn't then it isn't entitled to make any deductions for it 
from the amount it needs to pay Miss M.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Elevate Credit International Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 December 2019.
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman