DRN-4121177
The complaint
M complains that Insurance Factory Ltd didnt let it know its commercial vehicle insurance
policy would be cancelled.
What happened
M purchased a commercial vehicle insurance policy, over the phone, through Insurance
Factory who are a broker. However, during the sales call Insurance Factory recorded Ms
contact number incorrectly. The policy was to be paid for on a monthly basis through a
finance agreement with another business, who Ill refer to as C. C was unable to provide
finance for M and wrote to it to let it know.
Insurance factory sent M an e-mail on 21 June 2022 to let it know the premium amount was
outstanding and the policy would be cancelled if it wasnt paid. It also sent M a text message
on the 22 June 2022, tried to call M on 24 June 2022 and sent another text message on 28
June 2022. As no response was received the policy was cancelled and notification of the
cancellation sent on 30 June 2022 via e-mail.
A chaser for the outstanding amount was sent on 11 July 2022 via e-mail. M said it became
aware of the policy being cancelled after this communication and so contacted Insurance
Factory. M discovered that Insurance Factory had recorded the incorrect phone number
when selling the policy and so had sent the texts and made the phone call to the incorrect
number. Because of this M complained.
Insurance Factory reviewed the complaint and partially upheld it. It listened to the initial set
up call and agreed the phone number was taken down incorrectly. Because of this Insurance
Factory apologised and offered compensation of £25. However, it maintained it had let M
know of the cancellation so thought it had acted fairly in letting M know its policy would be
cancelled. Unhappy with Insurance Factorys response, M brought its complaint here.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 11 July 2023 where I said: 
Ive noted there has been discussion about whether this complaint should be against the
insurer of Ms policy, or Insurance Factory as the broker. For clarity Im satisfied this
complaint should be against Insurance Factory as the broker. This is because the
administration of the policy is carried out by Insurance Factory. And while the insurer made
the decision to cancel the policy, in this decision Im considering whether Insurance Factory
did enough to let M know its policy would be cancelled.
Insurance Factorys terms of business say: If your policy is cancelled by us or the insurer,
for reasons such as misrepresentation, failure to disclose or failure to make payment when
due, we will give you 7 days notice in writing to your last address notified to us.
When a policy is cancelled its good practice to give two notices of cancellation, ideally
across two different methods of communication. However, even if one method of
communication is used, it should be sufficiently clear to notify the policyholder that the policy
may be cancelled. So, while Im satisfied Insurance Factory sent written notification of the
cancellation to M, Im not satisfied it did so in a fair and reasonable way. Ill explain why.
Neither the heading nor the body of the e-mail sent to M highlights that its an important
document or that the policy may be cancelled. This information is only made clear in the
attachment sent with the email. Im not satisfied this e-mail did enough to bring its
importance to the attention of M, so I dont think this single email was sufficient to let M know
it needed to read it and take action.
The next communication Insurance Factory sent to M was when the policy was cancelled
and so M was unable to take any action to prevent it at that time, such as by paying the
outstanding premium. I can also see Insurance Factory sent three other notifications of the
outstanding premium but to the wrong contact details. So, while Id be satisfied the phone
and e-mail communication would be sufficient to let M know its policy would be cancelled,
this didnt happen as Insurance Factory recorded the wrong phone number. I think its most
likely that if the Insurance Factory had recorded the contact details correctly that these
communications would have highlighted to M that it needed to do something. Our
investigator asked M what it would have done if it had received the communication and it
said it would have paid the full years premium.
Im therefore satisfied that if Insurance Factory hadnt recorded the incorrect contact details
and sent the notification to the correct ones, its most likely M wouldnt have had its policy
cancelled, as it would have paid the outstanding premium. Ive therefore gone on to think
about what Insurance Factory needs to do to put things right.
Due to the policy being cancelled M has had to take out a policy elsewhere which has
caused it unnecessary inconvenience. I can also see that when the policy bought through
Insurance Factory was cancelled the insurer charged £415 for the time on risk. As this is
charged by the insurer, I cant consider what it charged here, however its not uncommon to
find that a charge for the time on risk by the insurer is fair. However, if M doesnt agree with
what the insurer charged it would need to raise it with the insurer.
I can also see that of the total premium of £4,295, M has paid a total of £865.99. Insurance
Factory asked M to pay an outstanding amount of £612.77 after the policy cancelled. It
therefore appears the money M is being asked to pay relates to Insurance Factorys charges
and isnt for the time on risk with the insurer, as M has paid enough to cover this. Given Im
satisfied its due to Insurance Factorys error this policy was cancelled, I think the fair and
reasonable outcome is for Insurance Factory to refund any charges and fees it applied to
Ms policy.
By refunding the charges and fees Insurance Factory applied means M wouldnt owe any
more than it has already paid. As Insurance Factory passed the outstanding debt to a debt
recovery company. It should settle the debt with the debt recovery company, along with any
late fees and charges and ask that any adverse credit markers are removed. I say this
because if M had been made aware of the outstanding premium and settled it as it said it
would have, then the debt would never have been passed to the debt recovery company. So
its fair and reasonable that Insurance Factory also settles the debt and requests any
adverse markers are removed.
As I can see M paid £865.99 for this policy, it means once the insurers time on risk is
deducted (£415) M has paid £450.99 more than the time on risk charge. Insurance Factory
should therefore refund this amount to M. While I understand M has incurred unnecessary
inconvenience in having to set up a new policy and said the new policy does cost more, Im
satisfied by Insurance Factory settling the debt with the debt recovery company and paying
M back £450.99 is a fair and reasonable outcome. And so, Im not going to tell it to pay any
more.M responded and accepted my provisional decision. Insurance Factory also responded and 
said it didnt have anything further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further comments to my provisional decision, I see no reason to 
depart from it. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint. I require Insurance Factory Limited to:
1. Settle the debt with the debt recovery company and request any adverse credit
markers relating to it are removed. It should also pay any fees and charges which
have been added to the debt.
2. Pay M the difference between the time on risk charged by the insurer and what it
paid for the policy, this amounts to £450.99.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman