DRN-2131349
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Aviva Insurance Limiteds failure to obtain CCTV of an incident 
affected the settlement amount he received under a claim he made. Mr C held a car 
insurance policy with Aviva. Mr C instructed solicitors to act on his behalf in making a claim 
against a third party.
What happened
In 2015 Mr C was involved in an incident outside a school involving more than one other 
vehicle. The school held CCTV of the incident which the caretaker of the school had viewed. 
However, Aviva didnt request a copy of the CCTV footage in time and the footage was 
destroyed. 
In 2016 Aviva upheld this complaint while dealing other complaints Mr C made in relation to 
this incident  and two other incidents which happened afterwards. Aviva offered Mr C 
compensation of £400 in total for the distress and inconvenience caused in relation to all of 
his complaints. 
Mr C instructed his own solicitor to deal with his claim for losses. 
In April 2019 Mr C contacted Aviva. He said that a barrister had told his solicitor that his case 
had no reasonable prospects of success because Aviva hadnt obtained CCTV footage of 
the incident. 
As a goodwill gesture, Aviva referred Mr Cs concerns to its legal team for advice. They also 
contacted Mr Cs solicitor.
In July and August 2019 Aviva wrote to Mr C. It said that while it accepts it didnt obtain 
CCTV footage, there was other evidence available to support his claim. It said it was 
inappropriate for Aviva to comment on how Mr Cs solicitors managed his claim.
Aviva said its actions were appropriate. But to compensate Mr C for his time in contacting 
them and for calls he made, it paid him compensation of £200.
Mr C asked us to look at his complaint. He said the barrister said his claim would have been 
worth approximately £2,500 but because there was no CCTV evidence, he was advised to 
accept a lower settlement of £1,000, which he did. 
Our investigator didnt think Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. Mr Cs solicitor wrote to him 
in April 2019 giving the reasons why a barrister thought the claim had no reasonable 
prospects of success. Although the lack of CCTV footage wasnt ideal, it wasnt the only 
reason given by the barrister. So our investigator thought Aviva had dealt with Mr Cs 
complaint reasonably. 
Mr C didnt agree. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that Aviva didnt obtain CCTV footage when it was available. This complaint 
had already been dealt with in 2016. The complaint Mr C makes  which Aviva has agreed 
for us to look at  is that the settlement hes accepted is lower as a direct result of Avivas 
failure to obtain that footage.
I think it would be helpful to explain that we dont decide liability. This is the role of the 
courts. And in deciding whether Aviva as Mr Cs insurer has acted reasonably, I cannot 
comment on the actions of the solicitor or barrister Mr C instructed outside of his policy. 
Mr Cs solicitor wrote to him in April 2019 and gave a number of reasons as to why it was felt 
there wasnt a reasonable prospect of success. They stated that not having CCTV footage 
wasnt ideal. However, they said the explanation of the damage to Mr Cs car was confusing 
and the injuries would be difficult to argue, given the location of the incident was an area with 
a low speed limit. 
They said that due to other collisions that happened shortly after this incident, it would also 
make it difficult to show the injuries being claimed for were in relation to this incident alone. 
So they concluded that they had negotiated a reasonable settlement of £1,000.
From the information available, it doesnt show that Avivas failure to obtain CCTV was the 
only and deciding factor which led to a reduced settlement being offered to Mr C. And we 
cant decide here about the actions of Mr Cs legal advisers outside of his policy with Aviva. 
So I think Aviva dealt with his complaint in a fair and reasonable way. 
I understand Mr C will be disappointed. But this means I dont think his complaint should be 
upheld. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman