DRN-3299630
The complaint
Mr S has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) havent dealt with his credit card 
debt in accordance with the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) rules for dealing with 
customers in persistent debt. 
What happened
Mr S has had a credit card with HSBC for many years.  The credit limit has varied over the 
years, with the most recent increase (to £9,500) being made in early 2016.
In April 2020, Mr S contacted HSBC to complain that HSBC had allowed him to remain in a 
state of persistent debt for about ten years without taking any steps to help him resolve the 
situation  which he said another credit card provider had done.  He said HSBC had failed to 
follow the FCAs rules on dealing with persistent debt.
HSBC investigated Mr Ss complaint but didnt uphold it.  They explained that they dont 
monitor customers spending until they reach a point where theyre paying more in interest 
than they are to reduce their balance.    
Mr S wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response and brought his complaint to us.  In addition to 
his concerns about persistent debt, he said HSBC should never have increased his credit 
limit to £9,500.
Our investigator considered Mr Ss and concluded HSBC didnt need to take any steps to put 
matters right.  He explained the FCAs rules about persistent debt came into force in 
September 2018.  They required HSBC to monitor whether customers fell into the persistent 
debt category.  If they did, HSBC had to write to customers at key milestones - the first of 
which was after theyd paid more in interest than they had to repay their debt for 18 months.
The investigator reviewed Mr Ss credit card statements and noted that, at the time Mr S 
complained, he hadnt been in this position for 18 months.  But HSBC wrote to him in July 
2020 when he had been.  And theyd written again nine months later  as the rules required.
With regard to the credit increase, the investigator noted that HSBC had written to Mr S 
before it was applied.  The letter asked him to contact HSBC if he foresaw any problem with 
this.  And it gave Mr S the option to decline the increase.  He noted at the time Mr S was 
meeting, and often exceeding, the payments required.  So he didnt think it was unfair to 
increase the limit.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint.  Ill explain why.
I can see Mr S has received a refund from another credit card provider with whom he says 
he was in a similar position.  I understand why that would raise questions for him.  But it 
doesnt necessarily mean HSBC should also refund payments to him.
As our investigator explained, the rules about how businesses should identify and deal with 
customers in persistent debt came into force in September 2018.  So I cant say HSBC did 
anything wrong by not applying them before this.  
But, even though there was no rule requiring them to, I can see HSBC wrote to Mr S in early 
2017, highlighting the consequences of only making minimum payments, inviting him to 
contact them about his finances and providing details of services who could support him if he 
was struggling financially.  I think that action was reasonable.  Ive not seen any evidence 
that Mr S responded to that letter.
Like our investigator, Ive looked at Mr Ss statements starting from September 2018 to see 
how the payments he made were split between making interest payments and reducing his 
debt.  I can see the first time interest payments were higher was at the end of 2018  18 
months before HSBC wrote to Mr S about him being in persistent debt.  
So Im satisfied that HSBC were monitoring Mr Ss debt and wrote to him promptly when 
required by the FCAs rules.  And Ive seen they followed that up nine months later as they 
should have done.  Both letters provide the information they have to about how much has 
been paid, that the balance can be reduced by increasing monthly payments and warning 
their account may be suspended if theyre still in persistent debt after 36 months.  
Mr S told our investigator that hed tried to get help from HSBC by asking for his overdraft to 
be extended and trying to get a consolidation loan.  Unfortunately, HSBCs files show no 
contact about a loan.  They do show Mr S asked for an increase in his overdraft  which was 
declined.  But theres nothing to show Mr S requested this because of any difficulty in 
making his credit card payments.  In the absence of that evidence, I cant say HSBC should 
have done more than they did.
Finally Ive considered Mr Ss complaint that his card limit was increased to £9,500.  As our 
investigator said, HSBC wrote to him advising him of the increase before it was applied  
and offering him the choice to decline it.  Mr S was making regular payments at, or over, the 
minimum. And, again, HSBC offered Mr S the opportunity to discuss any financial issues he 
was having before the increase was applied.  I dont think its reasonable to say HSBC 
should have done more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint about HSBC UK Bank 
Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman