DRN-2046641
The complaint
Miss M has complained that Evergreen Finance London Ltd (trading as Moneyboat) lent to 
her irresponsibly. She has also complained that the lender did not treated her fairly in 
relation to the repayment of her outstanding loan. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in June 2020 that I summarise below.
Miss M was given 2 loans by Moneyboat between May and June 2018. The loans were due 
to be repaid between two and four months. Miss M has repaid the first loan but the second 
loan is still outstanding. 
I understand that Miss M also applied for another loan with Moneyboat at a different time. 
But the lender has confirmed that this application did not go ahead. So my decision is only 
concerned with the following loans: 
LoanDate 
TakenDate Repaid Instalments AmountInstalment 
Amount
1 1.5.18 28.6.18 2 £200.00 £129.22
2 29.6.18 open 4 £1,000.00 £392.18
In my provisional decision I explained why I thought the complaint should be partly upheld. 
I explained the basis on which I would decide the complaint, in particular the checks that 
Moneyboat needed to do such as the amount being lent, and the consumers income and 
expenditure. With this in mind, I thought less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate in the early stages of the lending relationship.
I said that Moneyboat was required to establish whether Miss M could sustainably repay her 
loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Moneyboat told us it thought the checks it carried out before agreeing to lend to Miss M each 
time were proportionate. It said that the credit checks were automated and that it is 
unrealistic for an underwriter to review every line of a credit file prior to lending, especially at 
an early stage of the lending relationship. 
But I disagreed. I didnt think it was enough for Moneyboat to simply carry out checks. I said I 
expected a lender to respond appropriately to the information it gathers when assessing a 
customers application for lending. 
The credit check carried out by Moneyboat when Miss M applied for loan 1, showed that her 
credit commitments and monthly expenses exceeded her monthly income, even before her 
loan repayments to Moneyboat. The credit check also indicated that Miss M was borrowing 
from a number of other lenders. I thought this should reasonably have caused some 
concerns for Moneyboat because it showed that Miss M was having difficulties managing her 
money and it was unlikely that she would be able to sustainably repay the loan. So I didnt 
think Moneyboat was right in providing the first loan to her.
When Miss M applied for her second loan, the credit checks carried out by 
Moneyboat showed that her monthly credit commitments, together with her regular expenses 
were nearly equal to her total monthly income - before her loan repayments to Moneyboat 
were taken into account. I thought the lender should reasonably have realised that Miss M 
would most likely need to borrow elsewhere to repay her loan and it was again unlikely that 
she could repay loan 2 in a sustainable manner.  So I didnt think Moneyboat was right in 
providing Miss M with the second loan.
Moneyboat said that Miss M chose to pay both her loans over a small number of 
instalments, when she could have opted to repay them over a slightly longer period. It also 
said that it wasnt aware of Miss Ms personal financial problems until after it had made the 
decision to lend. Miss M didnt remember why she chose to repay her loans over a shorter 
term, but she thought it may have been to save interest.Moneyboats comments didnt alter my view of this complaint. Moneyboat was required to 
establish whether Miss M could sustainably repay her loans. Given the information it had 
gathered about Miss Ms credit commitments, I thought the lender should reasonably have 
realised that Miss Ms financial position was such that it was unlikely she could sustainably 
repay either loan. 
Did Moneyboat act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
In addition to her complaint about the loans, Miss M had complained that Moneyboat hadnt 
treated her fairly in relation to the outstanding debt. And that an unaffordable repayment plan 
was put in place. Miss M said that when she missed a payment on her second loan, instead 
of contacting her and allowing her to rectify the situation, Moneyboat added £400 to her 
account and began to request repayment of the full outstanding amount. Miss M also said 
she wasnt given adequate warning when Moneyboat registered a default on her account 
and that she had no record of communication from the lender to warn her of additional 
charges. 
I said I hadnt seen all the communications between Moneyboat and Miss M. But the lender 
had provided a log of its communication with her which I had carefully reviewed. From what 
Id seen, I thought it likely that Miss M and Moneyboat were in communication about her 
difficulties in repaying her second loan. It seems there was a period when Moneyboat tried to 
contact her, but no response was recorded from Miss M. After a period of time, Miss M 
contacted Moneyboat to query the increased outstanding balance on her account and to 
express her disappointment that her credit file had been marked with a default. 
I thought on balance, Moneyboat did try to remain in contact with Miss M about her 
outstanding loan and it tried to make arrangements about a repayment plan. I didn't have 
sufficient evidence for me to fairly say that Moneyboat acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Miss M in some other way. So I said I was not intending to uphold this part of Miss 
Ms complaint. But in any event, the default would be removed from Miss M's credit file 
because I said I was intending to uphold her complaint about the loans and asking the lender 
to remove any adverse information recorded on the credit file in relation to Miss M's loans.
As Miss M had paid interest and charges on two loans that she shouldnt have been 
provided with, I said I was satisfied that she had lost out as a result of what Moneyboat did 
wrong.
So I was intending to uphold Miss Ms complaint about the loans and Moneyboat needed to 
put things right.
I invited both parties to send me any further comments or evidence. Miss M told us she had 
nothing further to add. Moneyboat queried something that the adjudicator had said earlier in 
the process. But Moneyboat didnt comment any further on Miss Ms complaint, in response 
to my provisional decision. The deadline for any further responses has now passed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Given that Ive not received any further evidence or comment that changes my mind about 
this complaint, I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
I understand that loan 2 is still outstanding. Moneyboat should try to agree an affordable 
repayment arrangement with Miss M in respect of any outstanding balance - bearing in mind 
the need to treat her positively and sympathetically in those discussions.
If Moneyboat has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back, if its able to do so and then 
take the following steps. If Moneyboat isnt able to buy the debt back then it should liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
Moneyboat should:
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Miss M towards interest, fees and 
charges on loan 1, not including anything that may have already been refunded.
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Miss M for loan 1, 
calculated from the date the payments were originally made to the date the complaint 
is settled. 
C. Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the outstanding loan 2 
and treat any repayments made by Miss M as though they had been repayments of 
the principal on the outstanding loan. If this results in Miss M having made 
overpayments then Moneyboat should refund these overpayments with 8% simple 
interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would 
have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
D. If an outstanding balance remains then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on the outstanding loan (and any principal 
written-off under a redress scheme). If this results in a surplus then the surplus 
should be paid to Miss M. If an outstanding balance remains then Moneyboat should 
try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss M.
E. Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ms credit file in relation to the 
loans. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneyboat to deduct tax from this interest. Moneyboat 
should give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ms complaint in part and direct Evergreen Finance 
London Ltd trading as Moneyboat to put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 September 2020.
 
Sharon ParrOmbudsman