DRN-3666096
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that BUPA Insurance Limited (BUPA) declined his claim on his private 
medical insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr K has said he suffered an onset of sudden blindness is his right eye. He contacted BUPA 
who refused to provide cover because the condition was chronic. This was therefore 
excluded from cover under his policy. Mr K says hes since been forced to continue the 
treatment under the NHS. His GP made a referral to the Consultant Ophthalmologist on 
28 February 2022. BUPA made a payment for the initial consultation but following this it 
declined to make payments for treatments that followed. 
Unhappy with BUPAs response, Mr K made a complaint to BUPA. It responded and said the 
claim for treatment is not covered under the policy as the condition Mr K has is considered to 
be chronic. 
Mr K brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into it and concluded that 
Mr Ks condition met the definition of chronic. He therefore thought the claim hadnt been 
declined unfairly or unreasonably by BUPA. 
Mr K disagreed with our investigators assessment of his complaint and asked for the 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, its been passed to me. 
In summary, he says the onset of his condition was acute with sudden blindness as proven 
by his GP. It was only then that he sought help from the consultant and after getting 
agreement from BUPA.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly.
The policy terms and conditions
Ive started by looking at the terms and conditions of Mr Ks private medical insurance policy 
as this forms the basis of his contract with BUPA. Ive also looked at the definition of 
Chronic condition.  This is defined on page 55 in the policy booklet:
a disease, illness or injury which has one or more of the following characteristics: 
it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations, 
check-ups and/or tests 
it needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of symptoms 
it requires rehabilitation or for you to be specially trained to cope with it 
it continues indefinitely 
it has no known cure 
it comes back or is likely to come back.
Theres also a specific exclusion on page 44 of the policy booklet under the section 
Exclusion 6 Chronic conditions:
We do not pay for treatment of chronic conditions. By this, we mean a disease, 
illness or injury which has at least one of the following characteristics: 
it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations, 
check-ups and/or tests 
it needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of symptoms 
it requires your rehabilitation or for you to be specially trained to cope with it 
it continues indefinitely 
it has no known cure 
it comes back or is likely to come back. 
Exception: We pay for eligible treatment arising out of a chronic condition, or for 
treatment of acute symptoms of a chronic condition that fare up. However, we only 
pay if the treatment is likely to lead quickly to a complete recovery or to you being 
restored fully to your previous state of health, without you having to receive 
prolonged treatment. For example, we pay for treatment following a heart attack 
arising out of chronic heart disease. 
Please note: in some cases it might not be clear, at the time of treatment, that the 
disease, illness or injury being treated is a chronic condition. We are not obliged to 
pay the ongoing costs of continuing, or similar, treatment. This is the case even 
where we have previously paid for this type of or similar treatment. When you are 
receiving in-patient treatment, in making our decision on whether your condition is, or 
has become, a chronic condition, we will consider the period of days during which 
there has been no change in your clinical condition or change in your treatment.
Page 52 sets out a further exclusion that applies to this claim:
Exclusion 30 Temporary relief of symptoms 
We do not pay for treatment, the main purpose or effect of which is to provide 
temporary relief of symptoms or which is for the ongoing management of a 
condition.
Has the claim for treatment been fairly?
Ive carefully considered the information provided by Mr K and BUPA. Mr K will appreciate 
that our role isnt to look at the complaint from the perspective of a medical doctor but to look 
at whether BUPA treated him fairly in declining the claim for treatment for his eye condition. The crux of the issue is Mr K was diagnosed with an eye condition which is considered to be 
chronic based on the information provided by his treating doctor. Having looked at the 
information, I think BUPA has shown the condition is one which is defined as chronic under 
the policy definition. I therefore dont think BUPA has treated Mr K unfairly or unreasonably. 
Ill explain why:
BUPA has looked at the eye condition that Mr K is suffering with and based on this 
diagnosis by his consultant, the condition is deemed to be chronic (as defined by the 
policy).
Treatment for this, as I understand it, is necessary and recommended as the best 
course of action. But unfortunately, this treatment is not covered under Mr Ks policy 
terms and conditions. BUPA doesnt provide cover for all treatments and theres a 
specific exclusion for chronic conditions under the policy.
I appreciate that this is disappointing for Mr K but any treatment for this condition will 
have to either be funded by him or be directed to the NHS. I dont think it is a 
condition that BUPA is responsible for treating under the policy.
Ive noted Mr Ks comments that he has only recently been diagnosed and following 
treatment, there has been an improvement to his condition. I do understand, but 
based on what Ive seen, the injections hes been receiving are to temporarily relieve 
the symptoms and theres no evidence of a long-term resolution to the cure of this. 
And the information provided by Mr Ks GP and consultant suggests the condition is 
chronic.
I think BUPA has shown the eye condition meets the definition of a chronic condition 
and therefore I cant reasonably ask BUPA to accept the claim.
Overall, Im sorry to disappoint Mr K, but based on all the available evidence, I dont think
BUPA has unfairly or unreasonably declined cover for treatment of Mr Ks eye condition. It 
follows that I dont require BUPA to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint against BUPA Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman