DRN-1090934
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in April 2001. Miss H says National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold her the 
PPI. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in April 2001. The policy was 
added to Miss Hs credit card account when she applied for the card. The policy cost around 
77p per £100 of the outstanding card balance and covered Miss H in the event she wasnt 
working due to accident, sickness or unemployment. Following a successful claim, it would 
repay 10% of the outstanding balance at the point of claim, for up to twelve months.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Hs complaint.
This is not an easy complaint to decide; there is very little documentary evidence available 
from the time of the sale, nearly 20 ago  so, I must carefully weigh up the evidence 
available to me when reaching my decision. 
NatWest hasnt been able to provide a copy of any application form that Miss H may have 
completed at the time and it hasnt been able to confirm where the sale took place  
although it says it probably happened in her local bank branch. So its very difficult for me to 
know what happened when Miss H took out the credit card and PPI policy. I accept it is 
possible NatWest didnt give Miss H a choice about taking PPI. I also accept its possible 
NatWest gave her the impression she had to take it out. But it seems equally likely the bank 
gave Miss H the opportunity to take out the policy or decline it as part of her credit card 
application, and that she chose to take it out, but has simply forgotten in the, nearly, 20 
years that have now elapsed.
This means Im not persuaded (as I must be to uphold Miss Hs complaint) its more likely 
than not NatWest presented the policy to Miss H as compulsory, or that it didnt tell her about 
the policy at all, or that it indicated that it would assist her overall credit card application. And 
had she chosen not to purchase PPI, or had it been added to her account without either her 
knowledge or her consent, I wouldve expected her to query or challenge this shortly 
afterwards, especially as PPI appeared on her monthly credit card statements for many 
years.In this case Im satisfied that NatWest didnt provide advice about whether Miss H should 
take out the policy. Our knowledge of the NatWest sales process from this time indicates 
that PPI policies were sold on a non-advised basis. This means that NatWest was not 
required to establish the suitability of the policy for Miss H; this was a decision that she 
needed to make for herself.
I have, however, considered whether NatWest met its obligation to provide Miss H with 
information that was clear, fair and not misleading in order to put her in a position where she 
could make an informed choice about the insurance she was buying. 
Taking everything into consideration, I am persuaded it is more likely than not that Miss Hs 
information needs were not fully met. However, in this case, I dont think Miss H suffered 
detriment as a result. I say this because after careful consideration Ive decided that, on the 
balance of probabilities, even if shed been fully aware of all aspects of the policy, Miss H is 
still likely to have taken it out. I say this because:
 
At the time of Miss Hs application, she met the eligibility criteria and she told us that 
she was employed and that she was in good health. She, therefore, wouldnt have 
been caught by any of the significant limitations and exclusions contained within 
these types of policy, such as those relating to health or employment that could limit 
the value of the policy in the event of a claim.
 
Miss H has told us that she would have received some sick pay from her employer in 
the event that she was unable to work due to accident or sickness. However, this 
policy paid out a benefit of 10% of her monthly outstanding balance for 12 months in 
the event of accident, sickness or unemployment, and was therefore at a higher level 
than her existing occupational provision. In the unfortunate event of Miss Hs death it 
wouldve paid off her credit card balance in full. So although I accept the information 
may not have been clear, fair and not misleading, I dont think that Miss H wouldve 
acted any differently had that information been made clearer.
 
I understand that the cost of the policy was no higher than 77p for every £100 of 
balance outstanding. In the event of a successful claim it would pay out 10% of the 
outstanding balance for 12 months. Whilst it may not have been made clear that the 
premiums were interest bearing and so the benefit is reduced because of that, it 
nevertheless remains a competitive benefit and higher than similar policies of its 
type. On balance, I dont think Miss H would have been put off by the cost, had it 
been made clearer and I find it likely she wouldve proceeded with the policy, in any 
event.
 
Furthermore, the PPI transaction and cost appeared on her monthly credit card 
statement, and in the event that the cost was not acceptable to Miss H, or it became 
unaffordable, she couldve cancelled it at any point without penalty.
 
Overall, while I dont think that NatWest met Miss Hs information needs, having considered 
the position carefully I am not persuaded that Miss H suffered detriment as a result of this. 
Rather, it seems more likely to me that given her circumstances she wouldve decided the 
policy provided valuable protection in relation to her new credit card (and potential liability) 
and still gone ahead with it.Ive taken into account all of Miss Hs other comments, but these points dont change my 
conclusion.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 February 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman