DRN-1267429
 
The complaint
Mr W says Santander UK Plc (trading at the time as National & Provincial Building Society) 
mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr W took out a PPI policy in 1988 at the same time as he applied for a mortgage. Neither 
party can confirm where the sale took place. The policy gave Mr W cover against accident, 
sickness and unemployment. He paid a monthly amount for the policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr W disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where there is a dispute about what 
happened, I have based my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on 
what I consider is most likely given the available evidence and what we know about how 
Santander sold PPI at the time.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed 
it here. Santander cant provide a copy of Mr Ws full policy document, so Ive relied on what 
we know about the policy terms of similar products sold at this time.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Santander had to make it clear to Mr W that the PPI was optional, and he had to agree to 
take it out. Mr W says he did not ask for, need or want PPI. It was added without his 
knowledge or consent. And when he moved his mortgage and discovered he had it, he 
cancelled it.  Santander says it would have been presented as optional as that was its usual 
sales process.  
I cant know what was said at the time of the sale or how the PPI was presented to Mr W. 
And Mr Ws application documents arent available but thats not surprising, or 
unreasonable, given how long ago the sale was. So I have to reach a conclusion about what 
I think is most likely, based on the balance of the evidence. Santander has told us Mr W 
would have to have completed and signed a separate form for PPI to be set up on his 
account. This suggests he would have given his consent. It has been able to provide a copy 
of the leaflet it says he would have been given at the time. There is nothing in this that I think 
could reasonably have led him to think it was mandatory. 
Ive thought carefully about Mr Ws comments, but I also have to consider how long ago the 
sale was and how that might affect what he recalls. Overall, on balance, I think its more 
likely that Santander made Mr W aware that he had a choice about buying the PPI, and that 
he chose to take it. I note his point that he cancelled the cover when he moved house, but I dont think this evidences conclusively that Santander failed to meet its obligations at the 
time of the sale.
I think Santander recommended the PPI to Mr W so it had to make sure it was right for him. 
Based on what I've seen of his circumstances at the time I think it was suitable. I say this 
because:
He was eligible for the cover. And it seems there wasnt anything in the PPI that would 
make it difficult for him to claim  for example, the type of employment contract he had 
when the PPI was sold or any pre-existing medical conditions. So he wouldnt have 
been affected by the main exclusions or limitations in the policy.
Mr W was entitled to six months full pay and six months half pay but the PPI wouldve 
paid out in addition to any work benefits and most likely for up to 24 months for each 
successful accident, sickness or unemployment claim. Mr W said he had savings of 
around £3,000. The PPI wouldve allowed him to use any savings to cover other living 
costs whilst he wasnt working  or to keep them intact for his future needs. Mr W also 
said his parents would have helped, but thats not suitable alternative protection. Its 
not guaranteed and peoples circumstances can change.  Mr W had taken out a long-
term debt secured against his home. Given the serious consequences of missing 
mortgage payments I think the policy would have been useful for Mr W if he was sick 
or lost his job.
Ive seen nothing to suggest the policy was unaffordable at the time of the sale.
Santander also had to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading at the time 
of the sale. Its possible it didnt give all the details it should have. However, for the same 
reasons I find the policy was suitable, I dont think better information wouldve changed his 
decision. I say this as Mr W doesnt appear to have been affected by any of main exclusions 
or limitations, and the PPI was competitively priced and apparently affordable. 
I know Mr W will be disappointed with my conclusion, but it follows I dont think Mr W lost out 
because of any problems with the sale. 
My final decision
My decision is I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman