DRN-3204670
The complaint
Mrs W complains on behalf of herself and the estate of Mr W (her husband) that the advice 
received from the Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax  referred to as Halifax or the 
business  was unsuitable.  
She and the estate of Mr W are being assisted by a Claims Management Company (CMC).  
In short, the CMC says:
Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances werent properly assessed. 
The investment was inappropriate. 
Their objectives and future needs werent considered.
They were advised to take too much risk. 
What happened
In July 2005, Mr and Mrs W were advised to invest £48,000 into a Personal Investment Plan 
(PIP), invested in the Cautious Managed Fund. 
At the time it was recorded:
Mr and Mrs W were in their early 60s and retired. 
They had a joint monthly pension income of £1,794, and an approximate £475 net 
disposable monthly income.  
Mr W had £81,843 in cash deposits and Mrs W had £20,111. 
They also had joint savings of £85,934, making a total of £187,888 in savings, 
deposited in various accounts.  
They had a Unit Trust investment worth £10,000.   
In May 2008, the PIP was surrendered for £52,624 with a 9.6% return (or £4,624). 
In April 2020, Mr W sadly passed away during the complaint. 
Halifax didnt uphold the complaint. In short it said that the recommendation was suitable for 
Mr and Mrs W. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
It wasnt unreasonable for Mr and Mrs W to invest given their financial 
circumstances. 
They had clear objectives recorded in the fact find and suitability letter, including:
oThey wanted to grow their money to give financial security in later life. 
oThey wanted to be able to pay for better medical care if it becomes 
necessary. 
oThey wanted to visit their family abroad and later in life pay for their family to 
visit them.   
The aim of the investment was to produce a greater return than cash. Given their 
large cash holdings, this wasnt unreasonable. 
After investing, they wouldve had approximately 33% of their capital invested in 
asset backed investments and 67% still in cash. And there was a large emergency 
fund available if needed. 
Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances were appropriately assessed. Their aims and 
objectives were considered, and they werent advised to invest too much. 
The 1996 fact find shows they had previous investment experience  £30,000 
invested in a Unit Trust and other investment vehicles. 
They were aware of the risks involved, and their attitude to risk - cautious/medium 
which was a two out of a scale of one to five  was fair in the circumstances. 
The fund fact sheet for a cautious managed portfolio confirms that the majority of the 
fund was invested in traditionally lower risk vehicles, such as corporate bonds and 
fixed interest. 
Overall, he cant say that Halifax has done anything wrong. 
The CMC disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
Theres been much correspondence but ultimately it made the following key points:
It cant accept that the risk within the fund was suitable for Mr and Mrs W. 
Despite what the investigator said, it found the fund was designed to hold equal mix 
between equities and lower risk assets  corporate bonds/fixed interest.
The fund was launched in 2005, a few months before the sale to Mr and Mrs W, so 
had no meaningful track record. 
Whilst there was new money coming into the fund much of this had not been 
invested by the time of the sale to Mr and Mrs W. 
In August 2006, the asset split was: 49.4% UK equites, 49.5% in UK fixed interest 
and 1.1% cash.
As the fund became more established within the equity holding there was significant 
overseas equities, and the corporate bonds also included higher risk overseas 
assets. 
The fund also held reasonable holdings in small companies with above average 
growth therefore would naturally involve above average risk to achieve this. 
By 2008, despite having almost 45% holdings in equities, the fund is described as 
being underweight in equities. So, its clear the fund has been designed and 
managed throughout to hold significant equity holdings  around 50% if not higher. In 
subsequent years the fund had equities holdings over 50%.  
If Mr and Mrs W had sufficient experience and knowledge of investing  which it 
doesnt accept they did  then they wouldnt have invested in this, if theyd been 
provided with sufficient information to make any well-founded judgement on this fund. 
Mr and Mrs W were well into their retirement and the vague term cautious/medium 
does little to assess their true capacity for risk. It wouldve been essential for the bank 
to carry out further detailed assessment of their risk profile to ensure the fund was 
suitable. 
It doesnt accept that a fund with around 50% in equities (including overseas equites) 
as well as overseas bonds and investments in small UK companies was suitable for 
their circumstances given their age, retirement status, lack of ability to replace any 
lost assets through employment and their existing experience.  
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. In summary, he said:
Halifax provided a fund fact sheet that showed the asset split on 30 June 2005  a month before the investment was made. It showed 51.3% in UK corporate bonds and 
UK fixed interest and 48.7% in UK equities. 
Mr and Mrs W although retired, were in their early 60s so relatively young and had 
specific objectives and plans for the future. In the circumstances hes unable to say 
they were too old to invest. 
In terms of their experience, the 1996 fact find shows that Mr and Mrs W had 
invested £30,000 in a Unit Trust in 1993 and £12,000 invested in PEPs  in medium 
risk funds the latter of which was complained about but wasnt upheld. In 1996 they 
also had around £42,000 in asset back investments. He doesnt feel this is lower than 
the amount invested in 2005.  
Overall, he doesnt consider the PIP was too risky for Mr and Mrs W. They had 
investment experience and had invested in similar pooled investments in the past. 
Their circumstances werent such that the investment was unsuitable. 
The CMC disagreed and in summary made the following key points:
In 1996 Mrs W was retired and had been receiving her pension for over 10 years at 
the point of sale. 
Mr and Mrs W had previous risk-based investment experience from when they were 
younger. By 2005 they were both settled into their retirement and their desire to 
return to work to replace any losses was gone. 
The 1993 Unit Trust was invested in when Mr and Mrs W were working and had an 
ability to recoup losses. But since retirement have focused on tax efficiency. 
The paperwork from 2005 shows that Mr and Mrs W have experienced nervousness 
with the falling equity markets and decided to withdraw their funds rather than wait for 
it to recover. 
There was a chance of history repeating itself and Mr and Mrs W werent in a position 
to be able to or want to ride out any losses. 
Even before 1999, Mr and Mrs W only ever invested in low risk With Profits rather 
than equity heavy funds. 
Their aims/priorities suggest the funds were important to them. 
Overall, it doesnt believe the fund was appropriate.   
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reason. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says, Im not persuaded 
that the recommendation to invest in the PIP was unsuitable.
But before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I recognise Mrs 
Ws strength of feeling about this matter. The CMC has provided detailed submissions to 
support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope Mrs W 
wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in 
as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by the CMC and the business, and reach what I think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats 
fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation and best industry 
practice. But its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more 
likely than not to have happened.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I cant safely say that the 2005 
recommendation to invest £48,000 in the PIP was unsuitable.
Its fair to say that certain questions were asked of Mr and Mrs W to arrive at the conclusion 
that they were cautious/medium risk investors. I note it was out of a set of available options 
for Cautious, Cautious/Medium, Medium, Medium/Adventurous, and Adventurous, akin 
to a score of two out of five on a risk scale. 
I note their answers indicated that they were willing to take a risk with their investment in 
order to make a gain, and were aware that their investments could go up or down. I note that 
a cautious/medium risk investor was described by the business as follows:
You are looking to invest for long-term growth and are prepared to accept investment into 
areas, including corporate bonds, that are linked to the stock market, however you wish to 
reduce the potential amount and frequency by which the value of the investment may go up 
and down. You understand and accept that by reducing the potential risks you also reduce 
the potential gains and accept on final encashment you may get back less than you 
invested.
Given Mr and Mrs Ws financial circumstances  I note they had around £187,888 in savings 
 I dont think that was unreasonable given their objectives. Im also satisfied that they were 
made aware of the general risks involved, i.e. that they might get less than they put in, and 
were still content to proceed without delay. 
I note the business suggests that the Cautious Managed Fund  which was a 
cautious/medium investment  broadly matched Mr and Mrs Ws attitude to risk. On the face 
of the evidence, and on balance, Im unable to disagree with this conclusion. I note the fund 
included a mix of corporate bond and gilt investments balanced with actively managed share 
investments.
I note the financial report made clear the following:
This fund does contain some investments which individually have a higher risk rating than
your agreed attitude to risk. We believe, however, that the combined effect of all of the
investments within the fund results in an overall managed fund classification of
cautious/medium.
In any case, Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs W took more risk than was reasonable for 
them in the circumstances. Im mindful that the fund makeup although invested in equites 
and property, was also invested in corporate bonds and cash to balance the exposure to 
risk.
I note the fund fact sheet dated 30 June 2005 showed the following asset allocation: 51.3% 
in UK corporate bonds and UK fixed interest and 48.7% in UK equities. Later small changes 
to this dont mean that the recommendation in 2005 was unsuitable. 
That notwithstanding, I should make clear that Im not specifically looking at whether Mr and 
Mrs W were cautious/medium risk investors or whether the recommendation was. Im 
considering if the recommendations were generally suitable for them. Notwithstanding the 
points made by the CMC, its not for us to risk rate the funds. In this instance the funds were classed as presenting a medium/cautious risk  suitable for a medium/cautious risk investor 
 Ive no reason, given the business explanation, to think this was incorrect.
Despite what the CMC says, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs W had meaningful investment 
experience. I note it was recorded they declined additional time to consider the 
recommendation because they both had experience of pooled investments over a significant 
number of years and felt comfortable with the decision to invest now. And furthermore 
They now feel shares are more settled and want to invest in pooled investments again now 
with matured funds. 
On balance, Im satisfied the recommendation met their objective for capital growth, and that 
they were willing to take a risk  with a portion of their money  to achieve that objective. Im 
unable to say that the recommendation didnt meet their needs, or that they werent in a 
position to take a medium/cautious risk  on a scale that goes up to adventurous  with a 
portion of their money. 
It was no secret that they were retired, and I think they had enough time to get used to their 
circumstances. Despite what the CMC says about their purported nervousness they were 
still willing to invest and Im satisfied were generally in a good position to do so.  
On balance, Im also satisfied that Mr and Mrs W had access to a reasonable amount of 
cash if they needed it. Im mindful the investigator found that even after investing they had 
around 67% of their assets in cash, so it could be argued it wasnt necessary for them to 
return to work to replace any losses unless thats what they wanted. In any case, despite the 
fund makeup I simply cant ignore the actual proportion of Mr and Mrs Ws overall capital 
which was exposed to investment risk.
Whilst I appreciate their previous investment experience is from when they were younger 
and working  this isnt something I can ignore  Im mindful that in 2005 their finances were 
stable and that theyd had time to build their wealth over the years. So, despite not working 
they were still in a good position to invest and take a risk with their money. There was 
nothing to suggest that they couldnt ride out any downturn in the market if thats what they 
wanted to do, or that they shouldnt invest because of their age and retirement. I 
acknowledge they were in a different stage in their lives and settled into retirement. 
On balance Im satisfied that they were provided with the policy documentation including the 
Illustration and the KFD so were broadly aware of the risks and the charges involved. In the 
circumstances I think its unlikely that they simply wouldnt have known this.  
Ive seen no evidence to suggest that Mr and Mrs W were given any guarantees about the 
level of return. And just because they didnt receive a better return upon surrender  during a 
global pandemic  doesnt mean the recommendation was unsuitable. In any event, 
performance of the investment isnt something that our service is able to look at in isolation.
I appreciate Mrs W will be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what she wants to hear. But on the face of the 
available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give her and the 
estate of Mr W what they want.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and the 
estate of Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman