DRN-3628920
The complaint
Mr D and Ms T are unhappy with what DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited
(DAS) did after they made a claim on their legal expenses insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D and Ms T have legal expenses insurance with DAS. In 2013 they purchased a new
build leasehold property. A few years later they noticed mould forming on the walls and
contacted the developer and the provider of their building warranty. In 2021 they contacted
DAS as they wanted to pursue a claim on their legal expenses insurance policy. They said
the provider of the building warranty hadnt dealt with all of the issues and they wanted to
pursue a claim against property developer.
DAS turned that claim down because it said although the policy provided cover for contract
disputes relating to goods or services, the contract Mr D and Ms T had with the developer
wasnt covered by that. Mr D and Ms T complained to us. We agreed the claim had been
fairly turned down but said it was open to Mr D and Ms T to submit a separate claim under
the property protection section of their policy.
Mr D and Ms T did make a further claim. DAS said a claim against the developer wasnt
covered because there was an exclusion in the property protection section of the policy for
a claim relating toa contract entered into by an Insured Person. But it accepted there was
a potential contract dispute claim against the provider of the building warranty. It referred this
to panel solicitors who advised it didnt have reasonable prospects of success (as required
by the policy terms) because the period allowed by law for that claim to be brought had
already expired. DAS accepted there had been some initial delay by it in considering this
claim and offered to pay Mr D and Ms T £175 in recognition of the impact of that on them.
Our investigator thought the claim had been fairly turned down and the compensation DAS
had offered for the delay was appropriate. Mr D and Ms T didnt agree. They said this was a
claim about negligence and nuisance and thats the basis on which DAS should have
considered it. And they thought the exclusion DAS had relied on was vague and unclear.
In any case they said they no longer had a contract with the developer so this couldnt apply
to that claim.
They wanted their policy to assist with a claim against the developer for negligence and
nuisance and against the building warranty provider for breach of contract and negligence.
And they said they should have had the right to choose their own solicitor to carry out the
prospects assessment.
I reached a provisional decision on the complaint earlier this month. In summary I said:
Claim against the provider of the building warranty
Mr D and Ms T say they wanted a claim for negligence and breach of contract considered
against the provider of the building warranty. However, for a claim to be covered by their
policy it needs to fall within one of the insured events set out in it. Ive reviewed them and I
think the only ones that could apply here are contract disputes and property protection.
DAS has accepted the agreement Mr D and Ms T had with the building warranty provider
falls within the contract disputes section of their policy. However, its also a requirement that
a claim has reasonable prospects of success. The policy says that means the prospects of
recovering loss or damage must be at least 51%. I can see DAS referred this claim to panel
solicitors (as Id expect) who advised that, in their opinion, the limitation period for this claim
had already expired. I dont think DAS did anything wrong in relying on that advice to
conclude the claim wouldnt therefore meet the requirement to have reasonable prospects of
success.
Mr D and Ms T believe DAS should have allowed them to use their own solicitors to carry out
that assessment of prospects. I can see when DAS wrote to them on 8 December 2021 it
said the panel solicitors it initially approached had a conflict of interest. And I appreciate their
policy does refer to them being able to appoint their own law firm where thats the case.
But thats in a section of the policy which refers to legal representation being necessary. The
question the panel solicitors were considering was whether the claim Mr D and Ms T made
had reasonable prospects of success. They would only have moved forward to provide
representation if that assessment was positive (and the other terms of the policy were met).
So Im not persuaded Mr D and Ms T would have been entitled to appoint their own solicitors
at this stage.
In any case when the solicitors wrote to DAS on 8 December 2021, they didnt say they had
a conflict of interest but that they were unable to act because of a capacity issue within the
relevant team. I think it most likely the letter DAS then sent to Mr D and Ms T was therefore
incorrect. And while I appreciate Mr D and Ms T nevertheless wanted their own solicitors
involved its normal practice for these assessments to be carried out by panel solicitors and I
dont think DAS did anything wrong in instructing a firm like that in this case.
DAS has advised if Mr D and Ms T are able to provide a legal opinion from a barrister on the
claims prospects of success they can do so (and it will reimburse the cost if thats positive). I
can see thats in line with the policy terms and I dont think its unfair of DAS to say that
would be required in this case. But if Mr D and Ms T provide DAS with any relevant new
information on this issue, wed also expect it to refer that back to the panel solicitors to see if
it makes a difference.
Mr D and Ms T argue this claim should also have been considered under the property
protection section of their policy (which includes claims involving legal nuisance). However,
that section excludes a claim relatinga contract entered into by an Insured Person. Mr D
and Ms T say this is a vague term which they think would only apply to section 1 of property
protection (which relates to an event causing physical damage to property).
I dont agree with them on that. I think the term clearly excludes claims which relate to a
contract entered into by an Insured Person. And it falls within a section headed What is not
covered under Property Protection. Theres no suggestion here or anywhere else that this
exclusion only relates to section 1. And, as Ive already said, this claim does relate to a
contractual agreement Mr D and Ms T had with the provider of their building warranty. So I
dont think cover is available under this section of their policy.
Claim against the property developer
Mr D and Ms T also wanted to pursue a claim against the developer for negligence and
nuisance. Again, to be covered, that needs to fall within one of the insured events set out in
the policy. I think the only ones that could potentially cover this claim are the same ones Ivealready identified- contract disputes and property protection.
As part of their previous complaint we concluded the claim couldnt be pursued under the
contract disputes section because the contract Mr D and Ms T had with the developer wasnt
for goods or services and so didnt meet the requirements set out in the policy.
However, theyve argued that as the developer subsequently sold their lease to another
business they no longer have a contract with them. As a result they think the complaint
should be covered under the property protection section of the policy because the exclusion
for claims relating to a contract entered into by an Insured Person wouldnt apply.
I can see theres been correspondence between our investigator, DAS and Mr D and Ms T
about whether such a claim would have reasonable prospects of success. I note the further
points Mr D and Ms T have made about this in their most recent emails. But I dont think
thats the issue here. I accept Mr D and Ms T have provided evidence to show the freehold
of their property was sold by the developer to another business so their lease is now with
that new business. However, the claim they made isnt about the ongoing repairing
responsibilities set out in that lease.
Their argument is there were issues with the original construction of their property which
have caused the problems now affecting it. Thats an issue which would relate to the original
contract for sale they had with the developer. And I havent seen anything to show the
developer is no longer responsible for that. So I think the exclusion for claims relating to a
contract remains relevant here. Ive already explained why I think that exclusion is clear. And
I think it would also apply to this claim.
As a result I dont need to consider the evidence about whether this claim would have
reasonable prospects of success because I dont think its covered by the policy at all. And
any claim against the new freeholder would be caught by the same exclusion because it
would relate to their contract with it (the lease).
Other issues
Mr D and Ms T say DAS wrongly told the panel solicitors statutory nuisance claims werent
covered under the policy. Ive reviewed the correspondence and in particular a call note
between DAS and the solicitors which says advised only cover for BOC [breach of contract]
and nuisance is excluded.
For the reasons Ive explained I think the claim Mr D and Ms T made for nuisance is
excluded under the terms of their policy. And I think it was reasonable of DAS to make the
panel solicitors aware of that.
I also appreciate there was some initial delay in DAS confirming the breach of contract claim
against the provider of the building warranty was an insured event under the policy. But I
think the £175 DAS has already agreed to pay in relation to this is a fair way of recognising
the inconvenience Mr D and Ms T were caused by this delay.
Responses to my provisional decision
DAS agreed with what Id said. Mr D and Ms T provided some further comments. In 
summary they said:
Mr D was the policyholder and owner of the property but Ms T wasnt and doesnt have a 
contractual relationship with the developer or any other party. And she had been 
impacted by the mould in the property so a nuisance claim from her should have been 
considered by DAS;They continued to feel DAS told panel solicitors nuisance claims werent covered by the 
policy and didnt provide information about this claim for the panel solicitors to consider. 
And they maintained there was no contract between Mr D and the developer. They 
asked whether DAS would accept this claim if they provided a barristers opinion 
showing it had reasonable prospects of success; 
They said DAS had provided misleading information about the reasons why the initial 
panel solicitors couldnt handler their claim and it should have provided them with correct 
information. And they questioned why it had been accepted the solicitors did have a 
capacity issue;
They said the recurring mould in their property was a health hazard which should be 
considered as a nuisance claim (which was a separate cause of action to contractual 
matters such as the actual disrepair);
They said a breach of contract claim should have been considered against the provider 
of the building warranty and the panel solicitors only considered a negligence claim. 
They thought both should be reconsidered in the light of recent changes to the law which 
they said extended the limitation periods for bringing such a claim.
So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Ms T may not have entered into a contract with the developer. But the wording 
of the exclusion in the property protection section of the policy excludes a claim relating 
toa contract entered into by an Insured Person.  I think any claim from Ms T under this 
section would relate to the contract entered into by Mr D (who is an Insured Person) so 
would be caught by this. And while theyve again suggested theres no longer a contract 
between Mr D and the developer I explained in my provisional decision why I thought there 
was and I havent seen evidence to suggest otherwise. 
Mr D and Ms T have reiterated that DAS told panel solicitors statutory nuisance claims 
werent covered. But I explained in my provisional decision that I thought what DAS had said 
was the claim they wanted to make was excluded. I think that is the case and so I think it 
was reasonable of DAS to tell the panel solicitors that.  
And to be covered by the policy any claims from Mr D and Ms T need to fall within one of the 
insured events contained within it. The policy does separately cover contract disputes and 
property protection (which could include a legal nuisance claim). But Ive explained why the 
claims they wanted to bring against either the property developer or the building warranty 
provider under property protection arent covered (theyre caught by the exclusion relating to 
a contract entered into by an insured person). 
The issue for these claims isnt whether they have reasonable prospects of success but that 
theyre excluded from cover under the policy. So even if Mr D and Ms T obtained a positive 
prospects assessment in relation to them, that wouldnt impact the reason why I think DAS 
was entitled to turn them down. 
And I think the panel solicitors did consider a breach of contract claim against the provider of 
the building warranty; they said limitation has expired for a breach of contract claim. I note the very recent legislative change Mr D and Ms T have referred to but Im not clear that 
would make a difference here. My understanding is the retrospective increase in the 
limitation period only applies to a claim against the original developer of a property (and 
weve already explained why that claim isnt covered by the policy in this case).  
But the legislation only came into force last month and it doesnt appear this is information 
DAS has previously been made aware of. So if Mr D and Ms T nevertheless feel this would 
make a difference to this aspect of their claim theyll need to provide evidence of that to DAS 
so it can take it into account. 
Finally, I note the comments Mr D and Ms T have made about the reasons why the original 
panel solicitors couldnt act for them. But I do think this was most likely a capacity issue 
(rather than a conflict of interest) as thats what the panel firm told DAS. I agree DAS should 
have provided them with correct information about this, but I think the compensation it has 
already agreed to pay does enough to recognise the impact on Mr D and Ms T of what it got 
wrong. 
My final decision
I dont think DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited did anything wrong in turning 
down the claims Mr D and Ms T made. And I think the offer of £175 its made for customer 
service failings is fair. So it will need to pay Mr D and Ms T £175.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Ms T to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
James Park
Ombudsman