DRN-3555283
The complaint
Ms C is unhappy with the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled her claim under her 
home insurance after her home suffered water damage from a broken pipe.
Although a third party brought this complaint on her behalf, for ease Ill refer only to Ms C 
throughout my decision.
What happened
Ms C claimed under her home insurance after a broken pipe caused significant water 
damage to the lower floor of her home. Work didnt start for over six months because of the 
national lockdown. When work did start, it was found to be more extensive than previously 
thought, so Ms C needed to move into alternative accommodation.
UKI identified damp issues with Ms Cs property and explained that it couldnt fit the kitchen 
until it was addressed. There was some dispute about whether the damp was caused by 
lack of a damp proof course (DPC) or whether the water damage from the broken pipe had 
caused or contributed to it.
Because the allowance for alternative accommodation had run out, Ms C moved back into 
her home before works were finished. Her kitchen still hadnt been replaced. In the absence 
of any agreement about the damp issue, UKI cash settled the remaining part of the works.
Ms C asked for a written breakdown of what the cash settlement covered, which UKI didnt 
provide until almost three months later.
Overall, Ms C was unhappy with the way UKI handled her claim and she complained about 
several issues, including:
lack of communication
delays carrying out work
provision of inappropriate alternative accommodation
lack of clarity about the damp issues
inappropriate removal of an underfloor gas pipe
missing cost of replacement fire surround
rusted radiators
returning home before works were completed
failure to provide an adequate meal allowance
UKI agreed it hadnt handled Ms Cs claim well and it offered her £250 compensation. She 
didnt think that went far enough.
Our investigator upheld Ms Cs complaint. Over the course of his review, UKI increased its 
offer and paid Ms C £500 compensation. It also paid a little under £2,000 for the meal 
allowance. 
Our investigator recommended that UKI resolve the issues of complaint and he set out what 
actions it should take. UKI agreed with all except one of his proposals  arrange for a damp 
proof course to be completed in the ground floor area applicable to this complaint. UKI said 
that Ms C didnt have a DPC before the claim so providing one would be considered 
betterment. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Ms Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
In brief, our investigator said UKI hadnt handled Ms Cs claim as well as it shouldve done, 
and it was clear shed experienced distress and inconvenience. UKI agreed and, except for 
the DPC, it accepted our investigators proposals.
Ive looked at everything before me and I agree with our investigators conclusions and for 
much the same reasons. I wont comment on every piece of evidence  our rules dont 
require me to - or go into detail about the issues which are now agreed. Instead, Ill 
summarise whats been agreed and then focus on the remaining, outstanding issue of 
complaint.
Issues agreed
For clarity, Ms C was unhappy about the way UKI replaced the flooring without taking into 
consideration the gas pipe underneath and she didnt think it had covered the cost of the 
damage to her fire surround and hearth. UKI has since agreed to cash settle for the fire 
surround and hearth, and to cover reasonable costs, or additional costs, for refitting the gas 
pie as it was before it was removed. The evidence showed that the fire and surround had 
been left damaged and the gas pipe was oddly placed, so I think the offer will put that right.
UKI cash settled for the kitchen on the basis of remove and return  that is, replacing the 
existing cabinets once repairs were done. However, Ms C needed new cabinets due to the 
damage caused. UKI agreed to settle the difference between the two standards of work. 
Again, this places Ms C in a position of having a functional kitchen which is what she had 
before, so Im satisfied thats a fair outcome.
UKI agreed to replace, or provide a cash settlement for, the radiators which were left outside 
to rust, to pay further compensation of £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused, and 
to provide a breakdown of the cash settlement. Given the lack of clarity around what work 
UKI was going to do or pay for throughout the claim, but taking into consideration that UKI 
has already paid Ms C some compensation, I think this is a fair agreement. Outstanding issue
That leaves the remaining issue of the damp proof course. Ms C said UKI agreed to cover 
the DPC in its settlement of her claim. UKI said that would constitute betterment because 
theres no evidence she had a DPC before the peril occurred. 
Its final suggestion to this service was that if Ms C hadnt already carried out the 
replacement kitchen work, it would agree to cover the DPC. Ms C had already replaced her 
kitchen.
On the face of it, I can see why UKI thought including the DPC in Ms Cs claim would be 
betterment. She didnt already have one so, if UKI covered that work, her home would be in 
a better condition than it was before the peril occurred.
However, if UKI replaced the kitchen without doing the DPC, theres no guarantee that it 
would be a lasting repair. UKIs role was to put Ms C back in the position she was in before 
the peril, and that was with a functioning kitchen. If UKI needed to put in place a DPC before 
replacing the kitchen, then Im satisfied it shouldve done so.
UKI said it offered a cash settlement so that Ms C could arrange for the DPC before she paid 
for the kitchen replacement. But its clear from UKIs records that she wasn't going to do that. 
What isnt clear, is whether UKI agreed to put in a DPC. UKI told Ms C it would deal with the 
damp issue. She took that to mean it would put a new DPC in. UKI said it meant it would dry 
out the existing damp. However, its notes show that it asked the contractor to put a DPC in 
and the contractor refused. That, to me, shows UKI intended to complete the work for Ms C. 
So, I think its reasonable that she expected the work to be done, regardless of whether UKI 
cash settled the remainder of her claim.
While UKI said it would cover the DPC if Ms C hadnt already replaced her kitchen, that 
doesnt deal with the issue of providing for a lasting repair. Considering the evidence, and to 
bring this matter to a close, I think its fair and reasonable for UKI to arrange for a DPC to be 
completed in the ground floor area relating directly to this claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and U K 
Insurance Limited must:
arrange for a damp proof course to be completed in the ground floor area relating 
directly to this claim
pay a further £250 in light of the distress and inconvenience caused to Ms C
provide Ms C with a breakdown of what the cash settlement covers
cash settle for the fire surround and hearth
cash settle the difference between replacement and remove and return for the 
kitchen cabinets
replace the radiators or provide a cash settlement instead
cover the reasonable cost of refitting the gas pipe and, if already completed, cover 
any additional cost to refit the gas pipe as it was before removal
pay interest on the reimbursement of any applicable recommendations at a rate of 
8% simple interest from the date the expense was incurred, or cash settlement 
shouldve been paid to the date of reimbursement.
*If U K Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms C how much its taken off. It should also give Ms C a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if 
appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman