DRN-3413826
The complaint
Mr T complained about how Aviva handled his claim under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
After his car was damaged, made a claim under his policy. Aviva decided that his car was 
uneconomical to repair. They offered him settlement amounts for his cars market value, 
finally increasing that to £9,200. Mr T thought that his car was worth more than that. He was 
also unhappy with other aspects of their customer service.
 
The investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ts complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
Avivas valuation was in line with motor trade guides and that their compensation to 
acknowledge their customer service shortcomings was proportionate to the level of 
inconvenience they caused him. Mr T didnt agree and so his case has been passed to me 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Cars value 
The investigator explained to Mr T our approach regarding complaints about car valuations. 
We dont decide what the market value of a car is; we merely consider whether the insurer 
has reached a fair and reasonable amount having regard to the valuations in the trade 
guides, as well as any other evidence the parties may provide. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. That other evidence might include advertisements detailing the sale 
prices of similar cars, but we bear in mind that cars usually sell for less than the advertised 
price, so we think that an insurer isnt bound by any advertised prices. 
Mr Ts policy says that Aviva will pay his cars market value at the time of the loss. Market 
value is The cost of replacing your car with one of the same make, model, specification and 
condition. From that Aviva are entitled to deduct his policy excess but they agreed to waive 
that, which I think was fair of them. 
Ive looked at how Aviva valued his car. They offered him other amounts before having it 
reviewed by their senior engineer who finalised it at £9,200. Their engineer followed our 
established guidance for assessing a cars market value via the trade guides valuations 
taking into account its mileage and features. As they explained, they are not required to add 
for items such as brakes and tyres, as these are about maintaining a car, not increasing its 
value. Thats in line with our approach and so I think its reasonable. And for the reason I 
gave above about adverts, I dont think it was wrong of Aviva to not be persuaded by adverts 
he sent that his car was worth more. 
The investigator did their own check of the trade guides valuations, taking into account Mr 
Ts cars features and mileage at the date of the incident. They obtained valuations of £8,575 
and £8,040. The average of those is approximately £8,307. Avivas settlement figure of 
£9200 was more than that, and so I think that their valuation amount was fair and was 
correctly made according to our approach. 
Aviva came to their final offer about a month or so after the incident, although they had paid 
Mr T £8,000 of it already. They paid him interest on the difference between that and their 
final payment. And they paid him compensation of £100 for not giving him the correct 
valuation at first. Overall I think they dealt with that reasonably and so I dont require them to 
do any more. 
Mr T was also unhappy that, after hed bought a new car, Aviva told him that his car was 
repairable. He said that this was about 3 weeks after the incident which was on about 8 
June. However Avivas file notes show that by the end of June theyd paid him £8,000. Mr T 
hadnt agreed with the amount, but hed accepted it as Aviva had offered it on the basis that 
would have their engineer look at the car valuation again, and he could still bring a complaint 
to us if he didnt agree with their final view. I think that was reasonable of them as they were 
trying to deal with his claim quickly, which was in his interests. 
I can see that things might have been done differently if Mr T had known earlier that his car 
was repairable. But as Mr T had by then bought a new car and gone down the total loss 
route, there would have been little practical alternative but to carry on with that route. The 
end result was that Aviva paid him a total of £9,200 for his cars market value, which as Ive 
said above, was reasonable. So in the end Aviva did do what they were required to do under 
his policy. They also waived his policy excess, which they could otherwise have deducted 
from the settlement amount. So I think that was fair and appropriate compensation for this 
situation. 
NCD 
He said that because of the claim Aviva reduced his NCD that he said hed had for 15 years. 
He thought it should have been protected and that Aviva should have given him that option 
when he called to renew the policy. 
Mr T had taken put his policy with Aviva some years earlier, but his original policy didnt have 
a protected NCD. He said that Avivas operator at renewal could have offered that option to 
him but didnt. However Aviva said that their operator didnt offer him the option because he 
didnt already have it and she wasnt required to check if he would like it. I think thats 
reasonable. Also, his policy documents are clear that his NCD wasnt protected and it was 
up to him to read those and ask them for that option if hed wanted it. I agree that it s up to a 
consumer to check that a policy suits his needs and I agree that the policy documents are 
clear about how and NCD will reduce in the event of a claim. I dont think that Aviva have 
been unfair when they applied that.
Service 
Mr T said that Aviva withdrew his replacement hire car too quickly and hed lost money in 
petrol hed put in it. But Aviva say they only withdrew the car because hed put his new car 
on the policy, and they did extend the hire period when he told them he didnt have the new 
car yet. I think that it was fair of Aviva to extend his car hire and to reimburse him £30 for his 
petrol and compensate him £25. I dont require them to do any more there. 
Hes also said he spent many hours calling Aviva and he wanted them to refund his costs in 
doing so. We expect some element of inconvenience and calls will be necessary during a claim but will look at an insurer to consider compensation if there were more than necessary. 
I see that Aviva agreed to look at this if Mr T sent them an itemised phone bill, but he sent 
only an un-itemised one which didnt show his calls to them. Nevertheless Aviva offered him 
£50 towards it. I dont think that unreasonable in the circumstances.
I can see that it was frustrating for Mr T that he had to make a claim through no fault of his 
own, and that this was at a difficult time for him personally. However I think that Aviva have 
acted reasonably overall to mitigate any cost or convenience that they may have caused 
him, and so I dont require them to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
