DRN-4257077
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC blocked his account.
What happened
Mr H says he was on holiday in September 2022 and on 3 September 2022 his account card 
was blocked. He says he called Barclays but was charged £9 for the call. He says he was 
told there was no block but later was told they had been one applied to his account. Mr H 
says it took about 12 hours to sort out and the issue has caused significant stress. He says 
the issue has isolated him and he cant stop thinking about what took place.
Barclays has apologised for what took place and has paid £25 compensation. It explained its 
fraud process but accepts it ought to have dealt with the account block more appropriately.
Mr H brought his complaint to us, and our investigator thought Barclays had dealt 
appropriately with it by paying £25 compensation. The investigator explained which parts of 
Mr Hs complaints we could look at and thought some of the transactions were correctly 
blocked. The investigator accepted Mr H ought to have been given correct information but 
thought the problem was sorted out fairly quickly.
Mr H doesnt accept that view and in summary says Barclays shouldnt have paid him the 
compensation without his permission when he clearly rejected it. He says his complaint 
wasnt referred to Barclays complaints team and its response letter was dishonest.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Barclays has paid an appropriate 
compensation amount and I dont require it to do anything further in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
I am sure Mr H appreciates that fraud is a major problem for banks and building societies. 
And that they must have security measures in place to protect its and its customers money. I 
accept that on occasions as here genuine customers can have their accounts blocked by 
those security measures but that doesnt mean that a business has made a mistake. And I 
think such measures can be applied in line with agreed account terms and conditions which 
is the position here.
So, I dont think Barclays made a mistake or acted unfairly by applying an account block to 
Mr Hs account in these circumstances. And having looked at Barclays transaction records 
there appears to be issues caused by incorrect information being inputted which I cant fairly 
hold Barclays responsible for. 
The key issue is what then took place after the blocks were put in place. I accept Mr H made 
a number of calls to Barclays and that it couldnt explain what the issue was until later that 
same day. I accept Mr H was caused inconvenience but can also see the issue was resolved 
that day and Mr H was able to use his account card. Im satisfied Barclays has fairly 
apologised to Mr H and explained its security process to him. Im also satisfied its paid him 
£25 compensation which I think is fair and reasonable.
I have made clear I think the issue was resolved in a short time period and I dont think Mr H 
suffered any financial impact save for the telephone call which he may have to have paid in 
any event. I appreciate Mr H says the issue caused him isolation but I dont think he has 
explained why that was the case. I dont think what took place justifies further compensation 
or the impact was significant, when Barclays appears to have been justified in initially 
blocking the account.
I appreciate Mr Hs concerns that Barclays paid him the compensation without asking him. If 
Mr H wishes the money to be deducted then he will need to contact Barclays directly. I also 
appreciate Mr H says Barclays final response letter was dishonest. I make clear to Mr H that 
I have not seen any evidence that it was and think Barclays told him that it considered the 
complaint resolved but he was free to bring his complaint to us which of course he did. I 
dont think it clear why Mr H says Barclays wasnt entitled to conclude, as far as it was 
concerned, it had investigated the complaint and upheld it.
Overall, I dont consider further compensation is justified or appropriate in these 
circumstances. I appreciate Mr H has raised other complaints but this decision, as the 
investigator has explained, cant consider those matters. I find this now brings an end to 
what we in trying to resolve this dispute informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman