DRN-3774012
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy that TSB Bank plc returned a duplicate payment made into his account in
error back to the sender without any prior notice to him.
What happened
A payment of £481.98 was made into Mr Os TSB account. However, the payment was
duplicated by the sender in error, and was received into Mr Os account for a second time
the next day. A week later, TSB returned the duplicate payment to the sender without
notifying Mr O that the duplicate payment would be returned. Mr O wasnt happy about this,
so he raised a complaint.
TSB looked at Mr Os complaint. They apologised to Mr O for not giving him advance notice
that the duplicate payment would be returned to the sender, and they offered to pay £25 to
Mr O as compensation for any trouble or upset he may have incurred. Mr O wasnt satisfied
with TSBs response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that TSBs offer of £25 didnt fairly
compensate Mr O for the impact on him of TSBs actions, and so they recommended that
TSB should increase their payment of compensation to Mr O by £75, to a total of £100.
TSB didnt agree with the view of this complaint put forwards by our investigator, so the
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 18 October 2022 as follows:
TSB have been able to demonstrate that Mr O logged into his TSB current account 
the day that the additional payment was made to his account, and its notable from 
Mr Os current account statements that the duplicate payment was the only 
transaction that occurred on that day. Its also notable that the original payment, from 
the previous day, is separated from the duplicate payment by only two other smaller 
transactions. I therefore feel that its likely that Mr O would have been aware of the 
receipt of the duplicate payment  and that it was a duplicate payment  when he 
viewed his TSB account on the day it was received.
Mr O has explained that the duplicate payment came from his employer, from whom 
he was expecting a bonus payment at that time. But I feel that it would be unusual for 
a bonus payment to have paid as a duplicate amount of a wage or salary payment  
which the original payment the previous day appears to have been  and would 
rather expect a bonus payment to be a different amount to a wage or salary payment.
Approximately two weeks after the duplicate payment was received into Mr Os TSB 
current account, Mr O made a transfer to his TSB savings account roughly equivalent 
to the amount of the duplicate payment. The following day, the duplicate payment 
was returned to Mr Os employer by TSB, which resulted in Mr Os TSB current 
account being put into an overdrawn position. Mr O then transferred an amount from 
his TSB savings account to his current account later that same day to return the 
current account to a similar position of credit to how it had been before TSB returned 
the duplicate payment.
It isnt in dispute that TSB moved to return the duplicate payment to Mr Os employer 
without first directly notifying Mr O that they would be returning the duplicate 
payment. And TSB have apologised to Mr O for this point and made an offer to pay 
£25 compensation to him for any trouble and upset incurred.
TSB have noted that their current account terms and conditions include that any 
payment received into the account in error  as the duplicate payment was  will be 
returned to the sender. Additionally, TSB note that those same account terms dont 
provide any stipulation that their account holder will be notified in advance. However, 
as explained above, TSB confirmed to Mr O in their response to his complaint that 
they should have made him aware that the duplicate payment would be returned 
from his account in advance, and I feel that this common sense position isnt 
diminished by TSBs failure to stipulate it in their terms.
But I do feel that the £25 payment of compensation that TSB made to Mr O in their 
response to his complaint does provide fair and reasonable compensation to Mr O for 
whats happened here. And this is because, given the circumstances Ive described 
above, I feel that it should have been evident to Mr O that the duplicate payment he'd 
received from his employer wasnt a legitimate payment and that it would, in all 
likelihood, be returned.
I also dont feel that there was a significant financial impact on Mr O, given that Mr O 
moved quickly to transfer money back into his current account to bring it back into 
credit, which it must be noted Mr O would always have needed to do regardless of 
whether TSB had directly communicated the return of the duplicate payment to him in 
advance or not.
All of which means that while I will be upholding this complaint in Mr Os favour, Ill 
only be doing so to formalise the £25 offer of compensation that TSB have already 
made to him, and I wont be instructing TSB to take any further action, or pay any 
further compensation amount, beyond that offer.
In response to my provisional decision, while Mr O noted that while he didnt completely 
agree with it, he didnt raise any objection to it. And TSB confirmed that they also didnt 
object to the provisional decision.
As such, I see no reason not to issue a final decision upholding this complaint against TSB 
on the limited basis described above. And I can confirm that my final decision is that I do 
uphold this complaint accordingly.
Putting things right
TSB must make a payment of £25 to Mr OMy final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against TSB Bank plc on the basis explained 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman