DRN-4193748
The complaint
Miss W says Lendable Ltd irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Miss W took out a 60-month instalment loan for £5,000 from Lendable on 18 September 
2020. The monthly repayments were £150.17 and the total repayable was £9,007.29. 
Miss W made her payments in full and on time for the first 13 months but then cancelled her 
direct debit, so there remains an outstanding balance.
Miss W says she wasnt in a financial position to repay this loan, if Lendable had checked it 
would have seen she had other debts and that she wasnt in employment at the time.  
Our adjudicator did not uphold Miss Ws complaint. He said Lendable ought to have carried 
out better checks but had it done so he didnt think the results would have shown anything to 
suggest Miss W would be unable to sustainably repay this loan.
Miss W disagreed with this assessment and asked for an ombudsmans review. She said 
she was on benefits at the time and paying rent of £900 so she had very little left each 
month. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our
website and Ive taken that into account when considering Miss Ws complaint.
Lendable needed to take reasonable steps to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure      
Miss W could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. This means 
without having to borrow to repay or suffering other adverse financial consequences. These 
checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being 
lent, the repayment amounts, Miss Ws income and expenditure and her credit history. There 
was no set list of checks.
This means to reach my decision I need to decide if Lendable carried out proportionate
checks at the time of the loan application; if so, did it make a fair lending decision based on 
the results of its checks; and if not, what better checks would most likely have shown.
Lendable asked for some information from Miss W when she applied for the loan. It asked 
for her income and checked this with an external verification source. It completed a credit 
check to understand her credit history and existing credit commitments. From these checks 
combined Lendable concluded the loan would be affordable for Miss W. 
I dont think these checks were proportionate given the term and value of the loan and the 
fact that there was a significant difference in the income Miss W declared (£1,946) and the 
result of the Lendables verification (£800).  In these circumstances I think Lendable ought to 
have completed a fuller review to ensure it understood Miss Ws financial position.
I have looked at her bank statements for the time prior to the loan application. I am not 
saying Lendable had to exactly do this but it is one way for me to try to understand Miss Ws 
financial position at the time. However, it Is not possible to get a clear understanding from 
just the statements she has provided. They show she was moving money frequently 
between different accounts (to a total of £1,526.42 in and £1,832.63 out in August 2020). We 
have asked for the statements for her other accounts but Miss W has not provided them. 
I can only base my decision on the available evidence and this means I cannot fairly 
conclude better checks would have shown Lendable the loan was unaffordable for Miss W. 
Ill explain why.
The statements I have access to show Miss W had a monthly income of £1,130.06. This was 
from benefits but that in itself would not be a reason for a lender to decline an application. 
The regulations it must follow allow it to include benefits in affordability assessments. I 
cannot accurately assess Miss Ws outgoings given the inter-account transfers. It seems the 
rent she references was not paid from the account she has sent in statements for. In the 
round this means I cannot form a clear view of Miss Ws disposable income. So I am 
focusing on what I do know.
Lendables credit check at the time of the application showed Miss W had very little debt - 
£1,220  that she was largely managing well. She had some low value arrears on two 
accounts but had brought them back up to date recently. There were none of the typical 
signs of financial difficulties such as the persistent reliance on an overdraft facility, using 
credit for cash or payday loans.  There was just one search registered in the last 12 months. 
There was one default in the last 36 months but none in the last 12. Miss W was using 
around 80% of her credit limits. 
So overall I dont think Lendable was wrong to lend to Miss W based on what it learnt from 
its credit check. 
Adding this loan to Miss Ws existing credit commitments meant she would be paying 18% of 
her monthly income on credit which I find to be reasonable and not an indicator of likely 
future financial difficulties.
It follows, based on the available evidence, I cannot find Lendable was irresponsible to lend 
to  Miss W.
I note Miss W made her payments on time for 13 months but then stopped, and that the IVA 
she was in has now terminated. I am sorry Miss W went on to struggle financially. I hope she 
now has the support she needs - she can contact Step Change on 0800 138 1111
or National Debtline on 0808 808 4000 for free debt management advice. I would urge her to 
also contact Lendable to agree an affordable repayment plan if feasible and I would remind 
Lendable of its obligation to treat Miss W fairly, and with forbearance. I am satisfied its 
attempts to discuss the loan with Miss W have shown it to be acting fairly to date.
My final decision
I am not upholding Miss Ws complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman