DRN-1968947
The complaint
Mr C complains about how Tesco Underwriting Limited (Tesco) dealt with and settled claims 
he made for damaged items within his home.
What happened
Mr C holds a home contents insurance policy with Tesco, which he took out in December 
2010. Under this policy Mr C is covered for accidental damage to contents within his home. 
During 2017 and 2018 Mr C said he contacted Tesco in order to make separate claims for 
two televisions, a broken wardrobe mirror, a damaged shower partition, broken tiles and 
damage to his ceiling. But he said Tesco ignored those claims and referred a complaint to 
our service about its failure to respond.
Our investigator referred Mr Cs complaint back to Tesco for it to investigate and provide a 
final response. When Tesco responded, it said it hadnt received any written communication 
from Mr C to register claims about his damaged property. And it stated there was no record 
that hed contacted it by telephone to raise a claim. It said this was why it hadnt 
communicated with Mr C about any of the items he wanted to claim for.
Tesco offered to consider Mr Cs claim for the damaged televisions and broken wardrobe 
mirror and invited him to provide supportive evidence to show how these items had been 
damaged. But it declined to cover his damaged shower unit as it said this was a fixed 
plumbing item. It also declined to cover damage to his tiles and ceiling as it said these were 
fixtures and fittings. So, it said theyd be covered by a buildings insurance policy, which Mr C 
hadnt taken out. 
Mr C provided supportive evidence about the broken wardrobe mirror and damaged 
televisions. But Tesco declined to cover his wardrobe mirror because it was part of a fitted 
wardrobe. So, it said this would be covered by a buildings insurance policy. It did, however, 
agree to cash settle Mr Cs claim for his televisions. And it made a payment to him of around 
£1150 after his excess had been deducted.
Mr C thought the settlement amount hed be paid for his televisions was unfair. He said his 
policy provided new for old cover. And he said Tesco hadnt adhered to that clause 
because replacing his televisions on a like for like basis would have cost at least £800 more. 
He was also unhappy Tesco had declined to cover the damage to his shower partition, tiles, 
ceiling and wardrobe mirror. So, asked our service to assess whether Tesco had fairly dealt 
with the claims hed made.
Our investigator considered the evidence provided by Mr C and Tesco. But they didnt 
recommend upholding this complaint. They were persuaded the cash settlement Tesco had 
paid for Mr Cs televisions was for a newer, higher specification model. They also didnt think 
Tesco had made an error in declining to cover the damage to Mr Cs shower, mirror, ceiling 
and tiles because these items would be covered under a buildings insurance policy. And, as 
our investigator thought Tesco had dealt with Mr Cs claims fairly, they didnt think it needed 
to do anything further. But Mr C disagreed with our investigators view and asked that an 
ombudsman decide his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr C has gone to some trouble to provide our service with some very detailed 
submissions about why he disagrees with how Tesco have settled the claims hes made. I 
want to assure him that Ive read everything hes sent us. Where I havent commented on a 
specific complaint point raised by Mr C or Tesco its not because Ive failed to consider it, but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome for the complaint as a whole.
The crux of this complaint is whether Tesco made a mistake, or treated Mr C unfairly, such 
that it needs to now put things right. 
Its not in dispute that there was damage to the items Mr C claimed for. However, theres a 
disagreement between him and Tesco about whether its acted reasonably in declining to 
cover damage to his shower partition, tiles, ceiling and wardrobe mirror. Theres also a 
dispute about whether the settlement amount paid by Tesco for the damaged televisions is 
fair. 
As there are two parts to Mr Cs complaint that this service is considering under this 
complaint reference, I think it will make things clearer if I deal with each separately. I 
understand that Mr C has raised a number of complaints about other issues. But these are 
being addressed by our service separately. So, I wont consider Mr Cs comments about 
those matters within this decision
Did Tesco act reasonably in declining to cover Mr Cs damaged ceiling, shower partition, 
tiles and wardrobe mirror?
Mr C has asked Tesco to cover damage caused to his ceiling, shower partition, tiles and 
wardrobe mirror. But its declined to do so as it says these items arent covered under his 
policy of insurance.
As I mentioned in the background to this complaint Mr Cs policy with Tesco insures his 
contents only. Fixtures and fittings would be covered by buildings insurance, which Mr C 
doesnt hold with Tesco. So, if a damaged item is a fixture and fitting, I cant fairly ask Tesco 
to cover it.
In this case, the shower partition is attached to Mr Cs shower unit. Hes said he installed the 
partition in around 2015 or 2016, which was after he purchased his property. So, it wasnt 
part of the house when he bought it. And hes argued the partition was removeable as hed 
have taken it with him if he was to ever to move to a new house. 
While I understand the point Mr C is making here, our service would still consider a shower 
partition to be part of the fixture and fittings of the building  even if it could be removed. I 
say this because our services general approach when considering what items are contents 
is that if you were to turn the house upside down, anything that would falls out is considered 
to be contents. Anything that remains in its place would be covered under a buildings 
insurance policy.In this case, if Mr Cs house had been turned upside down, theres no doubt the shower 
partition would have remained in place. Its therefore right to say it would be covered under a 
buildings insurance policy. So, I dont think Tesco made an error in repudiating Mr Cs claim 
for this item. The same applies to the broken tiles and ceiling damage in Mr Cs home.
Turning to Mr Cs broken wardrobe mirror, the photographs Ive seen show this is part of a 
fitted wardrobe. He told our investigator the fitted wardrobe was installed by the previous 
owner of his house. And he said the mirror panels are removeable as hed have taken them 
with him if he was to ever move to a new house.
Again, I understand what Mr C is saying here. But a fitted wardrobe is a permanent fixture 
and the damaged mirror is part of that structure. As our investigator explained, our service 
wouldnt consider a wardrobe and mirrored panels to be contents irrespective of when the 
wardrobe was installed. I therefore think Tesco acted correctly in declining to cover the 
damage to Mr Cs broken wardrobe mirror as it would fall to be covered by a buildings 
insurance policy.
Was the cash settlement Tesco paid Mr C to replace his damaged televisions fair?
Mr Cs policy, in common with many home insurance policies, allows Tesco to settle this 
claim in a number of ways. I say this because the terms and conditions of his insurance 
policy allow Tesco to either replace or repair an item or make a money payment instead. 
They state:
We will decide whether to reinstate, repair, replace or pay you the cash value. All replaced 
items will be on a new for old basis. Where we have offered to repair or replace any item and 
you instead request for us to pay a cash value, we will not pay you more than the amount it 
would have cost for us to repair or replace the item.
An insurance policy is intended to put a consumer back in the position they were in prior to 
their loss occurring or as close as is possible. An insurer isnt under an obligation to match 
every specification of a damaged item where that would put a customer in a better position 
than if the loss hadnt occurred. But it shouldnt put them in a worse position either. 
Its clear Mr C doesn't think that the cash settlement Tesco has paid is enough to enable him 
to replace his damaged televisions on a new for old basis. But new for old cover only 
applies where Tesco is replacing an item. And as Mr C settled his damaged television claim 
by way of a cash settlement the new for old clause isnt relevant here.
As Ive outlined above, the terms of Mr Cs policy require Tesco to pay a cash value thats 
based on the amount it would cost it repair or replace a damaged item. So, in this case thats 
what it would cost Tesco (not Mr C) to replace his damaged televisions. And this means 
Tesco is entitled to limit its cash settlement to the cost it would incur if it were to use its 
preferred retailer. 
It isnt unusual for insurers to have an arrangement with a preferred supplier that can offer it 
discounts. So, the cost of replacing a television can be less than the cost Mr C would incur if 
he bought a replacement television directly from the same retailer.
Mr C has argued that Tescos cash settlement is unfair because its lower than the price he 
paid for his televisions. But the technology market moves on rapidly and costs can decrease 
quickly as new technologies emerge and existing technologies advance. Therefore, 
providing an equivalent television will become considerably cheaper over time. And this 
explains why a like for like television may now cost less than it did when Mr C purchased it. Mr C told our investigator his televisions were flagship models when they were purchased. It 
appears he thinks Tesco should have paid him a settlement figure that would enable him to 
replace his damaged televisions with current flagship models. But his policy says Tesco will 
base its cash settlement on the cost it would incur if it were to provide a like for like model.
Im satisfied that if Tesco was to provide a cash settlement based on the cost of replacing Mr 
Cs damaged televisions with current flagship models it would result in him receiving 
substantially better televisions. This would be contrary to the terms of his policy as it would 
place him in a better position overall. So, it would be unfair for me to ask Tesco to pay Mr C 
what a current flagship model would cost.
Ive listened to recordings of the telephone calls Mr C made to Tesco in order to discuss the 
specification of his damaged televisions. Its evident from these recordings that the call 
handler took some time on the phone with Mr C to research the televisions available at the 
time of settling his claim in efforts to ensure a similar specification was being used to 
calculate the settlement figure due to him. And Tesco has provided evidence to demonstrate 
that it based its cash settlement on a newer, higher specification television. I therefore cant 
fairly find it acted unfairly in calculating the cost of the cash settlement it paid Mr C.
Finally, I can see Mr C has told our service he wants Tesco to pay interest on the cash 
settlement it paid him due to the time he says hes had to wait for that money since making 
his claim. But, as I havent seen any evidence to show that Mr C raised claims with Tesco 
when he says he did, I cant fairly require it to pay interest here.
I understand Mr C feels very strongly about the issues raised in his complaint and I realise 
hell be disappointed with this decision. But for the reasons already outlined I think Tesco 
has dealt Mr Cs claims fairly. So, Im not going to ask it to do anything further. This now 
brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve Mr Cs dispute with Tesco informally, can do 
for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr C any further with this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2020.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman