DRN-4425611
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with the service he received from Great Lakes Insurance SE when he 
needed assistance whilst abroad. 
What happened
Mr K has a Staysure branded policy underwritten by Great Lakes. Mr K was abroad when 
he was made aware that his father was seriously ill. He wanted to return to the UK and 
sought assistance from Great Lakes. Hes unhappy with the service he received and the 
settlement of his claim.
Mr K complained to Great Lakes but they said theyd provided reasonable assistance, 
including the option for Mr K to pay and claim for his expenses. Mr K didnt agree and 
complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. He didnt think that Great Lakes had 
slandered Mr K when they said they hadnt heard from him for 12 hours and he was satisfied 
the overall service Mr K was provided with was reasonable. He also thought the claim had 
been fairly settled.
Mr K didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. He said Great Lakes 
had either slandered him or their systems hadnt been kept up to date  he thought he was 
owed an apology for this at the least. He also thought the investigator hadnt addressed 
points hed raised about mis-sale, data protection breaches and the delay in dealing with his 
complaint. Mr K said the terms and conditions of the policy were unfair and no assistance 
was given.
The further points Mr K raised didnt change the investigators thoughts about the overall 
outcome of the complaint. He also explained that any mis-sale complaint would need to be 
directed to the seller of the policy and why his findings concentrated on the claims handling 
by Great Lakes, rather than complaint handling. Finally, he noted Great Lakes had 
apologised for any upset caused to Mr K in their final response letter. Mr K asked for his 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
In October 2023 I issued a provisional decision. I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Great Lakes has a responsibility 
to handle claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Mr Ks complaint is about Great Lakes who, as the underwriter of the policy, is 
responsible for this complaint. However, Ill also refer to the following businesses 
which were involved in Mr Ks claim. Mr K received assistance from Great Lakes 
emergency assistance provider which Ill refer to as the EAP. Mr K also spoke to 
Staysures customer service team and was in contact with their claims escalation 
team.
Im not upholding all of Mr Ks complaint points. But I do think Great Lakes should 
pay Mr K some compensation for distress and inconvenience. Ill explain why.
Im upholding Mr Ks complaint about the following points as I dont think he received 
a good level of customer service:
Its clear throughout the calls between Mr K and Great Lakes that hes 
stressed and upset. He explained thats how he was feeling several times. I 
dont think the call handlers demonstrated much empathy or understanding 
for the situation he was in.
Although the initial call handler did explain Mr K could pay and claim I dont 
think he was particularly engaged or helpful. I think a more detailed 
explanation of the assistance that could, and couldnt, be offered may have 
better managed Mr Ks expectations at a much earlier stage. For example, 
the call handler could have explained in more detail about the process and 
timescales involved if Great Lakes arranged the flights. And, I think the call 
handler could have taken more time with Mr K to explain this properly.
Mr K was given mixed messages and I can understand why he felt like he 
wasnt getting much meaningful assistance and that he wasnt being listened 
to.
On a number of occasions, the call handlers asked if the claim related to Mr 
Ks own health, which it clearly wasnt. During one call, for reasons which are 
unclear to me given the information Mr K had provided, the claims handler 
asked if the claim would be logged against Mr Ks fathers name. 
Furthermore, in the initial call Mr K was told that the EAPs involvement would 
delay the process for getting him home. In another call Mr K was told that if 
the repatriation wasnt to do with his own medical issues then the EAP 
couldnt assist. A case was then set up on the basis of Mr K having high blood 
pressure, but in the next call Mr K was told hed need a medical report and 
they couldnt assist without the relevant documentation.
Although the call handlers were polite, and tried to assist Mr K, he often had 
to repeat himself. This caused him even more frustration and upset which is 
not surprising in the circumstances. For example, Mr K had to repeat several 
times that the claim related to him needing to return home as his father was 
dying.
Mr K didnt receive call backs he was expecting which further added to his 
frustration at an already difficult time.
Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint about the following points:
The policy terms say that the policyholder must obtain a medical certificate 
specifying the unforeseen illness or injury from the doctor in attendance to 
confirm the necessity to return home. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Great Lakes to request this information from Mr K. However, as Ive outlined 
above, I think Mr Ks expectations could have been managed much better 
than they were.
Mr K was offered the option to pay and claim meaning that, due to the urgency of the situation, Mr K could make his own arrangements to return 
home and claim back his expenses. I think that was reasonable in the 
circumstances given that Mr K wanted to return as soon as possible. I dont 
think Great Lakes failed to offer any assistance, but I think this was poorly 
communicated to Mr K.
I dont agree the policy terms and conditions are unfair as Mr K has 
suggested. And I think the relevant terms are prominent and transparent. Im 
not persuaded theyve created any significant imbalance in the rights of the 
parties. And, in any event, policy terms of this nature are common in lots of 
travel insurance policies. In this case the relevant term was highlighted as a 
special condition relating to a claim for cutting a trip short. 
Mr K says that Great Lakes committed a libellous act when the EAP said that 
hed not contacted them for 12 hours. He also feels hes been slandered and 
should receive an apology as a minimum. Its not my role to make a finding on 
whether a libellous act was committed.
Ive looked at the evidence provided about when Mr K contacted the 
assistance line, which are logged with a Bangkok time stamp. There is a call 
logged at 1737 on 5 January 2023 and three calls logged on 6 January 2023 
at 0548, 0604 and 1137. Ive also looked at the evidence Mr K has provided 
showing when he contacted the emergency assistance line and made other 
calls to Staysure. His screen shots show that there were some calls between 
Mr K and EAP. But they show that others were between Mr K and Staysure. 
So, on balance, Im not persuaded that the EAP acted unreasonably when 
stating theyd not heard from Mr K for 12 hours.
Im not persuaded that the EAP couldnt see the calls because of poor record 
keeping. Based on the available evidence I think its most likely because the 
EAP works independently of Staysure and uses a different system. Thats not 
uncommon in the travel insurance industry. However, I can appreciate how 
frustrating and upsetting it was for Mr K as he felt that information was being 
lost.
Im not persuaded that the EAP had immediate access to the calls from 
Staysures customer service team, albeit Great Lakes may have been able to 
request them at a later date when Mr K complained about the service he 
received. Based on the information thats available to me I find it is most likely 
that the calls to Staysure and EAP were held on different systems and thats 
why the EAP thought there had been a gap in contact. I find it less likely that 
the EAP deliberately lied to Mr K about what information was, and wasnt, 
available to them when they made that statement.
Mr K said that some of his outstanding expenses havent been paid. Ive 
looked at the settlement of the claim and I think its in line with the policy 
terms, based on the evidence thats available. Great Lakes will pay additional 
necessary travelling costs incurred in returning home up to a limit of £1500 for 
comprehensive cover.
Great Lakes settled the costs for Mr Ks taxi and flight on 6 January 2023. 
Mr K has claimed for further costs for food, trains and hotels between the 
6 and 9 January 2023. As Mr K returned home on 6 January 2023, I think 
Great Lakes reasonably concluded that the food, trains and hotels in the UK 
werent covered as I dont think they were additional necessary travelling costs to return home. Whilst I fully understand that Mr K was dealing with his 
fathers illness and death, I dont think these are expenses that can 
reasonably be considered payable under his travel insurance policy, which is 
designed to cover him to return to his country and place of residence.
I note that Mr Ks sons car sadly sustained damage when assisting Mr K in 
his travel arrangements, but I dont think thats something I can fairly direct 
Great Lakes to cover as I cant reasonably conclude thats their fault.
Putting things right
Im not persuaded Great Lakes gave Mr K a good level of service. Throughout the 
calls I listened to he was clearly upset, stressed and confused throughout the calls. 
At one point he read out his blood pressure reading and highlighted to Great Lakes 
the conditions hed declared in an attempt to draw their attention to his overall health.
I think the service he received had a significant impact on him at a time when he was 
trying to get home to see his father, who he'd been told was dying and may pass 
away soon.
Understandably Mr K was very worried this might happen before he was able to 
return home. And I think the failings Ive set out above caused him unnecessary and 
avoidable distress and inconvenience at a very difficult time.
Im intending to award Mr K £400 compensation as I think he was caused 
considerable worry, distress and upset which had a serious short-term impact on him 
at a time when he was already worried, upset and stressed.
Mr K and Great Lakes accepted my provisional decision. So, I need to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accepted my provisional findings there is no reason for me to reach a 
different conclusion. For the reasons I outlined above, and in my provisional decision, Im 
upholding Mr Ks complaint. 
Putting things right
Great Lakes needs to put things right by paying Mr K £400 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused by poor customer service. 
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Ks complaint and direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to put things right in the 
way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman