DRN-2360640
The complaint
Mr B, on behalf of C, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has been charging for cheque 
payments when account statements say that it should not.
What happened
Mr B says he noticed that Barclays had been charging C for cheque payments. He says that 
charge should only apply if a cheque is made via a branch and spoke to Barclays about this 
and it agreed to refund charges. Mr B would like charges previously applied looked at and 
refunded.
Barclays says it hasnt made a mistake and says it charges £1.50 for cheque payments. It 
says it pre- notifies C of that information and the charges are applied in line with an agreed 
account tariff. Barclays says other tariffs are available.
Mr B brought the complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Barclays made clear that it charged £1.50 for cheque payments and didnt think the 
wording on the account statements was misleading. The investigator also explained our role 
and that we are not Barclays regulator.
Mr B doesnt accept that view and says the wording on the account statement says that 
cheque (costs) are included in the account fee and says Barclays ought to amend what it 
says to what is not included.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint and dont 
require Barclays to refund the fees for processing cheques to or from C or order it to change 
the wording on its account statements.
Im satisfied that the key issue here is that C and Barclays have an agreement in respect of 
account charges. I find that C would have accepted the account terms and conditions which I 
think clearly say that a charge of £1.50 will be made for processing a cheque. Im also 
satisfied that Barclays has notified C of those charges and has fairly explained that other 
tariffs may be available if C doesnt wish to pay that charge but has also explained that C 
appears to be on a suitable tariff.
So, I dont think Barclays has made a mistake or acted unfairly by charging C and so it 
follows I cant fairly order it refund any such charges.
I appreciate that Mr B says the information on the account statements is misleading and 
says cheques in and out are included in what I think he means the account fee. And I 
appreciate why Mr B has reached that conclusion. But we are not Barclays regulator and its 
not our role to tell it how it records information on the account statement. Im satisfied that 
the important information is contained within the account terms and conditions and that C 
has clearly been told that a charge of £1.50 will be made per cheque and why and is given 
that information on a regular basis.
Overall, Im satisfied that the charge has been correctly made regardless of Mr Bs 
interpretation of what is contained in what is described as a helpful information section of 
the statement. And Im also satisfied that Barclays has fairly explained that a charge is 
payable. It is of course open to C to decide if it wishes to continue to pay the charge by 
remaining on its present tariff.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman