DRN-4418489
The complaint
Mr H complains about Watford Insurance Company Europe Limiteds (Watford Insurance) 
decision to decline his claim under his car insurance policy.   
What happened
Mr H took out a policy with Watford Insurance through an online comparison site. He 
decided to take out cover for social, domestic and pleasure use. During the policy year,     
Mr H took on a second occupation which involved him working in different locations. While 
travelling to one location, Mr H was involved in an accident, so he made a claim against his 
policy. Watford Insurance declined indemnity for the claim on the basis Mr H was driving 
outside his scope of cover at the time the accident occurred. So, Mr H complained about 
Watford Insurances decision. 
Watford Insurance responded and explained Mr Hs policy covered him for use of his vehicle 
for social, domestic and pleasure purposes. They said they sent insurance documentation to 
Mr H which made it clear what cover he had for what use, and also what was specifically 
excluded. Watford Insurance said Mr H was asked to check these carefully and to contact 
them if anything was incorrect. Watford Insurance said, when Mr H reported the accident to 
them, he confirmed he was travelling to his place of work. They said, given Mr Hs travel 
arrangements on the day in question, he required cover for business use, which he didnt 
have. Watford Insurance explained, when Mr H commenced his second occupation, it was 
necessary for him to notify them of this immediately. They said, had Mr H done so, and 
wanted to be able to use his car to travel to and from his second occupation, he wouldve 
needed to add business use. Watford Insurance said, as Mr Hs policy excludes any 
business use and commuting, they took the decision to decline indemnity for his claim. 
  
Our investigator looked into things for Mr H. She thought Watford Insurances decision to 
decline the claim was unreasonable and recommended they settle the claim on a 
proportionate basis and pay 8% simple interest. Watford Insurance disagreed so the matter 
has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation is a fair way to resolve matters. 
My role requires me to say how a complaint should be settled quickly and with minimal 
formality and so Ill focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint and the main 
areas of dispute. Theres no dispute that Mr H took out cover for social, domestic and 
pleasure use, and the accident occurred while Mr H was using his car for a purpose outside 
this scope. The main dispute here relates to Watford Insurances decision to decline the 
claim on this basis. So, Ive looked to see whether Watford Insurance have acted reasonably 
here. 
Ive looked at the proposal form, and this shows Mr H was asked to confirm the class of use 
required, and he answered, Use for social, domestic and pleasure purposes. The certificate 
of insurance sets out the Limitation as to use and explains the policy covers use for social, 
domestic and pleasure purposes. It goes further to say business use is excluded. 
Watford Insurance say Mr H used his car to drive to his second, and undisclosed, 
occupation. They say, as this wasnt a fixed place of work, this would be classed as business 
use  for which Mr H didnt have cover. They say the claim has been declined as Mr H was 
using his car for business use, for which he didnt have the necessary cover. Mr H says 
Watford Insurances decision is unfair. He believes this was a careless mistake and he 
thought he had the necessary cover in place to travel to locations for his second occupation.  
I can see Mr H believes the relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure 
and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care 
not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). 
Watford Insurance say theyre not claiming there has been a misrepresentation here so 
CIDRA wouldnt apply. So, Ive thought about whether the CIDRA rules should apply in these 
circumstances. For it to apply Mr H must have made a misrepresentation when he applied 
for his insurance policy with Watford Insurance. Insurers use the information a customer 
provides to assess risk and to decide whether to provide cover and at what price. So, if Mr H 
intended using his car for business use, and told Watford Insurance he didnt, this would 
potentially constitute a misrepresentation. 
However, in this case, the policy commenced in September 2022 and Mr H started his 
secondary occupation in December 2022. So the change in circumstances occurred after  
Mr H applied for his policy. In light of this, I dont think a misrepresentation was made by    
Mr H under the CIDRA rules. That said, the policy terms and conditions do require Mr H to 
inform Watford Insurance immediately if you or anyone covered by this Policy ceasing or 
changing jobs, or starting a new job, including any part-time work 
I think the terms are clear that if Mr H started a new job, he needed to tell Watford Insurance 
about this. I believe this would constitute a fundamental change to the risk involved in 
insuring Mr Hs car, so its reasonable that Watford Insurance would want to know about it. 
So, given there has been non-disclosure of material information here, Ive looked to see 
what action the policy terms and conditions allow Watford Insurance to take. 
Under the heading Changes which may affect your cover it sets out the importance of 
notifying Watford Insurance of any changes and says any changes will be subject to Watford 
Insurances agreement. It goes further to say, If a change to your Policy is acceptable it may 
result in revised Terms and/or a change in the premium. It goes further to say, Failure to 
notify any required changesmay result in Your Policy being cancelled or treated as if it 
never existed, or in Your claim being rejected or not fully paid. Ive said that a 
misrepresentation wasnt made by Mr H under the CIDRA rules. So, in the circumstances of 
this case, Ive decided this based on what I think is fair and reasonable.     
 
The first point Ive considered is why Mr H didnt disclose details of his second occupation. 
Mr H says he mostly uses public transport for both his full-time and second occupation, or 
his partners car which has the necessary cover. Mr H explains he used his car, as a one-off, 
to travel to the location for his second occupation. He explains his second occupation isnt a 
regular job and he only helps out, as and when needed. Mr H says, on the day of the 
accident, he picked up an emergency last minute shift. He says his partner had taken their 
other car and, because of the late notice and being unfamiliar with the location, he wasnt 
able to use public transport. He also says he wasnt aware that he wasnt covered for the journey he made on the day of the accident. He says he was honest when disclosing the 
nature of his journey and, had he known he didnt have cover, he wouldve paid the 
additional amount to have cover in place for business use. Mr H accepts there was an 
oversight on his part in not informing Watford Insurance of his second occupation. He says 
there has been a lot going on in his personal life which he has described. Mr H feels not 
informing Watford Insurance about his second occupation was careless on his part, but not 
deliberate. 
Taking this all into account, Im persuaded by Mr Hs testimony as its supported by the 
account he has given to Watford Insurance about the infrequent use of his car when 
travelling for work. Im persuaded this was an innocent mistake on Mr Hs part, and nothing 
Ive seen suggests Mr H knew he wasnt covered for the journey he was making but 
deliberately continued using his car to travel to and from his second occupation. 
The next point Ive considered is what action Watford Insurance wouldve taken had Mr H 
disclosed details of his second occupation. I can see our investigator has asked what the 
position wouldve been had Mr H notified Watford Insurance of his second occupation. 
Theyve demonstrated that Mr H wouldve been charged an additional premium of £278.32 
to add business use to his policy. With this in mind, I think its reasonable that Watford 
Insurance settle Mr Hs claim on a proportionate basis, considering the premium Mr H 
wouldve paid to include business use  against what he actually paid. Given that Mr H has 
been without any claim settlement for some time, Watford Insurance should add 8% simple 
interest to the claim settlement. 
As Ive mentioned, Ive considered this in line with what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case. And the key points which persuade me this is fair in the 
circumstances are that I believe Mr H has made an innocent and understandable mistake 
here in not disclosing his second occupation and in assuming he had the necessary cover 
for his journey on the day. The terms and conditions do say one of the steps Watford 
Insurance can take if a customer doesnt notify them of any changes is to not fully pay a 
claim. And, in this case, Watford Insurance havent provided any evidence to show they 
wouldnt have continued providing cover if theyd been notified of the second occupation  
instead theyve demonstrated they would still have offered the policy, but it wouldve 
generated an additional premium.  
I acknowledge Watford Insurance say the primary issue here is that Mr H didnt have cover 
for his use of his car at the time of the accident, and so he was effectively driving uninsured. 
I dont disagree Mr H didnt have the appropriate cover for the use of his car on the day of 
the accident. But, as mentioned above, Im persuaded this was an innocent and 
understandable mistake and Mr H believed he did have the appropriate cover in place. I 
believe this is the case as Mr H was honest about the nature of his journey when reporting 
the accident to Watford Insurance. That being the case, I think settling the claim 
proportionately leads to a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this 
complaint.  
Watford Insurance say they believe Mr H wouldnt have agreed to pay any additional 
premium. They say they believe Mr H wouldve found the cost too high given the benefit of 
the cover  particularly as the second occupation wasnt regular and one for which he would 
use public transport for in any event. Ive considered this point, but I havent seen any 
evidence which persuades me that Mr H wouldve, more likely than not, declined to pay the 
additional amount. 
I wish to reassure Watford Insurance Ive read and considered everything theyve sent in, but 
if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This 
isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Watford Insurance have unfairly declined Mr Hs claim. So they 
should settle Mr Hs claim proportionately and in line with the remaining terms and conditions 
of the policy. Given that adding business use to the policy wouldve generated an additional 
premium of £278.32, Watford Insurance should settle Mr Hs claim on a proportionate basis, 
considering the premium Mr H wouldve paid to include business use  against what he 
actually paid. Watford Insurance should also add 8% simple interest per year to the claim 
settlement from the date the claim was declined to the date of settlement and pay this to Mr 
H. Watford Insurance should provide Mr H with a certificate showing any taxation deducted. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited 
must take the steps in accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman