DRN-1661132
The complaint
Mr B complains Nationwide Building Society treated him differently and closed his account 
because he has learning disabilities.
What happened
In December 2019, Mr B took out a new savings account with Nationwide. He phoned 
Nationwide the next day and asked for a new telephone banking passnumber as he couldn't 
remember the one hed been given.
During the phone call Mr B used the terms customer number, telephone banking number 
and passnumber interchangeably. The adviser explained these were different things and 
sought clarity on which number Mr B was referring to. When he confirmed he wanted a new 
passnumber, the adviser explained Mr B needed to fill out a form on Nationwides website to 
re-register for telephone banking.
The telephone conversation continued and later returned to telephone banking, with Mr B 
asking if the number could be sent to him. As Mr B referred to a telephone banking number, 
the adviser again asked for confirmation on which number he meant. At this point, Mr B told 
the adviser not to annoy him; it was the six-digit number he was asking about. The adviser 
apologised and explained hed go silent as he proceeded to fill out the form for Mr B. The 
call ended after the form had been completed and thered been a short conversation about a 
new bank card.
Mr B phoned Nationwide a few days later and made a complaint about the call as he said 
the adviser had been awkward and placed him on hold a few times. Nationwide didn't uphold 
his complaint, explaining it didn't agree the adviser had been awkward on purpose. It said 
there was some confusion and the advisor needed to clarify what Mr B was requesting. 
Nationwide acknowledged the adviser could have asked better questions but didn't agree 
Mr B had been placed on hold. It said the adviser was correct in saying a form needed to be 
completed online, but Mr Bs request was then fulfilled during the call. Nationwide also 
explained it had previously made the decision to close Mr Bs accounts and had informed 
him it would close any subsequent accounts opened, without notice.
Mr B referred the matter to our service. He told us Nationwide was bullying and penalising 
him and treating him differently. He thought it was closing his account because he got 
confused during the phone call. Our investigator looked into Mr Bs concerns and concluded 
Nationwide hadn't done anything wrong. After listening to the call in question, he thought 
there was some initial confusion, but the advisor didn't put Mr B on hold or treat him poorly 
because of his learning disabilities. The investigator also explained he wouldn't look into the 
account closure as this matter had previously been referred to and considered by us.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
matter. So, his complaint has been passed to me to for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Id like to start by reassuring Mr B that in looking at his complaint, Ive carefully considered 
what hes told us about his personal circumstances. I acknowledge he feels very strongly 
about what happened to him during the phone call with Nationwide, and no one should be 
made to feel theyve been treated less-favourably because they have a form of disability. So 
Ive listened to the call and considered whether Nationwide has bullied, penalised and/or 
discriminated against Mr B. 
The closure of Mr Bs accounts has already been dealt with by our service separately, so I 
havent looked into whether or not Nationwide should have done this. However, I have 
looked at the letter Mr B received when Nationwide decided to close his accounts previously 
 and this clearly states that if he does open a new account, it will close it without notice. So, 
before opening this account and more importantly, before the phone call in question took 
place, Mr B had been on put on notice new accounts would be closed. 
Our investigator has explained, and I agree, that during the call the adviser wanted to ensure 
they understood what Mr B was asking for, so they could help with his request. I dont think 
the adviser was awkward or treated Mr B adversely, in comparison to any other customer, in 
seeking this clarification - especially when Mr B has acknowledged to us that he did get 
confused. And the advisor didn't put Mr B on hold. They also completed the form for Mr B 
during the call, when the initial advice  that a customer could do this themselves online  
was correct. So it seems they did more to help Mr B than they necessarily had to. I know Mr 
Bs said Nationwide closed his account because of his confusion. But Ive already covered 
why I dont agree this is why the closure happened.
I appreciate Mr B may have been upset by the way in which he felt he was treated. But 
considering the overall circumstances surrounding this complaint, I dont think theres 
evidence to support his allegations that he was bullied, penalised or treated differently (in a 
less favourably way) by Nationwide during the call.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2020.
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman