DRN-2069836
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N say they were misled about the operation of their Capital Investment Bond, 
sold to them by an adviser from Wesleyan Assurance Society in July 2018. They say this 
has led them to incurring a chargeable gain when they partially surrendered their bond in 
2019. 
To resolve their complaint, Mr and Mrs N want Wesleyan to reimburse them for the tax 
liability they have incurred.  
What happened
In April 2018, Mr and Mrs N met with a financial consultant from Wesleyan to receive 
financial advice. They had recently sold their family home which enabled them to purchase a 
smaller home and a rental property, but they had further funds of approximately £200,000 
that they wished to invest. 
The adviser wrote to Mr and Mrs N later that month setting out his recommendations that 
they each place £20,000 into ISAs and the remainder of their funds into a bond.  
Mr and Mrs N decided to proceed with the bond recommendation with a reduced amount. In 
July 2018 they invested £120,000 into Wesleyans Unitised With-profits Fund, along with 
£20,000 each into individual ISAs. 
On 8 February 2019, Mr and Mrs N contacted Wesleyan, calling its helpline to discuss a 
partial surrender of the bond of approximately £25,000. Mr and Mrs N asked if there would 
be any charges to surrender their bond and they were told that the investment did not have 
any surrender charges nor would a market value adjustment be applied. The call handler 
explained that they would need to complete paperwork, which could be issued to them if 
they still wanted to proceed. Mr and Mrs N said theyd think about their options, so they were 
not sent surrender paperwork at that time.  
On 28 February 2019, Mr and Mrs N called Wesleyan again, this time asking to be sent the 
relevant paperwork to complete. They noted that they wished to leave £100,000 in the bond.  
Wesleyan issued a surrender pack to Mr and Mrs N on 7 March 2019. On 18 March 2019, a 
partial surrender for £18,455.40 was processed, with a confirmation letter issued to Mr and 
Mrs N the following day.  
In August 2019, Mr and Mrs N called Wesleyan again asking why they had now received a 
Chargeable Event Certificate. The call handler explained that these certificates were issued 
if a surrender exceeding 5% was taken from the bond and directed Mr and Mrs N to discuss 
the matter with their current adviser, as he would be best placed to explain taxation to them. 
Mr and Mrs N were unhappy with this, so they also spoke with a Team Manager who 
advised that Wesleyan would not be able to revoke the partial surrender in order to prevent 
Mr and Mrs N from incurring a chargeable gain. It had warned them about this, but since 
they had requested a partial surrender of the bond, it had acted on their instructions.  
The new adviser visited Mr and Mrs N. On 28 September 2019, the adviser escalated a 
complaint on their behalf. He said Mr and Mrs Ns complaint was twofold  firstly that they 
were unhappy with how the treatment of taxation was dealt with in relation to their bond, and 
secondly, they felt the telephone information they had been given was misleading. 
Mr and Mrs N also sent a letter themselves, setting out that the Wesleyan adviser hadnt 
made it clear in 2018 the extent of the possible taxation of any withdrawal and that they 
interpreted the key facts document differently to how Wesleyan had. Further, they said they 
were not offered any advice and/or were not given good advice when they approached 
Wesleyan with their surrender request. If they had been told that this was not the best way to 
access some funds from their bond, then they would have acted differently and they wouldnt 
be left with a tax liability now.  
On 11 November 2019, Wesleyan issued a formal reply in which it rejected Mr and Mrs Ns 
complaint. It said within the surrender paperwork issued in March 2019 there was an 
important section highlighted within the letter with regards to consequences of making the 
withdrawal. It made clear to Mr and Mrs N that they should seek financial advice from their 
named adviser (or any other adviser) before doing so. Mr and Mrs N had chosen to proceed 
without seeking further taxation advice, and therefore Wesleyan wasnt at fault for them 
having incurred a chargeable gain.  
Mr and Mrs N were dissatisfied with Wesleyans response and lodged their complaint with 
this service.  
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but he did not think it should succeed. He 
said Wesleyans financial planning report confirmed that Mr and Mrs N didnt intend to 
access the funds for at least five years and therefore a bond was a suitable recommendation 
at that time. He noted if Mr and Mrs N intended to access more than 5% of the funds any 
earlier than this, then its reasonable that they wouldve been aware of the tax implications of 
that action. That was because the key facts information provided in 2018 by the adviser 
explicitly set this out.
Further, the partial surrender documents clearly invited Mr and Mrs N to seek advice if they 
had any queries about taxation on surrender. The investigator did not think Wesleyan was at 
fault if Mr and Mrs N did not do this.  
Mr and Mrs N asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. They said Mrs N had 
specifically asked during the first call of February 2019 that she be passed to their adviser, 
but she was told he had left the company.  
They also reiterated that given they were withdrawing more than 5% in a tax year, they 
expected to pay a tax charge. But they understood that (if they were withdrawing more than 
5% of the money paid into the bond) they would pay tax on the growth linked to the amount 
they were withdrawing, not tax on the capital they had originally invested.  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the submissions from both parties carefully, I agree with the outcome 
reached by our investigator. I do not believe the complaint should succeed nor do I think 
Wesleyan ought to be liable for the chargeable evet gain Mr and Mrs N have incurred. Ill 
explain my reasons for that below.  
Mr and Mrs Ns complaint concerns their tax liability. They do not question the suitability of 
the bond for their circumstances (aside from their specific concerns about taxation). They 
also do not disagree that there would be some taxation, because they wished to withdraw 
more than 5% of the value of the bond in 2019. What they said to Wesleyan was:
We understood the bond was appropriate because it allowed us to remain in the 
with-profits fund that had provided good returns for [Mr/Mrs Ns] pension. We also 
understood that there were some inheritance tax advantages. Both of these were 
important to us. We appreciated that we could withdraw up to 5% from the bond each 
year without incurring tax. What we did not appreciate was that we could not access 
the capital without risking a tax charge; that is, we did not appreciate that we would 
be taxed on the withdrawal of the original capital, and not taxed only on the profits. 
This only became clear [when] we got the letter to send to HMRC.
Nonetheless, I have looked at the wider suitability of the sale of the investments because Mr 
and Mrs N said they would have questioned taking out the investment altogether. 
The adviser recommended that Mr and Mrs N utilised the maximum ISA allowance of 
£20,000 each first, before investing the remainder into the bond.  Mr N had less investment 
experience than Mrs N, and their blended approach to risk was classified by the adviser as 
moderate. It was also recorded how they had undertaken a discussion about their 
willingness to accept some risk of possible capital loss in order to achieve greater returns on 
their investment, noting there was flexibility in the long term as to when they surrendered the 
bond.
On the whole, I dont think the recommendation was unsuitable or out of line with the level of 
risk Mr and Mrs N were prepared to take. Further, I also dont think they invested more of 
their capital than was reasonable. At the time of the advice, Mr and Mrs N were recorded as 
wishing to invest £200,000 a view to achieving a return greater than a leaving the money on 
deposit. It was recorded that the future use of the funds would be to provide house deposits 
for their two children. The suitability report received by Mr and Mrs N expressly sets out that 
you do not intend to access these funds for at least 5 years.
Mr and Mrs N had other money available for emergencies if necessary; the adviser recorded 
that he would recommend they held a minimum of £15,000 for emergencies, but they in fact 
had in excess of £281,000 on deposit. The bond was set up in one fund rather than a split of 
funds, but this was at Mr and Mrs Ns specific request.  
Overall I am not convinced on balance that this investment was unsuitable taking into 
account Mr and Mrs Ns objectives and circumstances. I am satisfied on balance that they 
were willing and able to take a low level of risk provided, that Mrs N had previous experience 
of a with-profits investment, and I dont think they were advised to invest too much of their 
money in the bond.  
In terms of the taxation element, I note when they applied for the bond, Mr and Mrs N signed their application to record that they had read, understood and agreed to some specific 
declarations, one of which said You should have been provided with a key features 
document and an illustration, both of which include important information about the plan. If 
anything is unclear, please ask for further information before proceeding with this 
application.
Mr and Mrs N say they didnt ask further questions, because they took an interpretation of 
the wording to mean tax only applied to any return on their investment, not the invested 
funds themselves. But I dont agree thats what is stated in the documentation. It clearly 
explains how under current taxation rules, withdrawals of up to 5% in any one year can be 
made free of tax, and these can be carried forward in following years up to a total maximum 
allowance of 100% of the amount that they have paid in. It goes on to explain certain tax 
allowances and entitlements may be affected by money made from the bond, but it does not 
make any reference to a difference in treatment for taxation on capital invested against profit 
or returns, as Mr and Mrs N have suggested. It follows that I do not accept that Mr and Mrs 
N were misled by Wesleyan about the nature of taxation on full or partial withdrawals made 
from their bond. 
Further, I cannot agree that Mr and Mrs N were poorly advised or not advised at all 
regarding the withdrawal. The calls to the Wesleyan service centre were conducted by call 
handlers who could not give advice. And so, whilst Mrs N may have been told that the 
adviser had left the company, they had been assigned a different adviser. 
The surrender request pack of 11 March 2019 explained how withdrawals could mean 
having to pay income tax and how there might be an impact on personal allowances, as had 
been set out in the key features documentation. Further, it contained a warning, set out in 
both a box and a bold font, so as to draw specific attention to it, which said:
Once we have received and acted upon your withdrawal request, we cannot 
go back and change it. So, if you are unsure about the tax or other 
consequences of making a withdrawal, it is very important that you seek 
independent financial advice or contact your Wesleyan financial consultant 
[NAME] on [TELEPHONE NUMBER] before giving us an instruction. 
I consider that Wesleyan did all it reasonably could to point out that Mr and Mrs N should not 
proceed if they had any queries about tax on their withdrawal. Mr and Mrs N say now that 
they took their own interpretation of the operation of taxation on partial withdrawals of their 
bond because the wording of the key features and product documentation was misleading 
and unclear. But if this was the case, Id have reasonably expected them to have contacted 
their assigned adviser to query it.
I realise that having a chargeable gain was upsetting for Mr and Mrs N when they hadnt 
expected it. But I can only uphold their complaint and find Wesleyan responsible for that tax 
liability if it resulted from its actions or inactions. And that is not the case here. I do not find it 
to have misled Mr and Mrs N from the outset of their bond, nor do I think it failed to make 
them aware of the potential for the liability. To the contrary, it gave fair warning that they 
should seek advice, but unfortunately Mr and Mrs N did not do so.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint, nor do I make any award.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman