DRN-1550010
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that UK Credit Limited carried out an unauthorised credit search about him.
What happened
Mr B made a separate complaint about borrowing hed been given by UK Credit. He found 
out that it had undertaken a credit search after that complaint had been referred to this 
service. He said that he hadnt authorised this because his borrowing had been repaid and 
he was no longer subject to the terms and conditions of the account.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that the search 
had been a soft one which would have no bearing on his credit score and wouldnt be 
visible to other lenders. She thought that UK Credit had given a legitimate reason for the 
search as it was part of its investigation into a complaint. It was relevant to considering the 
impact its decision to lend Mr B money had on him. She thought it important for this service 
to understand his financial situation. This search was conducted in good faith and there was 
no evidence of any adverse effect. 
Mr B didnt agree. He said that this search was a desperate attempt by UK Credit to find 
something to use against him in his original complaint. The view of our investigator logically 
meant that UK Credit would also be able to hack into his account, telephone an employer to 
check his income or go though his rubbish bins and nothing could be done to stop it. This 
would seem to be acceptable because there is no proof of loss. Mr B said he felt as if hed 
been burgled when his information was viewed in this way.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr B has very strong feelings about what happened. He remains unhappy that 
UK Credit didnt initially uphold his previous complaint. And so an ombudsmans decision 
which was in his favour was required to resolve things. So I can see why he thinks that UK 
Credit was only looking for evidence to support its position on the complaint. And he points 
out that the credit search was undertaken on 10 September 2018 after it had issued its final 
response to his earlier complaint in August 2018.
I am going to think first about the consequences of this search being available as part of an 
investigation into his complaint by this service. It was sent to us with a business file by UK 
Credit on 10 September 2018. While we didnt specifically request this, we did ask for any 
relevant evidence with our information request to UK Credit. I consider that this credit search 
was relevant and that it was fair it was available to be considered. Had UK Credit not 
provided it then it might have been something wed typically have asked to see. And thats 
especially as UK Credit provided a copy of a credit search taken at the time of Mr Bs 
application for lending as allowed for within its terms and conditions. I cant see that its actions prejudiced consideration of his complaint or adversely affected his credit record. And 
so I agree with our investigator that there was no loss in this sense to him. And that would 
have applied even had this information been pivotal in his complaint say not being upheld by 
this service. As I say it was germane information gathered as part of our informal dispute 
resolution process.
UK Credit said in its response to Mr B that  a new credit search was carried out to help us 
ascertain and determine the potentially negative financial situation that the granting of the 
UK Credit loan has since put you in. It considered it had a legitimate reason for carrying out 
the search. 
We take account of relevant regulations and the law in determining what is fair and 
reasonable. Here based on what Ive seen Im not persuaded that UK Credit acted 
unreasonably or unfairly in obtaining this credit search and so I wont be asking it to do 
anything further. I appreciate that Mr B will be disappointed by my conclusion.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2020.
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman