DRN-3548990
Complaint
Mr B has complained about loans Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) 
provided to him. He says he got into debt when he was younger and this led to a spiral of 
more loans.
Background
Everyday Loans provided Mr B with a first loan for £1,800.00 in January 2019. This loan was 
due to be repaid in 18 monthly instalments of £185.22. In February 2020, Mr B was provided 
with a second loan for £3,100.00. Some of the proceeds from this loan were used to settle 
the amount still outstanding on loan 1. 
Loan 2 also had an 18-month term and had monthly repayments of £277.68. Finally, in 
October 2020 Mr B was provided with a final loan for £3,262.87. The vast majority of these 
funds went to repaying loan 2. This loan also had an 18-month term, but this time the 
monthly payments were £258.87.
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr B and Everyday Loans had told us. And she 
thought that Everyday Loans hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr B unfairly. So she 
didnt recommend that Mr Bs complaint be upheld. Mr B disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Bs complaint.
Everyday Loans needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Everyday Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr B could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Everyday Loans provided Mr B with loans for £1,800.00, £3,100.00 and £3,262.87 in 
January 2019, February 2020 and October 2020. These loans were due to be repaid in 18 
instalments of £185.22, £277.68 and £258.87 respectively. Everyday Loans says it agreed to 
Mr Bs applications after he provided details of his monthly income and some information on 
his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information on a credit search it carried 
out and bank statements provided. And all of this information showed Mr B could to 
comfortably make the repayments he was committing to. On the other hand, Mr B has said 
the loans were unaffordable.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr B and Everyday Loans have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Everyday Loans has provided a record of the results of its 
credit searches. Everyday Loans searches appear to show that Mr B did have some existing 
debts but that his commitments at the time were relatively well maintained. Crucially, 
according to the credit searches, Mr Bs debt total at the time of the applications was 
reasonable in comparison to his income and they were consolidated by some of the funds 
provided by Everyday Loans. 
Ive also kept in mind that Everyday Loans provided second and third loans to Mr B and that 
sometimes repeat borrowing in itself can be an indication of difficulty. But loan 2 was taken 
once loan 1 was almost repaid. And from what I can see, most of the funds from loan 3 were 
used to consolidate loan 2 at a lower interest rate. Equally the monthly repayments for loan 3 
were actually lower than for loan 2. 
So while the pattern of lending here has seen me take a closer look at the individual 
applications, Im satisfied that it wasnt immediately obvious that Mr B might have taken 
loans 2 and 3 because of the effect previous Everyday Loans loans might have left on his 
finances. And there isnt anything else obvious in these applications - including in the bank 
statements obtained at the time  which clearly demonstrates Mr B couldnt have afforded 
the loans either.
I accept that Mr Bs actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the information Everyday Loans obtained. But the key here is 
that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a 
lender did something wrong. Given the circumstances here, and the lack of obvious 
inconsistencies, Im satisfied that Everyday Loans was reasonably entitled to lend to Mr B. I 
say this while especially mindful that we havent been provided with anything which 
demonstrates the loans were obviously unaffordable either. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Everyday Loans did anything wrong when deciding to 
lend to Mr B - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out 
which suggested the repayments were affordable. And the second and third loans were 
provided in circumstances where Mr Bs indebtedness didnt appear to be increasing 
unsustainably. 
So overall I dont think that Everyday Loans treated Mr B unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his loans. And Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr B. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman