DRN-3121665
The complaint
Mr M says Morses Club PLC lent to him irresponsibly. He says that proper affordability 
checks werent undertaken before the lending was approved. He says it they had been, 
then Morses wouldnt have lent to him.
What happened
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be partially upheld. Morses disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Mr Ms complaint shouldnt be upheld. A copy of 
the background to the complaint and my provisional findings are below in italics and form 
part of this final decision.  
This complaint is about three home collected loans Morses provided to Mr M between
July 2013 and February 2015. Some of the information provided about this lending is in the 
table below. The loans were paid weekly.
loan date taken amount instalments date repaid
1 29/07/2013 £400 50 30/06/2014
2 30/06/2014 £400 50 17/02/2015
3 20/02/2015 £500 50 14/12/2015
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He thought that the lending pattern was 
harmful by loan 3 and it was likely that Mr M was dependent on this lending.
Morses disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said that the loans were affordable and the 
repayments to them were very low, Mr M didnt have more than one loan running at the same 
time, the loans didnt increase very much and three loans in 18 months wasnt excessive.
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M could repay 
the loans in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being 
lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in 
the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Im currently not minded to uphold Mr Ms complaint and Ill explain why below.
For loan 1 Mr M needed to repay around £14 a week for 50 weeks and this was the same for 
loan 2. The repayment rose to £17 a week for loan 3.
Due to the length of time that has passed there isnt a complete record of the information that 
Mr M provided to Morses before it approved these loans. It has said that Mr Ms disposable 
income was recorded as being £150 before loan 3 was granted. And Ive seen no persuasive 
evidence that his circumstances changed materially over the lending period. So, on balance, I 
think it wouldve been reasonable for Morses to think that Mr M could afford the loan repayments 
he was committed to making.
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Morses was made aware of any 
financial problems Mr M mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate Mr Ms circumstances further. So, I think it was reasonable for Morses to rely on the 
information it obtained.
Our adjudicator said that the lending pattern itself showed that Mr M was struggling financially 
and that he was likely to be reliant on the lending. But the repayments seem reasonable and 
the loan amounts didnt vary by much. And looking at the account statements Morses has 
provided it seems that Mr M wasnt having any obvious problems making the repayments. In 
fact, he seems to pay more than he needed to at times and he did repay all of these loans 
early. I agree that 18 months is a reasonably long time to be using high cost credit, but taking 
everything else into consideration I dont think this means the lending was unsustainable in this 
case. So, I dont think its reasonable to say that Mr M was reliant on this lending and it wasnt 
causing him significant problems.
I have taken on board that Mr M has said he was struggling financially. But this was for a 
number or reasons and not solely due to this lending. I hope things have improved for him.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Morses did for these loans were 
proportionate. And I currently think its decision to lend for loans 1 to 3 was reasonable.
Im not intending to uphold Mr Ms complaint about them.
Morses, and Mr M via his representative, received my provisional decision. And no one had 
anything to add after theyd seen it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Morses and Mr M didnt raise any new points after receiving my provisional decision. So, Ive 
reached the same conclusions I reached before, for the same reasons. My decision is still 
that the checks Morses made were proportionate and showed this lending was likely to be 
affordable or Mr M. I dont think it lent irresponsibly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman