DRN-1931974
The complaint
Mr N complains that ERGO Reiseverischerung AG hasnt paid a cancellation claim he made 
on his travel insurance policy.
 
What happened
On 6 August 2019, Mr N took out an annual travel insurance policy through a broker. The 
policy start date was 27 August 2019, which was the date Mr N and his family were due to 
travel.
Unfortunately, Mr N learned that his mother had a serious health condition and he wasnt 
able to travel as planned, although his family were able to go on the trip. Mr N made a claim 
to ERGO for his cancellation costs.
ERGO turned down Mr Ns claim. Thats because the doctor treating Mr Ns mother provided 
a letter which said shed been under his care in hospital between 5 August and 5 September 
2010.  So ERGO said the event thatd led to the claim had happened before cancellation 
cover had started.
Mr N disagreed. He explained that his mother had been admitted to hospital on 5 August 
2019 for a routine operation. But that the serious condition wasnt related to this operation 
and hadnt been diagnosed until a few weeks later. Mr N initially told ERGO the condition 
had been diagnosed on the weekend of 24/25 August and that hed decided not to travel on 
26 August 2019. 
ERGO maintained its stance. Mr N later said hed made a mistake with dates and that there 
werent any specialists in the hospital during the weekend of 24/25 August. His mother 
hadnt been given a diagnosis and he hadnt been advised not to travel until 27 August 2019 
 after cover on the policy had begun. He asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ns complaint should be upheld. He accepted that the reason 
Mr N had cancelled the trip wasnt down to his mothers routine hip operation. But he thought 
it was reasonable for ERGO to rely on the information Mr N had given it to decide that the 
reason for the claim happened before the start of the policy. And he didnt think the medical 
evidence the treating doctor had provided supported Mr Ns version of events.
Mr N disagreed. He said hed made mistakes in his correspondence with regards to dates. 
He said it was impossible for any diagnosis to be given in a hospital over a weekend  his 
mother had only been diagnosed on the morning of 27 August 2019, after shed been moved 
to a specialist ward. He felt the brokers phone records would support that he hadnt asked 
for a claim form until after the policy had begun. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think it was fair for ERGO to turn down Mr Ns claim. Ill explain why.
Im sorry to hear about the circumstances that led to Mr N needing to cancel his trip. I 
appreciate this mustve been a very distressing time for Mr N and I can entirely understand 
why he decided against travelling. 
But in making my decision, I need to think about whether ERGO handled Mr Ns claim 
promptly and fairly. And whether it applied its policy terms reasonably. The relevant 
regulators rules say an insurer mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive thought 
about whether ERGO handled Mr Ns claim fairly. 
First, Ive considered the terms of Mr Ns policy. Cancellation cover applies for booked trips 
that take place within the period of cover. The policy says that the period of cover for 
cancellation for an annual travel insurance policy:
Starts at the time you book the trip or the first day of the period of cover as shown on your 
validation certificate, whichever is later.
Ive looked carefully at Mr Ns validation certificate. This clearly shows that while he took out 
the policy on 6 August 2019, hed opted for cover to start on 27 August 2019. This means 
that cancellation cover didnt start until 27 August 2019. So if the event that led to the claim 
happened before that date, Mr Ns cancellation claim wouldnt be covered.
ERGO originally turned down Mr Ns claim because it said Mr Ns mother had been admitted 
to hospital on 5 August 2019, suffering from the condition which had led to the cancellation. 
While I accept this was a routine operation and that the serious health condition wasnt 
discovered until a few weeks later, I dont think this was an unreasonable conclusion for 
ERGO to draw at this point. Thats because the treating doctors letter referred to the dates 
of Mr Ns mothers admission and that hed advised the family not to travel. The treating 
doctor hadnt broken down the treatments shed received or the dates of any subsequent 
diagnoses.
Ive seen a copy of a letter Mr N sent to ERGO on 22 November 2019, in response to its 
decision about his claim. He stated, As I told the (broker) representative on 27 August 2019, 
mother was diagnosed as having a severeabnormality during the week-end of 24-25 
August while she was recovering from a routine hip operation. The letter continued:
Unfortunately, in the week or so after the operation, other issues came to lightHowever, 
none of these medical issues were deemed serious enough to contemplate the action I took 
on 26 August to abandon any idea of going on the family holiday when the abnormality 
came to light over the preceding week-end.
This letter would appear to suggest that Mr N knew his mother had a serious health 
condition two to three days before the policy was due to start. And that hed decided not to 
travel the day before the trip. So I think it was reasonable for ERGO to conclude that the 
reason for the cancellation of Mr Ns trip had happened before cancellation cover began.
I appreciate Mr N has said he made a mistake in the dates he included in this letter. Hes 
said no specialist doctors worked in the hospital over the weekend, so the earliest he learned about his mothers diagnosis was 27 August 2019. I accept that dates can be mis-
typed and that ERGO stated the wrong date of policy purchase in its letters.
But I have to consider whats fair and reasonable. Given the information ERGO had 
available, it seemed Mr N knew hed need to cancel the trip before cancellation cover 
started. He told ERGO that around a week after the initial operation, other issues had come 
to light, although he hadnt needed to cancel at that point. So it seems he was aware that his 
mother mightve had other health issues around two weeks before the policy began. It also 
seems there were indications of a more serious diagnosis a couple of days before the policy 
began, even if a specific condition wasnt diagnosed until 27 August. And I think its 
reasonable for ERGO to consider Mr Ns first version of events to be the most likely to have 
happened. This information suggested that the claim simply wasnt covered.
Overall, I think it was fair for ERGO to find that Mr Ns claim wasnt covered by the policy 
terms. So while Im sorry to disappoint Mr N, Ive decided it was reasonable for ERGO to 
turn down his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman