DRN-3151104
The complaint
Mr W complains that AWP P&C SA unfairly declined his travel insurance claim.
Any reference to AWP also includes its agents.
Im aware Mr W has been represented throughout this complaint by a family member, 
however, I will refer only to Mr W for ease.
What happened
In December 2019, Mr W took out a travel insurance policy to cover a trip of approximately 
three months in duration, starting in January 2020. 
Mr W departed on his trip but, following the outbreak of Covid-19, all ski resorts and 
accommodation were closed by the relevant authorities in March 2020. Mr W had to return 
home from his trip earlier than planned and made a claim to AWP for the cost of the unused 
proportion of a ski instructor course he was unable to complete.
AWP declined to pay the claim. It said the policy didnt provide cover for the curtailment of a 
trip in these circumstances. It said the policy specifically excluded claims as a result of a 
pandemic. 
Mr W made a complaint to AWP. He said that AWP had put a message on its website which 
said it wasnt going to be enforcing the exclusion relating to pandemics and so he didnt think 
it was fair for AWP to now not pay the claim. AWP said the wording on the website was only 
applicable to certain policies and this didnt include the specific brand of policy Mr W had 
taken out. 
As Mr W remained unhappy, he brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator 
looked into the matter and found that, under the policy terms, Mr Ws claim wasnt covered 
and so she didnt think that AWP was wrong in declining the claim. She didnt think it needed 
to do anything more.
Mr W disagreed with our investigators view. As no agreement was reached, the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is important to point out that were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free 
alternative to the courts for consumers. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I 
consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on every issue or point made 
in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mr W. Rather it reflects the informal nature of 
our service, its remit and my role in it.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So, I need to consider what the policy terms 
say and whether AWP has acted reasonably when refusing the claim.
Insurers set out what events they will and wont cover in the terms and conditions of the 
policy. They are entitled to decide what risks they will accept (in return for a premium) but 
the policy does need to make the position clear to the policyholder. A policy may not cover 
every single eventuality.
As explained by our investigator, within the policy terms there is a list of reasons for which 
AWP has agreed to provide cover for the curtailment of a trip. The reason Mr W curtailed his 
trip was because the government at his destination closed ski resorts and accommodation. 
Returning home due to a government directive is not one of the listed reasons for cover.
Mr W has commented that the policy does provide cover for curtailment as a result of the 
serious illness of you, something you were going to stay with, a travelling companion, or a 
relative or business associate of you or a travelling companion. He says he did display 
some symptoms of Covid 19 when he came back (although he was never tested), and he is 
aware that some other people also on the course have subsequently tested positive. Whilst I 
appreciate his point of view, the situation which caused him to come home early was not his 
own illness, or that of any others he was staying with  it was the closure of the resort. On 
this basis Im not persuaded that his claim is covered for this reason.
There is also another section under the policy wording, titled Government travel restriction 
which provides cover for unused course fees if any government or official authority advise 
against travelling to a country or region. However, this cover only applies if this advice 
comes in within seven days of the intended departure date for the trip or date of visiting the 
area, if the trip has already started. As Mr W was already in the area at the time the local 
government took this action, Im not of the opinion that this section would provide cover.
In addition to the specific sections mentioned above, there is an exclusion which applies to 
the whole of the policy which states that no cover applies for any epidemic or pandemic. As 
the reason for the closure of the resort was the Covid-19 pandemic, Im persuaded that there 
is no cover under any section of the policy for the circumstances of his particular claim. 
Taking this all into account, Im satisfied that AWP has acted in a fair and reasonable 
manner when refusing to pay Mr Ws claim.
Mr W has referred to guidance which appeared on AWPs website on 17 March 2020. It said 
the following:
I am already on my trip, am I covered?
If your travel started before 23:59 on Thursday 12th March 2020 we want to make sure 
that you have peace of mind in light of the WHO declaring that Corona Virus is a 
pandemic. We will not be enforcing the epidemic and pandemic exclusion and you will be 
covered as per the usual terms of your travel insurance policy. This would include you 
following all FCO advice. Should you need to make a claim, please contact us directly to 
discuss your options.
Mr W says this guidance means AWP shouldnt have refused to pay his claim. AWP has 
referred to a statement at the top of the page of guidance which detailed that the information 
on this page only related to the policies available to buy directly via that website. The 
statement goes on to say that for all other policies purchased via a provider, the policy 
holder should refer to the individual policy wording for details of the customer service contact details. Mr Ws policy wasnt purchased directly with AWP but via a third party provider. Im 
satisfied that AWP made it clear who the relevant advice was intended for. 
Im aware Mr W thinks it is unfair for AWP to not treat all of its policy holders in the same 
way. Ive thought about this very carefully and I can understand Mr Ws point of view. 
However, as I mentioned previously, it is down to the insurer to decide what it does and 
doesnt wish to cover as long as this is made clear in the policy terms and conditions. And it 
is those terms which Mr W agreed to when he purchased the policy  any guidance on the 
website wouldnt be considered as a change in those contract terms. And whilst I appreciate 
Mr W may have expected AWP to remove the exclusion against all the policies it insures, it 
is not a requirement for it do to so. Im not persuaded that AWP has acted unreasonably by 
not waiving the exclusion relating to pandemics on Mr Ws policy. 
Mr W has referred to claims made by other people who were in the same situation, and says 
that AWP has reimbursed them, even though they held the same insurance cover. Whilst I 
appreciate his comments, complaints are considered on their own individual merits, based 
on the specific circumstances of that case. The complaint made to this service relates to the 
claim Mr W made on the policy he held and, based on the information and evidence supplied 
in support of this complaint, I think AWP has acted fairly when reaching its decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman